September 12, 2020||India||Chellakumar replaces Jitendra Singh as new AICC in-charge of Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: In a first step towards restructuring the Congress state unit following the 2019 poll debacle, the party's interim president Sonia Gandhi on Friday appointed A Chellakumar as the new All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Odisha. Chellakumar’s appointment was part of a major reshuffle in the party’s organisational positions in different states. Chellakumar, a serving Lok Sabha member from Tamil Nadu, would replace Jitendra Singh, who had been looking after the party’s Odisha affairs since March 30, 2018. Singh has been promoted as the party general secretary and would look after the party functioning in Assam. "We welcome Chellakumar and would work together for revival of the party base in Odisha. Together they will achieve much success. At the same time, we are sad that Jitendra Singh was shifted from the state," Congress state president Niranjan Patnaik told TOI. Notably, Chellakumar’s appointment came amid the perennial infighting in the party’s state unit and growing demand from within the party to oust Niranjan. Niranjan has been feeling the heat from several colleagues with a section of rebels seeking his replacement in the wake of party’s humiliating defeats in last year’s general elections, Patkura assembly poll in July 2019 and Bijepur assembly by-poll in October 2019. Congress, which had been the main opposition in the assembly, lost the status to the BJP last year. Having won 16 assembly seats out of total 147 in 2014 to only 9 seats in 2019, the journey of the state Congress has been downwards since 2000. The Congress vote share in the 2019 assembly polls dropped to 16.12 % from 25.7 % in 2014. The party’s vote share in this Lok Sabha polls nosedived to 13.81% compared to 26.38 % in 2014. In a related development, the Congress has appointed senior leader from the state and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das as the AICC in-charge of Mizoram and Manipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chellakumar-replaces-jitendra-singh-as-new-aicc-in-charge-of-odisha/articleshow/78066703.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 12, 2020||India||DCGI orders Serum Institute of India to suspend recruitment for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials||NEW DELHI: Drugs controller general of India (DCGI) has directed Serum Institute of India to suspend till further orders new recruitment in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the trials in other countries. In an order, a copy of which has been accessed by PTI, DCGI Dr VG Somani on Friday also directed Serum Institute of India (SII) to increase the safety monitoring of the subjects already vaccinated as part of the trial, and submit the plan and report. Somani also asked the firm to submit clearance from Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) in the UK as well as in India to obtain clearance from his office (DCGI) prior to resumption of future recruitment in the trial. The central drug regulator DCGI had issued a show-cause notice to SII on September 9 for not informing it about AstraZeneca pausing clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in other countries and also for not submitting casualty analysis of the "reported serious adverse events". Following which the Pune-based firm, which has partnered with the British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate, on Thursday said it is pausing the clinical trials in India. Earlier this week, AstraZeneca said it had paused the trials because of 'an unexplained illness' in a participant in the study. "We are reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials," SII said in a statement on Thursday. According to the DCGI's order issued on Friday, the SII in its reply stated that DSMB has noted no safety concerns from the Indian study (part 1-phase-2 study) with the first dose and seven days post vaccination safety data. In its reply, SII also stated that DSMB further recommended "to pause further enrolment into the study until ongoing investigations of SAE reported in the UK study is completed and the sponsor and the UK DSMB are satisfied that it doesn't pose any safety concerns". "In the view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, drugs controller general of India, central licensing authority, after careful examination of your reply and the recommendations of the DSMB in India, in exercise of the powers vested under Rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, direct to you suspend any new recruitment in the phase 2 and 3 clinical trial till further orders," the order read. "Increase the safety monitoring of the subjects already vaccinated with the vaccine under trial and submit the plan and report," the order further stated. On August 2, the DCGI had granted permission to the Pune-based SII to conduct Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the coronavirus vaccine candidate. AstraZeneca, the biopharmaceutical giant in a tie-up with the Oxford University to produce the vaccine, described the pause of trials as a "routine" one following what was "an unexplained illness".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dcgi-orders-serum-institute-of-india-to-suspend-recruitment-for-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-trials/articleshow/78067564.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Shoppers in Gurgaon are getting used to shopping in the new normal||It has been three months since markets in Gurgaon reopened after the lockdown. For a while, a number of factors, including monsoon and inhibition kept the shoppers away but the footfall across city's markets is moving back to pre-COVID days gradually. However, shoppers do continue to maintain social distancing and adhere to guidelines about sanitisation and masks. Most markets in Gurgaon have social distancing markers in place and thermal screening at entrances.What seemed cumbersome three months ago to shoppers is now normal. "Initially, it seemed like a hindrance, all the thermal screening and wearing a mask and gloves, particularly while going out shopping. To a large extent, it was just because we aren't used to it. But now, it doesn’t bother me," says Danish Khan, a Sector 3 resident. Many shoppers say that the extensive sanitisation and thermal screening in most markets is somewhat reassuring. Ratika Khanna, a Sector 43 resident, says, "Knowing that shopkeepers are keeping places sanitised and markets have thermal screening makes me more at ease. Initially, I refused to go to the market but only after I was convinced that they were following all safety guidelines did I step out." Golf Course Road resident Anamika Rathod sums up, "The risk exists in everything you do and will persist till a vaccine is found. We cannot be careless. In Gurgaon markets, there is thermal screening and people maintain social distancing. The markets are safe as long as you don’t crowd, which people hardly are these days."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/shoppers-in-gurgaon-are-getting-used-to-shopping-in-the-new-normal/articleshow/78065049.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s health buffs keep their fitness on track at home gyms||The last few months have seen an emergence of home gyms and it’s a trend that’s been on the rise ever since. This refers to the creation of fitness zones for fitness-oriented friends and relatives to work out in, until their own local gyms open up. These home gyms — found on people’s closed terrace spaces, enclosed basements and other such areas — ensure that safety protocols are followed with everyone exercising while wearing masks or face shields. What’s more, it’s private, so you can have a check on the number of people who can use the space. Actor Aamir Ali tells us, “My friend had a personal fitness space in Juhu, so he gave time slots to a few of us to use it. This is just for family and friends, and he gets the place cleaned and sanitised after every workout.” BT dropped in on a home gym session to figure out why it’s been getting folks to work up a sweat there... ‘It’s apt for people like us, who’ve been missing gym workouts’In Covid-19 times with gyms shut, it's giving people a chance to be physically activeEntrepreneur Atif Parkar has converted a part of his Bandra bungalow into an exercise space for his family and close friends. He says, “I found that the one thing on people’s minds, all through the lockdown, was how to try and work out effectively. Since I had a large space here, I thought it could double up as a nice fitness area and help people maintain distance during their workouts. I get the mats and other props cleaned after use. The best part is that when we work out together, there is more encouragement and motivation.” Regular gym goers are all for this trend of gym jamming as it seems convenient and safe. Affirms Khar-based interior design student Qunnut Jatu, “When the gyms shut down, a few of us would go to the building terrace to work out. I recently heard about one of our family friends having created a home gym, so now a few of us have started exercising there on alternate days. Another advantage of a home gym is that it gives us the flexibility of time vis-à-vis a formal gym that usually has only two or three functional training slots per day.” Fitness enthusiast Amal Kadri, who had to let go of her power yoga class since March, would settle for a walk or jog outdoors until she heard of these home gyms. “A family friend told me about this private fitness space. It takes in few people at a time and follows safety protocols with sanitisers, gloves and masks. Sometimes, we call a trainer to guide us,” she shares, adding, “I may continue even when the gyms open up, as I am wary of going back to that kind of setup immediately.” Rise in private instructors going into Mumbaikars’ homes to help them stay fitPersonal trainers and fitness instructors are making their way to these personal gyms, with masks onFitness expert Vinod Channa talks about how the pandemic has reshaped fitness. “The return to working out indoors has gone up in a big way in the last few months. And there are two major reasons for this — first, wrong eating and second, lessened movement or activity, which add to the weight gain. Plus, those who are used to an intense gym workout can’t find the same satisfaction in a walk or run. I have seen a few spaces with a shared fitness arrangement for family members. These are large basic areas with space for workouts,” he explains. Versova-based businessman Ishaan Varma created his own home gym with dumbbells, kettlebells, therabands and a pull-up bar. “It’s one of the best investments I’ve made as I don’t need to rely on any external fitness space with this,” says the entrepreneur, who also co-ordinates with fitness trainers to help people work out in their homes. “Over the lockdown, there has been an increase in private instructors going into Mumbaikars’ homes to help them stay fit. From the time the trainer is sent to these homes to his return, all safety measures are in place,” he adds. A qualified trainer like Imran Sayyed, who’s been training a limited group at a home gym at Bandra, is extremely particular about following safety protocols. “I change my clothes before I start and have my temperature checked. The room is pre-sanitised and I keep a distance of three-feet between myself and the participants. In these times, people are finding home gyms to be a safer option,” he shares. Adding to that, the actor says, “I was sad when the gyms closed, but in times like these, you have to adjust and understand the seriousness of the situation. Staying safe is most important at this time.” TRAINER’S ADVICE FOR HOME FITNESSVinod Channa lists few pointers to keep in mind while working out in a home gym...* Adhere to the safety mandates * Seek advice from a qualified trainer * You can do anything from simple mat workouts to functional bodyweight training, TRX and even animal flow. But understand your fitness levels first, and then choose a workout accordingly * Give a fun twist to your workouts with a little Zumba and Tabata. It helps to relieve stress in these times * Working out together also builds positivity, so be regular with it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-health-buffs-keep-their-fitness-on-track-at-home-gyms/articleshow/78063289.cms||Ismat Tahseen
September 12, 2020||World||Anthony Fauci disagrees with Donald Trump on coronavirus, cites disturbing US statistics||WASHINGTON: Top government infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said on Friday he disagreed with President Donald Trump's assessment the United States has "rounded the corner" on the coronavirus pandemic, saying the statistics are disturbing. Fauci, the outspoken director of the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said the United States was starting the flu season with a high baseline of around 40,000 new cases a day and deaths are averaging around 1,000 daily. Trump, who has admitted playing down the severity of the virus since it emerged early this presidential election year, said on Thursday he believed the United States was "rounding the corner" on the crisis. "I have to disagree with that, because, if you look at the thing that you just mentioned, the statistics, they are disturbing," Fauci said on MSNBC. Fauci said he hoped the country did not see a spike in cases after the Labor Day weekend as it did after other long holiday weekends since May. It was important to get those infection rates down before the autumn and winter seasons when people will be spending more time indoors. "You don't want to start off already with a baseline that's so high," Fauci said. Asked about the outdoor campaign rallies Trump has resumed before his November 3 matchup against Democrat Joe Biden, Fauci said they are "absolutely" risky. "Just because you're outdoors does not mean that you're protected, particularly if you're in a crowd and you're not wearing masks," he said. Fauci, who has contradicted Trump's statements about the virus, denies the administration is pressuring him to keep quiet. "Anybody that tries to tell me what to say publicly, if they know anything about me, realizes that's a fool's errand," Fauci said. "No one is ever going to pressure me or muzzle me to say anything publicly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/anthony-fauci-disagrees-with-donald-trump-on-coronavirus-cites-disturbing-us-statistics/articleshow/78068334.cms||---
September 12, 2020||India||Ready to take conciliatory steps, must pull back troops, gear from LAC: China||NEW DELHI: After two hours of tough negotiations in Moscow late on Thursday, India and China came to a five-point understanding to dial down tensions, and agreed that the two sides should "quickly disengage" as the current situation on the border was not in the interests of either country. The points were spelled out in a joint statement and while the test, so far as India is concerned, lies in Chinese troops pulling back on the ground, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi's comments in Moscow on Friday offer hope of forward movement. "We are ready to take conciliatory steps... The most important thing is to avoid new violations of the obligations on the border. Troops and equipment should be withdrawn from the Line of Actual Control," Wang said during a press conference with Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, according to an ANI report. With India-China discussions distilling into a joint statement, there was expectation that the in-person meeting between foreign minister S Jaishankar and Wang might yield results that could restart the stalled disengagement, which has heightened hostilities and tensions with troops within a few hundred metres of each other at several place on the LAC. Ahead of the meeting, Indian forces had taken charge of key heights in the Pangong Tso area, giving the Indian side crucial leverage in the discussions that took place in Moscow. The statement said the two sides shall avoid any action that escalates matters, and abide by all existing agreements and protocol on China-India boundary affairs, besides maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas. It also noted that once the situation eases, the two sides should expedite work to conclude "new confidence-building measures" to maintain calm along the border. The political understanding reached in Moscow will now have to be translated on the ground by negotiations between military commanders of both sides who are to work out the nitty-gritty and verification. The discussion on Thursday evening was often heated, described in diplomatic parlance as "frank and constructive". The substance of the outcome was that the two sides hammered out the broad contours of a disengagement process, a result that had eluded the two sides. This would be easier for the Indian side to accomplish than the Chinese, considering that, as seen during the Doklam crisis, the foreign ministry in Beijing and the PLA had differing perceptions. However, given that a joint statement has been arrived at, Wang could be expected to be working on a brief cleared by the top Communist Party leadership. Meanwhile, the two armies remain in stand-off positions in different areas along the LAC, primarily on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso. Since late August, when the Indian Army acquired some tactical advantages on the Ladakh heights, the Chinese army has been relentless in trying to dislodge the Indian troops. The joint statement said, "The two sides also agreed to continue to have dialogue and communication through the special representative mechanism on the India-China boundary question. They also agreed in this context that the working mechanism for consultation and coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) should also continue its meetings." In recent weeks, both the military commanders’ meetings and the WMCC have been inconclusive, with no agreement on disengagement. The transgressions across the LAC, the unusually high build-up of troops and the violence over the past few months have virtually buried all existing agreements, something that has been repeatedly referred to by both sides in angry statements. The reaffirmation of the existing agreements is expected to see the two countries through the current crisis as the ministers agreed that fresh border management agreements and new CBMs would have to be crafted. Watch LAC row: Have India and China reach a consensus?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ready-to-take-conciliatory-steps-must-pull-back-troops-gear-from-lac-china/articleshow/78068675.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 12, 2020||India||India may have had 65 lakh Covid cases by May: Sero survey||NEW DELHI: A total of 64,68,388 adult Covid-19 infections were estimated in India by early May, even though the adjusted all-India seroprevalence was a low 0.73%, according to the results of a serological survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) released on Friday. While the survey indicated that less than 1% of the adult population was exposed to the novel coronavirus by mid-May 2020, the official tally at the time was even lower at only 85,940 cases detected till May 15. This would indicate most cases may have been missed during the first few months of the outbreak in the country. This could have been because the testing strategy then was tailored by limited test kits and lab capacity and also because a significant number of infections may have been asymptomatic. A sero survey estimates the percentage of population exposed to a virus by finding the presence of antibodies. Antibodies indicate that a person had been infected but is no longer so. Though the ICMR had shared some findings of the study in June, the final study was published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research on Friday. A total of 30,283 households were visited and 28,000 individuals enrolled for the sero survey across the country. In June, too, ICMR had estimated prevalence of infection at 0.73%. It had also said risk of the spread was 1.09 times higher in urban areas as compared to rural areas. Whereas in urban slums, it was 1.89 times higher than rural areas. "Males, living in urban slums and occupation with high risk of exposure to potentially infected persons were associated with seropositivity," the study said. Of the 157 people found positive in the survey, 43.3% were in the age group 18-45, 39.5% were those aged 46-60 and the remaining 17.2% were over the age of 60. Seropositivity was, however, highest in the 46-60 age group, with 62 out of 9,525, or 0.65%, testing positive and lowest in the youngest age group at 0.5% (68 out of 13,552). "The IFR (infection fatality ratio) in the surveyed districts from high stratum, where death reporting was more robust, was 11.72 to 15.04 per 10,000 adults, using May 24 and June 1, 2020 as plausible reference points for reported deaths," the study said. The survey divided districts into four strata and, interestingly, 8,56,062 infections were in zero-case districts. At the time of the survey, there were 233 zero-case districts in India. Watch India may have had 65 lakh Covid cases by May, indicating missed cases: Sero survey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-may-have-had-65-lakh-covid-cases-by-may-sero-survey/articleshow/78068878.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 12, 2020||India||Attempt to suicide punishable or survivor requires rehabilitation, asks SC||NEW DELHI: Should the survivor of a failed suicide bid be punished as per section 309 of Indian Penal Code or be rehabilitated with care by government under Section 115 of Mental Healthcare Act? Which of the two provisions is constitutionally sound, the Supreme Court on Friday sought to know from the Centre. Acting on an innocuous plea of an animal right NGO seeking measures to prevent persons attempting to commit suicide by jumping into animal enclosures in zoos, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it noticed the dichotomy between Section 309 IPC and Section 115 of MH Act and asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to get response from the Union government. The SC said this dichotomy would be addressed along with the pending issue of testing the constitutional validity of Section 309. The debate on ethicality and legality of punishing the survivors of suicide bid has led to several jurisdictions across the world decriminalising the offence, which continues to attract punishment under the 160 year-old IPC. However, in 2018, the SC in a landmark judgment had said SC's 1996 judgment in Gian Kaur case saying "the right to live with dignity did not include the right to die" required reconsideration. Times ViewAs per IPC, a suicide survivor is liable to criminal punishment. This is a bizarre penal provision, which is at variance with the 21st century zeitgeist. Decrimininalisation of ‘attempt to suicide’ by scrapping Section 309 of the IPC is the best way to rectify the contradiction between the two laws.While Section 309 of IPC provided that "Whoever attempts to commit suicide and does any act towards the commission of such offence, shall he punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year", Section 115 of MH Act said, " Notwithstanding anything contained in section 309 of the Indian Penal Code any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under the said Code." Section 115(2) also said, "The appropriate Government shall have a duty to provide care, treatment and rehabilitation to a person, having severe stress and who attempted to commit suicide, to reduce the risk of recurrence of attempt to commit suicide." The bench's order said, "Issue notice to the Attorney General for India, calling upon the Union of India to justify the validity of section 115 of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 which virtually negates section 309 IPC." The SC appointed senior advocate A N S Nadkarni as amicus curiae to assist the court. On March 9, 2018, a five-judge constitution bench had permitted passive euthanasia for persons in vegetative state and validated living will. One of the Judges in the bench, Justice D Y Chandrachud, had said the punishment for failed attempt to suicide "may require to be revisited in future in view of domestic and international developments pointing towards decriminalisation of suicide." He had said, "It (the MH Act) regards a person who attempts suicide as a victim of circumstances and not an offender, at least in the absence of proof to the contrary, the burden of which must lie on the prosecution. Section 115 marks a pronounced change in our law about how society must treat and attempt to commit suicide. It seeks to align Indian law with emerging knowledge on suicide, by treating a person who attempts suicide being need of care, treatment and rehabilitation rather than penal sanctions." He had said this issue of whether right to life includes right to die has to be decided in a separate proceeding. It appears the separate proceeding, which Justice Chandrachud had talked about two and half years ago, is about to commence. Watch Should a suicide attempt be punished or survivor treated with care, asks SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/should-suicide-bid-be-punished-or-survivor-treated-with-care-sc/articleshow/78069068.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||#DurgaPuja2020: Kumartuli gets innovative to beat pandemic blues||Not profit, not art – this year is all about survival for the hundreds of artisans at the idol hub of Kumartuli. They are working tirelessly in the middle of a pandemic in the hope of simply making it through this festive season. To save themselves from becoming victims of the economic crisis created by COVID-19, they have turned to innovation. From the invention of ‘coronasura’ to upcycling of Vishwakarma idols and renewing shoot permits, here’s how Kumartuli is preparing to beat the pandemic blues. Coronasura in, Mahishasura outWhen veteran artist Samir Pal’s son Sujit received Kumartuli’s first order for a Durga idol with an asur depicting the coronavirus (coronasura) instead of Mahishasura, he was perplexed. Not just because it was an unusual request and he had never tried making the novel coronavirus with clay, but mostly because people do not want to be reminded of the pandemic on an auspicious occasion. But despite his apprehensions, Sujit decided to do it because it’s a question of survival. Adding the third layer of clay to the 10-feet idol in his studio on Thursday, he said, “This year we are charging `50,000 for this work. The price is low for an idol like this, but we cannot expect much in this market.” The idol has been ordered by artist Sathyaki Sur for a city Puja that is themed on corona warriors. “At Sealdah Yuva Dal Puja, we will try to show how doctors and police personnel are fighting the pandemic on the front line,” Satyaki said. This is the first year since 1992 when theme idols are not being made at Kumartuli since most Pujas are opting for ekchala idols due to budget constraints. Vishwakarma to turn into KartikSince the overall demand for idols has fallen by over 60%, Kumartuli artisans are trying everything – from reducing prices to keeping the idol production low – to keep business afloat this festive season. For the upcoming Vishwakarma Puja, they have come up with a unique idea to curb losses. Artisans plan to upcycle unsold Vishwakarma idols by remodelling them into Kartik idols, which will be sold during Kartik Puja in November. Explaining the process, artisan Bappa Pal said, “After removing the colour, the basic structure will be changed. The elephant, which needs a lot of clay, will be replaced by peacock, and a few more changes will turn these idols into Kartik.” However, Kartik idols are priced much lower than Vishwakarma idols. “While a five-foot Vishwakarma idol costs `7,000-8,000 due to high labour and raw material costs during the Puja months, Kartik idols are priced at `2,000-3,000,” said Babu Paul, idol-maker and secretary of the Kumartuli Mritsilpa Sanskrit Samity. Kumartuli welcomes back photographers, Mimi to shootEvery year in the run-up to Durga Puja, Kumartuli turns into a photographer’s paradise. Be it an amateur or a professional, the subject is too lucrative for any photographer to resist. But time and again, artisans have complained that the nuisance created by photographers – both Bengali and foreigners – interrupts the flow of their work. Though the Kumartuli Mritsilpa Sanskrity Samity started issuing permits to keep this in check, this April they decided to stop issuing cards to completely restrict outsiders at the idol hub. However, they are now reconsidering their decision, as the money earned from the permits, which goes up to `50,000 a year, can come in handy in case of medical emergencies faced by the poor artisans. Considering this, they have also allowed actress-MP Mimi Chakraborty to shoot on September 15. “In the past, we hardly allowed video shoots before Puja. It is risky to have so many cameras and people when the idols are in the making. But this year, we are allowing them in exchange for a certain fee, depending on the project and the time they need to shoot, because we need money for the artisans’ welfare,” said Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/durgapuja2020-kumartuli-gets-innovative-to-beat-pandemic-blues/articleshow/78065196.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
September 12, 2020||India||Maharashtra cases top 1 million; national toll 1200+ on Friday||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the state worst hit by the pandemic, crossed 1 million on Friday even as daily cases across the country inched closer to the 1-lakh mark and deaths from the virus surged to a new high. Maharashtra recorded nearly 25,000 new infections (24,886) on Friday, accounting for more than a fourth of the national count of 97,937 fresh cases, according to TOI’s data collated from state governments. Both the counts were the highest recorded in a single day so far. Meanwhile, the daily Covid-19 death toll in the country crossed 1,200 for the first time, surging to 1,249 on Friday. The daily toll was above 1,000 for the fifth day running amid an uptick in fatalities in several states, again led by Maharashtra, which reported 442 deaths (including 49 older deaths) on Friday. India’s previous highest case count in a day was 97,399 recorded on Wednesday, as per TOI’s data. For the third straight day, the tally has hovered close to the 1 lakh mark. Outside of India, the highest single-day count of cases is 78,427 recorded in the US on July 25, as per ourworldindata.org. Apart from Maharashtra, six other states reported their highest spike in infections on Friday — Uttar Pradesh (7,103 new cases), Odisha (3,996), Punjab (2,526), Madhya Pradesh (2,240), Rajasthan (1,660) and Gujarat (1,344). But unlike in Maharashtra, where the count was 1,000 more than than its previous record high of 23,816 (on Wednesday), the other states recorded just incremental increases. With more than 1 million cases, Maharashtra accounts for nearly 22% of India’s total Covid-19 caseload of 46,53,193. In terms of daily cases, the state, with Friday’s record single-day high of 24,886 cases, accounts for every 8th new Covid patient in the world (the global daily average is 2 lakh cases). Maharashtra is also inching close to Russia, which, with 10.5 lakh cases, is the fourth worst-hit country in the world. The total number of cases in the state is now 10,15,681, said the state government update. Andhra Pradesh reported 9,999 Covid-19 cases on Friday and 77 deaths as authorities tested more than 71,000 samples across the state in the last 24 hours. While the cumulative caseload in Andhra Pradesh rose to 5,47,686, and the toll jumped to 4,779, authorities said they analysed 71,137 samples on Friday, raising the overall testing record to 44.5 lakh samples so far. The daily Covid-19 case positivity rate now hovers around 14-15%, against 17-18% about a week ago. The overall case positivity rate is 12.3% against the national average of 8.43%. Yet another record single-day surge of 3,996 new infections pushed Odisha’s Covid-19 caseload to 1,08,001 on Friday even as two more ministers in chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s council tested positive for the virus. Fourteen more died of Covid-19, increasing the death toll in the state to 605. The state also witnessed the highest one-day recovery of 4,061 patients on the day. Food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranendra Pratap Swain and women and child development minister Tukuni Sahu were among those who tested positive, raising the number of ministers in Odisha to have been infected by the virus so far to six. Bihar’s Covid tally jumped to 1,55,445 on Friday with 1,710 more people testing positive. The health department confirmed 12 more Covid deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, Covid toll in the state has increased to 797. However, with 1,39,458 recoveries, active cases stand at 15,188 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-cases-top-1-million-national-toll-1200-on-friday/articleshow/78069219.cms||---
September 12, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi aides get a leg-up in Congress rejig; session to elect president next||NEW DELHI: Congress on Friday effected a major organisational reshuffle that saw a clear leg-up for Rahul Gandhi’s confidants, including those from the old guard, while laying down a clear roadmap for an AICC session to elect the new party president with the naming of an election authority. While the dissident letter headlined by leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, that sought an organisational overhaul appears to have borne fruit on the face of it, the real effect of the said ‘tectonic’ event appeared questionable. Read AlsoGhulam Nabi Azad, an unlikely rebel, stumps manyLeader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad's decision to be part of the 'G-23' that signed the letter to Sonia Gandhi gave the project the heft that it might have otherwise lacked as was evident in the dissenters choosing him to deliver the missive and the reminder. For someone with aThe unsaid part of the committee, announced to essentially determine the schedule of an AICC session, is that it could be intended to re-anoint Rahul as party president. Crucially, Azad has been dropped as general secretary in charge of Haryana. Read AlsoLetter writers fail to find place in new panels for UP CongressCongress leaders such as Jitin Prasada and Raj Babbar, who were signatories to a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi for a re-haul of the organisation, have failed to find a place in the new committees formed for UP. Those who denounced the letter writers in the "Group of 23" like Nirmal Khatri andThe party formed a committee of leaders to assist the Congress chief as was demanded by the dissidents and decided in the stormy CWC meeting, but it is nothing more than a logistical arrangement designed to steer the organisation towards the AICC session which may be held around January — none that will ensure “collective decision-making” as was the stress of the dissident letter. Read AlsoFamily loyalists slam dissenters, say timing of letter ‘insensitive’As news spread of a letter written to Sonia Gandhi by a group of Congress veterans calling for a "full-time and effective leadership", a string of leaders countered the dissenters, with many terming the timing of the missive insensitive when the party chief Sonia has not been keeping well and othersAlso, the panel comprises veterans A K Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, K C Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala, with the participation of a “letter writer”, Mukul Wasnik, but leaves out the notable members who signed the controversial missive. The prospects of elections to the CWC — a key demand of the letter — too appeared to have receded with the reconstitution of the top body. Read AlsoRahul obsessed with us, ‘dissenters’ more committed to Cong: BJP"So obsessed is Rahul Gandhi with BJP that he is beginning to see Congress' veteran leaders as those working in 'collusion' with BJP. Someone rightly said when one's destruction is near, one stops using his own mind," BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said. He made the remarks even as CongressAt the same time, a new election authority has been formed which will be headed by Madhusudan Mistry in place of incumbent Wasnik. What comes out is that an AICC session will be held to elect the party chief, which has been a key demand of the letter. But seen in conjunction with the leg up for Rahul confidants like Venugopal, Shaktisinh Gohil, Surjewala, Jitendra Singh, Ajay Maken, Rajeev Satav, Manickam Tagore, RPN Singh — who have either secured key assignments as general secretaries or in-charges of states or membership of the CWC or promotion within the CWC — the reshuffle ended up raising the prospect that Rahul may shed his reluctance and take back the reins of the party. Such a roadmap will also be a setback for the writers of the letter which was widely seen as designed as a sharp criticism of the Gandhi scion and triggered a backlash in the CWC meeting on August 24. Also, if it is to happen, the pushing down of party leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury from the main CWC body to a ‘permanent invitee’ becomes significant. Some believe if Rahul is back as party chief, he may also become the leader in the lower House in future. But these seeming setbacks apart, interestingly, letter writers Azad, Anand Sharma and Wasnik have been retained in the main CWC while UP’s Jitin Prasada has been made in-charge of crucial election-bound West Bengal, besides Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Wasnik also stays on as general secretary in charge of MP. Among major gainers, Surjewala, who is head of the media department, has been made general secretary in charge of Karnataka, while Jitendra Singh has been elevated as general secretary with charge of Assam. Family loyalist Rajeev Shukla has got the charge of Himachal Pradesh. Two young gainers are Tamil Nadu MP Manickam Tagore, who has been made in-charge of Telangana, and Vivek Bansal who has been elevated from secretary to the independent charge of important Haryana. Former Karnataka state unit chief Dinesh Gundu Rao has been given the charge of Tamil Nadu and Goa. Devendra Yadav has been given charge of Uttarakhand. Bansal and Yadav, secretaries who were removed from Rajasthan on the demand of Sachin Pilot, have been given good portfolios in AICC while general secretary Avinash Pande has found a place in the CWC. Else, in the big rejig, only veterans Azad, Ambika Soni, Mallikarjun Kharge and Luizinho Faleiro have been dropped as general secretaries, besides state in-charges Anugrah Narayan Singh, Asha Kumari, Gaurav Gogoi and R C Khuntia. Gogoi was recently named the deputy leader in LS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-aides-get-a-leg-up-in-congress-rejig-session-to-elect-president-next/articleshow/78069371.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Govt body, Vishnupad temple management asked to settle dispute||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday orally observed that the Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts and the private managing committee of the Vishnupad temple in Gaya should settle their legal dispute over ownership of the shrine so that it could finally become a public property. Temple’s private management body had filed a title suit before a Gaya court in 1978. The court had passed an ex-parte decree in their favour in 1991. The state religious body’s subsequent appeal was dismissed. Later, it filed a petition for restoration of the appeal, which is still pending for a final order. The high court had pulled up the temple’s body during the September 4 hearing. The temple attracts 30-40 lakh devotees and huge amount as offerings annually. The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL filed by one Gaurav Kumar Singh seeking direction to the state government to take control over the temple and declare it a public property. The petitioner has also urged the court for directing the authorities concerned for appointing a board on the lines of Vaishno Devi shrine and Tirupati Balaji temple and construct basic amenities for devotees around the temple complex. The bench orally observed that priests of the temple would continue to get share from the offerings made by devotees along with their right to worship even if the temple becomes a public property. Appearing for the petitioner, counsel Sumeet Kumar Singh submitted that the Tirupati Balaji model be replicated for the proper maintenance and upkeep of Vishnupad temple and to provide all required facilities to the devotees. State government’s additional advocate general Anjani Kumar, when asked by the court, submitted that the religious trust could seek details from Tirupati Balaji temple management committee. Senior counsel Rai Shivaji Nath appeared for the temple’s private managing body while Ganpati Trivedi represented the government’s religious body. The matter will be heard again on September 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-body-vishnupad-temple-management-asked-to-settle-dispute/articleshow/78066477.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Lalu, Raghuvansh in a bind to leave each other||PATNA: RJD veteran Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s offer to part ways with Lalu Prasad’s company in the run-up to the assembly polls has opened up a new political equation in the electoral battlefield. Although Raghuvansh has not formally sent his resignation letter to Lalu, he expressed his willingness to sever ties with him after 32 years of togetherness. Both Raghuvansh babu, as he is popularly known in political circles, and the RJD boss are in a bind to leave each other. While the 74-year-old former Union rural development minister is not in a position to go to BJP because the saffron party hardly admits anybody above 70 years, he has not yet cleared the air about his joining JD(U), though the ruling party has welcomed his overtures. Going to Congress is perhaps not an option before Raghuvansh now — because had it been so, he could have done it in 2009 when the Sonia Gandhi-led party offered him the rural development ministry even though RJD was not a party to the UPA. That he could not win elections in his Vaishali constituency since 2009 remains a thorn in the veteran leader’s political career graph. The main cause of Raghuvansh’s sulking is the possible entry of Ram Kishor Singh alias Rama Singh, who defeated the former Union minister in 2015, into RJD. But the LJP leader’s entry into the Lalu party has been put on hold, perhaps to placate Raghuvansh. For Lalu, who is constrained to run the party from the Ranchi jail, leaving his trusted lieutenant to his opponents’ advantage will not be a politically prudent move for a few counts. Firstly, Raghuvansh’s clean image, his educational background (he is a doctorate in mathematics) vis-à-vis with other senior leaders in the party, his grasp over the subject (read rural development) are almost unmatched in the present-day state politics. A leader of the Rajput community, Raghuvansh represents the upper caste in RJD which claims to champion the causes of the lower castes. So Lalu cannot afford to leave him at a time when his party is in doldrums. Although RJD has projected Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the chief ministerial candidate of the Mahagathbandhan in the coming election, Lalu has to depend heavily on Raghuvansh as his younger son perhaps lacks experience to win an election in a state like Bihar and is also embroiled in various land-related corruption cases involving hotels and malls which, to some extent, have dented his image. The recent desertions of a few RJD MLAs and MLCs have made the situation murkier. After Tejashwi stopped attending the assembly proceedings last year, many in the political circles have started harbouring an idea that like Rahul Gandhi, he is also “not a serious politician”. However, Tejashwi is perhaps fighting a lone battle to recapture the citadel from Nitish Kumar, who is also facing an anti-incumbency wave. Lalu’s elder son Tej and eldest daughter Misa, who were dragged into politics by their father entangled in family and legal battles, have not done remarkably till now to better the poll prospect of RJD. Recently, the RJD suffered another setback when former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi joined hands with Nitish. Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, which had left NDA to be with RJD-propelled Mahagathbandhan, has been keeping a low profile. Under the circumstances, Lalu is facing a challenging task to keep his flock together and hence his bonding with Raghuvansh is more political than emotional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-raghuvansh-in-a-bind-to-leave-each-other/articleshow/78065172.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Firmly stand by all decisions of Chirag: Paswan||PATNA: LJP founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has strongly backed his son and party president, Chirag Paswan, who has been regularly attacking CM chief Nitish Kumar despite LJP being an NDA ally in Bihar. In a series of emotional tweets on Friday, Paswan, who holds the food and consumer affair ministry in the Narendra Modi government, praised his son for taking care of him during his illness as well as expertly handling the affairs of the party. “I stand firmly by every decision of his (Chirag). I am confident that the youthful thinking of Chirag will take the party and Bihar to new heights,” the senior Paswan tweeted from his official handle, adding, “I am happy that my son is by my side and taking care of me as I am unwell. Apart from that, he is also handling party affairs very well.” Paswan, however, did not reveal the ailment for which he was undergoing treatment but said in one of the tweets that he continues to discharge his duty as the country’s food and consumer affairs minister. He added that he managed to supply food grains to the people during the Covid19 lockdown as minister only due to the proper care taken by Chirag. Paswan’s statement also assumed significance in the wake of the decision of the LJP parliamentary board, which authorized Chirag to take the final call on whether to continue its ties with JD(U), an NDA ally, at its meeting held in New Delhi early this week. Chirag, meanwhile, has called a meeting of the party MPs on September 15 to discuss the issue of severing ties with JD(U), especially after its leader KC Tyagi told media persons in New Delhi that his party was not in alliance with LJP. LJP parliamentary board chairman and Govindganj MLA Raju Tiwari said the senior Paswan had reposed faith in Chirag’s leadership. “Bihar first and Bihar first’ is the LJP’s slogan, and every worker of the party was solidly behind the party president Chirag on the issue of development. Chirag Paswan is authorized to take any decision about the party,” he told this newspaper over the phone. However, party insiders said that this is senior Paswan’s way to convey the message to the top leadership of the BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/firmly-stand-by-all-decisions-of-chirag-paswan/articleshow/78065285.cms||Ramashankar
September 12, 2020||Patna||Oxygen cylinder bank inaugurated||PATNA: State legislative assembly working chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh on Friday inaugurated an oxygen cylinder bank set up by Bihar Foundation. Singh lauded the Bihar Foundation for setting up the bank, which has 200 cylinders, and said the move would go a long way in helping people during Covid-19 pandemic. “The Bihar Foundation’s relief measures for Covid-19 positive patients are worth appreciating. The foundation had also come to the rescue of migrant workers during the lockdown period,” Singh said at a function held at Vidhan Parishad’s auditorium. Bihar Foundation, a registered society under the state industries department, had got these oxygen cylinders from Act Grants. It is also running a call centre with the help of another organisation to provide tele consultancy services to people. Bihar Foundation’s officer on special duty and Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusandhan Sansthan director Ashok Kumar Sinha said the foundation had been formed to establish a connect with people of Bihar origin residing outside the state as well as in other countries. He said, “So far, 21 chapters have been formed, including 12 in foreign countries and nine in other parts of India.” Nine chapters of the foundation in the country, including those in Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Pune, Nagpur, Goa, Gujarat and Varanasi, had helped around 12 lakh migrants during the lockdown period. Bihar Foundation’s chief executive officer Ravi Shankar Shrivastava thanked all the members of self-help groups, especially Gaurav Rai, who is popularly known as ‘cylinder man’. Dr Ravikant Singh extended a vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oxygen-cylinder-bank-inaugurated/articleshow/78065243.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Rajkot||800-year-old copper coins to be exhibited||Palanpur: Heritage enthusiasts from the state will for the first time get a glimpse of some rare copper coins dating back to the Sultanate period in the country. The Patan administration has decided to put about eight centuries old copper coins on exhibition this year. These coins will be put on display at an exhibition that will also be held for the first time at the historic Rani ki Vaav – a step well built in the 11th century. District collector Anand Patel, who is a heritage enthusiast, said, “We have some 1,800 copper coins that will be put on exhibition for the first time. Prima facie, these coins seem to be of the Sultanate period in the country.” District officials said that these coins were found from different places in Patan over the last two decades. While some of the coins were recovered from the fields, others were found during excavation work near Mahakali Temple. The authorities said that some of the coins had inscriptions in Urdu and Persian referring to Sultan rule that could date to as early as 1,200 AD. “Our plan is to organize an exhibition at the Rani ki Vaav every year. These coins that will be a part of the exhibition would remind the youngsters of our ancient era,” Patel added. Patel remained present during the counting of the coins, cleaning and segregation of the coins that have been stored in separate boxes with proper labels and numbers. After being discovered, they were kept in the district treasury for years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/800-year-old-copper-coins-to-be-exhibited/articleshow/78065074.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Business||Multi-cap MFs to hold 25% each in large, mid & small||Mumbai: Multi-cap mutual funds, in which fund managers currently have the liberty to take a call on stocks of their choice across market capitalisation spectrum, will have to let go of that leeway from next year. Sebi on Friday said that by the end of January 2021, each multi-cap fund should have at least 25% of its corpus invested in each of large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap stocks. “In order to diversify the underlying investments of multi-cap funds across large-, mid- and small-cap companies and be true to label, the regulator changed ‘the scheme characteristics’ of these funds,” Sebi said. The decision is expected to give an immediate boost to mid-cap and small-cap stocks, since about 35 fund managers are expected to buy these stocks while selling large-caps, which could face some selling pressure, industry players said. Sebi said that all multi-cap funds should have at least 75% of the assets invested in equity and equity related instruments. Also at least 25% of the total assets of these funds should be in large-cap companies, 25% in mid-cap companies and 25% in small-cap companies. Every six months, industry trade body Amfi comes out with a list of stocks that qualify under the three types categorised by market capitalisation. This process is based on a Sebi-approved formula. According to an analysis by domestic financial services house Edelweiss, 35 multi-cap funds are currently managing assets worth nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Of the total assets, about 65% is invested in large-cap stocks, 16-18% in mid-cap, 8-9% in small-caps and the balance in cash. As a result, in less than five months, about Rs 12,000 crore should be shifted from large-cap to mid-cap stocks and about Rs 24,000 crore from large-cap to small-cap scrips. This translates into about Rs 300-crore worth of transfer per day. Currently, daily volumes in mid-cap stocks is about Rs 11,700 crore, while in small-cap scrips it’s about Rs 4,800 crore. So a Rs 300-crore transfer per day works out to about 2% of the current daily turnover in these stocks. The Sebi decision is expected to “help mid- and small-cap stocks to move up on the light of their share going up in terms of allocation,” said Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth Management. However, this could turn counter-productive in a bearish market. Samir Arora, a Singapore-based fund manager tweeted that in a bad market, if a multi-cap fund faces redemption and when the fund manager is forced to sell the small-cap stocks, that could “be a disaster”. Currently, Kotak Standard Multicap Fund is the largest in the lot with an asset base of Rs 29,714 crore, followed by HDFC Equity Fund at Rs 19,798 crore and Axis Focused 25 Fund at Rs 11,372 crore, industry data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/multi-cap-mfs-to-hold-25-each-in-large-mid-small/articleshow/78068672.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Business||Gilts worth Rs 18,000cr devolves in weekly auction||Mumbai: Indicating that troubles in the bond market may not be over and interest rate any lower from the current levels may not be forthcoming, almost the entire auction amount of Rs 18,000 crore in 10-year government securities (G-secs) remained unsold on Friday. This is the third auction in the last four that witnessed a devolvement, RBI data showed. In Friday’s auction, the RBI accepted just one bid worth Rs 30 crore out of 281 bids for 5.77% 2030 G-secs. The central bank rejected all other bids, which were at yields above 6.02%, it said. Any rise in benchmark yield has a direct effect on the prevailing interest rate in the banking sector. Of late, there has been a tug of war between market participants, trying to take yields higher while the RBI is trying to not let that happen. After an initial dip last week, the benchmark 10-year gilt yields have again hardened to above the 6.05% level, lowering the possibility of any rate cut by the RBI later in the year. On Friday, the benchmark yield closed at 6.04%, official data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gilts-worth-rs-18000cr-devolves-in-weekly-auction/articleshow/78068811.cms||Partha Sinha
September 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: BJP chief to visit Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga today||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda reached here on Friday and interacted with the 70-member steering committee headed by Union minister Nityanand Rai. Former Maharashtra CM and Bihar BJP’s election incharge Devendra Fadnavis, party’s national general secretary and state incharge Bhupender Yadav, state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal and the party’s top brass were also with him. As per his two-day schedule released by the state BJP, there is no programme of Nadda to call on CM Nitish Kumar either on Friday or Saturday. “It is not necessary for the party president to call on the CM every time he visits the state. He had met Nitish during his last visit,” a state BJP source said, adding the seat-sharing and other related matters were being discussed through back channels. Nadda would perform ‘puja’ at Patandevi Mandir from 9 to 11.30am in Saturday before addressing the Atmanirbhar Bharat meeting organized at the party’s state headquarters. “He will point out what all the NDA government would do in the next five years after retaining the power,” Jaiswal said. Soon after, Nadda will leave for Darbhanga and address the fish producers and makhana growers on the campus of Makhana Anusandhan Kendra. From there, he would visit Saraiya in Muzaffarpur and meet Padma Shri award winner Raj Kumari Devi, popularly known as ‘Kisan Chachi’ at her village Ibrahimpur. He would interact with the litchi growers and women farmers from Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Sitamarhi. Nadda will return to Patna at 5pm and hold a meeting with the state core committee members at the residence of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi. He will leave for Delhi at 8pm, as per his schedule. Earlier in the day, Fadnavis inaugurated the party’s new media centre at a premier hotel near R-Block. “The people of the state will give historic victory to the NDA in the election. The new NDA government will definitely work in tandem with the Centre for the development of Bihar,” Fadnavis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-chief-to-visit-muz-and-darbhanga-today/articleshow/78065236.cms||Abhay Singh
September 12, 2020||Patna||Boy dies as dad’s rifle goes off while posing for selfie in Bihar||PATNA: A 17-year-old boy died after his father’s rifle went off while he was posing for selfie on Thursday evening. The bullet hit Kunal Singh in his head at village Miliya under Manjhagarh police station area in Gopalganj district. Police said Kunal was preparing for engineering entrance examinations in Kota and had returned home due to Covid-19 pandemic. He was rushed to hospital where the doctors declared him dead. One Pramod Singh, who claimed to be their neighbour, told TOI over phone on Friday that he, along with others had rushed to Kunal’s residence after getting information about the incident. “Kunal’s family members and his relatives told us that he was taking selfie when the rifle accidentally went off,” he said. However, Manjhagarh police station SHO (incharge) Dinesh Kumar Yadav said Kunal’s father Om Prakash Singh told the police that he was depressed after not performing well in an entrance examination a week back. “Singh mentioned this as a reason behind his son committing suicide. However, we will investigate the case from different angles,” he said, adding the rifle was licensed and had been seized. The SHO said Singh is a contractor. “No suicide note was recovered from the spot. The door of the room in which the incident took place was open. One empty cartridge was recovered from the spot. A case of unnatural death has been registered on the basis of Singh’s application,” SHO Yadav said, adding the body was handed over to the family after postmortem on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/boy-dies-as-dads-rifle-goes-off-while-posing-for-selfie/articleshow/78066591.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Brother in jail for ‘honour killing’ of sister in Bihar's Nalanda||PATNA: A 20-year-old man was remanded in judicial custody on Friday for the “honour killing” of his younger sister for having a relationship with a man from a neighbouring village. Ramesh Kumar was arrested on Thursday from a Masaurhi village in eastern Patna. The slain girl’s brother-in-law Mukesh Chaudhary (30) and her maternal cousin Vikash Kumar (20), also accused in the crime, are evading arrest. “The trio killed Anjali Kumari (18) by forcibly dunking her head in a roadside ditch at Bada around 10 pm on Wednesday and dumped the body in it,” said Kadirganj police station SHO Shoaib Akhtar, adding the arrested accused Ramesh is from Islampur’s Dhamauli village in Nalanda. Akhtar said Ramesh was caught by villagers while fleeing the spot and they handed him to a police patrol suspecting he was a thief. “Killing of Anjali surfaced when Ramesh confessed about it during interrogation on Thursday morning,” the SHO said, adding it is a clear case of honour killing. “She had an affair with a youth who lived in a neighbouring village Dhamauli. She had also eloped at least four times in the last two years as per her brother which had brought a bad name for the family due to which they finally killed her,” he said. Akhtar said Anjali’s body was recovered from the roadside water body on Thursday morning based on her brother’s confessional statement. “A bike hidden in the bushes was also seized from the spot. The trio had brought Anjali using two bikes. Mahesh and Vikash fled using one of the bikes,” the SHO said. SHO said Anjali was living at one of her aunt’s residence in Jehanabad. “The trio took her along in the name of visiting Mahesh’s residence. But took her to a secluded place and killed her,” SHO said. “Her parents’ involvement has not yet surfaced,” he said, adding, an FIR against the trio for Anjali’s murder has been lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/brother-in-jail-for-honour-killing-of-sister-in-nalanda/articleshow/78066513.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held in Coimbatore for sexually assaulting minor girl||COIMBATORE: The city police arrested a 23-year-old construction worker under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl. Police identified him as S Vignesh from Palani. He used to visit his relatives staying in Coimbatore and befriended the girl during a temple festival here two years ago. The girl, a school dropout, left her home on Thursday with Vignesh, who took her to a temple in Udumalpet and ‘married’ her, a police officer said. Meanwhile, the girl’s parents lodged a missing complaint with the Podanur police, who registered a case and formed a special team to trace Vignesh and the minor girl. The team found the duo at Vignesh’s house in Palani and brought them back to Coimbatore. Police altered the case against Vignesh under sections 7 (sexual assault) and 8 (punishment for sexual assault) of Pocso, Section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. He was produced before the special court for Pocso cases and was remanded in judicial custody. The girl was reunited with her parents. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/78068055.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh writes 3 letters to Bihar CM, sparks another buzz||PATNA: Amid the ongoing letter politics in Bihar, senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh shot off three letters to CM Nitish Kumar with three separate demands — bringing an ordinance for the amendment of MGNREGA; holding the Republic Day flag hoisting ceremony in Vaishali, and bring back the ‘bhiksha patra’ (alms bowl) of Lord Buddha from Afghanistan. These hand-written letters are dated September 10, the same day he wrote his letter to RJD chief Lalu Prasad distancing himself from the party, to which Lalu had responded saying he won’t allow Raghuvansh to go anywhere. However, unlike the letter to Lalu, which was written on a plain piece of paper, the three letters circulated on Friday are written on his official letter pad. In one of the letters, Raghuvansh wrote that Vaishali, despite being the “first Republic of the world”, had not seen any development. He reminded Nitish that before the bifurcation of Bihar, the CM used to hoist the flag on January 26 in Ranchi, while the governor used to do the same in Patna on Independence Day. “From 2021 onwards, you (Nitish) should hoist the flag at Vaishali Garh on Republic Day every year,” he said in the letter written in Hindi. In another letter, he demanded that the chief minister pitch for getting back the ‘bhikshapatra’ (alms bowl) of Lord Buddha from Afghanistan to Vaishali. Raghuvansh said the bowl was donated to the people of Vaishali and he had even raised it in Parliament. And in the third letter, he raised the demand for amending the rural jobs scheme MGNREGA. He wrote a separate letter to the water resources department minister, Sanjay Jha, complaining about a few development works related to Vaishali, which were initiated during former WRD minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh’s tenure, but are yet to be completed. While the ruling JD (U) saw the letters as Raghuvansh expressing his faith in the chief minister, opposition RJD and Congress termed them as his demands as a public representative. However, sources across parties agreed that these letters ahead of the assembly polls showed “all may not be well” in RJD. JD(U)’s secretary-general and national spokesperson KC Tyagi said, “He is a respected leader and his suggestions in the letter are valuable and worthy.” The WRD minister, to whom one of the letters was addressed, termed it as Raghuvansh showing trust in CM Nitish. “Since I am in a remote area and have not read his letters, but we will get those works completed, if possible,” Jha said, adding, “There are just one or two respectable people in RJD and they have not given them their due respect. This party without Raghuvansh Babu is finished.” However, RJD national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha called these letters purely administrative. “I keep writing letters to CM that does not mean I am going to join his party. And the bond between Raghuvansh babu and Lalu Ji can be felt from the letters they shared on Thursday. Those two letters show the intensity of their relationship,” he said. When asked about the buzz in the political circles about Raghuvansh pitching his son for Vidhan Parishad through the governor’s quota, Jha said, “I don’t respond to gossip.” State Congress leader Sadanand Singh said the demands raised by Raghuvansh were genuine and he had been raising them for a long time. “As leaders from the same socialist background, he has all the right to put such demands in front of Nitish,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvansh-writes-3-letters-to-nitish-sparks-another-buzz/articleshow/78065160.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 12, 2020||Patna||ADRI: Bihar’s economy likely to shrink by 15-18% in 2020-21||PATNA: Bihar’s economy is likely to shrink by 15 to 18% in the financial year 2020-21 due to Covid-19, according to a report released by Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) at Patna on Friday. The report, christened ‘COVID-19: Issues and Challenges for Bihar’, is based on comprehensive deliberations and research by the researchers at ADRI. “The negative impact of Covid-19 on Bihar’s economy may be relatively less than the country as a whole (-23.9% GDP fall in the first quarter of 2020-21). But in absolute terms, the impact is substantial. The lockdown imposed after the Covid-19 outbreak has adversely affected the informal workforce, which is approximately 94% of the workforce in Bihar,” said ADRI Patna director PP Ghosh. “Given the limited revenue receipt from its sources, the state government has been heavily dependent on central transfers and grants. In fiscal 2018-19, the total transfers from the Centre to the state were 77.6%. Hence, the significant reduction in the revenue collection of the central government will affect the state finances badly and, therefore, Bihar needs to explore the possibility to generate more revenue from its own sources,” he said. Barna Ganguli, assistant professor at ADRI, pointed out that the crisis is the first of its kind for India, as the country had not faced any such pandemic before. Hence, it has tested the preparedness of the overall policymaking of the governments at the Centre and in the state. “Since Bihar is an agrarian economy, it hasn’t suffered much compared to other states that have an industrial economy. But challenges in Bihar are unique, which include healthcare infrastructure and migrant crisis,” she added. The report also threw light on how the pandemic has affected the lives of the elderly, women, children and people with disability in the state. Economist Shaibal Gupta told this newspaper: “It is quite likely that the disruption in the productive activities in Bihar for a reasonably long period may lead to the extinction of some tiny-scale production activities, which account for a large number of production units in a poor economy like Bihar. This will imply a permanent loss of the productive capacity of the Bihar economy.” Elaborating upon the GST collection in the state, Sudhanshu Kumar, associate professor at ADRI, said, “Due to recent implementation of GST, the impact on the state’s exchequer is limited for Bihar. The collection from non-GST taxes by the state government due to pandemic is also low. This has created a revenue deficit in our state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/adri-bihars-economy-likely-to-shrink-by-15-18-in-2020-21/articleshow/78065197.cms||Arunima Lal
September 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Jail supdt shunted, 4 staff suspended||Aurangabad: Days after a couple of audio call recordings of a jail inmate speaking to the kin of another inmate went viral, the superintendent at Aurangabad Central Prison has been shunted out while four other prison staffers have been suspended. On August 22, TOI had reported about additional director general of police (prisons) Sunil Ramanand ordering a probe into the two audio clips which were going viral and tasking DIG prisons Sunil Zalke to carry out a detailed probe. The report comprising statements of several inmates and even their relatives was submitted on September 4. The orders, copies of which are with TOI, were issued on Wednesday. Confirming the orders, a senior police officer said that superintendent of Aurangabad Central Prison Hiralal Jadhav has been shunted out to Daulatrao Jadhav Prison Officer’s Training Institute, Pune, while jailers Prashant Ukhde and Pradeep Rehpade and prison constables Raju Sattavan and Balu Chavan have been suspended. In one of the audio recordings, an inmate can be heard allegedly demanding Rs 2 lakh for getting sanction from a high-power committee for parole of a murder accused who is currently behind bars for almost a year now. The one who made the calls, Yogesh Sangle, is behind bars since August 2014 after he was arrested for murdering a man with the help of three other people, including the deceased man’s wife. The man’s charred body was found in Morhira village of Phulambri. Sangle allegedly used the cell phone of a prison staffer to call Sohel, who is the son of murder accused Shaikh Akbar, and sought money. In one of the audio calls, Sangle can be heard telling Sohel to check his WhatsApp for the picture of a chit written by Akbar. “The chit was sent over WhatsApp, as an assurance to Sohel, to imply that Yogesh was actually speaking on behalf of Akbar,” said an officer. In the second call, Sohel can be heard telling Yogesh that Rs 2 lakh was too high an amount and requested him to charge less. During the same conversation, Yogesh could be heard saying that the amount being charged to Akbar was comparatively lesser. “The audio clips were recorded sometime after the state government started granting emergency parole to the inmates to ease out situation in the over-populated prisons of the state,” said the officer. The fact that a prison staffer’s cell phone was allegedly used to make the calls and seek money has caught the attention of the higher-ups and imvited their wrath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jail-supdt-shunted-4-staff-suspended/articleshow/78065201.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Business||SBI Card restructures dues, offers loan option||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: SBI Card is restructuring credit card dues for those who availed moratorium by converting it into loans where the interest is up to 70% lower. The company is also promising users that, should the Supreme Court grant any interest relief during the moratorium period, the benefit will be adjusted against subsequent instalments on the loan. Speaking to TOI, SBI Card MD & CEO Ashwini Kumar Tewari said, given that interest on credit card balances that are revolved is over 40%, the outstanding will keep growing if cardholders delay payments. “According to our Q1 numbers, in the month of May, we had Rs 7,083 crore under moratorium, which came down to Rs 1,500. A large chunk of this has been repaid, while those who have not repaid have been classified as delinquent, although they are not yet NPA. We are asking them to enrol into a the ‘easy pay’ option,” said Tewari According to Tewari, some borrowers are holding back from repayment on the hope that the Supreme Court would grant a waiver of interest during the period. “We are telling them to opt in for the scheme as credit history is not impacted. Lot of customers are not convinced, they feel that there may be a waiver,” said Tewari. The option process has been made very simple and cardholders can exercise it by responding to an SMS. SBI Card has seen transactions coming 80% back to pre-Covid levels in recent months. While spending on travel and IRCTC has taken the biggest hit, these have been made up by online spending, which is 105% of pre-Covid levels. Also, people are now using the cards to pay for essentials, including paying school fees and utility bills, which they were not doing earlier. Among the measures the company has taken to promote growth in cards is pushing more local online spending and getting merchants to restructure their loyalty and reward programmes. For instance, the points SBI Card offered in partnership with Vistara Airlines can be used with other merchants as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-card-restructures-dues-offers-loan-option/articleshow/78068680.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 12, 2020||Business||Tatas block SP’s plan to pledge Tata Sons shares||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Shapoorji Pallonji Group’s plan to raise Rs 11,000 crore ($1.5 billion) by pledging a part of its interest in Tata Sons has hit a roadblock after the holding company of the Tata Group moved the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the process. Last week, Tata Sons filed an ‘urgent’ application with the apex court to restrain SP from raising capital against pledging its interests in the shares of the company directly or indirectly. The construction and real estate group, controlled by billionaire Pallonji Mistry and his family, holds 18.4% in Tata Sons and its stake is worth over Rs 1 lakh crore. Tata Sons moved legally after SP inked an agreement to raise Rs 3,750 crore ($510 million) from Canadian investor Brookfield by offering a part of its stake in the holding company of the Tata Group as collateral. Describing the move by Tata Sons as “vindictive”, “oppression of minority shareholder rights” and “intended to inflict irreparable damage”, SP is seeking the dismissal of the application as “creation of pledge on shares does not amount to transfer of title of the shares” and that the title of the shares continue to remain with the pledgor. SP has been looking to raise $1.5 billion to tide over the financial crunch caused by the Covid pandemic after economic activity across the world came to a standstill early this fiscal. It has been seeking structured debt deals as the pandemic delayed its plans to sell assets. “This vindictive move by Tata Sons is solely aimed to create delays and roadblocks in the fund-raise that will jeopardise the future of 60,000 employees and over 1 lakh migrant workers who draw sustenance by working at various SP Group facilities,” said the enterprise’s spokesperson, adding that it is “intended to inflict irreparable damage on the group”. Tata Sons did not respond to requests for comment. SP pointed out that Tata Sons’ Articles of Association (AoA) only regulate the transfer of shares, with its board having a right of first refusal to buy at fair market value the shares of any member who is seeking to sell them. There is no provision in the AoA that restricts the creation of a pledge or encumbrance. Early this year, SP had raised Rs 2,000 crore in debt from Deutsche Bank in two tranches against security over its interests in Tata Sons shares. “The security documents, which are in the public domain, clearly record that lenders would comply with Tata Sons AoA in the event they seek to enforce the pledge of shares. Tatas have suppressed this vital information in their application in a desperate attempt to mislead the Supreme Court,” said the SP spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-block-sps-plan-to-pledge-tata-sons-shares/articleshow/78068738.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt to hire agency for social media promotions||Thiruvananthapuram: With elections round the corner and various scandals denting its image, the state government has decided to hire a national-level agency to highlight its achievements on social media. The agency will promote the government’s achievements through various social media-related activities such as content creation, design, digital promotion, social media outreach, query management, media tracking and reporting and media relations. As per a September 9 order (accessed by TOI), the government has constituted a committee of civil servants to select an agency, with experience at the national level, to strengthen its efforts to reach out to the public through social media. The committee will examine the request for proposals from various agencies before reaching a final decision. The committee entrusted with the task consists of secretary (information and public relations department), secretary (finance expenditure department), secretary (IT department), representative of chief executive officer of KIIFB, and director (information and public relations), who is also the convener. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had convened a meeting on September 8 to explore options on taking the government’s development and welfare initiatives to the people through social media in the wake of Covid-19. On the basis of the meeting it was decided to strengthen the social media division of the PR department. The government already spends a hefty amount to maintain its social media account and the websites of the chief minister and other ministers. The Centre for Development of Imaging Technology (C-DIT) manages the CM’s website and the social media accounts. According to information sourced from details of proceedings of an information and PR department meeting, made public on June 23 this year, Rs 36.07 lakh was spent to maintain the chief minister’s website and social media account for the four months from December 1 last year. C-DIT had engaged 12 persons for the purpose and the expenses include costs to cover manpower, live streaming, server administration and network security, design and development of a data repository, internet connectivity, travel expenses and other miscellaneous expenditure. Additional details, issued on August 3, showed that the government pays C-DIT Rs 5,70,000 every four months to maintain the websites of the remaining 19 ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-hire-agency-for-social-media-promotions/articleshow/78066639.cms||KP Saikiran
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to challenge orders rejecting chargesheets for lockdown violations||Ahmedabad: The state government has decided that it would not give up legally on lower courts’ decisions striking down police chargesheets in connection with FIRs lodged for lockdown under Section 188 of IPC.The director of prosecution (DoP) P S Dhora on Wednesday instructed all district government pleaders to file appeals against magisterial courts’ orders not to accept complaints filed by cops under Section 188 of IPC for violation of lockdown norms. The section is applied for violation of notification issued by public authority and entails a jail term up to six months upon its violation. Gujarat police registered more than one lakh FIRs for lockdown violations.The government’s decision has been triggered by Vadodara magisterial court’s decisions not to entertain chargesheets filed for lockdown violations by terming Section 188 of IPC as non-cognizable offence under Section 195 of the CrPC and that the authority, who issues the notification, has got power to file complaint under.The DoP, legal department secretary and its deputy secretary held a meeting in this regard and issued instructions. The circular said that there was unanimity in the meeting over the interpretation that offence under Section 188 IPC falls under the purview of police. Therefore, the court orders of not taking cognizance of police chargesheet in lockdown violation offences are required to be challenged in higher courts. The state government has found a support for its argument in the Supreme Court order, in which it refused to entertain a quashing petition by one Dr Vikram Singh, who was booked under Section 188 of IPC during lockdown. The SC, however, has not revealed the reason for rejecting the plea but said that it would not entertain it under provisions of Article 32 of the Constitution.The DoP has said that the SC order is a force to assertion that magisterial courts cannot reject chargesheets in such cases. Any policeman and officer can lodge complaints under Section 188 of IPC upon violation of notification issued by competent authority. “Looking at these circumstances, in case magisterial court has ordered to quash the chargesheet filed under Section 188 of IPC, immediately send a proposal to district magistrate and upon clearance of the proposal, file a revision application and intimate the revision number to this office,” reads the circular issued by DoP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-challenge-orders-rejecting-chargesheets-for-lockdown-violations/articleshow/78068338.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parents’ associations moves to join litigation on fixing fees for private schools||Ahmedabad: An association of parents of schoolchildren on Friday moved the Gujarat high court requesting that it be allowed to join the litigation on fixing the fees of private schools.The high court was to hear the state government’s application seeking directions after rounds of negotiations with the federation of self-financed schools failed, as they rejected the government’s proposal to cut fees by a flat 25%. However, the matter could not be taken up and was adjourned till next week.The parents’ association’s president, Naresh Shah, requested the court through his advocate Vishal Dave to allow the association to agitate the issue during the hearing. It was contended that the issue arose after the association’s plea in the HC. It was on the basis of its request that the high court asked the government to intervene in the fee fixing issue. As it was party to the earlier litigation and the association knows the condition of parents, the HC should also hear it.The association highlighted that some schools have agreed to the state government’s formula of a 25% reduction, but as the majority of schools are not ready, HC directions are required to resolve the issue.On Thursday, the private schools’ federation filed an affidavit and stated why the 25% reduction is not acceptable to them. The federation insisted that private schools should be allowed to decide on reduction of fees on a case-to-case basis after evaluation of the financial losses faced by parents due to the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-associations-moves-to-join-litigation-on-fixing-fees-for-private-schools/articleshow/78068435.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ex-employee hacks realtor’s email, Facebook accounts||Ahmedabad: A realty developer from the Bodakdev area of the city on Thursday filed a complaint at Vastrapur police station against an ex-employee, accusing her of hacking his email and Facebook accounts and using them to turn his clients against his housing schemes.Mukesh Deora, 47, a resident of Shashwat Bungalows near Rajpath Club stated that he had opened email and Facebook accounts in 2011 but rarely used them.On March 23, his relative’s business partner and his client called him up to inquire about his housing scheme in the Nehrunagar area. The client told him that a woman named Manisha Soni had called him up and said that the scheme has some issues. At Deora’s request, the client sent him a call recording of the conversation with Soni and Deora identified her as his ex-employee.Deora said Soni, a resident of Bopal, managed to get access to his email and Facebook accounts from which she took the contact details of his clients and began telling them not to invest in his scheme. He said that she was sacked from his company due to a dispute after which she tried to get revenge.After the lockdown, Deora approached the police cyber cell and filed an application against her on July 5. He alleged that she had sent a message to him warning him not to pursue his comlaint against her. Deora finally approached Vastrapur police and filed a complaint under the Information Technology Act against Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-employee-hacks-realtors-email-facebook-accounts/articleshow/78068446.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Union minister to visit Darbhanga airport today||PATNA: Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri will visit Bihar on Saturday to review the ongoing works at the Darbhanga airport from where the operation of commercial aircraft will begin soon under the Regional Connectivity Scheme. Project incharge of the Darbhanga airport, G K Chandana, told this newspaper over the phone that work on the terminal building, which has a capacity to accommodate 200 passengers, office of the Airports Authority of India and the parking space is likely to be completed by the end of September. “Re-carpeting of the runway is also underway. However, the work has been suspended for the time being due to heavy rainfall. It will resume once the weather improves and is likely to be completed by December,” Chandana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/union-minister-to-visit-darbhanga-airport-today/articleshow/78066684.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Evening rain soothes city||Ahmedabad: The city received sporadic spells of rain in varying intensity late in the evening along with thundershowers. The eastern part of the city received an average 22mm rainfall, while the western parts received average rainfall close to 6mm. The city on an average received 14mm rainfall in the two hours from 7pm.First a thunder storm began in in the evening followed by spells of moderate to light rain. With Friday’s rain the city has so far received 932mm rainfall which is 16% higher than the 10-year average of 798mm. Civic body officials said there were no complaints of waterlogging or tree uprooting from any part of the city, as the rainfall was not severe.The South West Zone of the city, including Jodhpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Sarkhej and Vejalpur has received the highest rainfall, 1,066mm, till now this season.According to India Meteorological Department, the city will receive light to moderate rainfall on Saturday too. IMD officials said heavy rainfall may occur at isolated places in the South Gujarat region and in Saurashtra. Surat and Bhavnagar are likely to receive heavy to moderate rain. The IMD officials said light to moderate rain or thundershowers are very likely at many places across the state.The state ha so far received 1,015mm rainfall which is 122% of the 831mm annual seasonal rainfall. Of the 251 talukas, 21 talukas have received between 251mm and 500mm of rain, while 132 talukas have received 501-1,000 mm of rain and 98 talukas have receive rain over 1,000mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/evening-rain-soothes-city/articleshow/78068392.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||1,710 fresh Covid cases in Bihar take tally to 1,55,445||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally jumped to 1,55,445 on Friday with 1,710 more people testing positive for the virus. The health department has confirmed 12 more Covid deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, Covid toll in the state has increased to 797. However, with 1,39,458 recoveries, active cases stand at 15,188 in the state. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Friday that 2,187 more people have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 89.72%. “Over 46 lakh samples have so far been tested in the state, including 1,05,074 in the last 24 hours,” Pandey tweeted. State IPRD secretary Anuman Kumar said the government was making all efforts to combat Covid-19 and improve quarantine facilities. State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said apart from increasing testing, steps have also been taken to create awareness among people regarding masks, especially in the containment zones. He said there are 2,712 containment zones in the state as of now – 2,041 in rural and 671 in urban areas. Nalanda and Munger districts recorded three deaths each on Friday, taking the toll in the two districts to 37 and 36, respectively. Bhagalpur and Nawada have, on the other hand, recorded two deaths each, taking the toll in these districts to 53 and 16, respectively. Banka and Lakhisarai districts recorded one death each on Friday. A 50-year-old man from Gaighat, husband of a ward councillor, died at AIIMS-Patna. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the deceased was admitted to the hospital a month ago and he had even tested negative a fortnight back. “However, his condition deteriorated because of chest infection,” Dr Sanjeev added. He said nine people were discharged and 16 new patients admitted to the hospital on Friday from different localities of Patna like Kanti Factory Road, Choti Pahari, Ramkrishna Nagar, Bhoothnath Road, Police Colony and Rajapur Pul. No fresh death was recorded at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Friday. As per the information shared by hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal incharge (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, four patients were admitted to the hospital and three discharged on Friday. Of 1,710 fresh Covid cases registered in the state on Friday, Patna accounted for 211. With this, the district’s tally has jumped to 23,610. However, with 21,565 recoveries and 184 deaths, active cases in the district stand at 1,861. Gopalganj recorded 207 fresh cases on Friday, Bhagalpur 90, Muzaffarpur 89, Katihar 82, Araria 62 and Darbhanga 61.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1710-fresh-covid-cases-in-bihar-take-tally-to-155445/articleshow/78065235.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RJD in a spot of bother as Lalu Prasad loyalists desert party||PATNA: Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s offer to resign from RJD on Thursday suggests that all is not well in the Lalu Prasad-led party at a time when the state assembly polls are round the corner. Raghuvansh’s stand has sent shockwaves among the leaders and workers of the party. It has also given rise to rumours that Lalu’s loyalists, who once stood solidly behind him, are being sidelined in the party. The list of Lalu’s loyalists deserting the party is long. Take the case of Uday Narain Rai alias Bhola Babu, who was a minister in the Lalu-Rabri government. Bhola had quit the Raghopur assembly constituency to pave way for Lalu to contest the assembly polls from the seat in 1995. Bhola enjoyed a considerable influence in Raghopur from where Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav got elected for the first time in 2015 assembly polls. Bhola’s exit has made the task of Tejashwi all the more difficult. Earlier, MAA Fatmi, former RJD MP from Darbhanga, had left the party and joined Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) after being denied ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Similarly, Ram Kripal Yadav, now BJP MP from Patliputra, left RJD in 2014 and joined BJP after Lalu’s eldest daughter Misa Bharti was declared an official candidate of RJD from the Patliputra Lok Sabha constituency. Before leaving the RJD first family, Ram Kripal was described as ‘Hanuman’ of Lalu. Neeraj Kumar, a senior JD(U) functionary, said, “For Laluji, family comes first. As a result, even those who were once loyal to him have deserted the party.” Sources said even other stalwarts like Shivanand Tiwari, Abdul Bari Siddiqui and Ram Chandra Purbe are not being consulted in the affairs of the party on a regular basis. It is said that Jay Prakash Narain Yadav, a former Union minister, is also not in the good books of the state leadership of the party. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari, however, refuted the allegation of the party ignoring its veteran leaders. “It’s a fact that some senior leaders have quit the party on one pretext or another. But it’s also true that many of them, who were loyal to Laluji, returned to the party fold after sometime,” he said. Shyam Rajak, Brishen Patel, Uday Narayan Chaudhary, Ramai Ram were a new names to be mentioned, the RJD spokesperson said, adding all those who were criticising Lalu have today got recognition in public life because of him (Lalu). Altogether 13 MLAs and MLCs had left the RJD and joined the JD(U) recently. Many of them were Yadavs and Muslims, the core vote base of the RJD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-in-a-spot-of-bother-as-lalu-loyalists-desert-party/articleshow/78065187.cms||Ramashankar
September 12, 2020||Patna||Woman branded ‘witch’, fed human excreta in Bihar||PATNA: Police have registered an FIR against seven members of a family who had allegedly thrashed a woman, tonsured her head and force-fed her human excreta after labelling her witch at Rerwaria Tiwari village under the Bhore police station area in Gopalganj district. SHO of Bhore police station Subhash Kumar said the incident occurred on Thursday. “Seven members of the family –– Vinay Bhagat, his brother Bablu Bhagat, their mother Etwaria Devi, Pradeep Bhagat, Anil Bhagat, Vashishtha Bhagat and Phulkumari Devi –– have been booked in connection with the case on the basis of the victim’s statement,” the SHO said. He added the accused, who fled the village after the incident, are neighbours of the victim. “The two families also have land dispute. At least four FIRs had been earlier lodged by both sides against each other with Bhore police station in connection with the land dispute. We suspect that the Thursday’s incident was fallout of the land dispute,” he said, adding raids were on to arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-branded-witch-fed-human-excreta/articleshow/78066662.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: Increase in lifestyle diseases amid Covid-19 curbs||PATNA: The number of patients in outpatient departments (OPDs) of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) witnessed a threefold increase this week following relaxation in public movement in the wake of Unlock 4.0. The increased number of patients mostly included those with complaints of rise in blood sugar, hypertension, obesity, anxiety and joint pain which are considered as lifestyle diseases. PMCH superintendent and president of the Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Bimal Karak on Friday said the number of patients in OPDs, mainly medicine and orthopaedic, jumped from an average of 500 per day to about 1,500 in the last couple of days. “It was concerning that complaints of blood sugar and blood pressure figured around 300 per day and it was mostly due to the sedentary life passed during the lockdown period, which did not allow people to go for walks in parks or city roads,” Karak said, adding the new cases of diabetes and hypertension rose both in urban and rural areas of Patna and the neighbouring districts. Dr Abhijit Singh, head of the central emergency of PMCH, said the OPDs were facing rush of lifestyle diseases in medicine and orthopaedics departments. Cases of surgical emergency are also on the rise, he added. “The telemedicine department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) received over 3,000 calls from patients for follow-up advice for their ailments between April and August. Of them, 1,800 complaints were related to lifestyle diseases,” said Dr Anil Kumar, head of trauma and emergency and incharge of the telemedicine department of the hospital.  “While cases like allergic rhinitis or common cold declined due to non-exposure to dust and pollution, those like obesity, blood sugar, hypertension and musculoskeletal pain rose during this period,” he said. Many people from both urban and rural areas complained of headache, sadness, anxiety and depression, which might be due to low secretion of endorphin hormone in home-confinement like situation. After being declared a dedicated Covid hospital, the AIIMS-P has been offering medical advice to its patients through telemedicine.  Dr Devendu Bhushan of medicine department of AIIMS-P said lack of exercise or stroll led to obesity in many persons and it further resulted into different complications, especially in women of advance age. “Sedentary lifestyle also has its direct effect on our bones and muscles,” said Dr Shivam Anand of the orthopaedic department of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), a dedicated Covid hospital. “Remaining seated for long at one place exerted pressure on joints of people, leading to other problems,” he said. Now when people have begun moving from other districts to Patna, there is a rush of patients with complaints of lifestyle diseases like osteoarthritis, knee, shoulder pains and depression. Dr Prakash Sinha of pulmonary medicine department of Paras HMRI Hospital said cases of breathing problems increased in people residing in high-rise apartments in urban areas due to lack of exercise or free movement in open spaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/increase-in-lifestyle-diseases-amid-covid-19-curbs/articleshow/78065181.cms||VK Tripathi
September 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: PM to open LPG bottling plants in East Champaran & Banka on Sunday||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate LPG bottling plants in Banka and East Champaran through videoconferencing on Sunday. The Indian Oil Corporation Limited’s (IOCL) plant in Banka and another by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) in East Champaran have a combined bottling capacity of 80,000 cylinders per day. The Banka plant will serve Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar districts in Bihar and Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj and Pakur districts in the neighbouring Jharkhand. Similarly, the East Champaran plant will serve over 5 lakh consumers in East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj and Sitamarhi in Bihar and Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh. The Banka plant has cost Rs131.75 crore and the East Champaran one Rs136.4 crore. The two plants were envisaged under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUJ). “In Bihar, 84.91 lakh PMUJ connections have been given at a cost of Rs1,366 crore provided by the government of India since May 2016. The LPG coverage in Bihar has increased from 25.50% of the total households in April 2014 to 76.9% by August this year. As a result, total active domestic LPG consumers have increased from 51.2 lakh in April 2014 to 180 lakh at present,” said Vibhash Kumar, executive director of Indian Oil, Bihar and state coordinator of Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) in the state. “Improvement in LPG bottling infrastructure has enabled oil companies to serve LPG consumers in remote places of Bihar. These plants have also created direct and indirect employment opportunities for about 1,000 people in nearby rural areas,” he added. At present, there are 13 bottling plants in Bihar run by IOCL, HPCL and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL). The per day bottling capacity in the state has increased from 98,000 cylinders in April 2016 to 2.58 lakh cylinders per day at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-to-open-lpg-bottling-plants-in-e-champaran-banka-tomorrow/articleshow/78065261.cms||Arunima Lal
September 12, 2020||Business||Nearly 50% of our policies are bought by millennials: LIC Chairman||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), which is set to get listed following the government’s decision to float an initial public offering (IPO), is expected to be the most valuable company in the country. In an interview with TOI, LIC chairman M R Kumar speaks of how the corporation keeps reinventing itself to remain relevant to every generation... The pandemic has cut incomes, but has also increased savings. How has the behaviour been with insurance? What we found is that the impact and need for insurance have been felt and people have started to revive policies as well. There are rare instances of self-employed who had taken high-value policies and have held back on premium. But most people who missed buying in the last week of March 2020 have subsequently purchased insurance. There has been a 23.9% contraction in the first-quarter GDP and life insurance correlates with economic activity. However, in percentage terms, I expect the share of life insurance in household savings to rise. As on date, we are showing a small growth in premium. For the year, we are 27% down in the number of policies, but seeing a 2% growth in premium. In the first week of September, we have seen 37% growth in the number and 90% in premium compared to the same period last year. Our market share in August has improved to 71.3% in policies and 73% in premium. What impact is the Covid-19 pandemic having on returns for policyholders? Interest rates have gown down in the last one year and incremental investments are happening at lower levels. But at the same time, there are opportunities in equity where we have generated good profits. As on date, we have made a profit of Rs 12,000 crore. Whenever there were major dips, we bought. We bought a lot in April and May and booked profits after July. While yields on government securities have come down, incremental investments do not impact yield in the short to medium term as the corporation has a large asset base. How has LIC added to its digital capabilities during the lockdown? When lockdown happened, one immediate challenge was continuing investments. We had 10,000 virtual private network (VPN) licences, which we never used. The first thing we used the VPN was for was our market operations. Therefore, there was no break in our market operations. We always had online payment, we have added every instrument possible. Now 73% of premiums are coming out of alternate channels, which include chief life insurance advisers who are authorised to collect the premium. Recently, we launched a special mobile app for uploading all the documents that are required for any type of service. Hence, customers need not visit any of our branches for such type of requirements. As part of our objective of anywhere services, we have many projects in the pipeline and we would like to avail the facility of Aadhaar-based services from UIDAI to provide an enhanced and paperless service experience for our customers. LIC already has a system in place in establishing an agency channel with online recruitment. Keeping in mind, the current scenario, we are organising online training to update the sales force about the new initiatives of LIC. The digital methods of completing a new sale, called the end-to-end process, were already operational in LIC through our senior business associates. Keeping in mind the current pandemic and related social-distancing norms, we worked proactively by digitising the agency channel where the entire process from proposal registration to completion of the proposal will be done without a physical interface There is a lot of uncertainty — both over life and income. How are you segmenting the market? Our customer base consists of people from varying demographics cutting across age groups. Nearly 50% of our policies are bought by millennials, which is an indicator of how LIC connects seamlessly with the new generation. Those above 40 years contributed more than 50% to total individual first-year premium in FY20, which has shot up to nearly 60% in Q1 of the current fiscal. In the present context, insurance protection plans and annuity are preferred avenues for customers. Also, people are getting more conscious about health insurance coverage. Millennials like to separate purchase of protection and investment, which is why we have positioned our unit-linked product as an SIIP (systematic investment insurance plan) as they are familiar with SIP. Have job losses led to an increase in application to agency licences? Agency as a career in LIC is a lucrative option for people opting out for additional income. It not only takes care of current earnings but also guarantees earnings for the future. Life insurance in India is mainly agency driven and will continue to be agency driven even in the digital era, keeping in mind the digitisation of agency channels by LIC. Agents contribute 62.3% of the individual new business premium of the industry as a whole and 95.8% of LIC individual new business premium. With the life insurance business expected to grow by 12-15% in the coming years, LIC will play a crucial role in creating huge employment in the agency channel. It is worthwhile to note that despite the nationwide lockdown and subsequent unlock phases; LIC has a net addition of 60,771 agents to its force as on August 31. We have a total of 12.7 lakh agents working with us and expect the number to grow steadily. Are you happy with the progress that IDBI Bank has made? What kind of relationship do you see between IDBI Bank and LIC Housing Finance in the future? We are. They have shown a profit for two successive quarters. They have also emerged as our number one bancassurance partner. If they come out of RBI’s prompt corrective action (PCA) it will make a difference to their banking operations. The RBI has approved our investment, subject to the condition that we should bring down our stake in IDBI Bank in 12 years and also that the bank or LIC has to cease housing finance. We are still under discussions on how to do it. At the point when we have to bring down our stake, we do not want either company to face a problem. How can we ensure that both continue this is what we are trying figure out. One of the options is the HDFC-HDFC Bank model (where bank distributes home loans for housing finance company). Once the LIC IPO happens and IDBI Bank comes out of PCA, we want to continue to have a partnership for distribution, but we would like to give them the independence to act on their own. What kind of appetite does LIC have for government securities this year? We have a huge appetite for government securities as policyholder money is for the long term. Overall, we hold more than 20% of all outstanding government securities. The cash flow was muted at the beginning of the financial year, now it has been normalised. This year, we have invested Rs 1.37 lakh crore against Rs 1.15 lakh crore. Including state development loans, the total is 1.71 lakh crore. We will continue to invest in G-secs and we are also getting into high-ticket NHAI, power finance corporation bonds. Also, we will continue to invest in equity. Have the pre-IPO preparations got hit because of lockdown? Has LIC got its embedded value? How much time would be required to file for IPO? The IPO is handled by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) and they have initiated the process by appointing transaction advisers — Deloitte and SBI Caps. We have a full team in place headed by an MD and supported by the company secretary. The second RFP would be for an actuarial firm, which will help us to determine the insurance embedded value. Once that is in place, the valuation work will start. The department of financial services is separately working on what legal amendments are required. I cannot put a time frame on when we would be IPO-ready — we would be hoping to do it as soon as the embedded value is calculated, that would take time as we have a huge database.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nearly-50-of-our-policies-are-bought-by-millennials-lic-chairman/articleshow/78067672.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Case filed with CBI against Naranpura company for loan fraud||Ahmedabad: The Gandhinagar branch of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday registered two FIRs against two companies for availing of credit facilities from two different banks in the city, to the tune of Rs 98.74 crore, which was not used for the purpose for which the credit was obtained but was transferred to other parties. While one was registered against M/s Mayfair Leisures Ltd for a five star hotel project, the second complaint was received from Kailash Sharma, AGM of the Bank of Baroda regional office at BOB Tower near Law Garden on August 14, 2020, M/s Wood Star India Pvt. Ltd which is located at Naranpura, was sanctioned credit facilities to the tune of Rs 35.74 crore for manufacturing wooden engineering floors. According to CBI sources, during the forensic audit done by the bank , 21 payments aggregating to Rs 24 lakh from the borrower’s account appears to be repayment towards loans availed by the borrower from other banks and there was a series of transactions to the tune of Rs 10.03 crore between related parties, M/s Timsy Traders and various other firms, which were ultimately transferred to the other party through the borrowing company, which was not according to the terms of the work order. CBI sources said that the complaint reveals that M/s Wood Star (India) Pvt Ltd and its directors and guarantors, Rohit Patel and Deepti Rohit Patel, in connivance with unknown public servants of the Bank of Baroda and unknown others, caused undue pecuniary advantage to the aforesaid private parties and wrongful loss of Rs 31.85 crore to the Bank of Baroda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/case-filed-with-cbi-against-naranpura-company-for-loan-fraud/articleshow/78068421.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Scammer recharges phone with Paldi senior’s e-wallet||Ahmedabad: A 72-year-old woman from Paldi has filed a complaint of cheating after she fell prey to the KYC (know your customer) scam. She said Rs 25,000 was siphoned off from her account after a man called her to ostensibly update the KYC details of her Paytm account. The man later recharged his cellphone account using her details.In her FIR filed with Paldi police on Thursday, Varsha Parikh, a resident of Arpan Apartments, stated that she got a call from the man on June 20. He told her that she will have to update her KYC details. The man sent her a link to a screen-sharing app. He then managed to take the OTP from her and after a while Rs 25,000 was debited from her account. The man also recharged his cellphone with Rs 50 using her Paytm account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scammer-recharges-phone-with-paldi-seniors-e-wallet/articleshow/78068403.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Business||Murugappa family buys peace with 4th generation member||Chennai: Valli Arunachalam, a fourth generation family member at the Murugappa group, and other promoter family members have buried a nearly three-year-old fracas with the group offering her board representation in Ambadi Investments, an unlisted holding company. The AGM of the company is scheduled for September 21. She had alleged gender discrimination for keeping her out of the affairs of the company after her father died.. Valli Arunachalam, her sister and her mother were bequeathed with 8.15% stake in Ambadi Investments, upon the demise of her father MV Murugappan, in September 2017. Since then, requests to the family to buy their stake amicably at a fair valuation or to allow representation on the board of the company, both fell on deaf years, she alleged. She had warned the family members that her patience was running thin. “Our point has been simple; given that our family has limited involvement in the businesses of the operating companies after my father passed away, we should be settled and the family can absorb our Ambadi stake. This is also consistent with my father’s wishes. Also, my father, during his lifetime, represented our branch of the family on the Ambadi board, and it would have been in the interest of fairness that we had a board seat from when he passed away, as we are a significant shareholder and promoter,” she said.“I am glad the family seems to be seeing the light of day, and the board (which consists mainly of family members) has placed my appointment on the AGM agenda. Given the family controls majority shareholding in the company, I would like to believe that it is a foregone conclusion that I will be appointed as a director at the AGM,” she said in a reply to a TOI questionnaire. Murugappa group did not wish to comment as it was a matter in the affairs of a privately held holding company.It is learnt that the promoter family decided to accommodate Valli Arunachalam into the board amicably and the recent Supreme Court judgement which held that daughters, like sons, have an equal birthright to inherit joint Hindu family property hastened the process. The court decided that the amended Hindu Succession Act, which gives daughters equal rights to ancestral property, will have a retrospective effect. She had alleged group promoters were against women getting into family business and she was denied a board berth in Ambadi Investments after their father’s death in 2017, despite repeated representations. “Look at the family in the management of the group. It’s only male members. It is not that we (women) do not have expertise in running a company. Just that we have not been given a chance in the affairs of the business of the group,” she said in an earlier conversation with TOI. She is a nuclear scientist and her sister Vellachi, has been working with tech companies for the past 10 years. Murugappa group runs 28 businesses and earns nearly Rs 37,000 crore in annual revenues and more than 50,000 employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/murugappa-family-buys-peace-with-4th-generation-member/articleshow/78066699.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
September 12, 2020||Varanasi||Tax exemption for ancient mutts, temples sought||Varanasi: A proposal seeking tax exemption for ancient mutts and temples in three important Hindu ‘teerths’ — Kashi, Ayodhya and Mathura — was submitted to senior RSS functionary Indresh Kumar here on Friday. He left for Lucknow, where he would meet RSS chief Mohan Bhagawat and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to discuss the issue. “The proposal was given by Dr. Rajiv Srivastava of Vishal Bharat Sansthan on behalf of the authorities of mutts and temples,” said Mahant Balak Das, head of the Patalpuri Sanatan Dharm Raksha Parishad. He said that the proposal demanded exemption of all types of taxes from the mutts and temples in Kashi, Ayodhya and Mathura. These mutts and temples do not have any regular source of income, but they have been keeping alive the ancient tradition of ‘gurukul’ for ‘Vedic’ students. “Free free electricity should be supplied to the mutts, and facilities like ration cards to Vedic students and mutt authorities, subsidized gas cylinders, scholarship to Vedic students and grant for the renovation of old mutts should also be ensured,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tax-exemption-for-ancient-mutts-temples-sought/articleshow/78066607.cms||Binay Singh
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Workers steal safety gear worth Rs 7 lakh||Ahmedabad: A resident of Bopal on Thursday filed a complaint of cheating at Sarkhej police station against two of his employees who allegedly stole face masks, ear plugs, hand sanitizer and safety googles, worth Rs 7.34 lakh from his office in Ambli between August 1 and August 21. Inspector B B Goyal of Sarkhej police said the two accused persons — Akshaysinh Vaghela and Yashpalsinh Chanchu, both residents of Godhavi village — were detained. According to their employer, Rahul Jayprakash Mahant, he could not go to the office for around three weeks in August. When he returned on August 22, he found some safety gear missing and checked the CCTV cameras. There he saw that Vaghela and Chanchu had taken away the items. He asked them about it and they confessed to stealing the goods. He then filed a complaint under charges of theft by employees and abetment against the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/workers-steal-safety-gear-worth-rs-7-lakh/articleshow/78068377.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builder: Another accused denied bail||Ahmedabad: A sessions court at Mirzapur on Friday refused bail to another accused, Virendra Patel, who was arrested on a complaint of attempt to murder, kidnapping, illegal confinement and domestic violence against the family of owners of Popular Builder. Virendra was arrested by Vastrapur police along with Raman Patel, Dashrath Patel and Monang Patel, whose wife, Fizu, has slapped charges of domestic violence and attempt to murder against her in-laws as well as against her father. Additional sessions judge N L Dave denied regular bail to Virendra, who claimed innocence in this case and submitted that he does not live in Popular House with the Patel family and that he did not have any interest in this case. He was present at a meeting that took place for settlement on August 15. The prosecution opposed the bail plea by submitting that Virendra is involved in the case the way Dashrath Patel is involved, who was denied bail earlier this week. It was argued on part of the government that Fizu was asking for Rs 50 crore and it cannot be believed that she readily settled for Rs 2.5 crore. There is an element of coercion in the dealing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builder-another-accused-denied-bail/articleshow/78068454.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||HC asks PMC staff to join duty||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday directed the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) employees to call off their indefinite strike and join duty immediately. The court also ordered the PMC to pay pending salaries to all employees — either daily wagers, temporary, contractual or permanent — within two working days. The employees have been directed to ensure the removal of garbage and not to damage any public property. Around 8,000 PMC employees went on indefinite strike on Thursday, demanding regularization of contractual workers, increment in salary, clearing the pending promotions and retirement benefits. The high court also directed the municipal commissioner to convene a meeting of employees and their unions and reach an amicable settlement. The matter was taken up by the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar after additional advocate general (AAG) Anjani Kumar made a request for an urgent hearing on the issue. Kumar placed several newspaper clippings before the bench to highlight the plight and problems of the residents due to heaps of garbage in the city amid Covid-19 pandemic. The AAG also placed materials showing tyres of PMC garbage trucks being punctured by the employees on strike to make them non-functional. The court was also apprised about the employees deliberately dumping garbage at several places, including at the high court gate for which an FIR was lodged. Assisted by PMC counsel Prasoon Sinha, Kumar submitted that the situation would further aggravate the agony of residents amid Covid-19. “Even if their demands are genuine, going on strike and dumping garbage is unwarranted. Problems will increase if not addressed,” he submitted. Meanwhile, the high court directed the PMC to file a counter affidavit within two weeks on the steps taken before the next hearing on September 29. Senior advocate Yogesh Chandra Verma appeared for the PMC employees while the court made Sumeet Kumar Singh the amicus curiae in the case. Sumeet earlier submitted that the employees had not been paid their salaries for the last four months. Principal secretaries of health department and urban development and housing department, along with municipal commissioner, were present before court virtually on its direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-asks-pmc-staff-to-join-duty/articleshow/78065719.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 12, 2020||Patna||Cong trains guns on CM at virtual rally||PATNA: On the fifth day of its virtual rally for Katihar and Purnia districts on Friday, Congress leaders talked about migration, plight of farmers, unemployment and poverty in the state. AICC incharge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil said people were eyeing Congress with a lot of expectation as the present NDA government has failed on all parameters. Former MP from Katihar Tariq Anwar said CM Nitish Kumar should talk about special status and economic package which he had been demanding since 20015. He said in spite of ruling the state for 15 years, Nitish failed to bring Bihar out of the ‘Bimaru’ category. Former Purnia MP Uday Singh, who had switched to the Congress from BJP in 2019, asked local party workers not to make ticket an issue and work hard to oust the NDA government. He said the NDA government was using Sushant Singh Rajput’s death for political mileage. All India Congress Committee (minority president) Nadeem Jawed credited former PM Rajeev Gandhi for technological development in the country. Meanwhile, the research and manifesto department of the state Congress held a meeting on Friday, focusing on the issues related to youth. Department’s state head Anand Madhab said the Congress’s manifesto would highlight issues related to youth and come up with short and long-term programmes for them. “Youths are feeling cheated in the state. If voted to power, the Congress will not only fill government vacancies, but also create job opportunities for youths through other means.” State youth wing president Gunjan Patel said many young people have started collaborating with them, especially after the ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-trains-guns-on-cm-at-virtual-rally/articleshow/78065203.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: 50% beds in Covid wards of many hospitals unoccupied||PATNA: Nearly 87% of the corona patients in the city are under home isolation, as a result of which more than 50% of the beds in the Covid-dedicated hospitals are unoccupied. According to the latest data shared by the Patna district administration, out of the 2,057 active corona cases in the state capital, 1,794 have opted for home isolation. This, say health experts, implies that majority of them are either asymptomatic or have mild or moderate symptoms because only such patients are put under home isolation. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), told this newspaper on Friday, “Around 50% of the beds in the Covid ward of the AIIMS-P are empty because many patients with mild or moderate symptoms are being treated at peripheral and district hospitals. Besides, a large number of people are opting for home isolation instead of hospitalization,” he said and added that 66 of the 70 beds in the ICU were still occupied. At present, only five beds are occupied at the recently inaugurated Covid care unit in Bihta. Similarly, nearly 70% of the beds are vacant at the makeshift corona treatment centre on the premises of the Patliputra Sports Complex. Altogether 411 Covid beds are also empty at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Patients attribute the increase in demand for home isolation to holistic treatment, family’s emotional support and fear of hospitalization. A 32-year-old Patel Nagar resident isolated himself in his bedroom after testing positive for coronavirus earlier this week. He also bought medical equipment like an oxygen cylinder, a pulse oximeter, blood pressure monitor, nebulizer and weighing machine. He said, “I only have a sore throat. So, I made all the necessary arrangements at home because I am scared of hospitals.” Some patients have other concerns like food quality, dirty washrooms and unhygienic surroundings at hospitals. A 55-year-old banker from Punaichak, whose entire family tested positive for corona recently, pointed out, “All of us have mild symptoms and chose to stay at home because we were not sure about the quality of food served at hospitals. Here we are consuming turmeric milk, ‘kadha’ and medicines.” Meanwhile, the Covid control rooms of the district administration are keeping a tab on the patients under home isolation by calling them up regularly and enquiring about their health. An Ashiana Nagar resident, who recovered from corona under home isolation, said, “I used to get a call from the Covid control room every day at 11am. They would enquire about my health daily. To me dealing with the disease was a psychological task rather than a physical one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/50-beds-in-covid-wards-of-many-hospitals-unoccupied/articleshow/78065163.cms||Arunima Lal
September 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Mayfair Leisures in dock for Rs 54 crore bank fraud||VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: The Bhatnagar family has come under the scanner yet again after the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) registered an FIR against Mayfair Leisures Ltd (MLL) and its directors for another bank fraud. This time Amit Bhatnagar, the promoter of Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL) set up in 2011, and the family has been accused of cheating Bank of India (BOI) to the tune of Rs 54.19 crore. This is the second case of fraud registered by the CBI against the Bhatnagar family. In 2018, the CBI had registered a case against the DPIL promoters for allegedly duping a consortium of 11banks and defaulting on a loan of Rs 2,600 crore. In 2019, DPIL promoters Amit Bhatnagar, Sumit Bhatnagar, and their father Suresh Bhatnagar were arrested by the CBI. All three are now out on bail. On Thursday, BOI filed a complaint with the CBI, Gandhinagar accusing seven directors of MLL of cheating, criminal conspiracy and forgery. According to the complaint, MLL was floated in 2011and the firm proposed to start a five-star hotel of a reputed chain of hotels in Vadodara. BOI sanctioned a loan of Rs 63 crore for constructing the hotel along with twin rooms service apartments in the city. Total projected cost of the project was Rs 112.93 crore. During the forensic audit of MLL, it surfaced that the firm had also sold some of its stakes to another company, EI International, for Rs 28 crore. And later, the entire stakes were sold to the same firm and its associates for Rs 90 crore in 2015. MLL received an advance of Rs 66 crore for the transactions which, however,was missing in the audited financials of the company. The bank also said that MLL and its directors and guarantors including Rajesh Nimkar, Mona Bhatnagar, Richa Bhatnagar, Madhurilata Bhatnagar, Suresh Bhatnagar, Namo Bhatnagar and Sangram Barot, along with NSL, connived with BOI employees to avail the loan and then divert it to the group companies for unlawful enrichment of the company and its directors. In its complaint, BOI has alleged that it has suffered losses to the tune of Rs 54.19 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mayfair-leisures-directors-booked-for-rs-54cr-bank-fraud/articleshow/78064772.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Another 4,000+ day, more hands on deck||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has directed mohalla clinics to start Covid-19 tests with immediate effect. The government on Thursday conducted over 58,000 tests and wants to increase the daily count further to identify more and more Covid-positive people and start early treatment. In over 450 mohalla clinics, tests will be conducted through rapid antigen kits for free on all working days between 2pm and 5pm. All chief district medical officers-cum-mission directors have been requested to ensure that mohalla clinic-empanelled staff members are trained to handle the testing procedure, stated an order issued on Thursday evening by Dr Shalley Kamra, state nodal officer of the Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinic cell. “If results come out as negative despite an individual showing symptoms of Covid-19, s/he will be tested using the RT-PCR technique,” an official said, claiming rapid antigen test results had been above 95% accurate. The mohalla clinics will have to complete their regular OPD services before 2pm “so that they can be ready to conduct Covid tests from 2pm,” said a source. All people suspected to have contracted corona infections will be tested besides those who approach a clinic for a similar test. “The testing should be conducted at mohalla clinics as per the Delhi government protocols. All tests done will be updated on the Indian Council of Medical Research portal,” the government has ordered. The mohalla clinics have been given the updated guidelines and protocols on Covid testing. Logistical support for carrying out the tests will be provided by each chief district medical officer, including personal protective equipment, rapid antigen kits and management help. Local arrangements will be made to sanitise every clinic at the end of each day. A couple of districts such as North West have already started conducting Covid tests at a few mohalla clinics. The authorities are mobilising people to turn up for tests at various dispensaries, mobile vans and camps set up at different places on various days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-4000-day-more-hands-on-deck/articleshow/78068085.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 12, 2020||Varanasi||Poshan Panchayats for nutrition awareness||Varanasi: Under the nutrition campaign of the ministry of AYUSH, Poshan Panchayats would be held in the tribal belts of Sonbhadra and Mirzapur districts to create awareness about traditional nutritious food. Chairman of scientific advisory group -drug development, ministry of AYUSH and head of the department of ayurvedic pharmaceutics, Banaras Hindu University Prof Anand Kumar Chaudhary said that the members of village health sanitation and nutrition committee (VHSNC) and public will participate in the panchayat to discuss the ongoing activities, health and nutrition education, and remedial measures being taken. He said that the tribal people could not take locally available nutritional food due to lack of knowledge and awareness. The POSHAN Abhiyaan (National Nutrition Mission) is the Prime Minister’s overarching scheme for holistic nourishment launched on March 8, 2018. Prof Chaudhary said that the ministry of AYUSH will also take special efforts in promoting the village level activities by roping in relevant stake-holders. Nutrition solutions based on traditional healthcare wisdom will be an integral part of the Poshan Maah celebrations during September. According to him, the programme will focus on reducing the level under-nutrition and low birth weight in children, and anaemia in adolescent girls, pregnant women, lactating mothers as well as children. All the traditional medicine systems of India place emphasis on food and diet, and have sophisticated knowledge on the subject. The role for Ayush-based solutions in POSHAN Abhiyaan was mentioned in the joint communication sent to chief secretaries of all the states and UTs by the ministry of AYUSH, ministry of Panchayati Raj and ministry of women and child development on September 7. One important part of POSHAN Abhiyaan is the early identification of children suffering from Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM). This early identification is important for timely initiation of treatment and minimizing the risk of complications. Experts from indigenous systems of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani will be co-opted to provide guidance on good nutrition, complementary feeding. The Ministry of AYUSH will initiate and coordinate special measures for this, through the network of its autonomous bodies as well as through stake-holders like Ayush Educational Institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/poshan-panchayats-for-nutrition-awareness/articleshow/78066696.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||3 booked for abetting suicide||Coimbatore: The Perur police have three people, including two women, on charges of abetting the suicide of a newly married man at Sennanur on the city outskirts. N Govindaraj, 29, had hanged himself in his house on Wednesday after his wife B Manjula Devi, 20, who had married him last Sunday, left him, police sources said. Devi’s family was against the marriage, Govindaraj’s mother N Kanchana said. A fight broke out between the families of Govindaraj and Devi a day after the marriage. The Perur all-woman police conducted an inquiry on Tuesday after Kanchana lodged a complaint. Devi told police that she wanted to go back to her parents. She removed her gold jewellery, including mangalsutra, and handed them over to Govindaraj's family. Govindaraj committed suicide the next day. Govindaraj’s family refused to receive the body after postmortem and blocked the road in front of the collectorate on Wednesday night demanding action against Devi’s parents Balasubramanian and Rajeswari, and her grandmother Susila. On Thursday, police booked the trio under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-booked-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/78068065.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s first woman thana head, two other cops die in expressway crash||KOLKATA/CHINSURAH: Debasree Chatterjee, Kolkata’s first woman officer-in-charge and now, the commanding officer (CO) of the state armed police’s 12th battalion, died along with her security guard and driver, both policemen, when the SUV they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck on Durgapur Expressway in Hooghly early on Friday. Chatterjee (49) was on her way to her Behala home from Dabgram near Siliguri, where she was posted. The accident took place around 6.30am near Hodla Bridge at Dadpur in Hooghly. Police said they were yet to find out the reason for the accident but the driver might have had fallen asleep or the vehicle might have had malfunctioned. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee led the entire police force in condoling her death. “I express my deepest condolences on her death. She was an efficient officer, who with her dedication and effort made it to the level of a deputy commissioner. She has left her mark in Kolkata Police and Bengal Police. Her work to stop human trafficking won her international acclaim. In her death, we have lost an efficient officer. I offer my condolences to her family, relatives and admirers,” she said. According to police, besides Chatterjee, driver Manoj Kumar Saha from Bhaluka Bazar in Malda and her security guard, Tapas Burman from Cooch Behar, were in the vehicle when the accident took place. “Around 6.30am, when the vehicle was headed for Kolkata from Burdwan district, it rammed into a truck from behind. The truck was parked on the side of Durgapur Expressway,” said a police officer. Hooghly (rural) police said few vehicles were on the road at the time of the accident due to the lockdown. Some factory workers and villagers were first to witness the accident. “I was going to the factory and saw the speeding vehicle hit a parked truck after its driver lost control,” said Manoj Das, a factory worker. Passersby raised an alarm alerted by which, civic volunteers and cops reached the spot. All three were taken to Chinsurah Imambara Hospital, where they were declared brought dead. Police said the truck was parked by the expressway after one of its tyres had burst. “We are trying to find out what caused the accident. One theory is the SUV driver had fallen asleep as he had been at the wheel all night. There could also be malfunction in the car. The vehicle’s forensic analysis will be done. Forensic experts have visited the accident spot and tested the SUV,” said an officer. Chatterjee, who overcame several gender barriers, joined the force as a sub-inspector in 1988. Her role in police efforts to control the 1992 violence in Kolkata first brought her to prominence. In 2001, she became an inspector and the first woman officer-in-charge in Kolkata Police. In 2013, she became a Kolkata Police assistant commissioner of police and worked extensively with the anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU). She rose to the rank of DCP in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citys-first-woman-thana-head-two-other-cops-die-in-expressway-crash/articleshow/78068107.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 12, 2020||Varanasi||Kangana has taken a step towards truth: Ravi Kishan||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur MP, Ravi Kishan, coming in support of actress Kangana Ranaut, said while talking to TOI on phone that she has taken a step towards truth. “I am with her and everyone knows that how much an artist puts in efforts to make a place (ashiyana) and that too in a city like Mumbai. Demolishing her building for political reasons is a way to suppress truth,” said MP Ravi Kishan. “I want to tell her that I am standing with her. I had already said I had doubts on Sushant Singh’s suicide and I wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him for CBI investigation in this cases. The fact coming in front of people and are leading us towards truth. Kangana has also taken a step towards truth and conspiracy could be seen in bulldozing of Kangana’s office. It has weaken the credit of Maharashtra government,” he said. “Truth can’t be defeated and Kangana Ranaut never hid her statements. She came in front of the media with full strength. I will always support the truth,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kangana-has-taken-a-step-towards-truth-ravi-kishan/articleshow/78066729.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Pune||PMC plans augmentation of oxygen supply system||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to augment the oxygen supply network at the jumbo Covid-19 hospitals at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) ground and Baner. The PMC will spend Rs60 lakh to procure oxygen and lay the pipelines. The civic body has issued tenders for the same. “The demand for medical oxygen has gone up drastically therefore there is a need to increase the supply and augment the network. The civic body will strengthen the oxygen supply at both jumbo hospitals run by the PMC,” said standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane. He added that there is a shortage of oxygen so all efforts should be undertaken to improve the supply. The standing committee has prioritized creation of infrastructure and other demands of the civic administration pertaining to Covid-19. “The details of the proposal will be checked once it comes before us and a decision will be taken accordingly,” said Rasane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-augmentation-of-oxygen-supply-system/articleshow/78068096.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||New cases drop below 400, tally crosses 21K-mark||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 caseload in the district dropped to a three-week low on Friday when it recorded 394 cases, even as the tally zoomed past the 21,000-mark to 21,233. At 550, the number of patients discharged from treatment centres was also higher than the fresh cases for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, bringing the active cases down to 3,631. At least 17,259 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. The recovery rate now stands at 81%. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 343 with the state including three more deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin. On a positive note, there is a gradual decrease in the number of new cases from the city corporation limits. On Friday, only 66% of the 338 new cases, for which data was available, was reported from the city limits. It was a considerable drop from 85% to 90% of the daily spike in cases that it used to report once. At least 114 cases were reported from outside the city limits on the day. Of them, 102 were from rural areas, where Thudiyalur and Sulur again topped the list with 17 cases each, followed by Thondamuthur (11). In the city limits, 13 people were tested positive for the virus from Ondipudur, 10 from Vilankurichi, eight each from Ramanathapuram and Peelamedu, seven from Sowripalayam, six from Saravanampatti, four from Kalapatti, and three each from Kamarajar Road and Saibaba Colony. Now that the new cases have come down, there would also be a drop in positivity rate, which had come down to 9.54% on Tuesday from 10% on August 31. A health department official, who didn’t want to be identified, said, “The positivity rate is expected to dip to 7% to 8% by next week.” Despite the dip in new cases, officials are testing 4,500 to 5,000 samples a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-cases-drop-below-400-tally-crosses-21k-mark/articleshow/78068103.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Walke murder: Police review security in Margao, step up vigil||Margao: A day after DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena’s visit to Margao in connection with the jeweller Swapnil Walke murder case, senior officials of the South Goa police on Friday reviewed the security apparatus in the new market area of Margao. Significantly, jewellery shops are also located in this area. South Goa (officiating) SP Mahesh Gaonkar, Dy SP Kiran Poduval, and Margao PI Sachin Narvekar conducted foot patrolling of the area and inspected the security arrangement. Dy SP Kiran Poduval later told TOI that following the review, it was decided to deploy a police control van that will be stationed in the new market area, and to post armed police personnel at strategic places identified for the purpose.  “Armed policemen will be posted at the police booths throughout the day. The armed personnel will also conduct foot patrolling across the town after every one hour with a view to instill a sense of security and confidence among the traders. During the night, there will be increased movement of police on foot patrol duty,” Poduval said. While a police booth exists near the municipal square, a couple of more booths will also be erected for the purpose soon, it was informed. Police sources said that while the police regularly conduct foot patrolling at 5-6 points across the city, it has been decided to focus on enhancing police presence in the market area. Traders of the new market areas as also the jewellery shop owners have expressed their satisfaction over the steps taken by the police in enhancing the security apparatus in Margao and have pledged their cooperation to cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/walke-murder-police-review-security-in-margao-step-up-vigil/articleshow/78068094.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Hospitals stare at bed crisis as cases pile up in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It is not just ICU beds; general beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi are also getting occupied fast, and hospitals say if the rising trend persists, a crisis may be at hand soon. Delhi recorded more than 4,000 new cases of Covid-19 for the third consecutive day on Friday, with 4,266 people testing positive in the last 24 hours. The city recorded 4,308 and 4,039 new cases on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. The total count in the capital stands at 2,09,748. On Friday, for the first time in the last one month, the occupancy of Covid general beds crossed 6,000. Of the 14,379 such beds, the data shared by hospitals on the Delhi Corona app showed, 6,249 (42%) are occupied. Twenty-one fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,687, the state health department said. “We conducted a record 60,580 Covid tests in the last 24 hours. Of this, 8,305 (14%) were done using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 52,275 (86%) using rapid antigen technology,” an official said. Lok Nayak Hospital has even opened the surgical ward that was being renovated, a senior doctor said. The hospital has 781 Covid patients admitted on Friday. “We are getting 80-90 patients daily for admission. The demand is higher for ICU beds because most people come when they develop severe symptoms,” another doctor said. Out of the 1,212 ICU beds, 699 (58%) with ventilator support are occupied, while 68% of those without ventilators have been taken, the hospital reveals. “We saw a similar rush for Covid beds in June. In July, the demand reduced drastically but now it is going up. Many patients are from other states too,” an official at Max Smart, Saket said. The superspecialty hospital had only 20 general beds and two ICU ventilator beds available at 9.30pm. Similar scarcity could be seen at other private hospitals such as Apollo, Fortis Escorts and BLK Super Specialty. “In August first week, Delhi had only about 10,000 active cases. It has gone up to nearly 26,000 now,” said a doctor. “People must step up measures such as wearing masks in public places and social distancing,” he added. Watch Hospitals stare at bed crisis as cases pile up in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hospitals-stare-at-bed-crisis-as-cases-pile-up/articleshow/78068099.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 12, 2020||Surat||First int’l chartered medical flight lands in Surat after lockdown||Surat: The first international chartered plane landed from Singapore at the Surat airport on Friday morning.Official sources said that three passengers arrived in the Medic45 plane from Selatar airport in Singapore at about 10am. As per the protocol, the health department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) screened the passengers before allowing them to pass the security check. Sources said a family residing in the city had brought their ailing mother from Singapore for treatment in Surat. The woman was accompanied by her younger daughter and son-in-law. Airport director, Aman Saini told TOI, “This was the first international chartered flight since lockdown. People who are in emergency and need to travel from one country to another need to apply before the DGCA (Director General of Civil Aviation) for approval.”Saini added, “Only after the DGCA approval and permission from other authorities, we coordinated with immigrations and customs and health department to ensure smooth landing of the chartered flight at Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-intl-chartered-medical-flight-lands-in-surat-after-lockdown/articleshow/78065267.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Pune||Now, civic officials feel the heat for jumbo hub health||Pune: Deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said civic officials found guilty of mismanagement at the jumbo Covid-19 hospitals would face action. “It is the need of the hour to create awareness and confidence about the jumbo facilities. The citizens must have a sense of security. Any mismanagement related to the (lack of) information about vacant beds in the jumbo facilities, violation of the treatment protocols and other complaints will not be tolerated,” Pawar told a review meeting. “Steps are a must to ensure that there is no shortage of oxygen in the districts in the Pune division. All patients should get timely treatment. Workload should be distributed and no official should be overburdened. There has to be function-specific distribution of manpower,” he said. The administration has terminated the contract of the Lifeline Hospital Management Services, entrusted with the task of operating the 800-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospital on the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) grounds, though the agency stated that it was “under pressure” to make the facility operational “without adequate preparations”. Covid-19 care in the city suffered another on Thursday with the agency handling the jumbo facility in Baner pulling out of its operations within a week of starting functioning. The agency cited shortage of manpower to express its inability to run the centre. Pawar also said the management at all Covid care centres should be such that no patient suffered or died due to the want of oxygen. He suggested fitting of sirens on the tankers carrying oxygen, like it is done with the ambulances. “Police officers should help in coordination of the oxygen tankers. The district collectors should use 50% of project funds for Covid-19 control,” he said. Details of the beds should be made available to the elected members and their help should be sought for coordinating with the patients, Pawar said, adding that effective use of software should be ensured better information sharing and hospital bed management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-civic-officials-feel-the-heat-for-jumbo-hub-health/articleshow/78068093.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||27-yr-old SRPF cop from Amravati dies of Covid||A 27-year-old State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) constable, SS Dhakne, attached to Group 9 in Amravati, died of Covid-19 infection on Friday. Dhakne had been admitted to a hospital after he tested positive for the virus. With his death, the number of fatalities in Maharashtra police force has gone up to 185 and in the SRPF 6. “Dhakne’s condition deteriorated after he was developed pneumonia, which was detected while he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. He breathed his last at around 3.30am,” SRPF commandant at Amravati told TOI. Dhakne, who had joined SRPF in 2018, had visited his native village Nimboli for Pola in August when he is suspected to have contracted the infection. He had got married eight months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/27-yr-old-srpf-cop-from-amravati-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78068095.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
September 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Maratha organisations launch fierce agitation over quota||Kolhapur: Members of Maratha organisations staged protests in different cities on Friday, blaming the state government for not arguing the reservation case for the community properly in the Supreme Court, leading to a stay on it.Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale, 13th descendent of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, in a statement posted on social media, demanded promulgation of an ordinance immediately. “Government was never serious about Maratha reservation. You will have to face the consequences if action is not taken immediately,” he warned. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs and referred the case to a larger constitution bench to be set up by CJI S A Bobde.In Solapur, workers of Maratha Kranti Morcha tried to block vehicular traffic on the Pune-Solapur road. They burnt tyres and shouted slogans against the government. Traffic was disrupted for a few minutes before police arrived on the scene and cleared the road. Workers of Maratha organisations in Pandharpur set ablaze placards to register their protest while MKM coordinator Rambhau Gaikwad warned the government of intensified agitation if it fails to take steps by September 20. Udayanraje Bhosale, BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, said that Supreme Court decision was a fallout of the casual approach of the state government and pledged full support to the Maratha organisations.Satara BJP MLA Shivendraraje Bhosale said, “Government has to be serious over the issue or people will go for agitation. I will always be with Maratha organisations.” In Kolhapur, BJP workers staged a protest at Bindu chowk against what they called the failure of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in ensuring reservation to the Marathas. Rahul Chikkode, BJP’s Kolhapur chief, said, “Supreme Court has put a stay on Maratha reservation. This is very unfortunate for the entire Maratha community”. He said the Fadnavis government had taken good initiatives on the issue, but the MVA failed to retain. “The government did not put up the case properly,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maratha-organisations-launch-fierce-agitation-over-quota/articleshow/78065258.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Pune||O2 procured from Raigad steel plant||Pune: The district administration has made an arrangement to procure oxygen in tankers from a steel plant in Raigad to meet its rising demand in the Covid-induced situation. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI that the JSW Steel Plant from Raigad had started sending oxygen. “A total of 15 metric tonnes of oxygen reached Pune last night to meet the shortfall. The next option is to reach out to an oxygen plant in Gujarat.” He said the Chakan plant, which would supply oxygen to Pune, would be ready to operate only on October 5. “So, some temporary measures have to be in place,” he said. Rao said the state government’s plan of reserving 80% oxygen for medical use would have to be implemented strictly. He constituted a committee under Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad on Friday for implementing it. The nine units in Pune district generate about 4,500 metric tonnes of oxygen per month. In the entire Pune division, a total of 18 units produce 8,000 metric tonnes of oxygen in a month. The 18 plants in the division generate 175 metric tonnes of oxygen daily. Of it, a total of 140 metric tonnes are being used for treating Covid-19 patients in the five districts in the division — Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur. The rest is being diverted for industrial use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/o2-procured-from-raigad-steel-plant/articleshow/78068104.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 12, 2020||Goa||Ex-K’taka Cong chief now in charge of Goa||Panaji: While undertaking a major organisational reshuffle at the national level, Congress on Friday appointed a new desk in-charge for Goa, Dinesh Gundu Rao.The party has given A Chellakumar, the incumbent desk in-charge for Goa, responsibility over Odhisa. Rao, the former Karnataka Congress president, will also be in charge of the party’s organisational matters in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The qualified engineer is the son of former Karnataka chief minister R. Gundu Rao and is known to be close to Congress scion Rahul Gandhi. Rao stepped down as the Karnataka Congress chief after the JDS-Congress alliance government collapsed in December. Rao accepted responsibility for the party’s poor show and resigned, a stance also adopted by Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar. Though Chodankar gave in his resignation , the party has yet to find a replacement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-ktaka-cong-chief-now-in-charge-of-goa/articleshow/78068097.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: In one voice, parties call for nixing bypolls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The all-party meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday decided to request the Election Commission to call off bypolls to the Chavara and Kuttanad assembly seats. The term of the 14th state legislative assembly ends in May 2021 with general elections scheduled for April. As a result, the model code of conduct is likely to come into force by March next year. If byelections to Kuttanad and Chavara are held in November, this will leave elected members with just three months in office (December to February), which is inconsequential compared to the expenses involved, the CM said. The meeting also decided to postpone local-body elections in the light of the prevailing pandemic. “The bypolls may impose an unnecessary financial burden. Beyond this, it is irrelevant to the essence of popular representation. Considering this, a consensus to postpone the elections was reached,” Vijayan said. However, elections to local bodies are imminent. The new governing bodies of panchayats, municipalities and corporations are expected to take office in November for a new five-year term. This is a constitutional obligation, he added. The BJP slammed the decision to postpone local-body elections. “Both LDF and UDF are trying to create inordinate delay in conducting local-body polls. In fact they had planned this ahead of the all-party meeting,’’ BJP state president K Surendran said after the meeting. “Both fronts are not ready to face elections now. The LDF is facing public ire in the light of the gold smuggling and Life Mission project scandals. The UDF is facing severe infighting and they want to set their house in order first. Hence they have joined together to postpone the elections. The BJP is of the view that local-body elections should be held as per schedule. We support the view that there was no need for bypolls since assembly elections will be held in six months’ time, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/in-one-voice-parties-call-for-nixing-bypolls/articleshow/78066659.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Save Merit forums hail Supreme Court stay on SEBC Act implementation||NAGPUR: Both factions of the Save Merit Save Nation (SMSN) forum have applauded the Supreme Court’s interim order staying the implementation of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018. Terming it as the “first step towards victory of justice”, both factions have issued statements welcoming the decision. “One of the primary grounds for challenging the SEBC Act was that if implemented, it would breach the 50% upper ceiling put in place for reservations by the court itself,” said Dr Anil Laddhad, president of Save Merit Save Nation forum — a movement that started from Nagpur and spread nationwide against the quantum of caste-based quota. Laddhad hailed all associated with the movement and called it people’s protest. “We are fighting in the court against some of the best lawyers and biggest names in India. The state government has spent a lot of money and effort to present its side in court. But ultimately, justice will prevail. This is the first step towards it. We have a long way to go,” said Dr Laddhad. Save Merit Save Nation affiliated to Save Merit Foundation, Nagpur also welcomed the development. “Many petitions were filed in SC against the SEBC reservation and humiliating classification of proud Marathas as socially and educationally backward,” said Shrirang Choudhary, legal adviser of SMSN Maharashtra. “ The Supreme Court has withheld the reservation and posted the matter to the Constitution bench. We reiterate that no one is against reservation for needy Marathas or any section of populace, but it should be done within 50% capping,” he said. “SMSN is fighting against the alarming situation in the state, which has arisen due to the increase in percentage of reservation to 74%, that escalates to 85% with lateral reservations,” said Dr Sanjay Deshpande, president of SMSN affiliated to Save Merit foundation.  “We have been conducting programmes to make people and policymakers aware of the frightening repercussions of imposing excessive reservation and diluting the importance of merit on our nation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/save-merit-forums-hail-sc-stay-on-sebc-act-implementation/articleshow/78068110.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 12, 2020||Ghaziabad||Villagers attack cops, free gangster from custody in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Less than two months after eight cops were killed in an ambush by slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s men in Kanpur, a UP Police team came under attack from villagers in Ghaziabad’s Badarpur when they went to arrest one of NCR’s notorious criminals, Nasiruddin alias Kale, who is wanted in at least 10 criminal cases. The team of eight cops arrested Kale from a salon where he had gone to get a haircut and were heading back on Thursday evening, when over 50 people, including women, rained stones on the police vehicle and vandalised it. The stone-pelters targeted the cops too, injuring six of them. By the time reinforcements were sent to rescue the cops, the mob had managed to free 40-year-old Kale. Kale’s tryst with crime started in 2008 when he thrashed a man of the same village over some petty issue. Subsequently, he joined a gang in Delhi that was involved in robberies, snatchings and thefts. He later quit the gang to carry out illegal sand mining in Ghaziabad. Last year, a day before Eid, he gave cops the slip when they had gone to Baghpat to arrest him, on a tip-off that he had smuggled four-five camels for slaughter. Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (rural), said, “This time too, we got a tip-off that Kale had come to his ancestral house in Badarpur to meet his family. Immediately, a team of eight cops, including two sub-inspectors, were sent to arrest him. Around 7pm on Thursday, our team managed to nab him from a local salon where he had gone for a haircut.” As the cops were heading back to the police station, a Scorpio hit their van barely 50 metres away from the salon. “Soon around 50 local residents surrounded the police van and started throwing stones. When some of our men got off the car and tried to retaliate, the villagers started throwing stones at them too. In the melee, Kale managed to come out of the grasp of a policeman and fled from the spot,” the SP said. The cops, however, could not leave the area until a large team of personnel came to their rescue and chase away the locals. “Six of our men have sustained injuries in the attack,” Jadaun said. An FIR has been filed against 15 named people and over 40 unknown persons, including women, under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions); 323 (causing hurt), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 351 (assault or criminal force in attempt wrongfully to confine a person). “We have formed six teams to identify and nab those people who were involved in the attack on police. So far, we have picked up two suspects, Sameem and Aslam,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/villagers-attack-cops-free-gangster-from-custody/articleshow/78068115.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
September 12, 2020||Goa||Deposit loan EMIs of govt staff: Fin dept to offices||Panaji: Days after Goa Forward Party (GFP) highlighted the state’s failure to deposit deducted equated monthly instalments (EMIs) with banks for repayment of outstanding home loans availed by government employees, the finance department asked the accounts department to “monitor the issue and ensure compliance”. The finance department also wrote to all departments asking them to ensure that EMIs deducted from salaries of government employees is paid directly to banks on a regular basis. On May 15, the state government withdrew the house building advance (HBA) scheme and asked all departments to streamline the repayment of existing loans availed under the scheme. “It has been observed that some of the departments are still not adhering to the instructions issued in the circular issued on June 3,” said under secretary for finance Pranab Bhat in the office memorandum. On September 4, GFP led a delegation to the office of the director of accounts to question why funds deducted from employee’s salaries were not being used to repay the loans. GFP had said that EMIs were unpaid for two to three months and banks were calling the employees and asking them to pay up. All heads of departments have been asked to adhere to the instructions for deducting EMIs at source, said Bhat. “Directorate of accounts shall monitor and ensure that the house building advance payable to the banks are being deducted at source from the salary of the government employees concerned and is paid to the banks regularly,” said Bhat. Initiated in 1988, government employees were entitled to a housing loan at a low 2% interest rate, while the remaining 7% was borne by the state. Several thousand government employees availed the loan under the HBA scheme, and many loans are still being repaid. The finance department had stopped sanctioning applications just before the nationwide lockdown was implemented in March. Recently, opposition leader Digambar Kamat had urged the government to restart the HBA scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deposit-loan-emis-of-govt-staff-fin-dept-to-offices/articleshow/78068105.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to demolish 4,500 structures to widen 3 arterial roads for smoother traffic||MUMBAI: BMC plans to remove around 4,500 homes and shops along arterial roads S V Road, LBS Road, JVLR for widening them for smoother traffic movement. It plans to cut around 730 trees on JVLR stretch. BMC will provide alternative accommodation to those affected or monetary compensation and TDR to landowners. It will cost BMC around Rs 200 crore and will be executed in two years. BMC will acquire around 45,872 sq metres (over 11 acres) along these stretches. SV Road and LBS Road are major alternative connectors between suburbs and the island city, a part of Western Express and Eastern Express highways respectively. While JVLR is a key road connecting WEH from Jogeshwari to EEH at Vikhroli. BMC officials gave a presentation on this to Shiv Sena minister and guardian minister of suburbs Aaditya Thackeray on Thursday. They said that for traffic-free end-to-end connectivity, widening of the stretches was a must. LBS and JVLR have narrowed down for Metro pillars. Officials said widening of S V Road was pending since long. Removal of structures and widening on S V Road, started between Bandra-Jogeshwari, a civic official said. In four months, BMC will award a contract of road-widening between Goregaon-Dahisar after removing structures at various locations. Officials said for JVLR and LBS they are coordinating with Metro authorities and accordingly start work. An official said, “Once Metro work on a stretch is completed, we will start our work so that it does not further inconvenience motorists. Work on the three arterial stretches are sanctioned road-widening work, which we are implementing.” Officials said they will not face hurdles for shifting structures, and at some places, BMC will providing transferable development rights (construction rights) to land-owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-demolish-4500-structures-to-widen-3-arterial-roads-for-smoother-traffic/articleshow/78066759.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 12, 2020||Pune||Pune administration directs 70 health hubs to keep ready 1,732 more oxygen beds||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has directed 70 hospitals to convert 1,732 of their non-oxygenated beds into facilities supported with the essential gas in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. The Pune divisional dashboard on Friday revealed that 6,416 beds were vacant, mostly in the rural areas. It showed 33 vacant ICU beds with ventilator support, and barely five at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) jumbo facility. Four new additional facilities — two jumbo healthcare centres and as many additional hubs in Baner and PCMC area — were inaugurated last month. These facilities were supposed to add 2,100 beds. However, the agency operating the CoEP jumbo centre was terminated and the one in charge of the functioning of the hub in Baner opted out. With this, only 600 beds are occupied in the four facilities. “The conversion of the non-oxygenated beds will boost the number of beds till all the four facilities become fully functional. This is expected by the end of this month,” the divisional commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/administration-directs-70-health-hubs-to-keep-ready-1732-more-oxygen-beds/articleshow/78068106.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 12, 2020||Goa||Parra-Arpora-Nagoa, Bambolim ODPs open for public scrutiny||Panaji: The draft outline development plans for Parra-Arpora-Nagoa and Bambolim planning areas have been kept for public viewing, and people can submit their objections within the next two months. The North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) and the Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA) both released public notices informing people that the draft ODPs have been kept open for scrutiny. The town and country planning department accorded provisional approval for the Parra-Arpora Nagoa and Bambolim ODP – 2030 on September 4 and will finalise the two ODPs once the objections are received and processed. “Objections if any, to the said draft ODP-2030 of the Arpora-Nagoa-Parra planning area be submitted in writing to this authority within 60 days. Authorities will hear all the objections with request for hearing,” NGPDA member secretary Rajinder Pandita said. The draft ODP for Parra-Nagoa-Arpora had been notified in November 23, 2016, and was placed in public domain for suggestions and objections for a period of 60 days. However, the NGPDA decided to open it up yet again. Recently, stakeholders alleged that land conversion and arbitrary increase in FAR becomes a funding source for political parties and politicians. While copies of the Arpora-Nagoa-Parra ODP 2030 are available for the inspection at the NGPDA office and with the Arpora-Nagoa panchayat and Parra panchayat, copies of the approved draft Bambolim ODP – 2030 have been kept at the GPPDA office and at the village panchayats of Calapur, Curca-Bambolim-Talaulim. The TCP board accepted the two draft ODPs on July 29, while the provisional approval was conveyed by chief town planner (planning) on September 4. Aside from this, the TCP department also notified 84 proposals for change of zone received under Section 16B of the Goa, Daman and Diu Town and Country Planning Act, 1974. Objections to the land conversion need to be submitted within two months, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parra-arpora-nagoa-bambolim-odps-open-for-public-scrutiny/articleshow/78068109.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Pune||Daily count stays above 4,000 in Pune, tally shoots past 2.15 lakh||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 case count in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) continued to stay above 4,000 for the seventh straight day on Friday, pushing its caseload to more than 2.15 lakh. Besides, 88 fatalities in the region in the last 24 hours increased its death toll to 4,969. Hearteningly, the recoveries (4,526) in the region also kept pace with the fresh cases (4,750), taking the cured count in the PMR above 1.70 lakh. Among the new cases, the PMC areas recorded 1,938, the PCMC limits added 1,265 and the rural as well as Cantonment areas reported 1,547. A report by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that active cases in the region jumped to 40,274 on Friday, including 22,591 patients being treated at hospitals and 17,683 patients in home isolation. The region conducted as many as 14,741 tests, which pushed the total tests up to 9.1 lakh. About 5.21 lakh tests have been conducted in the PMC limits, while the PCMC and rural areas have conducted 2.51 lakh and 1.38 lakh Covid-19 tests, respectively. “We have increased daily testing in the urban and rural pockets,” said a health department official. A PMC report said 917 patients were in the critical stage, of whom 470 were on ventilator support and 447 were admitted in the intensive care units. As many as 3,267 patients were on oxygen support, the report added. It said 541 teams were deployed in the city to conduct home to home visits and identify the suspected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-count-stays-above-4k-in-city-tally-shoots-past-2-15-lakh/articleshow/78068112.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 12, 2020||Goa||Involve experts in ODP planning process, demands architects’ body||Panaji: The Mapusa outline development plan (ODP) prepared by the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) has glaring gaps and grey areas that need to be rectified while the land use map and register are being prepared, said the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA)–Goa. It also said that existing infrastructure facilities, environmental features and demographic patterns have been ignored in the existing land use map and register. In a letter to town and country planning minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, the chief town planners and the NGPDA chairman, IIA–Goa sought a greater say in the planning process and urged the authorities to incorporate the suggestions given by stakeholders. “IIA-Goa requests you to kindly consider suggestions and inputs as noted, and not just keep them restricted to the file as part of a formality-based process as adopted by your organisation,” IIA- Goa chairman Manguesh Prabhugaonkar, said. This is the second letter written by urban town planners and architects to planning authorities with suggestions for the Mapusa and Panaji planning areas. The body said there needs to be a consultative process for all planning activities with various experts in architecture and town planning, builders, developers, economists and ecologists involved in the process. Stressing on the need for the authorities to plan for the future while preparing ODPs, IIA–Goa said ecological and environmental concerns need to be considered and development goals need to be formulated. Integration of existing infrastructure with proposed development is key to planning urban areas, the architects said. “Co-relation with population and building densities with existing and proposed infrastructure development should be carried out for establishing higher densities or re-densification of existing zones,” Prabhugaonkar said in the letter. The urban planners have suggested that instead of widening roads, planning authorities need to look at city-level public transport systems. “Planning theories and techniques in town planning and architecture need a methodical process that needs to be superimposed over the ongoing exercise of drafting of the land use plan and the register. Such a complex assignment involving public issues cannot be restricted only to bureaucracy or non-technical agencies, but needs wider, vision-based experiences and inputs from people-friendly stakeholders,” Prabhugaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/involve-experts-in-odp-planning-process-demands-architects-body/articleshow/78068108.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Varanasi||NISHAD party workers give memos to BJP MPs||Gorakhpur: A large number of NISHAD party workers on Thursday gave memorandums to two BJP MPs regarding the issue of reservation for Machuara and their other communities. They also raised slogans like ‘Chahe jo majboori ho, hamari mange poori ho’ and ‘Arakshan hamara akhikar hai’. More than 50 party workers, led by district president Dharmendra Nishad, reached the residence of Sant Kabir Nagar BJP MP Praveen Nishad, who is son of NISHAD party national president Sanjay Nishad, and gave him a memorandum seeking reservation in jobs. In Gorakhpur, party workers led by state president Ravindra Nishad after demonstrating on road reached MJP MP Ravi Kishan’s house and handed memorandum to his representative Pradeep Shukla. “BJP government has not fulfilled its promise of giving Scheduled Caste reservation to Machuara and other fisher folk societies in Uttar Pradesh. We picketed at the residence of the MPs to remind them of the issue of reservation. We gave them vote and we support BJP and we want them to raise our issue in Parliament,” said Ravindra Nishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nishad-party-workers-give-memos-to-bjp-mps/articleshow/78066776.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||No ifs and butts: NGT order for clean-up triggers action in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With National Green Tribunal (NGT) directing Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to make guidelines for disposal of cigarette butts and bidi residues within three months, experts in the capital have called for a proper mechanism to manage this waste. With September 19 being World Cleanup Day, an NGO, Let’s Do It India (LDII), is planning to launch a campaign to create awareness in Delhi on cigarette butt litter. The NGO, a subdivision of the global organisation, Let’s Do it World, will also conduct a virtual campaign to allow its segregation and collection, and recycling. Cigarettes will be physically collected, with the paper and tobacco to be separated and used for mosquito repellents and compost. Cigarette filters, made of acetate polymer, can be used to create cushion fillers and key chains, among other items, the organisation says. Each year around 100 billion cigarettes are sold across the country, and cigarette butts are one of the most commonly littered items in urban areas, accounting for 22-46% of the visible litter due to their poor biodegradability. The NGO intends to create awareness about the adverse impact of this litter on the environment. “LDII has a staunch belief that nature’s sustainable evolution essentially entails the cohesion of people, planet and profits,” said Pankaj Choudhary, founder of LDII. The NGT order, he said, should help provide a clear direction in terms of reducing the impact of cigarette butts through proper management. “By installing separate biodegradable bins at shops, offices and restaurants, these cigarettes can be collected and disposed of through the right channel. Bringing cigarette butts into the scope of an extended producer responsibility (EPR) regime will also help.” Chitra Mukherjee, head of advocacy and policy at Chintan, a waste-management NGO, said setting up collection points was a requirement to manage cigarette butts. “All of this now ends up at landfills and can have long-term impacts on sanitation workers,” said Mukherjee. The NGT order was in response to a 2015 petition filed by Doctors For You, an organisation that had made several submissions, regarding smoking in public spaces and disposal of cigarette and bidi residues. “While tobacco is harmful and the authorities are seized of the remedial action, the tribunal is mainly concerned with the manner of disposal of cigarette/bidi butts. An expert study has been conducted. We do not find any valid reason to reject the report,” NGT has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-ifs-and-butts-ngt-order-for-clean-up-triggers-action/articleshow/78068120.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Woman who posted offensive messages against CM Uddhav Thackeray to appear before police||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday adjourned to September 29 a quashing petition by a woman accused of posting on social media allegedly offensive messages about Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, a minister, Aditya, after recording that she would appear before Azad Maidan police station, and at Tulinj next week, and cooperate with investigations. She was accused under section 153A of Indian Penal Code for promoting enmity between groups. Additional public prosecutor J P Yagnik said she was issued a notice under section 41A of CrPC to appear before police for her explanation. Such a notice is issued when arrest is not needed, but she did not appear. Her counsel, Abhinav Chandrachud, said she was willing to cooperate and would appear next Monday and Wednesday, but he said if they intend to arrest her, she must be given 48 hours notice. Yagnik said police would issue such a notice in case of arrest. An HC bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik gave the state two weeks to file a reply and the woman can move the HC “in case of urgency’’. Chandrachud and advocate Chandansingh Shekhawat said that hers was “a case involving the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression’’, and she must be protected from arrest. Posts in July included an allegedly offensive caricature of the CM, police had said. There are three FIRs; in one at BKC cyber police station, she was arrested and granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-who-posted-msgs-against-cm-to-appear-before-police/articleshow/78066766.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Most shops stay open on Day 1 of Janta Curfew in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The Janata Curfew that has been imposed in the civic areas of Kolhapur and Sangli to curb the spread of Covid-19 received a mixed response on the first day on Friday.In both places, barring a handful of shops, most of the commercial units were open. While the bakeries were open, the electrical shops had kept their shutters down. Most of the private offices were closer. However, there were fewer vehicles on road. Though the number of roadside vendors was less compared to any other day, many had thronged the streets by evening. As there was no strict enforcement of the curfew, traffic congestion was witnessed at chowks and market places. Some of the mandis were shut because Covid-19 cases have been found from among the vendors and traders and not because of the Janata Curfew. The traders who kept ther shops open claimed that they were not informed directly by their associations. Some traders, mostly of the garment and jewellery shops, had already decided on keeping their units open.The apex body of traders, Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI), said that around 50% traders responded to their call to participate in the Janata Curfew. Sanjay Shete, president of KCCI, said, “All the traders associated with KCCI have kept their shops closed. Those who are out of the association had kept thei shops open. We are going to request them to keep their shops closed. Our Janata Curfew is for six days while the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has appealed that the curfew remains in effect for 10 days. If the KMC requests us to extend our shutdown till September 21, we will discuss with our members and then decide.”Shete said bakery owners too would participate in the curfew. He claimed that the bakery shops were open as they had ready stock which had to be sold to avoid wastage. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar said, “In some localities, citizens responded positively to our appeal for curfew and stayed at home. We are focusing on the hotspots and appealing to residents there not to step out of their homes. We have asked the administration to reach out to those who have locked themselves and are finding difficulty in arranging for essentials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/most-shops-stay-open-on-day-1-of-janta-curfew-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78065273.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmer kills boy, 14, after fight over watering fields||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 30-year-old farmer killed a 14-year-old boy in Kadiana village of Meharban on Friday morning.The deceased has been identified as Gurpreet Singh Gopi, a Class IX student, and the accused as Saroop Ram. Both are residents of the village. Gopi’s father Makhan Singh, also a farmer, said in his police complaint, “As Gopi was home due to the pandemic, he would help me in the fields. On Friday morning, he had gone to water the crops. Saroop Ram’s farm is adjoining ours. Around 10am, my brother and I were going to the field to give Gopi tea. When we reached near the spot, we heard Gopi and Saroop Ram arguing. I rushed towards them and saw Saroop Ram snatched a hoe from Gopi and attacked him on head and legs. When I raised the alarm, he escaped from the spot. We took Gopi to CMC hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead.”Meharban police station SHO inspector Kulwant Singh Malhi said, “A case has been registered against Sroop Ram under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmer-kills-boy-14-after-fight-over-watering-fields/articleshow/78065274.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||NEET candidates to get fresh masks, pens; ropes to prevent crowding by guardians||KOLKATA: The National Testing Agency (NTA) on Friday issued a fresh set of guidelines for NEET exam centres, pointing out that all the medical entrance test candidates would be given a fresh mask and a pen before they start writing. They will have to take off the masks they had been wearing and keep them in their pockets. After the exam got over, the candidates would have to dump the new masks in bins and and put on their own masks, the new guidelines stated. As candidates will have to report to the venues between 11am and 1.30pm to ensure staggered entry and then write their papers for three hours, NTA will make arrangements for packets of biscuits, dry food and bottles of water for them. “Loose biscuits can’t be distributed. We will give them sealed packets,” said a school head whose institute will be a prominent central Kolkata venue. While the earlier rule for hand sanitisation remained unchanged, the new guidelines stated seating arrangements would not be displayed outside the centre gates, as was planned earlier, so that candidates and their guardians would not crowd around the notification. All seating and floor plans be displayed at vantage points inside the centres, the SOP stated. The route from the centre gate to exam halls will be demarcated by ropes and 20 girls and 15 boys will be allowed in the passage at a time. The agency has also asked coordinators in the city and districts to suggest buffer venues in case there is a system failure at chosen centres. Three days before the exam, 400 candidates, who were to appear for the test at Regent Education and Research Foundation at Telinipara in Barrackpore, learnt on Thursday that they had been assigned Adamas University in Barasat, about 5km from the earlier centre. NTA reportedly contacted the university seven days ago. Adamas has offered to open all the 181 classrooms, though so many were not required finally, said pro-VC Ujjwal Roy Chowdhury. There will be 12 students to a classroom. The NTA is constantly revising its norms to minimise the spread of the novel coronavirus. All the 66 centres in the city have been told to cordon off their premises with ropes to avoid crowding by guardians. A private agency is helping schools control crowd and ensure other norms are being followed. “Students will be frisked with a detectors, tied to a rod,” said a principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neet-candidates-to-get-fresh-masks-pens-ropes-to-prevent-crowding-by-guardians/articleshow/78068131.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 12, 2020||Aurangabad||HC sets aside DCP’s externment order||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently set aside an April 2019 order issued by the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), externing a 25-year-old man — Kunal alias Illu Nandanshiv, a resident of Lalmandi in Begumpura — for his “involvement in illegal activities. and for terrorizing the residents”. The divisional commissioner had also confirmed the order externing Nandanshiv from Aurangabad district for a period of 2 years following which he decision in the high court through his lawyer AK Bhosale. Begumpura police had forwarded his externment proposal to the DCP (Zone I) alleging that there were two serious offices registered against Nandvanshi while one offence was registered with the MIDC Waluj police. Despite pendency of these proceedings, as per police, there was no improvement in the behavior of the applicant and he continued with his unlawful activities. He was issued show-cause notices and was externed. He made an appeal against the DCP order, which was confirmed by the divisional commissioner. While allowing the criminal writ petition, the bench comprising justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar observed: “The externing authority, undoubtedly, has authority to extern a person from a much larger area than the one of his illegal activities. This discretion is not unfettered, but has to be exercised judiciously. There has to be some material to indicate that there is a need to extern a person to an expansive area. In the case at hand, the impugned order does not reflect that there was any such material before the deputy commissioner of police and the divisional commissioner to extern the petitioner beyond the area of his illegal activities.’’ The bench further noted: “No reason is assigned for externing him from a larger area. Therefore, the impugned order suffers from the vice of arbitrariness.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-sets-aside-dcps-externment-order/articleshow/78065294.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Vadodara||Coronavirus testing crosses 3,000 samples on single day||Vadodara: Testing of Covid-19 samples in the city and district crossed the 3,000 during the 24 hours since Thursday evening. As many as 127 new cases were identified during the period making a fresh peak since the outbreak of the disease. According to details shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Friday evening, 3,114 tests were conducted since Thursday evening. With the 127 fresh cases, the total number of cases went up to 9,422. The fresh cases included 27 from the north zone of the VMC, 23 from the west zone, 21 from the south zone and 17 from the east zone. Areas of the district outside VMC limits reported 39 new cases. The civic body also confirmed one more death due to Covid-19 taking the total number of deaths due to the disease to 158. This number does not include deaths of Covid-19 positive persons due to other comorbidities or diseases. The good rate of discharge of Covid-19 patients from home quarantine or hospitals continued as 150 patients were discharged on Friday. With these the total number of discharged or cured patients went up to 7,950. After the discharges on Friday, 1,314 patients remained under treatment. These include 51 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 143 breathing with the help of oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/coronavirus-testing-crosses-3000-samples-on-single-day/articleshow/78064808.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||‘Will urge Railways to survey acquired land’||Panaji: After villagers from Nuvem constituency expressed their concerns about the South Western Railway double tracking project, Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa said that he would write to the railway authorities and ask them to conduct a site survey along with locals and demarcate the acquired land. On Wednesday, Goencho Ekvott along with the residents of all the seven villages of the constituency had submitted a memorandum to their MLA demanding that the land acquisition proceedings be scrapped immediately. Villagers and elected representatives of the villages, particularly Utorda and Majorda had questioned D’Sa’s silence over the project. D’Sa said that he was not aware about the project and that no one had approached him with their concerns. D’Sa said that he would write to South Western Railways and the CM regarding the locals’ concerns. “The railways has dug up some land at two places at Utorda, but locals say that the land has not been acquired,” said D’Sa. The MLA conducted a site inspection along with locals to get a grasp over the issue. “An entire hamlet at Moddo, Pale will be razed to the ground to make way for the second track,” said Founder of Goencho Ekvott Orville Dourado Rodrigues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-urge-railways-to-survey-acquired-land/articleshow/78068121.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Senior doctor dies of Covid-19, first death of healthcare professional in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Dr Sanjay Puri, 66, a senior physician associated with Dr Dande Hospital since the last 25 years, died of Covid-19 on Friday. He was treating Covid-19 patients until he got infected and tested positive on August 22. Dr Puri, a resident of Ram Nagar, was an alumnus of GMCH Nagpur from where he completed his MBBS and MD. Earlier, he worked in GMCH as a professor and later joined Lata Mangeshkar Hospital where he was based for a few years. Dr Puri became the first healthcare professional from Nagpur to die of Covid-19 with cases continuing to rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-doctor-dies-of-covid-19-first-death-of-healthcare-professional-in-nagpur/articleshow/78068116.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Thane||More MSRTC buses but Dombivli sees 2.5km-long queue||KALYAN: Even though MSRTC on Friday started 30% more services for office-goers across Mumbai Metropolitan Region, they continued to face an uphill task getting buses on time in Dombivli and Kalyan. On Friday, Dombivli's Indira Gandhi bus depot saw a 2.5km queue and Kalyan ST depot a 1km queue. Following reopening of offices with 30% capacity, commuters from Dombivli, Kalyan, Badlapur and Ambernath struggle daily to reach their workplace. Rashmi Joshi, who works in to Lower Parel, said, "I have to wait for around an hour to catch a bus and today was no different." Another office-goer said, "The situation is unchanged. I have to queue up for an hour or sometimes up to two hours and then spend between five and six hours on road. Unfortunately, if I am late at work, I get pulled up." Rajesh Kadam, an office-goer, said: "Without trains, we are inconvenienced on a daily basis." MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe said, "Due to the absence of trains for non-essential staff, there is a lot of burden on MSRTC and we cannot be the final solution to the problem."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/more-msrtc-buses-but-dombivli-sees-2-5km-long-queue/articleshow/78075964.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 12, 2020||Hubballi||SVYM’s community centres in rural areas help kids learn||Dharwad: Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement (SVYM), a voluntary organisation driven by development paradigm, has has set up 55 community learning centres in rural areas of the district for students. Along the lines of state government’s Vidyagama scheme, SVYM’s project will see students in the age group of 8-16 being engaged in academic sessions as per syllabus, while also pursuing extra-curricular activities such as crafts, singing, dancing and embroidery. The community centres are mostly set up in temples, community halls and terraces of houses. As many as 67 teachers trained to be facilitators by SVYM are teaching the children. The study materials are also provided by the organisation. Speaking to TOI, SVYM’s north Karnataka programme coordinator K S Jayant said a study conducted by the organisation revealed that nearly 57% of children were unable to learn online due to lack of facilities. “Nearly 23% of children were found to be working as daily wage labourers during lockdown. Parents had also expressed concerns over their wards falling prey to bad habits,” he said. Children in the age group of 8 to12 will be trained in the morning session from 9.30am to 1pm, those in the age group of 12 to 16 will be trained in the second session from 2.30pm to 5.30pm, said Jayant. The children are divided into small groups of five each and Covid-19 norms are followed at each centre. Since learning is clubbed with several creative activities and visits to nearby places of historical importance, the response from children and their parents has been good, said a facilitator. Meanwhile, minister for primary and secondary education Sureshkumar visited a CLC on Friday and expressed his happiness over the activities taken up there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/svyms-community-centres-in-rural-areas-help-kids-learn/articleshow/78065310.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers, students urge CM not to shift Terakanambi college||Mysuru: Activists from Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene, pro-Kannada organisations, leaders of various political parties and students on Friday submitted a memorandum to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, urging him to withdraw the government’s decision to shift the Government First Grade College in Terakanambi village in Gundlupet taluk to Raibag in Belagavi district. More than 50 people led by farmer leaders Badagalapura Nagendra, Mahesh Prabhu and Shanthamallappa from Gundlupet taluk gathered at Maurya Circle in Bengaluru and from there they held a protest walk till the CM’s home office ‘Krishna.’ Submitting the memorandum to the CM, the leaders said that the college started in 2014-15 and 51 students – 44 SC, six ST and OBC and one general category — got admission for the year 2019-20. The college building is being constructed at a cost of Rs 4 crore. “Citing students’ strength below 100, the government has decided to shift the college to Harugeri in Belagavi district. PU students from Arakalavadi, Ugiyala, Terakanambi and Talavadi villages study in this college. If the college is shifted, they have to join a degree college which is more than 20kms away. We are expecting more than 70 students to be admitted this year,” they said. The leaders said that the college is helpful for children of farmers, and students from SC, ST and backward communities students to continue their education. Farmer leader Mahesh Prabhu said that the CM assured them that he will discuss the issue with the education department authorities and take necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-students-urge-cm-not-to-shift-terakanambi-college/articleshow/78064250.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kanpur||Bar Council of UP gives Rs 51L aid to needy lawyers||Kanpur: Bar Council of UP has provided a sum of Rs 51 lakhs to be given as financial assistance to the needy advocates during the Covid pandemic. Yogendra Swarup, member of Bar Council of UP and Ankaj Mishra, vice-chairman Bar Council of UP, on Friday handed over a cheque of Rs 51 lakhs to Kapil Deep Sachan and Veer Bahadur Singh, general secretary of Kanpur Bar Association (KBA) and The Lawyers Association, respectively and Ashwani Anand, treasurer of KBA. According to Kapil Deep, applications of advocates who require financial assistance are invited in between September 14 to 19. They will have to submit their applications to their respective associations. An eight-member screening committee would examine the applications and financial assistance would be given to those whose applications would be sanctioned by the screening panel. The KBA general secretary said allocated funds would be transferred directly into the accounts of the needy advocates. Talking to TOI, Sachan said a criteria has been made under which advocates having income more than 2.5 lakhs per annum, and if he/she is income tax payee or having a four-wheeler, own house or parental house or have agricultural land around 2 acres and retired from government job would not be entitled for financial assistance. A format of application had already been released and it was available at Kanpur Bar Association and The Lawyers Association notice board. Needy advocates have to apply in that format for financial assistance, he added. Moreover, the Bar Council of India is also asking for an undertaking that if the information given in the format for financial assistance is found wrong, then an applicant would be liable for disciplinary and other action, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bar-council-of-up-gives-rs-51l-aid-to-needy-lawyers/articleshow/78067449.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 12, 2020||Kochi||Allan, Thwaha released from jail||Kochi/Thrissur: After 10 months of imprisonment, Allan Shuaib and Thwaha Fasal – accused in Pantheerankavu Maoist case –were released on bail at Friday noon after they surrendered their passports at the special NIA court and executed the bail bond. This was after court ruled against NIA’s request to delay release till evening as it had moved the high court with an appeal to cancel their bail. Court denied NIA’s submission stating that the bail was granted two days ago and it cannot stop execution on the bail bond. Allan’s mother Sabitha Madathil and cousin Nishil Madathil stood as sureties, while in Thwaha’s case it was his mother Jameela and uncle Abdul Salam. Their parents stood as sureties as court had made this a condition for granting bail. Sabitha told the media that Allan’s education would be the family’s priority. Sabitha, accompanied by two relatives and a friend, thanked everyone who supported them. Jameela and Abdul Salam were accompanied by two relatives. ‘Happy’ was one-word response by Allan and Thwaha when they came out of the prison, carrying books they were reading inside the prison. Thwaha stepped out of first and his brother Ijas and cousin held him close. Sabitha hugged Allan after he exited the prison gate. On November 1, 2019, Allan and Thwaha were arrested by Pantheerankavu police saying that they had taken part in a secret meeting as part of CPI Maoist organization. NIA took over the probe in December 2019 and the chargesheet was filed later in April. The third accused, CP Usman, is still on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/allan-thwaha-released-from-jail/articleshow/78066678.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Govt serious about crime, says BJP chief||Panaji: Reacting to the recent criminal cases at Margao and Anjuna, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said the state government is serious and will act against the criminals involved in such activities. In both the cases, police have arrested the accused within hours after the crime was committed, he said. “Action should be taken against criminals. This will instill fear in them. They should get maximum punishment for their crimes,” he said. On September 3, a jeweller Swapnil Walke, died after he was stabbed at his store in the heart of Margao. DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena on Friday said that the police have cracked the case by concluding that “armed robbery gone wrong” was the sole motive behind the killing. In another incident on Thursday, police arrested eight people in connection with attempt to murder of a saw mill owner at Anjuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-serious-about-crime-says-bjp-chief/articleshow/78068125.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Surat||Worker injured in freak mishap||Surat: A contractual worker at the Covid-19 OPD of New Civil Hospital (NCH) was injured after the regulator of the oxygen cylinder got detached and hit him in the eye on Friday evening. Sources said Ashfaq Shaikh, 19, was tasked with bringing the oxygen cylinder from an ambulance. When Shaikh tried to move the cylinder holding the regulator, it got detached and hit him in the eye. The hospital staff immediately rushed to the rescue Shaikh and shifted him to the trauma centre of the NCH for treatment. An officer at the Covid-19 hospital said, “The victim had sustained serious injury in his eyes and that he was operated upon at the Trauma hospital. His condition is stable.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/worker-injured-in-freak-mishap/articleshow/78065320.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Heritage panel for structural audit of KP structures||NAGPUR: The heritage conservation committee of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has asked the civic body to appoint a structural auditor to assess the condition of the heritage structures at Kasturchand Park. The committee observed that for proper maintenance of the structures, an audit was necessary. Taking note of the poor conditions of historic site, the high court had initiated a suo motu PIL. Kasturchand Park was visited by the judges after which the committee was asked to conduct a structural audit and submit report on the next hearing slated on September 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heritage-panel-for-structural-audit-of-kp-structures/articleshow/78068129.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Rajkot||Passing out parade held at INS Valsura||Rajkot: After successfully completing 26 weeks of specialization in electrical engineering, 346 trainees of the direct entry electrical mechanic (DEEM) Power (P) and Radio (R) courses, including 29 sailors from the Indian Coast Guard passed out from the portals of INS Valsura on Thursday. In addition to giving them core fundamentals in electronics and electrical technology, the maiden course aimed at providing the trainees not only hands-on training at the laboratories but also an opportunity to demonstrate their skills. The trainees were taught how to assemble basic semi-conductor components in electrical circuitry to help them get confidence in handling any sort of electric and electronic circuit defects at sea besides moulding the young minds into competent sea warriors. Commodore Ajay Patney, Commanding Officer, INS Valsura reviewed the impressive Passing Out Parade held at the establishment following all Covid-19 safety protocols. The award for ‘Best Coast Guard Trainee (Power)’ went to Deepak Chauhan, NVK(P) and the award for ‘Best Coast Guard Trainee (Radio)’ went to Utpal Maity, NVK(R).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/passing-out-parade-held-at-ins-valsura/articleshow/78065252.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kanpur||Goons threaten to attack rape survivor with acid||Kanpur: The father of a 16-year-old rape survivor, who was allegedly raped six months ago by a local goon in her house on gun-point in Unnao’s Achalganj police area, has alleged that they were receiving threats from two of the accused’s aides to withdraw the case or else they would burn his daughter with acid. According to reports, the man’s 16-year-old daughter had been raped and a police complaint had been filed under relevant sections of IPC against a village goon on August 26. The girl’s father, however, alleged that the police didn’t register a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) against the goon. The two aides of the rape accused had called the survivor’s father a few days ago and threatened to burn his daughter with acid if the case was not withdrawn. The family had approached the local police, but they allegedly did not take any action. A relative of the family said that the father had been on way home, when he was waylaid by the two aides of goon who at present is in jail. The family claimed that the aides of the accused had been frequently seen in the area, and they feard that they could harm the girl too to wipe out the evidences. On Thursday, the father of the survivor, reached the office of the superintendent of police and apprised him about the issue. SP Unnao Rohan P Kanay said the probe is underway. “If the facts mentioned in the complaint are found out to be true, a case will be registered against the aides of the accused,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/goons-threaten-to-attack-rape-survivor-with-acid/articleshow/78067480.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||More area around Bondvol lake to be part of conservation||Panaji: In a new draft notification on Bondvol lake issued by the state’s environment and climate change department, a bigger area — a total of 1.71 lakh sqm — is set to be a part of the ‘critically significant’ lake’s eco-system. For the locals of Santa Cruz in Tiswadi taluka, Bondvol is an ancient wetland and a critical part of the eco-sytem and the local communities. Officials said that when the last draft notification was issued, some survey numbers got erroneously left out and the new notification includes these survey numbers, bringing a bigger area under the Bondvol lake eco-system. The state environment and climate change department has kept the new notification open to the public again to receive any grievances. “The draft notification of Bondvol was published on May 7, 2020 and was kept for inviting grievances from the public for 60 days. This corrigendum to draft notification of Bondvol Lake will be open for inviting grievances if any for a period of 60 days from the date of publication,” the notification read. The lake “situated in the village of Calapor in Tiswadi taluka, North-Goa district, more particularly described in the schedule hereunder which is considered to be critically significant for its ecosystem services and biodiversity values for the local communities and society at large”, the notification states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-area-around-bondvol-lake-to-be-part-of-conservation/articleshow/78068136.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kanpur||Six arrested, satta racket busted||Kanpur:The police raided three places in the city and busted a ‘satta’ racket on Friday. Six persons were arrested. The also recovered Rs 93,72,130 cash and Nepali currency worth Rs 27000 . Superintendent of police South Deepak Bhukara said cash worth several lakh, mobile phones and several incriminating documents were recovered from the possession of those arrested. He claimed that the gang members used to bet on IPL matches, and Sensex. He said that the raids were conducted at three places, including Nazirabad, Fazalganj and Kakadeo areas. He said, police on the basis of inputs had been keeping tabs on a few people suspected of links with the racket. “On Friday, we were tipped off that some bookies had assembled at Nazirabad, Fazalganj and Kakadeo and were placing bets on Sensex,” he said. Police teams surrounded the spots and stormed in to find several men placing bets. “We managed to net eight people,” he said. Investigations revealed that the gang members used to place bets of cricket matches and share market. We have recovered several mobile phones and cash worth several lakh,” said official further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/six-arrested-satta-racket-busted/articleshow/78067525.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Noida||Mahapanchayat of 500 protests rise in crimes||GREATER NOIDA: A crowd of about 500 people who attended a mahapanchayat at Chithera village in Dadri to discuss the rising number of criminal cases was dispersed by police after a few outsiders allegedly started jostling with residents. Two BJP MLAs and some Samajwadi Party members were also present at the gathering. The mahapanchayat was convened by locals and members of the Gurjar community led by ex-spokesperson of Samajwadi Party Shyam Singh Bhati, and Sainki Bhati. They said they were seeking justice for the family of Sher Singh alias Sheru who was stabbed to death by three people from Nai Abadi area. TOI had earlier reported that Sheru, a police informant who was known to be close to Dadri police, had several enemies in Nai Abadi and cops said he had a role to play in several arrests. SP leaders Shyam and Sainki had got posters made to announce that the mahapanchayat would be held at the Shiv temple in Chithera on September 11. Sheru was from Chithera. Images of posters saying “justice for Sher Singh” and “death for killers” have also been circulated on social media. On Thursday night, Dadri police had sent a notice to Shyam and Sainki saying action would be taken against them if the mahapanchayat was not peaceful. On Friday, several people gathered at the temple and raised slogans. BJP’s Loni legislator Nand Kishore Gurjar and Tejpal Nagar from Dadri, spoke at the venue and a video of the event was shared on Nand Kishore’s Facebook page. Nand Kishore compared the killing with a lynching incident and claimed that NSA has been imposed against the accused. “We have sought time from the deputy CM and justice will be done,” he said. Shyam said: “We got a police notice at 11 pm on Thursday but the mahapanchayat was convened by the people who wanted justice for the family. We have given a memorandum to Dadri MLA.” They have sought action against Dadri chowki in-charge, probe into his role, job for Sheru’s wife, Rs 1 crore for the family and free education for Sheru’s children and a house. Two youths have been arrested in the case. As the mahapanchayat neared its end, a few youths made some provocative comments and started jostling. The police personnel present there shut the temple gate. Videos of youths running away from the police have been shared on social media. The crowd was dispersed after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/mahapanchayat-of-500-protests-rise-in-crimes/articleshow/78068134.cms||Shikha Salaria
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 1-lakh fine for making man wait for land dues for 50 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on a defence establishment for making an 87-year-old wait for five decades to be paid for his land taken over by the authorities in 1970. The court said the Directorate General of Defence Estates (DGDE) couldn’t take the property of a citizen without paying the due compensation on the “specious ground” of some sanction to be obtained from within the department. “The petitioner, Mohinder Lal, has clearly been wronged, and in fact, needs to be compensated for the same,” Justice Navin Chawla noted in a recent order where it pointed out that Lal had been forced to file this petition and pursue it due to complete apathy shown by the authorities and their inaction. “The petitioner is 87 years old, and even at this age is being made to run around for his legal and legitimate dues,” it said. Lal, in his plea, had said that his agricultural land in Punjab’s Pathankot was requisitioned by DGCE for defence purposes under the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 through a March 1970 notification. He informed that the first order to pay the compensation was passed by a trial court in Punjab in 1987, then by the Punjab and Haryana high courts and also the Supreme Court. However, no amount was paid till date. Giving his credentials, the petition informed the court that Lal has been a social worker, who even at this age was regularly helping needy patients coming to the hospitals in the city. He also helped them financially for their treatment. DGDE submitted that the matter was pending before the Delhi Cantonment office for grant of sanction to make payment of the awarded amount to Lal. It said in the status report that all efforts were being made to make the payment and it would be done as and when the sanction was received from the Union ministry of defence. DGDE also raised objection over jurisdiction of Delhi High Court to hear this matter, which was rejected by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-1-lakh-fine-for-making-man-wait-for-land-dues-for-50-yrs/articleshow/78068137.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||17 out of 31 private hospitals refuse to turn into Covid-19 units||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) efforts to increase the number of beds for Covid patients has met with a major obstacle as 17 out of 31 private hospitals which were asked to convert into dedicated covid hospitals (DCHs) have refused to do so. DCHs only treat Covid patients. Jalaj Sharma, additional commissioner of NMC, told TOI that municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B would take action against these hospitals soon. TOI had earlier reported that only 28% of beds in 10 private hospitals were reserved for Covid patients. As per the NMC rules, they should reserve 80% of the beds for Covid patients. While doctors offer various reasons for not turning their hospitals into DCHs, a large number of Covid patients have died due to lack of treatment in the past few days. Everyday, TOI receives frantic calls from relatives of patients who were not getting beds in any hospital. The hospitals that have refused to turn into DCHs include KRIMS, Khidmat, Midas and thirteen others. “Being a respiratory centre we have to cater to both Covid and non-Covid patients. Turning into a complete covid centre will hamper our services to patients of other respiratory illnesses like asthma, TB and lung cancer. We are already treating Covid critical patients in our dedicated Covid wards” said Dr Sameer Arbat of KRIMS Hospital. “Our hospital is not an intensive care facility. We don’t have ventilators or separate oxygen lines required for Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Arshad Ali of Khidmat Hospital. “Most importantly, the main doctor who would have looked after the Covid-19 ward of this hospital is infected with the virus. He is undergoing treatment in isolation. We don’t have qualified manpower to deal with the Covid-19 critical and serious patients,” Dr Ali added. Dr Shrikant Mukewar of Midas Hospital said that the life of hundreds of patients would be at risk if his hospital got converted into a Covid dedicated centre. “Our hospital is situated in a multidisciplinary complex where many other hospitals and clinics are functioning. We don’t have a separate entry or exit point, not even a separate elevator. By admitting Covid-19 patients, we will put all the others at risk,” he said, adding that being a specialized centre, his hospital caters to critical and emergency patients from the entire Central India and the present occupancy was about 90%. Dr Dhananjay Ookalkar, director of Ashwini Kidney and Dialysis Centre, said that the hospital was emplaned on various central government schemes and providing dialysis facilities to ex-servicemen, central government employees and many others. “These regular dialysis patients will have to find another centre at such a short notice which is next to impossible. We have told the NMC authorities that we will risk lives of many kidney patients as well as other patients visiting our complex which houses a blood bank and other hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/17-out-of-31-pvt-hosps-refuse-to-turn-into-covid-19-units/articleshow/78068128.cms||Ashish Roy
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man stabs brother over property dispute, held||MUMBAI: Andheri police arrested a 40-year-old man for stabbing his younger brother over a property dispute around 10am on Thursday. Tanaji Dongre stabbed Sandeep (37) with a knife after an argument as the victim failed to give a share of the property. Police arrested the accused after they went to the spot at Teligalli in Andheri (E) on receiving a call. Police, who found the victim in a pool of blood, rushed him to hospital, where his condition was said to be stable. Sandeep’s wife Nikita lodged a complaint against Tanaji and told police the room belonged to Sandeep’s father. Sandeep and Tanaji have an equal share in the house but the accused told police his brother said that he would pay half of the value of the house but kept delaying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-stabs-bro-over-property-dispute-held/articleshow/78066769.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
September 12, 2020||Noida||Behind Noida condominium shooting, 2 Faridabad families & 9 years of revenge, murders||NOIDA/FARIDABAD: The contract killing of two people earlier this week in the parking area of a housing society in Noida has its genesis in a 2011 murder in Faridabad that set off an internecine saga of revenge and bloodshed between two families based in Panhera Kalan and Panhera Khurd, two adjoining villages in Faridabad. The feud has claimed five lives and the families have spent nine years looking over their shoulders, living under the continuous spectre of revenge that has been served thrice in three different years and three different places – Faridabad in 2011, Mathura in 2017 and Noida on September 7, 2020. The latest victim, Dal Chand Sharma, was living under a pseudonym. After four days of investigation, one of the two arrested on Friday for ordering the hit on Sharma is Mohit Vats, who was 19 when his family’s hand was alleged in the murder of Sharma’s brother Rajinder and his associate Kapil. The other is Mohit’s uncle Suresh (51). Police said they picked up both from the Galaxy Vega roundabout in Noida Extension after receiving a tipoff that they were in the area. They were later produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Both have been booked for murder. Sharma and a friend Arun Tyagi were gunned down by two shooters while they sat drinking in a car parked inside Ajnara Le Garden, a society where 2,000 families live. Police said they had identified the shooters as well. Harish Chander, DCP (central Noida) said the enmity between the families of Sharma (of Panhera Kalan) and Vats (of Panhera Khurd) could be traced back all the way to 2009, two years before Rajinder’s murder. That year, Vats’ brother Shree Krishna, who used to work with Sharma’s family, was allegedly beaten up and humiliated (someone from the Sharma family allegedly urinated on him) for being disloyal. “An FIR was lodged in Faridabad. Shree Krishna took revenge by killing Rajinder for which he remained in jail for nearly six years with uncles Suresh and Omveer, along with Suraj, Niranjan, Abhimanyu and three others,” he said. Soon after Krishna was released in 2017, Dal Chand Sharma hunted him down and killed him in Mathura. Sharma was arrested. Sharma got bail six months after the murder. “He must have felt the danger due to which he changed his identity to Virat Sharma and started living in Casa Greens Society while starting a property dealership in Ajnara Le Garden,” said Chander, adding Suresh had been convicted for Rajinder’s murder but had since got parole 22 times. Planning for Sharma’s murder began in February 2020, police said, when Suresh was released from Faridabad’s Neemka jail. “Krishna’s brother Mohit, who grew up on this rivalry, had revenge on his mind since his brother’s death. When Suresh came out of jail, he told him Dal Chand Sharma was living on a fake identity in Noida. He told Suresh he had done a recce of the area and they could kill Sharma,” Chander added. Suresh, a dreaded criminal in Faridabad, conspired with Omveer, who too got bail. “Omveer was asked to make the plan to hire the two shooters (Tek Chand and Dealer alias Dayachand), who also got bail exactly 25 days before the murder,” Chander said, adding police identified the shooters from CCTV footage and worked backwards to join the dots. They subsequently investigated Vats and Omveer’s call records and location, which helped them uncover the plot. Omveer had accompanied the shooters on the day of the murder, police said, but hadn’t entered the society. “It seems a white Scorpio that was seen in CCTV footage on the main road belonged to Omveer, who waited for the killers near Gate No. 2 from where the accused fled after firing over 11 rounds with 9mm automatic revolvers given to them by Suresh,” said Chander. Police said Vats and Suresh had gone to meet Omveer at his house in mid-August. “Omveer, Tekchand and Dealer are on the run. A reward of Rs 25,000 has been announced for them,” Chander said. In Panhera Kalan, the arrests of Suresh and Vats by UP Police was welcomed by Sharma’s father Om Prakash, a former sarpanch. The Sharma family has a different account of Rajinder’s murder – they claim Krishna had become jealous of Rajendra’s growing influence in the area. Dal Chand Sharma, Jacky to locals, was the only earning member of the family, relatives said. His wife and son have returned to Faridabad after his murder. Faridabad police commissioner OP Singh said Noida police were probing the latest shooting while Haryana police had investigated the previous cases. A show cause notice has, meanwhile, been issued to Evergreen the agency in charge of security at Ajnara Le Garden. The shooters entered from Gate No. 1 where no guard asked them anything and escaped from Gate No. 2 where the camera was not working, according to police. Two more cameras that were facing the main road were found non-functional. “There were major flaws in the security system of the society due to which such a brutal crime took place. A letter has been sent for cancellation of their licence,” Chander said. Evergreen’s proprietor RP Singh Pawar said the suspects had entered through a small gate that opens into the market from the society. “There was a guard in the parking area but this gate had no one at the time of incident. We have closed this gate now,” Pawar said. Watch Greater Noida: 2 arrested in connection with murder of property dealers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/behind-noida-condominium-shooting-2-faridabad-families-9-years-of-revenge-murders/articleshow/78068023.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 12, 2020||Allahabad||Five illegal structures of Atiq’s close relative razed||Prayagraj: In yet another action against jailed mafia don-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad and his associates, a joint team of police, district administration and Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) on Friday razed five illegal structures spread over 5,000 square-meter land at Mehdauri locality under the limits of Shivkuti police station. The houses were built by Atiq’s close relative and former Allahabad University Student Union (AUSU) office-bearer Hamza Usman, and the assets were accumulated through illegal means, said SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh. He said a joint team of police, local administration and PDA along with heavy police force on Friday morning reached the site and initiated the process of razing all five illegal structures, which were reduced to rubble by the evening. He further said that the houses were illegally built on ‘state land’ and belonged to Atiq’s close relative Hamza. A senior PDA official, meanwhile, said: “As many as five houses were constructed on state land but had no doors or windows. It seems the land grabbers had planned to sell the properties.” The district administration had last month issued a notice regarding the illegal constructions on state land, but no one came forward to receive it. Police have also initiated the process of attaching three other properties, including a cold storage, owned by Atiq in Katra of Jhunsi in the trans-Ganga area. As the cold storage was constructed on an encroached plot, police were in the process of shifting over 23,000 sacks of potatoes to another cold storage in the Sahsoo area before beginning the process of attachment. Three days back, the district magistrate had directed the police officials to attach three properties owned by Atiq at Katra area under the Gangster Act. A joint team of police and revenue department had attached five properties worth Rs 7 crore owned by ex-block pramukh and gangster Dilip Mishra at Lavayan village under the Industrial Area police station late on Thursday night under the Gangster Act. The joint team of police and revenue department on Friday also started the process to attach fields owned by Dilip Mishra at Tikuri and Devrakh villages under the limits of Naini police station. The DM had ordered to attach as many as 12 properties owned by Dilip Mishra in Karchana, Naini and Industrial Area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/five-illegal-structures-of-atiqs-close-relative-razed/articleshow/78068178.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Dhavalikar demands 5-day House session||Panaji: MGP senior leader and Madkai MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has demanded that the state government should summon a five-day assembly session to discuss the Covid-19 situation as well as other issues such as Goa’s financial status, environment-related issues, Mhadei, mining and coal. The Madkai legislator said if the government does not want to call a physical assembly, then they can callout for virtual assembly. The MGP leader said that at least 20% women should be appointed on the committee constituted to ‘examine’ the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 Referring to the circular issued by the directorate of vigilance warning government employees of “disciplinary action” if they get involved in any agitation or campaign critical of the government “bypassing higher authorities”, the former deputy chief minister said there was no need to issue such a circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhavalikar-demands-5-day-house-session/articleshow/78068130.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Man booked after woman accuses him of flashing||AURANGABAD: Police have booked a man on the charges of outraging the modesty of a woman by allegedly making several video calls to her and demanding sexual favours. MIDC Waluj police said that based on the complaint lodged by the woman’s husband, an offence has been registered against the suspect. Investigation officer and sub-inspector Satish Pandit said that the woman initially ignored the calls from the unidentified man but the frequency of the calls and the vulgarity increased with time. When the suspect made a video call to the woman and flashed his private parts, she immediately brought the matter to the notice of her husband, who approached MIDC Waluj police on late Thursday night and lodged a complaint. Accordingly, the suspect has been booked for outraging the modesty of woman, stalking and criminal intimidation through anonymous communication. “Details of the unidentified number have already been obtained and the process of identifying the suspect is underway,” said Pandit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-booked-after-woman-accuses-him-of-flashing/articleshow/78065311.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Collector for enquiry into procurement of Covid articles||Kolhapur: District collector Daulat Desai has ordered an enquiry into the procurement of masks, PPE kits, sanitisers, oximeters, thermal guns, medicines and other articles required for Covid-19 management.Desai said that he has received several complaints from NGOs and individuals about most of the items being procured above the market price. He has directed health authorities to audit the procurement, recover the excess amount paid and file police complaint against suppliers supplying materials at higher rates. “Taking undue advantage of the pandemic, suppliers have sold items at exorbitant rate. The suppliers have sold N-95 masks at higher rates than the actual market price. Such unfair trade practices need to stopped immediately,” said Desai. From the complainst that have poured into the district administration that the triple-layer masks, that cost Rs 20 per piece, was being sold at Rs 180. Medicines, such as Remdesivir, is being procured at higher rates than what has been fixed by the government.The district administration has authorised the zilla parishad to procure kits, masks and medicines. The funds from the district development council, the state disaster relief fund and the National Health Mission are being utilised for procurement. The procured items are supplied to Covid hospitals and Covid care centres. Desai said he has asked to revise the orders if the rates finalised are more than actual market rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/collector-for-enquiry-into-procurement-of-covid-articles/articleshow/78065338.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Allahabad||HC closed on Sept 14-15 for sanitization||Prayagraj: Keeping in view the rapid surge in the number of coronavirus cases among the staff at high court at Allahabad, Chief Justice Govind Mathur has directed that there shall be no sitting of courts on September 14 and 15, in the High Court at Allahabad only. This step has been taken to ensure effective and proper sanitization and other remedial measures in the high court at Allahabad. Further, on the aforementioned dates, only urgent matters mentioned before the Chief Justice shall be taken and no other court shall be having sitting. Registrar general of the high court further informed that all judicial and administrative sections of high court at Allahabad shall not function on September 14 and 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-closed-on-sept-14-15-for-sanitization/articleshow/78068194.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: SIT arrests 4 Juhu constables for 22-year-old man’s lockdown death||MUMBAI: A Special Investigation Team (SIT), formed to probe the death of a 22-year-old Vile Parle man on March 29, arrested four Juhu police constables on Wednesday for their alleged role. Mumbai police suspended the four and their termination will be decided after proven guilty. Santosh Desai, Anand Gaikwad, Digambar Chavan and Ankush Palve were remanded on Thursday to police custody till September 15. TimesViewIt is only because of the PIL filed in the HC, and the HC-ordered inquiry, that this case of police brutality and cover-up came to light. Prosecution should be swift in this case in order to establish accountability and if any other cops are found to have assisted the four accused policemen in covering up the sordid crime, they must be prosecuted as well.They were booked under IPC sections for murder and rioting. The SIT, formed by Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh on August 18, was under the supervision of Sakinaka ACP Milind Khetle based on an order by Bombay high court to probe the murder of Raju Devendra (22). The four tried to show it as a case of mob lynching after he tried to enter a house to commit a theft. “CCTV footage did not show mob lynching. The four thrashed Devendra, based on which they were arrested for murder and rioting,” Khetle told TOI. A PIL was filed by advocate Firdause Irani through advocate Bahraiz Irani, seeking HC’s urgent intervention because of alleged police brutality in enforcing lockdown. The HC pulled up the cops on July 3 and told them to reply. A police officer said an internal inquiry revealed the four assaulted Devendra after he was found outdoors during lockdown. Devendra was subsequently found dead. The probe report submitted to court showed the involvement of the four. Devendra’s elder brother Manikam told TOI, “My brother Raju stepped out with elder brother Shankar to buy milk around 3.30pm. Four policemen stopped them, and after questioning them, assaulted him. We got a call around 4.30am that they caught him. At 8.30am, a cop told us they had found Raju drunk and he was unconscious. We rushed him to Cooper hospital, where we learnt he had multiple internal injuries. My brother Shankar narrated the actual incident but Juhu police filed a fake case and tried to save the cops.” Juhu police filed a report in the first week of July maintaining that on the intervening night of March 29-30, Devendra was spotted by locals while allegedly trying to enter a house near Mutthi Swami Chawl in Vile Parle, after he was caught stealing. Police on duty rushed to rescue him, it said. Devendra escaped and rushed home. He was taken to Cooper hospital by his brother and mother, where he died at 4am, it added. Devendra’s family said Shankar was the prime witness. The SIT found the four policemen assaulted Devendra after he was found outdoors during lockdown. Devendra was subsequently found dead. The probe found that Juhu police filed the case showing Devendra attempted to flee by climbing a roof but slipped and fell on the ground. A mob chased him to an open space and beat him up, which led to him losing consciousness, it said. A police patrol van later took him to Cooper hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival, it had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sit-arrests-4-juhu-cops-for-22-year-old-mans-lockdown-death/articleshow/78066777.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Covaxin trial in crucial second phase, 50 given dose in city||NAGPUR: Human trials of Oxford-made Covishield vaccine may have stopped, but the made-in-India Covaxin entered a crucial second phase of its human trials on Friday. In Nagpur, 50 participants were administered a dose of Covaxin, a potential Covid-19 vaccine made by Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), ICMR and other government authorities. Dr Gillurkar’s Hospital and Research Institute in the city is the only centre in Maharashtra to conduct these trials. “We have administered a dose to 50 participants. In the second phase, 750 participants will be administered the vaccine. Volunteers in the age group of 12 to 65 years have been enrolled for this phase,” said Dr Gillurkar. These participants include 8 young men between 12 to 18 years of age and five senior citizens between 60 and 65. Out of the 50 participants, 22 were women. “These participants were vaccinated in the last two days which will be considered as their respective day zero. They will be administered the second dose on day 14. The study will progress further as per the first phase,” said Dr Gillurkar. In first phase, 55 participants were administered the dose in Nagpur. They were tested on the 14th and 28th day of the vaccination. Their blood reports are not declared in public yet, but they must be desirable as it was declared earlier that the second phase will start only if the desirable results come in first phase. In the first phase, the age group of volunteers was between 18 to 55 years. In the second phase, its between 12 to 65 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-trial-in-crucial-second-phase-50-given-dose-in-city/articleshow/78068144.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 12, 2020||Goa||Bogmalo’s naval museum to open doors from Sep 15||Panaji: The Indian Navy will be reopening the naval aviation museum at Bogmalo, Vasco from September 15 for the public, but with the risk of the Covid-19 pandemic still relevant, entry of visitors will be staggered to ensure physical distancing norms. naval officials said that health and safety measures have been put in place to protect both naval personnel and visitors to south Asia’s only naval aviation museum. “As the capacity of our museum is significantly limited to comply with governmental requirements, numbers of visitors shall be limited with staggered entry, conforming to stern social distancing norms and Covid-19 protocols,” said a naval official. After the state government invoked the Epidemic Act 1897 in March to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Indian Navy closed the museum for visitors. For now, visitors to the museum will have to undergo thermal screening, wear face masks at all times and carry their own hand sanitizer. Individuals with flu, cough or cold should preferably refrain from visiting the facility, the officials said. The aviation museum has a prized collection of vintage and serving aircraft, with engines and weapons, including a mini-theatre to screen naval documentaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bogmalos-naval-museum-to-open-doors-from-sep-15/articleshow/78068146.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||2,082 citizens fined for not wearing mask||NAGPUR: City police and NMC’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) slapped fines on 2,082 persons collecting fines amounting to more than Rs4.15 lakh from them for not wearing masks. The police station staffers and traffic wing, under CP Amitesh Kumar and his team of DCPs, have collected fines of more than Rs3.21 lakhs from 1,566 persons for failing to wear masks. The staffers of police stations had collected fines of more than Rs2.08 lakhs from 1,043 persons. The traffic cops collected fines of Rs1.04 lakhs from 523 persons. Another 516 violators were pulled up by the NDS squad of NMC which collected fines amounting to Rs1.03 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2082-citizens-fined-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/78068143.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||NMC notice to 3 private labs for flouting ICMR norms||NAGPUR: Jalaj Sharma, additional municipal commissioner, has issued notice to three private laboratories for violating the directives of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) regarding Covid. The three laboratories are: Dhruv Pathology Lab (Ramdaspeth), Suvishwas (Ramdaspeth) and Metro (Dhantoli). Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials had found differences in their online registration data and failure to record the time of testing. Other than this, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had received complaints about these laboratories delaying testing samples and taking a long time in issuing reports to patients. Sharma had inspected all pathology laboratories testing Covid patients on September 9. He found that the three laboratories were not following ICMR norms. He informed Radhakrishnan B, who asked him to issue notices to them. The three laboratories will have to submit their replies to the NMC on September 12 by 11am. They will have to submit copies of their licenses, reports of all positive and negative patients, printouts of data fed into ICMR portals, RT-PCR reports uploaded on ICMR portal, etc. The owners or their representatives will have to be present before Sharma for a hearing in the NMC. Dr Shailendra Mundhada, director of Dhruv Pathology, said NMC had access to all the requested data. “We are sending them data on daily basis. They are worried because of the increased death rate,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-notice-to-3-pvt-labs-for-flouting-icmr-norms/articleshow/78068138.cms||Ashish Roy
September 12, 2020||Surat||Surat bizman’s suicide: Four SITs formed for speedy probe||Surat: Four special investigation teams (SIT) were formed by the Surat superintendent of police (rural) Usha Rada on Friday to assist in investigation of suicide of the millionaire businessman Durlabh Patel. Patel had allegedly killed himself by drowning himself in a water-filled stone quarry owned by him at Khanjroli village in Mandvi of Surat district on September 7. Currently, the investigation is being headed by Rupal Solanki, deputy superintendent of police, Bardoli. Her team will continue the investigation while four other teams will assist her in probing the case in which four out of ten accused are policemen. The four teams will be headed by police inspector (PI) K J Dhadukh, of Special Operation Group (SOG), PI B K Khachar, of local crime branch (LCB), PI V K Patel, women’s police station, and sub-inspector I M Zala, of LCB. Total 20 policemen have been provided to the newly formed teams. “Considering the importance of the case and for speedy progress, the SITs have been formed,” Rada told TOI.  The SITs will assist in mainly specialised work like analysis of call data records, examining CCTV footages and detailed study of property documents. The main accused in the case include PI of Rander police station L P Bodana; constables Vijay Shinde, Ajay Bhopala and Kiransinh Parmar; Raju Bharwad, Hetal Desai, Bhavesh Savani, Kanaiyalal Narola, Kishore Kosiya and Mukesh Kulkarni. Accused used to threaten and harass Patel over a property dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-bizmans-suicide-four-sits-formed-for-speedy-probe/articleshow/78065439.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Cows on cloud: Unique digital identity for cattle||Valpoi: ‘Cows on Cloud’, a project digitising cattle information has been initiated for the first time in the state. A software, Animals Digital Information Service (ADIS), to tag cattle for their unique characteristics has been implemented at a goshala (cattle shelter) in Nanus-Valpoi and the details of over 400 cattle at the goshala have been tagged by the software. This project is already operational in other parts of India, but this goshala, Jai Shree Ram Gau Sanvardhan Kendra, is first in Goa to use this software to tag its cattle using technology. Dairy farmers who have an android phone can download the app and get all information pertaining to cattle. The app has been developed by two Belagavi-based software engineers - Prasad Desai and Sujit Hukkerikar. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed for a proposal to digitise cattle in a bid to curb cattle theft in the country. Responding to this appeal, these two young software engineers developed this software and submitted it to the Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying and it was appreciated by the Prime Minister,” Raghunath Dhuri, a retired Veterinary officer, said. Dhuri said specific information unique to each animal like the footprint, height, weight, colour and tail hair is recorded in the software. “These details are then fed into the system, which generates a unique code to each cattle. Once the codes are uploaded in the system, they are then made available to all across the country. This unique ID allotted to each cattle is very useful when insuring cattle,” Dhuri said, adding that details of the software will be made available to the public in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cows-on-cloud-unique-digital-identity-for-cattle/articleshow/78068139.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Portion of heritage wall near Ghat Gate collapses||Jaipur: A portion of a heritage wall near Ghat Gate collapsed on Friday due to the cracks that had developed during heavy rains. The incident occurred in the evening and a bike got stuck under the debris. Although no one was injured, the degrading condition of heritage structures raises questions. SHO of Adarsh Nagar police station Arun Kumar informed TOI, “A corner of a wall adjacent to Ghat Gate collapsed due to continuous rain. No one was injured. One bike got stuck under the debris which was later removed by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC).” TOI tried to contact deputy commissioner of Hawa Mahal Zone (East) Ramkishore Meena, but he didn’t take the call. The incident comes as a disgrace while Jaipur Walled City was declared heritage city last year by UNESCO. As per the report of the Indian National Trust for Art and Culture Heritage (INTACH) in 2015, only 25% of the original walls in the Walled City are remaining. When Walled City got the heritage tag, one of the conditions was to renovate the city walls, preserve them and remove all the encroachment from the walls and façades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/portion-of-heritage-wall-near-ghat-gate-collapses/articleshow/78068150.cms||---
September 12, 2020||India||LAC face-off: Jaishankar set bottomline amid ‘heated’ talks with China||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar plainly told his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, during the talks that ended late on Thursday evening in Moscow, that India would not de-escalate until there was complete and verifiable disengagement at all points on the LAC. The talks, which got a little heated, saw Jaishankar setting out India’s bottomline — the overall India-China relationship will suffer if there is no peace on the border. Second, the "root cause" of the current crisis lay in Chinese forces breaching existing agreements with their massive build-up in April and May and transgressions that forced India to mirror positions and deployments. Read AlsoReady to take conciliatory steps, must pull back troops, gear from LAC: ChinaAfter two hours of tough negotiations in Moscow late on Thursday, India and China came to a five-point understanding to dial down tensions. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi's comments in Moscow on Friday offered some hope. He said, "We are ready to take conciliatory steps... The most important thingTop sources here said the Indian mantra on the LAC would be "verifying" Chinese disengagement promises. In recent weeks, Chinese troops have repeatedly gone back on their commitments. Interestingly, the Chinese readout of the meeting has Jaishankar saying that "the Indian side did not consider the development of India-China relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question and India does not want to go backwards". Indian officials who were at the meeting told TOI that India had emphasised that the relationship was dependent on a peaceful border. The Chinese side has been pushing the idea that the overall relationship can be insulated from the boundary crisis. Read AlsoBorder row: Amid ‘total breakdown of trust’, Generals to meet soonNEW DELHI: India and China will hold their sixth round of top-level military talks within the next few days in a bid to defuse the tinderbox-like operational situation in eastern Ladakh, which has seen casualties and shots being fired for the first time in 45 years. The People’s Liberation ArmyIn Moscow, Wang Yi was quoted as saying that India and China had reached a "consensus" and were willing to "meet each other halfway". Indian sources said Jaishankar told Wang that the recent incidents in eastern Ladakh had impacted the development of the bilateral relationship and an urgent resolution was in everyone’s interest. Read AlsoLAC stand-off: Army holding firm on Pangong heights despite PLA poke &amp; prodIn the days following the Indian Army’s surprise move in taking control of key heights in Pangong Tso area and ahead of the S Jaishankar-Wang Yi meeting, China repeatedly poked &amp; prodded along the border to test the Indian response. The big deployments in the Chushul area meant to intimidate andIndia’s actions over the past few months — taking aim at Chinese apps, technology, investments and projects — have made it clear that the overall relationship would be deeply impacted by the goings-on at the LAC. In his interventions, Jaishankar stressed that since the 1981 India-China "thaw", relations had been on a "positive trajectory" but that maintenance of peace and tranquillity on the border areas is essential to the forward development of ties. The Indian side pressed the Chinese on why they had amassed troops and equipment along the LAC but did not receive a credible explanation. The massing of troops was a direct contravention of the 1993 and 1996 agreements, exacerbated by "provocative" behaviour of Chinese troops, leading to the Galwan clashes of June 15. This has bred suspicion among Indian policymakers that the Chinese were not to be taken at their word. The Indian side believes the Chinese may well repeat this behaviour even after an agreement on disengagement, so New Delhi will carefully monitor coming actions. Jaishankar also conveyed that India wanted a return to status quo ante — which meant troops had to go back to their permanent posts. But how this process was to be achieved in phases (the deployments are so large it will take weeks), would be determined by the military leadership. But the immediate task is to make sure the disengagement is comprehensive and verifiable, sources said. "That is necessary to prevent any untoward incident in the future. The final disposition of the troop deployment to their permanent posts and the phasing of the process is to be worked out by the military commanders," said a source. Watch LAC row: India makes stand clear, gives 'stern' message to China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/s-jaishankar-set-bottomline-amid-heated-talks/articleshow/78069404.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana sees second-highest Covid fatality rate in state||Ludhiana: Amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, Ludhiana has recorded second-highest Case Fatality Rate (CFR) among all the districts of the state, according to an official data.The state media bulletin released on Thursday evening put the district’s CFR — or the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with the disease during a specific period — at 4.3%, only next to Kapurthala, which topped the chart with 4.9% fatality rate.Sangrur and Amritsar were at number three and four with 4% and 3.9% CFR, respectively, while Muktsar recorded the lowest CFR of 1.1% in the state.Ludhiana’s 4.3% fatality rate was higher than that of the state’s 3% and 1.61% national CFR recorded on Friday.An analysis of the CFR data for the last month suggests that on August 1, such rate in Ludhiana district was 3%, which increased to 3.5% by August 16 before rising further to 3.8% on August 31. Similarly, the district’s CFR on September 1 stood at 3.9%, which hit 4% the next day and rose to 4.3% by September 10.Not just the CFR, but Ludhiana also witnessed maximum fatalities during August 1-September 10 period. While the total number of deaths in the district was 99 on August 1, it increased to 228 by August 15 before reaching 413 on August 31. As per the government document, the total number of deaths in the district on September 10 stood at 546.However, despite the increase in CFR and fatalities in Ludhiana, health authorities are hopeful to see a decline in both in the coming days.“We are on a decline path and hopefully things will improve on Covid-19 front in the coming days. The main reason for high CFR and total fatalities is that people are reporting the disease late. Also, the number of patients with comorbidities is high in the district,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. He added that they are requesting the people to report early if they notice the Covid symptoms and also follow necessary norms for the prevention of the disease, including wearing masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene.BOXKiller pandemicDistrict — CFR (As on Sept 10)Kapurthala — 4.9%Ludhiana — 4.3%Sangrur — 4%Amritsar — 3.9%Fatehgarh Sahib — 3.7%Date — CFR for Ludhiana (%)August 10 — 316 — 3.517 — 3.619 — 3.424 — 3.525 — 3.626 — 3.529 — 3.6||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-sees-second-highest-covid-fatality-rate-in-state/articleshow/78065407.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 12, 2020||Goa||Godinho’s panel snatches control of Sancoale panchayat||Vasco: The panel backed by Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha received a severe jolt during the elections to the Sancoale sarpanch’s post after Ramakant Borkar and his wife Sunita switched sides and supported panel backed by panchayats minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho. On Friday, Borkar, who was instrumental in moving no-trust motion against Pillai with the support of Saldanha, ended up being elected as the new sarpanch of the 11-member Sancoale panchayat for the seventh time. He was declared elected unopposed. Members Girish Pillai, Succorine Vales, Nandini Dessai, Sunita Borkar, Avish Kadar and Govind Lamani backed Borkar. Members Tulsidas Naik, Narayan Naik, Satish Padwalkar and deputy sarpanch Kavita Kamal constitute Saldanha’s panel. “Saldanha’s panel was supposed to either appoint Tulsidas or Narayan for the sarpanch’s post, but Borkar turned the tables at the last minute,” sources said. Saldanha’s panel received another jolt on Friday after deputy sarpanch Kamal tendered her resignation following a no-confidence notice. Speaking to reporters after his victory, Borkar said, “Pillai has worked very hard for the garbage treatment plant and the panchayat ghar project. I will see that both these projects see the light of day. With the help of the panchayats minister I will work for the development of the panchayat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/godinhos-panel-snatches-control-of-sancoale-panchayat/articleshow/78068160.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kanpur||Sunday lockdown withdrawn, mkts to open on all 7 days of week||Kanpur: The Sunday lockdown has been withdrawn and all markets of the city are allowed to open on all seven days of the week, announced Kanpur Nagar district magistrate Alok Tiwari on Saturday. As per the new orders of the state government, markets will operate as per their local arrangements which was applicable before the Covid-19 lockdown. DM Tiwari, in his order, further observed that barring containment zones, hotels and restaurants in all other areas will operate according to the guidelines issued by the state government. “Tehsil Diwas and Thana Diwas will also be held with all the social distancing norms in place,” added the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sunday-lockdown-withdrawn-mkts-to-open-on-all-7-days-of-week/articleshow/78082168.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 cases cross 13k in dist, 12 deaths reported||TNNLudhiana: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana district crossed 13,000 on Friday, when 12 deaths and 256 positive cases were reported. Besides, six outsiders died and 38 were reported positive here on the day.The deceased from Ludhiana included a 68-year-old man of SBS Nagar with coronary artery disease, a 69-year-old man from Sherpur Chowk with coronary artery disease, a 58-year-old man from Janetpura village with diabetes and coronary artery disease, a 72-year-old man from Gurdev Nagar with hypertension, a 60-year-old man from Jagraon with diabetes and chronic kidney disease, a 45-year-old man from Ludhiana with liver injury, a 62-year-old woman from Daleep Singh Nagar in Khanna with diabetes and chronic kidney disease, a 65-year-old woman of Partap Singh Wala with diabetes, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease and a 78-year-old woman from Khanna with acute coronary syndrome. A 70-year-old man from Ram Nagar in Mundiyan Kalan died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. A 50-year-old woman from Issa Nagar with thyroid disease and a 70-year-old man from Model Town, who had diabetes and heart disease, died at local hospitals.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said with 12 deaths, the toll from the district has risen to 558 and 148 outsiders have died here so far. He said to date 1,84,327 suspects have been tested in Ludhiana. He said of the patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive on Friday, 55 were from the flu corner, 37 were positive cases’ contacts, 80 from OPD, 13 healthcare workers, two police personnel, 62 from tracing process and two severe acute respiratory infection and two pre-operative cases, besides one undertrial.Local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count was 13,010 and that of outsiders stood at 1,421. The civil surgeon said till now 10,633 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the district, which constitutes 81.73% of the total cases. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,816 active patients in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-cases-cross-13k-in-dist-12-deaths-reported/articleshow/78065392.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||3 panels for khazan plans||Panaji: The state government has constituted three different committees headed by Dr Simon D’Souza, former chairperson of Goa State Pollution Control Board, to prepare draft plans for mangrove management and khazan lands, and a comprehensive plan for the fishermen community in Coastal Regulation Zone areas. The three committees have eleven members each, and have been given 45 days to complete the task. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-panels-for-khazan-plans/articleshow/78068174.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||NEET boy’s death||Uttarpara: Police on Friday recovered the body of NEET examinee Avik Mondal (18) from the Hooghly in Uttarpara. He went missing the day before. His father Subhas, a constable, said, “I have told police about a WhatsApp chat he had had with a girl.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neet-boys-death/articleshow/78068167.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Rounds fired in Sugat Nagar, vehicles damaged||Nagpur: A few rounds were fired and vehicles damaged at the residence of Raju Patil in Sugat Nagar on Sunday. Senior officers from Jaripatka police station and crime branch were at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rounds-fired-in-sugat-nagar-vehicles-damaged/articleshow/78096092.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala minister KT Jaleel kept ED affair a top secret||KOCHI: The questioning of minister KT Jaleel was a top-secret affair. Despite rumours about him being questioned since morning, there was no actual confirmation until much later in the evening and it came from top ED officials. Intelligence sources said Jaleel was travelling from the capital to Malappuram and arrived at Aroor late on Thursday. However, the information about his travel to meet ED officials was not formally passed on to ground-level police units, sources said. “Around 9.30am on Friday, our information was that he was at the house of a businessman in Aroor. The pilot vehicle was sent back. By 1pm he travelled from Aroor to Malappuram. The best guess is that he was questioned by ED between 10am and 1 pm. It is possible that he travelled from Aroor to Kochi in a private vehicle after parking his official vehicle at the house in Aroor,” said the source. Meanwhile, probe agencies have intensified the probe into the controversial Quran consignment. “There are discrepancies in the documentation of the consignment as well as its recorded weight. We are still in the process of identifying if the consignments were actually Qurans. What most people still don’t understand is the open violation of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act which prohibits the government from accepting contributions from foreign entities,” said a Customs official. The source added that the exemptions, provided by the state protocol office in earlier years, are also under scrutiny. “We found cases in which goods that came as diplomatic cargo – with exemption certificate provided by state government – finally ended up in the hands of those associated with it. Interesting aspect is that duty on most of these goods is not high. When a diplomatic cargo ends up in the hands of someone not intended to receive it, it becomes duty evasion. We have designated a special team to look into such duty evasions,” said a Customs source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-minister-kt-jaleel-kept-ed-affair-a-top-secret/articleshow/78066787.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur district’s Covid tally past 50k; 1st 10k in 153 days, 40k in 32 days||Nagpur: The district crossed 50,000 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, becoming the fifth in the state to register such high number of cases. The district took 153 days to register 10,681 cases while 40,655 cases came in the last 32 days, for an average of 1,270 per day. The total Covid count surged to 51,336 after 1,484 new cases were detected on Friday. Except two days, the district has registered over 1,000 cases every day from August 18 to September 11. In the last 11 days, over 1,400 cases were reported on nine days. Highest single-day count is 2,065 registered on September 10. It took the district 96 days to cross first 1,000 cases. Till end of July, total 5,392 cases registered and the district was at 10th position among 35 districts in the state. Population-wise the district is on 5th position in the state. August witnessed a massive spike of 27,973 cases, taking the tally to 33,365 and prompting guardian minister Nitin Raut to declare community spread in the district. The situation has worsened in September. The district has registered 17,971 cases in the first 11 days of September, for a cumulative of 51,336. The district is now on at 5th position after Pune (2,23,710), Mumbai (1,52,934), Thane (1,52,934) and Nashik (52,049) in Covid count. The district is the first among 11 in Vidarbha to cross 50,000 cases. In fact, the district’s tally is much higher than total of remaining 10 districts. The number of daily tests is still less than what the public representatives had suggested. They had suggested over 10,000 tests per day. Around 8,000 tests are being done every day — 5,000 in city, 3,000 in rural while patients are also coming from other districts and states. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe said it is a sign of Covid-19 peak in the district if over 40,655 cases came in last 32 days while there were 10,681 in first 153 days. “Nobody can tell whether cases will keep on increasing or come down. Peak can be confirmed when curve begins to flatten,” he said. Dr Balankhe said large number of active cases means huge burden on health infrastructure. “Symptomatic positive patients are finding difficult to get beds in government as well as private hospitals. Reports of tests are coming after two days. There is urgent need for slowing down the growth rate for which full lockdown with curfew seems to be only solution,” he said. Another major worry for the district is high growth in deaths due to Covid-19. Cumulative deaths till end of July were 126. August had seen 919 deaths for a total of 1,045. In first 11 days of September, the district has registered 524 deaths for a total of 1,569. NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma in a press release said the civic body was taking various types of measures to control the deaths. “Testing has been increased to 6,000 per day from earlier 2,500 per day while 50 testing centres are in operation. Covid treatment is available at 38 hospitals, of which 33 are private, two are trust-run hospitals and three are government-run hospitals. “Total 2,827 beds are available in private (1,377) and government (1,450) hospitals. Daily monitoring is being done to ensure sufficient supply of oxygen. Also, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and all at the NMC are doing daily analysis of deaths to know the cause and initiate measures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-districts-covid-tally-past-50k-1st-10k-in-153-days-40k-in-32-days/articleshow/78076865.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 12, 2020||Goa||MMC to dip into fin commission funds for Mapusa bus stand work||Saligao: Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), at its meeting on Friday, resolved to undertake the development of the proposed new bus stand by utilising funds received through the 14th Finance Commission grants as the municipality is suffering from a financial crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are hopeful that the work of the proposed new bus stand will start by the end of December,” said MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza. The municipality also resolved to undertake hotmixing of roads as well as illumination by utilising funds from the finance commission grants. During the meeting, the chairperson told councillors that the municipality has received Rs 3.3 crore for the development of an administrative building. “The municipality had earlier floated tenders for the construction of the building, but as no one came forward to take up the works, and due to the financial crunch in wake of the pandemic, the municipality has resolved to take up the works under the 14th Finance Commision,” Braganza said. He also stated that Rs 90 lakh has also been allocated from the refurbishing of the meat and beef complex. The council also resolved to extend the term of MMC accounts officer Bhanudas Naik, whose term expires in September, as the municipal administration has not yet sent a replacement. It was decided to give an extension of around six months and send it for approval. With regards to the weekly Friday bazaar, Braganza said that as there is no clarity with regard to the SOP, the municipality would speak to chief minister Pramod Sawant and officials concerned. The chairperson also told the councillors that the municipality is trying to find ways to get the Mapusa market back on track as there have been requests from various market committees to accommodate vendors inside the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mmc-to-dip-into-fin-commission-funds-for-mapusa-bus-stand-work/articleshow/78068188.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Cop, wife booked, son arrested for dowry death||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Thursday booked a sub-inspector, his wife and son on the charge of dowry death after his 29-year-old daughter-in-law died after consuming a poisonous substance at their house in Sukhdev Nagar.The deceased has been identified as Davinder Kaur, 29, a teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Koom Kalan.The case was registered against her husband Atinderpal Singh, who has been arrested, father-in-law Tarlochan Singh, who is a sub-inspector, and mother-in-law Jinder.Davinder’s mother Shinder Kaur, a resident of Daba, said in her police complaint, “My daughter had tied the knot with Atinderpal in February 2019. We gave her a lot of gifts at the marriage, but her husband and in-laws demanded more. They started harassing her a few days after the marriage. We advised Davinder to have patience. A couple of times we also spoke to her in-laws, but in vain.”About 10 months ago, Davinder gave birth to a girl. “But her in-laws refused to accept the girl, as they wanted a boy. Her mother-in-law would harass her for not giving birth to a boy,” Shinder Kaur added.Around 11.30pm on Wednesday, Shinder Kaur received a call from Atinderpal that Davinder had consumed a poisonous substance and was admitted to CMC hospital. “When I reached there, Davinder was conscious. She told me that her in-laws gave her a poisonous substance. Later, in the wee hours of Thursday, she passed away,” Shinder Kaur said.Division 7 police station SHO sub-inspector Satvir Singh said, “A case has been registered against Atinderpal Singh, Tarlochan Singh and Jinder under sections 304-B (dowry death) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. Atinderpal was arrested on Thursday night. The other accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cop-wife-booked-son-arrested-for-dowry-death/articleshow/78065442.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Mormugao’s waste transfer stations turn into public eyesores||VASCO: The garbage transfer stations put up at various locations in the jurisdiction of Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), each costing Rs 1.3 lakh, have not been serving the purpose of curbing the menace of stray cattle and dogs spilling waste from bins kept at the dumping points In the August 29 edition of TOI, it was reported that 34 transfer stations had been set up in different parts of the municipalities in 25 wards. MMC chairperson Nandadeep Raut had told TOI that the transfer stations would be locked and one key will be kept with the supervisor who oversees door-to-door collection and another key will be kept with the municipal staff to open the door and collect the garbage from the bins to be transported to the garbage treatment plant at Sada. However, 15 days later with the doors wide open and cattle, dogs and goats have started entering inside the transfer stations. At a few spots, the bins still are kept outside and garbage is thrown outside the station by passersby. Amit Kumar, a local from Baina, said, “The door-to-door collection of garbage at times is done for even four days at a stretch. We can’t be keeping the garbage stinking in the houses especially when we have children at home. With no option, we are forced to keep the garbage at the dumping points.” Shabbir Ahmed from New Vaddem suggested that the municipality put up boards warning that people will be fined if found dumping outside the stations. “They can even install CCTVs for the purpose,” the New Vaddem resident said. When TOI contacted the Mormugao municipality chairperson, he said “an inquiry will be conducted and an inspection will be carried out wherever the stations have been set up”. “The supervisors will be briefed and asked to take necessary precautions,” said the chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mormugaos-waste-transfer-stations-turn-into-public-eyesores/articleshow/78068197.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Facilities for greater learning in rural areas top priority, says CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that his government is committed to make the state a leading one in the country in the field of higher and technical education. He said his government’s priority is to provide facilities for higher and technical education in remote areas so that children living in rural areas and villages could also excel in the field of medical, engineering, research and new emerging areas of learning. Gehlot was addressing the e-launch programme of higher and technical education department through video conference from the chief minister’s residence on Friday. He inaugurated nine state colleges of higher education at a cost of about Rs 62 crore and labs in 10 state engineering and polytechnic colleges of technical education at a cost of about Rs 23.22 crore apart from new girls’ hostels for scheduled castes and scheduled tribe, labs among others. Gehlot said 87 new government colleges were set up in the last one and a half years shows the government’s determination to promote higher education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/facilities-for-greater-learning-in-rural-areas-top-priority-says-cm/articleshow/78068192.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Beware of frauds creating your fake FB profile to ask for money||Ludhiana: Taking advantage of Covid-19 pandemic in which people faced financial crisis and depended on social media to stay connected with their dear ones, the cyber criminals and fraudsters came up with new ways of trapping them. In the recent past, many city residents fell prey to cybercrimes in which fraudsters created their fake Facebook profiles and used their pictures to ask their contacts for money. In most of the cases, the fraudsters gave pandemic plea, made claims of financial crisis and shared links of e-wallets for transfer of money.Principal of a city-based private college said, “A few days ago, I received a call from my friend, asking if everything was alright in the family. Then he told me that he received a message from my Facebook profile that said that I urgently needed Rs 5,000. I told him that I had not sent any such message. He shared a link of that profile, which was similar to the original. The fraudster had sent messages to my other friends and relatives too. I immediately reported the profile to Facebook and also sent a broadcast message to all my contacts to be alert. Though the profile was blocked, I realised that my Facebook profile security was too weak. I changed the security settings and protected my profile. Luckily, none of my friends and relatives had made payment to the trickster.”In another instance, the principal of a city school received a similar message from the profile of her student. She said, “During lockdown, I received a message from my student that due to Covid-19 he had become homeless and was in need of money. I was asked to transfer Rs 2,000 into his e-wallet. For a while I believed it, but then I called the student for confirmation and learnt that it was a fake profile. A few days ago, someone had created two fake profiles of my husband. We reported it and also informed all our contacts to stay cautious.” A resident of Basti Jodhewal said, “Fraudsters used a fake profile of mine to ask for Rs 25,000 from my friend, saying that my family member is admitted to hospital due to coronavirus. I reported to Facebook and got the profile blocked.”Cyber security expert Rakshit Tandon said, “These are the people who have not activated necessary security settings on their Facebook account. Allowing everyone to access your pictures, contact list can lead to such frauds. The only way to keep your accounts safe is to have your information locked. These days, Facebook has given an option to lock your profile for unknown persons, which is quite helpful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/beware-of-frauds-creating-your-fake-fb-profile-to-ask-for-money/articleshow/78065428.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Get ready to pay even more for non-Covid treatments||NAGPUR: New medical protocols due to Covid-19 have started showing their effects on the regular hospitalization costs and medical fees of patients. Many patients, who visited hospitals and investigation centres for non-Covid needs told TOI that they had to pay more than usual for the similar process, as the cost of PPE kits and other disposables were added into their bills. Doctors told TOI that irrespective of Covid or non-Covid patient, they have to follow the protocol of wearing PPE kits, face shields and other protective gear in OPDs and IPDs. Masks, sanitization, gloves, and disinfecting the premises on regular basis is new normal and this cost has already started reflecting in your medical bills. Before any surgical process, every patient has to undergo Covid-19 test including expectant mother. Moreover, at CT scan, MRI centres — the investigators use PPE kits and protective gears for all walk-ins — Covid or non-Covid. This will increase the cost of routine processes, surgeries, deliveries, CT scans, dental processes, and so on. Most importantly, the cost of disposable PPEs, and other products is not covered in any insurance — neither cashless nor reimbursement. So, entire extended burden of the cost is coming directly on the kitty of patients. However, the more direct effect is yet to start. Doctors have not increased their OPD consultation fees so far. “OPD consultation rates are not increased in spite of PPE kits, face shield, mask, sanitization, gloves to be used by doctors and their staff,” said ENT specialist Dr Ashish Diwasal, former president of IMA Nagpur. “Doctors are still avoiding planned surgeries, cosmetic processes, and other avoidable procedures. “We have to follow Covid-19 precautions for all patients irrespective of them being positive or not,” said interventional pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat. In case of surgery, doctors also need to get themselves tested for Covid-19 before entering into Operation Theatre. All this will be adding into medical expenses. “New diagnostic parameters, mandatory use of protective gears both by doctors and patients, anti-infection protocol, avoiding crowd at hospitals and many more regulations will come now. Heavy sanitization will become need of the hour. Together this has already increased the health care cost,” said Dr Pinak Dande, senior physician. A senior gynecologist commented that deliveries are going to be costly as doctors will use advanced PPE kits, N95 masks during normal check-up and delivery. “In C Section, at least five people are there in operation theatre. All these will have to wear disposable protective gear. This cost will be added into delivery bills,” she said. Most TPAs don’t refund disposables. So, patients will have to face more financial burden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/get-ready-to-pay-more-even-for-non-covid-treatments/articleshow/78068200.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 12, 2020||Vadodara||Marijuana plantation raided in Dahod||Vadodara: A team of vigilance department of the state and Dahod police raided a farm cultivating marijuana in the Fatehpura taluka of Dahod district. The farm was located between hills and not easily visible. The raid was conducted after the vigilance department received a tip off regarding the farm. It informed officials of the Dahod police and conducted a raid at the Sagdapada village of Fatehpura taluka. On searching corn farms in the area, the teams located a marijuana farm too that was hidden between the other cultivation. The details of the exact area used for cultivation of the contraband as well as the quantity of contraband standing in the farm were being worked out. An offence was to be registered after the details became clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/marijuana-plantation-raided-in-dahod/articleshow/78064820.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mollem body defers nod for national projects||PONDA: Bowing to the pressure by locals, the Mollem panchayat on Friday deferred its decision of granting permission to two national projects. A group of locals under the banner of ‘Save Mollem’ has been opposing the proposed projects and are demanding that a gram sabha be summoned to discuss them. Sarpanch Tanavi G Kerkar announced that a gram sabha will be convened on October 4 to discuss the issue and the decision regarding permission for the two national projects will be taken after considering the locals’ views. It may be recalled that the Centre has proposed three infrastructure projects — double tracking of railway lines, conversion of the existing NH 4-A into a four-lane highway and erection of a power transmission line. While the double tracking project is under the Collem village panchayat’s jurisdiction, the remaining two are in the Mollem panchayat’s area. A large group of youth assembled outside the panchayat office and shouted slogans demanding that the decision on the Mollem projects be deferred till the matter is discussed by the gram sabha. They also submitted a representation to the sarpanch. Later, the sarpanch came out of the meeting and announced that the monthly meeting on Friday decided to hold a gram sabha. “I wish to clarify that I have not given NOC to anyone regarding these projects. We’ll go by the views of the people at the gram sabha. So far no decision has been taken as of now on the NOC,” he said. Around 80,000 indigenous trees in the protected forests of the Western Ghats, in Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, would need to be felled for all the three projects, said official sources. A total of 32ha of forest land having 12,000 trees has been earmarked for the four-laning of the existing NH 4-A from Anmod to Mollem village, adjoining the Goa and Karnataka borders. The proposed project of laying of a 400 KV transmission line between Dharwad in Karnataka to Goa would affect 48.3ha of forest land and may result in the felling of another around 15,777 trees, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-body-defers-nod-for-natl-projects/articleshow/78068211.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu, Kerala to work on water diversion scheme||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments on Friday decided to move ahead in implementing the Pandiyar-Punnampuzha scheme that envisages utilization of the west flowing waters of Pandiyar and Punnampuzha rivers that drain into the Arabian Sea. The project is aimed at diverting the water eastward so that drought-prone areas of TN will benefit with the additional scope of hydropower generation on both sides, sources told TOI. During the six hour-long meeting in Thiruvananthapuram, both governments represented by senior officers of irrigation and power departments discussed threadbare the inter-state water disputes, including Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) that benefits western districts. “This is just the preliminary stage in a series of discussions being held with Tamil Nadu. After we understand the requirements of the individual states, we will do the necessary homework and return to the discussion table. We hope to settle these matters amicably and as early as possible, hopefully within two to three months,” said Kerala’s water resources minister K Krishnankutty. Both the governments set up high-level committees last year subsequent to a meeting of chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala in Thiruvananthapuram in previous October. The ongoing discussion is the second official-level meeting, following a deliberation held between the chief ministers of both states. The last meeting was held in Chennai involving the secretaries of the water resource department. The last meeting between the chief ministers took place in Chennai in 2004. “Kerala is positive. They have sought details like where the dam shall be, the capacity of the structure, the availability of water, and the share that each state would get and the mechanism for compliance,” said a senior TN government official. TN government is pleased with Kerala’s gesture and it has agreed to share the details within a week. Kerala’s main demand is regulatory control over three dams in its territory – Parambikulam, Thunakkadavu and Peruvarippalam – which are presently operated by Tamil Nadu as part of PAP. The state had, in the previous meeting, put forward this proposal in lieu of allowing Tamil Nadu to divert Nirar water directly to Nellar, which was otherwise being routed through Kerala’s territory. The PAP system has nine dams and two weirs spread over Kerala and Tamil Nadu. (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-kerala-agreeable-to-diversion-of-waters/articleshow/78071370.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 12, 2020||Ludhiana||2 brothers killed as truck hits cycle||Times News Network Ludhiana: Two minor brothers were killed after a truck hit their cycle at a service lane of Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway near Jugiyana village, Sahnewal, around 7am on Friday.The deceased have been identified as Neeraj, 13, and Ashu, 10, of Bihari Colony, Jugiyana, Sahnewal.Police said Neeraj was pedaling and Ashu was riding pillion. An eyewitness said, “The speeding truck hit the cycle from behind, killing the kids on the spot.” Passersby called the police after nabbing the accused driver. Sanjay Kumar, father of the kids who works as a labourer, said, “My sons were fond of cycling, which they did every day. I had asked them not to go towards the highway.”Sahnewal police station SHO inspector Inderjit Singh said, “The police have arrested the accused driver, Ranjit Singh, 40, of Kapurthala. He said he did not notice the children. A case has been registered against him under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-brothers-killed-as-truck-hits-cycle/articleshow/78065479.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Traffickers used three Bihar rly stations to transport children||Ludhiana: A day after the Railway Protection Force rescued 15 minor children from Karmabhoomi Express (running from Samastipur to Amritsar) and arrested 12 human traffickers, it has come out that the accused were using three major railway stations of Bihar — Katihar, Purnia and Kishanganj — to transport minors to various places in Punjab.Investigations have also revealed that human traffickers were planning to leave the train at Ludhiana railway station in different batches to escape the police. Company commander of RPF, Ludhiana, Anil Kumar said, “After getting intelligence inputs from the northern railways headquarters and Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) members, a team was constituted. Three officials went inside three different coaches of the train when it arrived at Ambala station to find out the number of minors being taken for child labour. During conversation with children, it came to light that the human traffickers had trained them to inform co-passengers that they were travelling with their family members to Punjab for better education and career prospects.”He said, “Within minutes, police officials identified some children who looked unhappy and nervous. After much persuasion, they opened up and said they were being taken to Ludhiana and other cities.”Senior divisional security commissioner, Ashish Kumar, said, “All of them were between 12 and 17 years old and were trafficked from their hometowns without any payment to work at stitching and embroidery units, brick kilns and at construction sites. We have given directions to local officials of Ludhiana railway station to increase the number of escort personnel in all major trains coming from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to ensure safety of minors.”Station house officer of Government Railway Police Balbir Singh Ghuman said, “Members of Ludhiana railway station childline produced the rescued minor children before the district child welfare committee here on Friday and are now trying to trace their parents. It is not clear if the arrested traffickers had bought children from the underprivileged by luring them with cash.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traffickers-used-three-bihar-rly-stations-to-transport-children/articleshow/78065460.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 12, 2020||Rajkot||Indian Rayon under NGT scanner||Rajkot: The principal bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) has appointed a joint committee to inquire into the allegation of pollution by Indian Rayon. A petition was filed in 2015 by the protection of environment and public service committee. The NGT during the hearing on Wednesday ordered this committee to look into the allegation levelled by the petitioner by visiting the site in one month and submitting the report in three months. The petition alleged that the company was discharging hazardous chemical into the sea as well as Deveka River. The unit was granted the environment clearance for electricity in June 2015. The petition was filed in western region bench of the NGT in Pune, which thereafter referred this petition to the principal bench of Delhi earlier this year. The hearing for this petition took place on September 9 in which the principal bench observed: “Since the pleadings have been filed long back, without expressing any final view on the rival aspects it is necessary to ascertain the latest status on the ground by appointing an independent committee.” The NGT accordingly ordered the formation of a joint committee comprising representatives of Central Pollution Control Board, Gujarat State Pollution Control Board, National Institute of Oceanography and district magistrate of Gir Somnath. The order stated: “The joint committee may visit the plant and the site of disposal of the effluents within one month, look into the compliance of relevant parameters and furnish its report to this tribunal within three months by email.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/indian-rayon-under-ngt-scanner/articleshow/78065298.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tamil Nadu, Kerala to work on water diversion scheme||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments on Friday decided to move ahead in implementing the Pandiyar-Punnampuzha scheme that envisages utilization of the west flowing waters of Pandiyar and Punnampuzha rivers that drain into the Arabian Sea. The project is aimed at diverting the water eastward so that drought-prone areas of TN will benefit with the additional scope of hydropower generation on both sides, sources told TOI. During the six hour-long meeting in Thiruvananthapuram, both governments represented by senior officers of irrigation and power departments discussed threadbare the inter-state water disputes, including Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) that benefits western districts. “This is just the preliminary stage in a series of discussions being held with Tamil Nadu. After we understand the requirements of the individual states, we will do the necessary homework and return to the discussion table. We hope to settle these matters amicably and as early as possible, hopefully within two to three months,” said Kerala’s water resources minister K Krishnankutty. Both the governments set up high-level committees last year subsequent to a meeting of chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala in Thiruvananthapuram in previous October. The ongoing discussion is the second official-level meeting, following a deliberation held between the chief ministers of both states. The last meeting was held in Chennai involving the secretaries of the water resource department. The last meeting between the chief ministers took place in Chennai in 2004. “Kerala is positive. They have sought details like where the dam shall be, the capacity of the structure, the availability of water, and the share that each state would get and the mechanism for compliance,” said a senior TN government official. TN government is pleased with Kerala’s gesture and it has agreed to share the details within a week. Kerala’s main demand is regulatory control over three dams in its territory – Parambikulam, Thunakkadavu and Peruvarippalam – which are presently operated by Tamil Nadu as part of PAP. The state had, in the previous meeting, put forward this proposal in lieu of allowing Tamil Nadu to divert Nirar water directly to Nellar, which was otherwise being routed through Kerala’s territory. The PAP system has nine dams and two weirs spread over Kerala and Tamil Nadu. (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tn-govt-kerala-agreeable-to-diversion-of-waters/articleshow/78066800.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice over appointments||Jaipur: High court on Friday issued notice to RPSC on school lecturers’ appointment 2018 and asked to file reply by September 21. The single bench of Justice Indrajeet Singh issued notice on a petition by Rajshree and others. The petitioners said RPSC released the marks of the candidates and documents verifications and appointment orders issued without disposing of the objections of the candidates on answer key. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-over-appointments/articleshow/78068215.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Man held for attempting to kill wife in Goa||PONDA: A 40-year-old resident of Santacruz, Ponda, has been arrested by Ponda police on Friday for strangling his wife on Thursday evening. Ponda judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) remanded Premanand Naik in three days police custody. Police said the accused said he had attempted to strangle his 37-year-old wife to scare her, during a petty scuffle between them. However, she lost consciousness due to the choking. The man then immediately called the police who rushed her to the casualty block of the Dilasa palliative care centre in Farmagudi. The woman was then referred to Goa Medical College and Hospital for further treatment. She is now stable, police said. The husband has been booked for attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-held-for-attempting-to-kill-wife/articleshow/78068223.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Noida||Monitor patients in home isolation: Uttar Pradesh minister||GREATER NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh on Friday visited Noida to take stock of the Covid situation in GB Nagar and neighbouring Ghaziabad district. Singh had summoned the senior health officials of the two districts for a joint meeting which took place at a guesthouse located in Sector 38. Taking stock of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the minister reviewed the situation of beds available for critical patients. “While the health minister was satisfied with the work done by our teams in the two districts, increasing beds in the ICU and proper monitoring of patients in home isolation sounded out as the key agenda,” an official said. GB Nagar CMO, Deepak Ohri, said the issue of manpower crunch was also put before the minister. “We will need some resources and equipment in the coming months and have apprised the minister about the same,” the CMO added. Ohri asked the minister for at least 50 jumbo-sized oxygen cylinders for the district hospital in Sector 39 along with induction of more doctors. Ghaziabad CMO Dr NK Gupta said, “The minister was satisfied with the situation in Ghaziabad, but asked the health department to increase the number of ICU beds in L2 and L3 facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/monitor-patients-in-home-isolation-minister/articleshow/78067932.cms||Shalabh
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Move to declare Navegaon Lake in Gondia a sanctuary||Nagpur: In another green initiative, the state government has decided to declare Navegaon Bandh Lake, spread in over 1,227.66 hectares, a bird sanctuary. Wildlife lovers and NGOs, however, want it to be notified as a conservation reserve fearing opposition from locals. “Preliminary talks have started to identify how the proposal can be worked out with the consent of locals having traditional fishing rights on this lake. A meeting with officials and NGOs was held to discuss the proposal,” said P Kalyan Kumar, CCF, Nagpur circle. “The sanctuary plan was raised by members in the State Wildlife Board meeting held on August 7, based on which PCCF (wildlife) has asked us to submit a proposal,” Kumar added. The lake in Gondia district is presently with irrigation department and there are nistar rights of villagers over fishing and grazing. Opinions are divided over declaring the lake a sanctuary and most of them want it to be conservation reserve which will help save the degrading lake without harming rights of the locals. “The lake lies on the south-west boundary of Navegaon National Park and supports terrestrial as well as aquatic flora and fauna with a strong ecotourism potential. There is record of 312 bird species from 57 different families including 247 residents and 78 winter migrants. Protection to the lake will also help retain lost sarus crane habitat,” says Rupesh Nimbarte, president, Hirwal Bahuuddeshiya Sanstha, Gondia. Former DFO with Navegaon-Nagzira Ashok Khune too pitched for conservation reserve. “At least 400-500 families from 10-12 surrounding villages are dependent on fishing. People have nistar rights since 1954 and it would be difficult to strip them of these rights by declaring the lake a sanctuary,” said Khune. “Locals have lost trust in government agencies as in the past crores of rupees were spent on rock garden, treatment centre, conference hall and other construction activities. All these projects have now turned white elephants. Instead of solving core issues like improving bird habitat, removing encroachments and lantana, user agencies focused more on construction. Hence, locals are confused whether government is serious about any proposal,” said Sawan Bahekar, former honorary wildlife warden. Nimbarte said the proposal was first pushed by then Gondia-Bhandara MP Praful Patel in 2012. The Navegaon Gram Panchayat in 2014 had also approved the conservation reserve proposal subject to conditions that people’s rights and dependence on the water body will not be affected and they would be given preference for any ecotourism facilities. Since then, the proposal is hanging fire. Now again, both BJP MP from Gondia-Bhandara Sunil Mendhe and Arjuni Morgaon MLA Manohar Chandrikapure have urged forest minister Sanjay Rathod to declare the lake either conservation reserve or bird sanctuary. They said, “Of the all bird species in Maharashtra, 60% are found in Navegaon. The lake also falls in the buffer zone of NNTR and it will go a long way to boost ecotourism in the area.” MLA Chandrikapure said, “The lake is a notified wetland with rich biodiversity. The state, after consultations with local communities, can declare any area owned by the government, particularly areas adjacent to national parks and sanctuaries and those areas which link one protected area with another, as a conservation reserve for protecting landscapes, flora and fauna and their habitat.” Why Wetland Holds Key * 300-year-old Navegaon Lake, built by Kolu Patil Kohli, is oldest man-made water body having great historical importance in region * Picturesque lake set amid lush green hills is home to almost 60% of bird species found in entire Maharashtra * It is important conservation unit in Central India in general and Vidarbha in particular. It acts as a ‘green-lung’ for adjoining human settlements * Lake hosts 312 bird species (247 residents & 78 migrants); 51 species of fishes; 13 species of amphibians; 46 species of reptiles; 14 species of lizards & 29 species of snakes * This lake & adjoining national park serves as a living repository of various economical, medicinal, aromatic, ornamental plant species||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/move-to-declare-navegaon-lake-in-gondia-a-sanctuary/articleshow/78056867.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 12, 2020||Goa||Parents demand fee cut by private school||Panaji: Parents of students of a private school in South Goa held a demonstration outside the institute premises recently, demanding a 20% concession in the tuition fees during the pandemic. The parents alleged that the school has stopped online classes for those students whose parents have been unable to pay the fees. “The per year school fees is Rs 70,000 to Rs 80,000. Many of us have lost our jobs due to the pandemic. We are unable to pay this amount at present. We had asked the school for concession in the fees. We were made to fill forms for the concession, which we did. After all this we are being told they can’t give us the concession,” said a parent. The directorate of education (DoE) has already rolled back the permission granted to private schools to hike the fees during the academic year 2020-21. But parents demanded that the school management give them a further concession of 20% in the tuition fees. They also said that the school should stop charging development fees. “The school is not understanding the depth of this pandemic. We are not asking for a lifetime rebate on the fees. We cannot pay this year. We have paid all these years without saying a word. The school calls us their family, but today when we need their support they are nowhere,” another parent said. The parents said that they had at least four meetings with the school management and that they also held a meeting with the chief minister. Besides this, they have petitioned the DoE has well. However, parents said they have received no respite. “Because we are unable to pay the fees, the school has stopped online classes for our students to blackmail us. Our children have no classes to attend right now. They cannot take education away from a child. It is the child’s right. We have met the directorate, we have appealed to the CM, but no one is bothered to address the issue,” said a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parents-demand-fee-cut-by-private-school/articleshow/78068879.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Poll dept collects data of 7.93 lakh disabled persons||Jaipur: In a bid to achieve 100 per cent registration of Persons With Disabilities (PwDs) in the electoral roll, the state election department has collected and collated data of 3.07 lakh PwDs from the disability commission and 4.86 lakh from the department of social justice and empowerment department. At present, there are 3.91 lakh PwD voters in the state. The Chief Electoral Officer, Praveen Gupta, said,” Presently, the thrust of the department is on 100 per cent registration of PwDs of 18 years and above. This data has further been mapped with the electoral rolls of assembly constituencies and has been shared with all the district election officers. From the data we have received, 50,000 have already been added to the electoral roll.” “As a part of a special summary revision of electoral rolls, district election officers have been directed to update this before the draft publication of voters’ list through booth level officers. The PwDs, who have not been registered, will be motivated to fill form 6.” The CEO further informed that in order to facilitate smooth registration and polling for this category, state level committee has been reconstituted as per Election Commission (ECI) directions in view of COVID pandemic. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poll-dept-collects-data-of-7-93-lakh-disabled-persons/articleshow/78068203.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||3,932 recoveries beat 3,373 new cases, recovery rate takes 2% jump||NAGPUR: Nearly 4,000 Covid patients were discharged in Vidarbha on September 11, nearly 500 more than the number of new cases. This took Vidarbha’s recovery rate from 66% to over 68%, just 2% less than the state figures. The concern over deaths remain though, with 88 patients dying on Friday, 53 in Nagpur district, taking Vidarbha’s death toll to 2,381. Amravati reported 10 deaths, with six deaths of past three-four days added to the tally. Yavatmal and Chandrapur reported 5 deaths each, Gondia (4). Bhandara and Akola (2 each), and Buldhana (1). Highest 1,484 new cases came from Nagpur district. Yavatmal (425) and Chandrapur (401) reported their highest single-day spikes, followed by Gondia (229), Bhandara (189), Amravati (187), Akola (162), Buldhana (145), Washim (107), Wardha (85), and Gadchiroli (44). Vidarbha’s case tally crossed the 90,000 mark and reached 91,608. At this pace, the region will reach 1 lakh mark in next three days. Highest 2,659 patients recovered in Nagpur. Now, 62,480 out of 91,608 patients have recovered in Vidarbha. Amravati: Ten Covid deaths and a spike of 188 cases took district’s toll to 191, and count to 7,993. All ten who died were males, five from rural parts of Mogra (75), Teosa (65), Paratwada (64), Shirajgaon Kasba (56) and Bramanwada Thadi (70); while five were from city areas of Saturna (66), Joglekar Plot (51), Mobinpura (70) , Jawahar Gate (68) and Vilasnagar (51). Six deaths that occurred 2-3 days back were also added to the tally on Friday. With 137 patients discharged, recovered patients reached 6,035. This left 1,767 active cases including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur and 333 in home isolation. The rural belt accounted for 99 of the day’s 188 cases taking its count to 2,451. The highest 23 cases were reported from Anjangaon Surji while 15 cases in Morshi tehsil. Bhatkuli reported 13. Eleven each came from Nandgaon Khandeshwar and Chandur Bazar tehsils while Warud reported nine. Paratwada reported four cases while Bhatkuli three. Two each came from Dhamangaon Railway, Walgaon and Donaj. Single cases came from 12 other places while a case each from Arvi and Karanja also tested positive. Chandrapur: Friday turned out to be a day of records with single day high of 401 patients, and equalling previous single day high of five deaths. Total cases are now at 5,253, while the toll is 61. Chandrapur also registered record high 270 discharge, taking their total to 2,827. There are now 2,365 active patients. The last 3,000 cases have come in just 13 days. Confusion is rising among patients and relatives regarding treatment facility. Many asymptomatic were confused about home isolation facility as they got poor support from helpline number. They claimed the helpline counsel just gave names of 11 private doctors on the panel for home isolation, but did not give their phone numbers. They were told to send somebody to a panel doctor and get their consent letter, which is needed by authorities at forest academy to initiate home isolation. There was no mention of check-up of such patients. Meanwhile, five deaths in last 24 hours include 48-year-old from Balaji ward and 42-year-old woman from Sister Colony in Chandrapur city, a 55-year-old-person from Majri, 56-year-old person from Ballarpur and 78-year-old person from Bramhapuri. Yavatmal: All efforts claimed by district administration seem to have failed, with five more deaths reported on Friday, taking the toll to 140. The dead included a 40-year-old man and 65-year-old woman from Pandharkawda, 49-year-old man from Digras, 84-year-old man from Arni and a 65-year-old man from Umarkhed. There was unprecedented surge in positive patients at 425, taking total cases to 5,247. With 208 recoveries, recovered patients surged to 3,572. Total 1,535 patients are under treatment, 1,210 are in hospitals and CCCs while others are in home isolation. Washim: Record 126 patients were discharged in Washim district while 107 new patients were detected. No death was reported in Washim on Friday. Now, total 2,576 cases of Covid-19 have been reported, with 1,809 recovering and 50 deaths. Total 717 patients are under treatment. Wardha: Total 85 persons tested positive on Friday while 62 were discharged. The positive patients were reported from Wardha (45), Hinganghat (19), Deoli and Arvi (8 each), Selu (3) and Ashti and Samudrapur (1 each). The total count of cases reached 2,309 and 1,088 are undergoing treatment. So far, 1,182 patients have recovered. On Friday, no death was reported and toll stands at 39. Akola: The district detected 162 new patients, bringing the three-figure surge back in Akola, hinting at second wave of cases. Taking serious cognisance, divisional commissioner Piyush Singh took a review meeting with collector Jitendra Papalkar and other officials. Akola reported 2 deaths, taking the toll to 175. Both deceased were senior citizens aged above 70. Akola now has 5,282 cases, 4,017 of them recovered and 1,090 under treatment. Buldhana: The district received 145 positive reports, taking number of cases to 4,597. With 168 patients getting discharged, total 3,360 have recovered. Buldhana reported the death of a 55-year-old man from Sutalpura, in Khamgaon, taking the toll to 62. Now, 1,175 patients are under treatment. Gondia: Posting its highest single-day and first double-century spike of 229 cases, Gondia’s patient count reached 2,908. Four deaths were also reported, all of them young, with three of them below 50. Deceased include a 45-year-old man from Punatoli, 34-year-old man from Amgaon, 46-year-old man from Tirora, and a 59-year-old man from Tumsar. All four had severe comorbid conditions. Now, Gondia has 45 deaths. With 93 getting discharged, number of recoveries reached 1,517 while 1,346 patients are under treatment, 401 in home isolation. Bhandara: The district once again witnessed a three-digit spike in cases on Friday at 189. Bhandara reported 2 deaths taking toll to 47. Only 37 patients recovered. Now, Bhandara has 2,604 cases, with 1,247 recoveries. Total 1,310 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: After reporting its second Covid-19 death on September 10, Gadchiroli reported 35 new cases and 14 recoveries on Friday. Total cases reached 1,503 with 1,176 recoveries and 2 deaths. Now, Gadchiroli has 325 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3932-recoveries-beat-3373-new-cases-recovery-rate-takes-2-jump/articleshow/78068266.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Special exams for those who miss final yr tests: Gehlot||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced to give another chance to students of final year or final semester who may not be able to appear in the exam due to some emergency situation arising out of the pandemic. During a meeting with the higher and technical education department on Friday, Gehlot said that the concerned universities will hold special exams for students who will not be able to appear in the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-exams-for-those-who-miss-final-yr-tests-gehlot/articleshow/78068255.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Threat calls to HM: City police conducting well-guarded probe||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar on Friday said that investigation into the threat calls to state home minister Anil Deshmukh is underway. He also said the details of the outcome would be revealed in the coming days. Currently, city polices’s crime branch and cyber cell are conducting a well-guarded probe with Kumar monitoring the progress. Though no offence has been registered, it is learnt cops are gathering evidence and proper details of the callers who were behind a series of threats issued on the official number of Deshmukh’s bungalow which is closed now. Senior leaders in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Anil Deshmukh, had received a spate of threats from unknown callers for taking action against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Shiv Sena’s minister Sanjay Raut too were targeted. While Mumbai police have already arrested a youth from Tollygunge in Kolkata for threatening Raut over Internet calls, their Nagpur counterparts are yet to take any concrete steps. CP Kumar said any significant development is yet to be done in the probe. He also denied any political pressure on him while conducting the probe. “The details would be revealed at the right moment when there is a breakthrough,” he said. Sources said city police’s cyber cell has already traced callers from Delhi and Himachal Pradesh, with affiliations to the rightist outfit coming to fore. Sources in the intelligence security said the callers had political background.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/threat-calls-to-hm-city-police-conducting-well-guarded-probe/articleshow/78068252.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||50% of Gujarat’s oxygen supply to go to hospitals||AHMEDABAD: After a shortage of medical oxygen has been reported across the state since September 7, the state government on Friday issued a notification including oxygen under the Epidemic Diseases Act, Essential Commodities Act, Disaster Management Act, and Indian Penal Code. Under the notification, manufacturers must ensure production of oxygen is ‘uninterrupted and at their maximum production capacity’. Other clauses of the notification say that 50% of production must be used only for medical oxygen and to be supplied to hospitals in Gujarat. Moreover, priority shall be given to hospitals if the need arises and in such a scenario, the proportion of medical oxygen can go beyond the stipulated 50%. The rest of the stock can be diverted for industrial usage, the notification states. Violation of the notification can be punished under IPC Section 188, state food and drug control administration (FDCA) officials said. Dr H G Koshia, FDCA commissioner, said the state currently uses about 250 tons of oxygen a day and has 50 active manufacturers of the 52 registered licence holders. “The decision is taken in light of the ever-rising demand for oxygen due to Covid-19,” he said. Kiran Patel, a city-based oxygen manufacturer, said 50% supply to hospitals would ensure a buffer of the life-saving gas. “However, the issue of raw material – liquified oxygen – persists. Demand is on the rise across states and the challenge will be to ensure that Gujarat gets adequate stock,” he said. Industry insiders said the price of one litre of oxygen has remained high at Rs 35 for the past few days. Prakash Patel, a supplier and manufacturer of oxygen, said major players are not only catering to Gujarat but neighbouring states also. “Given the current scenario, it will be a challenge to ensure that the raw material or finished product doesn’t go out as the forces of the market are at play. Maharashtra is a major supplier of the gas,” he said, adding that major players should provide raw material to smaller manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/50-of-states-oxygen-supply-to-go-to-hospitals/articleshow/78066844.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Medical aspirants on tenterhooks over exam in pandemic times||KOLKATA: Thousands of MBBS aspirants, who will be writing the Neet UG examination on Sunday, are stressed due to the Covid-19 situation with many seeking counselling while one recently fled from home for being unable to cope with the pressure. Psychologists pointed out that the pandemic-induced uncertainties have created an additional pressure on the youngsters, who have already been grappling with the strain of taking a highly competitive entrance exam. Students will have to write the examination wearing masks and gloves that they have never done in their lives, said Rupsa Das, a candidate and a resident of Belghoria. However, Rupsa has an advantage that she is used to wearing a mask due to her dust allergy. “I am also practising mock tests with a mask on and wearing gloves so that it does not turn into a major issue during the exam. My family has hired a car to ferry me to my centre at Indus Valley World School on Bypass,” she said. Bidisha Mondal, a resident of Midnapore is apprehensive about travelling to the centre as she fears that her ailing father may get infected. “Travelling out of home is dangerous as one may contract the virus. My father, a retired school teacher, is a dialysis patient with heart ailments,” she said. Many felt that travelling to the city from the districts will be risky. Md Nasim Aktar will have to travel for over eight hours from Murshidabad to reach Howrah on Saturday. Santanu Pal of Sodepur will have to switch buses to reach his centre and is worried about the commute while Sumon Das of Dhubulia, who lost his father recently, is worried over how to reach his venue at Durgapur. Psychologist Amit Chakraborty felt this is an abnormal situation and examinees should not have much expectations. “They should keep in mind that it is not going to be the end of the world if they fail to crack Neet this year. If things normalize, the 2021 Neet will be held soon. One should not get stressed unnecessarily,” Chakraborty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/medical-aspirants-on-tenterhooks-over-exam-in-pandemic-times/articleshow/78068270.cms||Debashish Konar
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||In Mayo’s SARI ward, patient gets bed vacated after death||NAGPUR: A patient of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) was admitted to the SARI ward of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH or Mayo hospital) at 3am on Friday only after a bed reportedly became available following death of another patient. His Covid test came positive later during the day but he was shifted to the Covid ward only at 6pm. According to a source, apart from Covid ward even the SARI ward is now reportedly full, leaving little space for new patients. A patient of SARI has symptoms similar to that of Covid, but not all test positive. The Covid test report was awaited when the 50-year-old patient was first admitted to the SARI ward. Dr Manoj Gurudasani, who brought the patient from Kamptee, said, “Sensing that the situation may deteriorate the patient was taken to the IGGMC. By that time the CT scan of his chest had shown an infection count of 15,” said the doctor and added that they had reached the hospital by 1am. The doctor said initially he was told that there was little scope for admission to IGGMCH. According to him, he was told that two patients were about to be discharged but then there were other patients already in waiting. “Later, the staff said there was a death in the ward and there may be space. By that time it was 3am,” he said and added that he has no idea who the deceased patient was. The patient brought by Gurudasani was suffering from fever due to which a RT-PCR test was done. “Even when the patient was confirmed as Covid positive it took five hours to shift him to the dedicated ward,” he said. Initially, there was a little chance that the bed may be available till a vacancy was created as a death was reported, he said. A doctor said that patients with respiratory problems are kept in presumptive, Covid and SARI wards. “Those whose tests are awaited are kept in presumptive wards. Patients with breathlessness and other respiratory disorder but not Covid positive go to the SARI ward, which are also full these days. Even SARI cases from private clinics are coming to government hospitals. Mortality among such patients has also gone up,” said the source requesting anonymity. The treatment for Covid and SARI patients is similar except that the former have an official tag of being Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-mayos-sari-ward-patient-gets-bed-vacated-after-death/articleshow/78068236.cms||Shishir Arya
September 12, 2020||Trichy||Nine deaths in south TN, 7 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of Tamil Nadu continued to see decline in number of fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday with only 659 cases being reported besides nine deaths. This is the first time in more than two months that the number of new cases per day has dropped to below 700, after 653 cases were recorded on July 1. Similarly, the central region reported 654 new cases and seven deaths. The total Covid-19 cases in south TN stands at 99,632, including 6,834 active cases and 1,733 deaths. Except for Tirunelveli (1,124), all other districts in the southern region have less than 1000 active Covid-19 cases. Out of the ten southern district on Friday, three districts - Tirunelveli (136), Kanyakumari (123) and Tuticorin (101) - reported more than 100 new cases. The nine deaths in the southern region were in Dindigul (2), Madurai (2), Theni (2), Kanyakumari (1), Ramanathapuram (1) and Virudhunagar (1) respectively, all of which were patients with various co-morbid conditions. In south, the overall Covid-19 death rate is 1.74%, while six out of the ten districts have death rate of around 1.9% or higher. All the southern districts have recorded more than at least 100 Covid-19 deaths while Madurai (371), Kanyakumari (206) and Virudhunagar (202) have reported more than 200 deaths. On the other hand, in the central region comprising eight districts, the total number of cases is now 39,514 with 33,749 patients discharged. As of Friday, the region has 5,171 active cases with Nagappattinam (1,107) having the highest followed by Trichy (942). Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts also have considerable number of active cases. Tiruvarur (159), Thanjavur (145), Trichy (140) and Pudukottai (109) districts recorded more than 100 cases on Friday. Health officials said that the rise in numbers was due to increased testing. Among the seven deaths in central districts, six were senior citizens, including a 90-year-old man from Thanjavur, and a 58-year-old man from Nagappattinam. All the patients had comorbidities. In Kanyakumari, the total number of Covid-19 deaths crossed 200 on Wednesday. Currently, the death rate in the district is 1.9%, which is higher than the state average. From 45 Covid-19 deaths being reported in Kanyakumari on August 1, now 205 deaths have been reported till September 10, a majority of which were reported from Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital (MCH). Speaking to TOI, hospital dean Dr R Suganthy said that some Covid-19 deaths in August were due to late referrals and lack of awareness about the severity of the disease, which have now reduced. “Some patients were coming in only after several days of having fever symptoms and get admitted only when there is severe breathlessness. A majority of the deaths here were mainly those with various co-morbid condition. Further, many severe referral and emergency cases, especially those of elderly patients were also seen, where Covid-19 is only an incidental finding and not the cause of death,” she explained. The dean added that the hospital also saw Covid-19 deaths of a number of dialysis patients since it was one of the few centres in the region for dialysis patients with Covid-19. She further said that a weekly death audit is being done and that all measures have been taken to improve the quality of care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nine-deaths-in-south-tn-7-in-central-region/articleshow/78068257.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Surat||Two undertrials escape custody: Four cops suspended, one nabbed in Gujarat||SURAT: One of the two undertrials who escaped from the ventilator in the prisoner’s ward of the Bharuch civil hospital on September 9 was nabbed from Hansot taluka in Bharuch district on Friday. Meanwhile, four police constables of the Bharuch police headquarters, who were responsible for guarding the accused in the lock-up room were suspended by the superintendent of police (SP) Bharuch on Friday. The constables were suspended for gross negligence and dereliction of duty. The constables have been identified as Takhatsinh Kalusinh, Pravinsinh Mahotsinh, Lokrakshak Jitendra Hitendrabhai and Jagdish Rameshbhai. Following information, the Bharuch police raided a house in Hansot village near Ankleshwar and nabbed Akash Vasava, 28, a murder accused. After escaping from the Civil hospital, Vasava had taken shelter at his relative’s house. Police said that Vasav and Arjun Parmar, 25, facing charges under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for eloping with a minor girl, had escaped from the Bharuch civil hospital where they were were undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-undertrials-escape-custody-four-cops-suspended-one-nabbed/articleshow/78065549.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Docs spend precious breath on arrangements||Ahmedabad: Dr Mahendra Narwaria, director of a bariatric hospital in the city, on Thursday evening learned that the hospital had a limited amount of oxygen remaining, which may not last the night. “We got into a frantic search that lasted for a good three hours. We finally managed to get some stock and all our patients are stable,” he said. He was not alone in this search. More than 150 city hospitals treating Covid-19 patients are jostling for a slice of the oxygen pie for the past few days. Dr Manoj Kodwani, a physician in eastern Ahmedabad, told TOI that they procured oxygen for their patients after much negotiation and needed the support of the medical fraternity. “Oxygen is coming, but the issue is a steady supply,” he said. On Friday, most hospitals could ensure they had proper supplies of the gas. Dr Ketu Parekh of Parekhs Hospital said that they got the promised oxygen supply from the state government. His hospital had to shift eight patients to Sola Civil Hospital on Thursday due to a lack of oxygen. “We have started admitting patients again. The need of the hour is to ensure regular supply so that no hospital needs to worry about critical Covid-19 patients,” he said. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that their member hospitals managed to secure adequate stocks on Friday. “We must ensure that this is not a one-day affair. Covid-19 has multiplied oxygen requirements and small and medium hospitals are the most affected as they did not need oxygen regularly earlier,” he said, adding that they have also made a representation to the government to loosen delivery hours for the gas in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/docs-spend-precious-breath-on-arrangements/articleshow/78066872.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||+ve patients in Calangute get panchayat help||Calangute: Following a rise in number of active Covid-19 cases, the Calangute panchayat has stepped in to arrange oximeters for those who need them, besides providing other assistance. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said that most of those testing positive in Calangute are opting for home quarantine and the panchayat is assisting them in getting the required permissions. “The panchayat is also arranging oximeters for the patients so they can monitor their oxygen level. With cases rising everyday, positive people are not able to get oximeters because of being in quarantine,” Martins said. The panchayat has also made arrangements to collect the waste generated by the quarantined persons, and is also supplying them essentials with the help of volunteers, Martins said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ve-patients-in-calangute-get-panchayat-help/articleshow/78068884.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Trichy||Rise in symptomatic Covid-19 patients in Trichy||Trichy: With the number of Covid-19 patients getting admitted to the government and private hospitals in Trichy district showing a gradual rise in the past ten days, the officials attributed it to the moderate increase in patients infected with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). Going by the district medical bulletin, 203 patients were in home isolation on August 27. The number of patients under home isolation gradually decreased in the following days and has been between 130-140 after September 3. As of September 10, 137 patients - 48 in the city, 87 in rural areas and two in others districts - were in home isolation. Home isolation is being recommended for asymptomatic patients who are less than 50 years old and without comorbidities. They must also be equipped with the facility to self-isolate and should have a caretaker. On the contrary, the number of patients admitted in hospitals have been on the rise during the same period - from 481 to 604. Trichy collector S Sivarasu on Friday attributed the mild increase of ILI and SARI cases during the rainy season to the rise in admission of patients in hospitals. However, the collector said that the number of admitted patients in the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital in Trichy was 294 and 26 in covid care centres (CCC). “Some more patients with ILI and SARI have been admitted in private hospitals,” he said. A senior public health department official said that earlier 50% of Covid-19 cases were symptomatic while now it is 60%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rise-in-symptomatic-covid-19-patients-in-trichy/articleshow/78068262.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer cops arrest 3 with doda post, opium||Jaisalmer: After the announcement of panchayat elections by the state government, there was information of use of doda post and opium in the election of sarpanchs, following which Jaisalmer police have launched a campaign against illegal drugs such as doda post and opium and recovered these drugs in two separate cases in Mohangarh area. Mohangarh police, in the two cases, have arrested three persons, while two persons are absconding. In one of the cases, cops recovered 400gm opium milk and arrested one person, while in the other case, police arrested two culprits with doda post and two culprits are absconding and search is on for them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-cops-arrest-3-with-doda-post-opium/articleshow/78068271.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Trichy||Trichy got entire share of SW monsoon in 10 days||Trichy: The frequent heavy downpour in various parts of the district in the last two weeks has made this one of the wettest September for the district in decades. While the normal rainfall received by the district during the southwest monsoon season is 293.9mm, in the last 10 days alone the district has recorded 410.7mm rainfall, a increase by +118%. Since the start of the month, the district has been witnessing heavy rains on multiple days. Ponmalai, Srirangam, Thillai Nagar and Woraiyur received heavy rain inundating roads in the city, while Thuraiyur, Manapparai, Marungapuri and Musiri also witnessed similar downpour. Between September 1 and 11, Trichy has realised its entire share of southwest monsoon rainfall. 188.6mm is the normal rainfall for the district in the 11 days period. Since 1983, Trichy has not witnessed such an abundant rainfall. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD) statistics, the district previously witnessed such heavy downpour in 1983 when it received a record of 415.3mm. With 18 more days to go in the month, 2020 will most likely be Trichy’s wettest September of all time. The abundant rains have helped the Manapparai and Thuraiyur the most. The two blocks that have exploited groundwater table have managed to recharge its water table to an extent with a heavy downpour in the first week of September. “After years, Trichy has received substantial rainfall in September. Although till September 15, Trichy is unlikely to receive a decent rainfall, there will be intermittent showers,” N Selvakumar, Mannargudi based independent weather observer said. Witch such heavy rainfall recorded in Trichy after decades, residents pitched for the local bodies and district administration to ensure the presence of rainwater harvesting mechanisms in all households to conserve the rainwater and augment groundwater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-got-entire-share-of-sw-monsoon-in-10-days/articleshow/78068280.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 12, 2020||Goa||Don’t need outsiders telling us how to manage virus: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday indirectly took potshots at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) over its criticism of the Goa government in managing the Covid crises. “We don’t need people from outside the state to teach us how to manage the pandemic. Goa is providing the best and free of cost treatment to its people. We are taking good care of our people,” said Sawant, hitting out at AAP’s Goa unit. AAP, through social and other media, has been praising the initiatives of its party in Covid management in Delhi vis-a-vis the Goa government which it alleged, has faltered to effectively deal with the pandemic. Sawant said it is known how the pandemic was dealt with by the Delhi government. It was only after Union home minister Amit Shah and minister for health and family welfare Harsha Vardhan intervened that the situation in Delhi was brought under control, he said. Since Delhi is the capital of the country, he said, the Union government offered help to the Delhi government. Goa is the only state in the country, he said, that provides all facilities free of cost to Covid patients, including meals to patient attendants. “You can conduct a survey in other states and find out for yourself,” he said, rubbishing allegations that the government wasn’t doing enough to contain the pandemic. The government has been under the scanner since the rate of infection and mortalities has gone up over the last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-need-outsiders-telling-us-how-to-manage-virus-cm/articleshow/78068891.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Trichy||Include bus stand proposal in smart cities mission: MP||Trichy: Trichy Lok Sabha MP Su Thirunavukkarasar has urged the Trichy Corporation to include a proposal to establish the integrated bus terminus (IBT) under the smart cities programme. The MP made the demand at the first-ever city-level smart city advisory forum (CLAF) review meeting held virtually on Friday. He also insisted on identifying a suitable land to fulfil the three-decade-old demand.The Trichy MP, who is also the co-chairman of CLAF, questioned the civic body for not including the IBT proposal under the smart cities mission as the need has risen post-Covid, to shift the Central bus stand to the outskirts. “With Rs 1,000 crore fund available for utilisation, the district administration and corporation must identify a suitable site at the earliest. To develop Trichy, the integrated bus stand is imminent,” Thirunavukkarasar told TOI.The MP also urged the civic body to focus on all the 65 wards instead of only 19, which are getting major focus under the project. “All 65 wards should get a smart city project each. The fund should be distributed fairly to all localities,” he said. A proposal to establish a major park on the outskirts similar to the Semmozhi Poonga in Chennai was suggested. Trichy East MLA Vellamandi Natarajan, district collector S Sivarasu and other members of the forum also participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/include-bus-stand-proposal-in-smart-cities-mission-mp/articleshow/78068273.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Delimitation to be done for five municipal corporations: SEC||Gandhinagar: Five of the six municipal corporations which will have elections in November will see their seats being delimited to accomodate the new areas merged in them, the state election commission (SEC) said on Friday. Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar have seen their areas increased and will hence have their seats delimited (re-formed), while the election for the Jamnagar municipal corporation will be held according to the old area and seats.EC secretary M V Joshi told the media that delimitation will be effected in 7 of the 55 municipalities for which elections will be held. Similarly, as the areas of 16 of the 31 district panchayats for which elections are scheduled have been changed, delimitation will be carried out for them. Delimitation will also be done for 19 of the 231 taluka panchayats which will go to the polls later this year.The official said that the commission will hold meetings with representatives of political parties and others over changes in the seats during delimitation. “According to the rules that have been laid down, there will also be a rotation of seats reserved for SC, ST and women candidates in the elections for local self-government bodies,” Joshi said.He added that all precautions will be taken as the elections are being held during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The SOP that has been prescribed will be followed strictly. We are also exploring the possibility of increasing voting hours because of precautions that will have to be taken,” Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delimitation-to-be-done-for-five-municipal-corporations-sec/articleshow/78068276.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University science, arts theory exams from October 1 to 10||KOLKATA: The arts and science faculties at Jadavpur University have decided to hold theoretical exams between October 1 and 10. “JU has been waiting for a nod from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to allow the extension of the deadline set for completion of terminal-semester examinations. Education minister Partha Chatterjee on Thursday informed us about the UGC approval. We will now hold the theoretical exams between October 1 and October 10,” said a JU teacher. The university has already discussed about the possible dates during the examination board meetings. “But supplementary exams, projects, viva and lab evaluations will begin by mid-September. The university usually holds the exams over a month,” added another teacher. The departments will soon publish the schedule. Each paper will be of two-hour duration. Several teachers are, however, apprehensive about being told to publish the results by October 31. “Given the state has so far not mentioned any date for publishing results we expect some extension,” an official said. The engineering faculty will not have to hold exams, as the earlier ones followed UGC norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-science-arts-theory-exams-from-oct-1-to-10/articleshow/78068288.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Final year students can pass even with 0 score in online exam||NAGPUR: In a big respite for all Nagpur University final year students, aggrieved over continuous flip-flop on examinations issue, most are likely to clear all their subjects even if they scored zero, NU officials said. Only conditions are that they need to score reasonably well in internal assessment and not skip final online examination. The government has instructed all universities to award 50% marks based on internal performance of a student while the remaining 50% would be awarded through multiple choice questions (MCQs) test. The internal marks are awarded by college and usually given generously. NU officials said students from all traditional universities would get this benefit this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. “All universities would convert the internal marks into 50%. In NU, we award 20 marks for internal assessment. If a student scored 14/20 and zero in MCQ test, s/he can still clear the subject with 35% marks as internal marks would be converted into 50. Since examinees just need to click on any one answer out of four, they can will get some marks by clicking randomly also. There would be no negative marking,” the officials claimed. “The exams are being conducted as a formality to fulfil directives of the Supreme Court’s and University Grants Commission (UGC) that no student should be awarded degree without clearing exams,” they added. Students should not get totally complacent though. A senior official from Exam Section stated it was far from certain that everyone would score well in internals. “Many colleges, particularly in engineering faculty, fail students in internals, either due to poor attendance or performance. Also, pass percentage is 35 only for general courses like BA, BCom and BSc. For engineering, the passing marks are 40% while they are 45% for pharmacy,” he said. He admitted that passing exams this year would be a lot easier compared to traditional pen paper exams having weight of 80 marks. The Maharashtra government had cancelled the final examination citing big spike in coronavirus cases and even decided to award marks to students based on past performance and internal assessment, until SC directives made holding exam necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/final-year-students-can-pass-even-with-0-score-in-online-exam/articleshow/78068287.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Failed MP plant choked flow in A’bad||Ahmedabad: After shortage of oxygen supply to Covid designated hospitals in cities like Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot, the state government called an emergency meeting on Thursday evening. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) pitched in the efforts with supply of oxygen to at least four hospitals from the LG Hospital till the regular supply to these hospitals is ensured. “An overview of the situation is being undertaken every two hours. We are reviewing hospitals which may have a less requirement for cylinders and whether they are able to handle patients in the present crisis. We cannot take chances with critical patients,” said a senior AMC official. Sources close to development claimed that a supply chain major’s Madhya Pradesh plant had shut operations due to technical failure recently. “It set in motion a chain reaction. The firm diverted its inventory in the state to other customers. The refill duration in this supply chain is anywhere between 24 to 32 hours, said industry insiders. The state government is already in talks with the major suppliers such as Shri Ram Oxygen, INOX and Lallan Gas, said senior officials, adding that new suppliers are also being identified. A large tanker with liquified oxygen from Bhavnagar was expected to arrive in Ahmedabad by Friday evening. “It would cater to the immediate oxygen demand,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/failed-mp-plant-choked-flow-in-abad/articleshow/78066889.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Rs 1,034 crore OK’d for national highways projects in Bihar||PATNA: Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday approved funds to the tune of Rs 1,034 crore for repair and maintenance of two National Highways (NH) in Bihar. He also issued orders for preparations of detailed project reports (DPRs) for five other projects. Gadkari held a high-level virtual meeting to review the Centre’s ongoing road and bridge projects in Bihar. Deliberating on the decisions taken in the meeting, state road construction (RCD) minister Nand Kishore Yadav said: “Based on the request made by the state government, funds to the tune of Rs971 crore have been sanctioned for the repair of Munger-Bhagalpur-Mirzachauki NH-80. The 120km-long NH will be widened up to 10m cemented road. Additional Rs20 crore has been sanctioned for carrying out maintenance of the road till the bidding process for overall repair work is completed. Besides, funds to the tune of Rs63 crore were approved for carrying out repair works on Siwan-Masrakh stretch of Ram-Janki Path.” Yadav said instructions were issued for commencing land acquisition for widening of the Ram-Janki Path, so that work on it could be initiated at the earliest. Also, apart from widening of the existing Munger-Bhagalpur-Mirzachauki NH-80, a new four-lane road will be constructed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on the same stretch. “Bidding process for the new four-lane road is slated to be initiated soon. State government has already started land acquisition for the same,” Yadav said. Union minister of state for road transport and highways (MoRTH) General (retired) VK Singh and senior NHAI and state RCD officials also attended the videoconference. “Several points raised by CM Nitish Kumar during the inauguration of the rehabilitated western flank of Mahatma Gandhi Setu recently were also discussed. NHAI was asked to prepare the DPR for Muzaffarpur-Barauni, Mokama-Munger, Khagaria-Purnia, Muzaffarpur-Sitamarhi-Sonbarsa and Buxar-Varanasi 4-lane roads,” Yadav said. The RCD minister said the ongoing construction and repair works on Sheohar-Sitamarhi-Sursand-Bhittamor-Jainagar NH-104 were also reviewed at the meeting. “The progress of this project has been delayed owing to sluggish work by the contractor. Instructions were issued to take necessary action for the same. Besides, orders were issued for sanctioning funds for the repair of leftover portion of the NH-104,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs1034cr-okd-for-nh-projects-in-state/articleshow/78066900.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 12, 2020||Goa||Commissioning of South Covid hospital after inspection: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the final inspection of the South Goa district hospital which is being turned into a Covid hospital has been scheduled for Saturday. The commissioning of the third Covid hospital will be decided after the final inspection, he told reporters after the expert committee meeting on Friday. Last week, the health minister had said that they were targeting to have the new Covid hospital operational on Friday. He said the new hospital has a capacity to hold 566 beds. “We will start with 250 beds and expand further as per the requirement. The South Goa district hospital has been selected for management of Covid patients as it has the required facilities,” he said. He said the new hospital has infrastructure required to match the type of treatment needed for Covid patients. The government has already appointed two nodal officers for the third Covid hospital while 10 doctors from health services have been selected to be posted there, he said. Rane added that the file for capping of rates charged by private hospitals has been cleared by his ministry. With beds in Covid hospitals at full capacity, he said GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar has been directed to make arrangements so that patients do not suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commissioning-of-south-covid-hospital-after-inspection-rane/articleshow/78068899.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Schools push KG kids to write alphabets||CHENNAI: More worksheets and assignments but less playtime typifies a regular day for kindergarten children today, leaving parents to wonder if they are learning anything at all. “Last week, my four-year-old son was asked to write alphabets in cursive. He has not even learned to write alphabets properly,” said Radhika Maninder. She asked the teacher if she could instead give him some fun activity-based learning. “She simply refused and said they had a target to ensure that all the children learn to write all alphabets, in cursive, and numbers, by the end of the year.” Over the years, the number of kindergarten teachers ensuring a child learns to write by year-end has increased by 80% said a study, “Is Kindergarten the New First Grade”. While experts said there were no particular benefits children might derive from this, many educators believe it will help them in later years. Priyanka Siva, a kindergarten teacher in Chennai, said children learning to write and read in kindergarten would go on to perform better in elementary school. “And it’s not only us. Even parents are keen that their wards become well versed in preschool itself,” she said. Experts said insisting that children as young as three or four to sit on a desk and complete homework with a pencil can be damaging. “The hands of a four-year-old are not the same as a five or six-year-old child, their bones are still developing. And expecting them all to do the same work will not create a strong foundation,” said Archana Raman, a consultant pediatric and occupational therapist. The focus must instead be on building fine motor skills, by giving them playdough or sand, she said. When the foundation is not strong children might have difficulty in writing without errors and reading. They are also often labelled ‘learning disabled’, stressing them even more. “A child loves to read and write and will do it naturally. Teachers just have to present it the way children like it,” said Mohammed Aboobacker Siddique, founder of Orange Tree Montessori School. Children learn a lot through fun activities and conversations. “It needs creativity, time, and patience. Imposing assignments will not yield long-lasting results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/schools-push-kg-kids-to-write-alphabets/articleshow/78066910.cms||Aditi R
September 12, 2020||Surat||Abandoned UP girl unites with her family||Surat: A 16-year-old girl, a native of Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh, was united with her family after four months in the city. According to the Surat district child protection officer, Jayendrasinh Thakore, a minor girl was spotted by GIDC Kadodara Police on April 17. As the police could not locate the girl’s parents, she was sent to the Children’s Home for Girls in the city.“We came to know about her village after we counselled her. She told us that she was sold by her parents and came to Surat with a person named Ajay. However, we had doubts about the girl’s story. So we contacted the Fatehpur police,” said Jayendrasinh Thakore.Officials then contacted the Child Protection Unit (Childline) in Fatehpur and inquired about this girl and her family. The UP counterpart reverted to Gujarat officers and told that the girl was lying and the information she had given was false.“Actually the girl’s uncle and aunty had stolen valuables from her home which she came to know. In order to hide this information, her uncle and aunty brought the girl to Surat and abandoned her and they also threatened her. The girl was scared and was therefore providing false information. We then contacted her parents and put her in touch with them,” said an official.The girl’s parents then came down to Surat and took custody of her and she was united with her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/abandoned-up-girl-unites-with-her-family/articleshow/78065616.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat is the top startup state again||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat has for the second successive time emerged the best performer in State Startup India Ranking, according to rankings announced by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) for 2019. A proactive mechanism to identify regulatory issues from disruptive sectors; iCreate, one of the largest startup incubators in the country; and its ‘Student Startup and Innovation’ policy helped Gujarat top the list, according to the DPIIT. The state achieved this feat for the first time in 2018. The state is seen as a hub for the textile, pharma and more recently auto industries. With more than 4,000 startups in the state, Ahmedabad, which houses the most startup incubators, is seen as one of the best places in the country to launch startups. From FMCG, pharma, IT, solar to agriculture, the state has seen a burst of activities for new ventures in last few years. CIIE.CO, set up by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, in association with the state government and Centre, is one of the most prominent incubators in the country which has accelerated over 500 startups across various sectors.  Startups are normally identified as a newly emerged, fast-growing business that aims to meet a marketplace need by developing a viable business model around innovative product, service, process or a platform. Gujarat was among the first few states that launched the State Startup Policy in 2015. The notified Startup Policy under industries and mines department offers benefits and incentives across various areas of intervention. Additionally, the state has announced separate policies with sector-specific focuses and one specifically for student innovators. The state government has also instituted a scheme for assistance of startups and innovations, allowing startups to leverage financial support of up to Rs 40 lakhs as seed support. More than 260 startups have benefited from this policy, the government said in a media statement. The pivotal Student Startup and Innovation Policy (SSIP), spearheaded by the education department, is the only dedicated policy for supporting Student Innovation and Startups, the statement said. The policy extends financial grants to support student innovators and startups. SSIP has helped 137 institutions and led to 671 IP fillings, 3,472 proofs of concept, 817 startups, 109 pre-incubation labs and 47 Fab Labs till date. In the citation for Gujarat as announced during the ceremony, the state was deemed to be an “awareness and outreach champion”. “SSIP is a one-of-its-kind policy in the country and Gujarat has taken monumental strides in leading the student startup movement of the country. The ranking results emphasises the success of models implemented by the state government for extending end-to-end support to the ecosystem and addressing issues at all levels of the startup ecosystem pipeline,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher and technical education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-retains-top-spot-in-rankings/articleshow/78068305.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Rajkot||IMA Jetpur calls off strike after minister’s assurance||Rajkot: After intervention Jayesh Radadia, minister of food, civil supply and consumer affairs, cottage industries, th Indian Medical Association (IMA) called off its strike in Jetpur town on Friday. All private doctors and medical shop owners had gone on a flash strike after Manish Sakharelia, brother-in-law of Jetpur municipality president Kusum Sakharelia, allegedly abused and threatened Dr Sanjay Kayada on Wednesday night. Radadia held talks with the doctors and medical shop owners and assured stern legal action against Manish after his discharge from the Rajkot Civil Hospital.Police said Manish had got himself tested for Covid-19 at Dr Kayada’s Sanjivani Hospital. After he tested positive, Manish lost his cool and started abusing Dr Kayada, alleging that his report was false. “Manish allegedly entered into fisticuffs with the hospital staff and abused them, besides threatening to kill Dr Kayada,” said VB Vasava, sub-inspector with Jetpur police station. After this incident, the Jetpur branch of the IMA announced indefinite strike against hooliganism with a demand that he be booked under PASA and immediately arrested, said Dr Kayada, who is the secretary of the IMA Jetpur. Expressing the sense of solidarity with the doctors, Jetpur Medical Stores’ Association also called for one day strike on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ima-jetpur-calls-off-strike-after-ministers-assurance/articleshow/78065371.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey fire: Kin allege political interference||Ahmedabad: After losing his wife to the Shrey Hospital fire tragedy, prominent advocate and human rights activist M M Tirmizi has alleged differential treatment and discrimination on part of the administration as compared to what last year’s Surat fire tragedy had received. Eight Covid-19 patients lost their lives in the fire that caused by short circuit in the ICU on August 7. The victims included Tirmizi’s wife, Ayesha, who was tested Covid-19 negative a day before the fateful day. The fire in a coaching class in Takshashila Arcade in Sarthana area of Surat on May 24, 2019 took lives of 22 students. Here too, the fire was from a short circuit. Tirmizi questions, “When both the accidents were caused due to short circuit, why the accused are still in jail in Surat case and why bailable charges were invoked in Ahmedabad case? Shrey Hospital got different treatment because of political interference.” The accused named in Shrey Hospital case were granted bail immediately. The lawyer sees the inquiries, including that conducted by an IAS officer as well as the judicial inquiry by Justice K A Puj, as government’s intention not to act promptly. “In Surat, an FIR was filed straight away and building owners as well as civic body officials were booked under Section 304 of IPC. Here, the FIR took long and in the meantime, attention was diverted with inquiries. The FIR mentioned only section, 304A of IPC,” Tirmizi said. He pointed out, Section 304 is for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and entails punishment up to 10 years, whereas Section 304A carries punishment of two years. He alleges, “The over-enthusiasm on commissioning inquiries in the Ahmedabad case speaks volumes of government’s cover-up act.” Tirmizi also highlighted the appointment of a special public prosecutor in Ahmedabad case at the initial stage of investigation, though it is a practice that such appointments take place only after filing of chargesheet. He said the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notice in the Surat case, but not in Shrey Hospital case. The lawyer now plans to approach the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) even as other rights activists are also complaining about the political interference that allegedly led cops to go slow on the culprits in the hospital fire incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shrey-fire-kin-allege-political-interference/articleshow/78066898.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Trichy||CPM protests against roads being dug up in Trichy city||Trichy: Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Friday staged a demonstration outside the office of Trichy Corporation’s junior engineer in Thiruverumbur, demanding the civic body to repair the roads damaged in the recent rain. The roads in ward 63 were recently dug up for underground drainage (UGD) pipeline installation. However, the roads in New Town Muthu Nagar, Sri Ram Nagar and Kailash Nagar have become unmotorable after the rain.As potholes and craters have formed over the UGD chambers and underground pipelines, residents said that people are forced to park their vehicles away from their houses. “Connectivity is completely cut off for several streets in ward 63 after the recent rains. The civic body is delaying the road repair works,” P Lenin, a CPM cadre said. The protesters submitted a petition signed by hundreds of Thiruverumbur residents to Ponmalai zone officials after the demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cpm-protests-against-roads-being-dug-up-in-trichy-city/articleshow/78068285.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Vadodara||NRG killed by robbers in United States’ South Carolina||VADODARA/ANAND: An NRG, Ashwin Patel, having his roots in Vallabh Vidyanagar town of Anand district, has been shot dead at Blackville in United States’ South Carolina. Patel, 60, was shot dead at his ‘Corner Stop’, a convenience store located on Solomon Blatt Avenue which is also South Carolina Highway 3, by armed robbers on September 9. Patel, who was fondly, called ‘Andy’ by his friends and neighbours, was a resident of Izlar Street in Blackville, in the Barnwell County where he was settled since last three decades, sources said. South Carolina’s law enforcement officials have called the incident a “robbery turned homicide.” A customer had reported the incident after which the law enforcement officials had reached the small town. The Blackville police department, sheriff’s office of Barnwell County, South Carolina department of natural resources are involved in the investigation of the incident. The deceased was the son of professor IMK Patel, a teacher of thermal engineering at Birla Vishwakarma Mahavidyalaya (BVM). In November, two NRGs – Kiran and Chirag Patel – had lost their lives in an armed robbery at the Po Boys, a convenience store in the community of Denmark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nrg-killed-by-robbers-in-south-carolina/articleshow/78064840.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Enrolment in higher edu: NSO puts Raj at 12th spot||Jaipur: Rajasthan may have a very poor literacy rate in the country but it stands 12th in terms of enrolment in higher education institutes. In the NSO survey 2017-18 released last week, 9.7% youth in the age group of 15 and above in the state have been found enrolled in a post senior secondary course. Delhi leads the survey where 24.7 of the population holds graduation and higher degrees. The report does not give absolute numbers nor does it indicate gross enrolment ratio. It only reflects a percentage of the population on the basis of random sample survey carried out by them. Experts who have carefully studied NSO survey methodology say that the picture it represents is close to reality. The survey shows the difference between the rural and urban divide and gender divide. It says that 12.5% males hold graduate and higher degree while just 6.6% females are part of the category taking the total percentage to 9.7. Also, when it comes to comparing rural and urban population, there is a sharp contrast of 6% and 21%, respectively. “The grim reality is the vast divide between the rural and urban population. It needs to fill up in a time-bound manner else it will lead to an unjust society. The state needs to set its target and reduce the difference by 50% in the next decade,” said K B Kothari, educationist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/enrolment-in-higher-edu-nso-puts-raj-at-12th-spot/articleshow/78068281.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Confusion over CU PG test norms||Kolkata: Several decisions on final-semester exams by the Postgraduation Board of Studies of individual departments at Calcutta University have created confusion among institutes. Several colleges demanded a meeting with CU authorities over the varying instructions about exams, which are slated for October. PG students, unlike UG ones, have been allowed less than 24 hours to write their papers. “Some departments have allotted five hours and some even less times. Different instructions have come in uploading of answer scripts,” said a college principal. CU on Wednesday scrapped the earlier proposal to request examiners to evaluate the papers at the university. “But considering the age of some examiners, it was not prudent to ask them to visit the campuses. Now, most departments have decided to allow colleges evaluate their answer scripts and university teachers theirs,” said an official. He added only those PG departments run by very few colleges would send their answer scripts to the university for correction.  “We had asked to give individual departments a free hand to decide on the mode of conducting exams. This has been allowed by the university,” said Parthiba Basu, president of CUTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/confusion-over-cu-pg-test-norms/articleshow/78068317.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 12, 2020||Trichy||Stalin lashes out at Pudukottai collector over water scheme||Trichy: Opposition leader and DMK president M K Stalin has taken the Pudukottai district administration to task by raising allegations of corruption in allocating package tenders to a private player for the drinking water scheme under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). Castigating officials in district rural development department for “engaging in corrupt activities” through package tendering method, the opposition leader had issued a statement a few days ago asking chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to allocate funds to respective panchayats to carry out the work in drinking water project.While addressing party functionaries of Pudukottai through video conferencing on Thursday, he accused the district collector of resorting to corrupt practices by influencing officials from DRDA. Clarifying on the allegations, a senior official from the district administration said that Jal Jeevan Mission is a central government scheme to be implemented by the district rural development department.Fund allocation for the scheme was a centralised process taken up by the director of rural development department for each district and collector had no role to play in it. Fund allocation is done on the basis of district-specific detailed project report on the water requirement in every panchayat and rural development department gives specific instruction on the tendering process as well. The project director, being the district level officer for rural development department, is the tender inviting authority, hence no collector has any role to play in it, said the official. Meanwhile a section of district panchayat councillors have moved the Madurai bench of Madras high court seeking directions to the state government to allocate funds to panchayats after scrapping the package tender method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-lashes-out-at-pudukottai-collector-over-water-scheme/articleshow/78068308.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,344 new cases, 16 deaths in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: Gujarat recorded 1,344 new Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Friday. It’s the highest daily tally for the state, taking the total cases to 1.1 lakh. It’s the third consecutive day and 10th day during the pandemic for the state to record 1,300-plus daily cases. The new cases include 275 from Surat, 174 from Ahmedabad, 150 from Rajkot, 132 from Vadodara, and 116 from Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 63% of the total cases in 24 hours. With the update, Vadodara district crossed 9,500 cumulative cases. The state also recorded deaths of 16 Covid patients, taking the total to 3,183. The deaths included five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two each from Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar, and one each from Banaskantha and Gandhinagar. With the update, the total deaths in Bhavnagar district reached 49. A total of 1,240 patients got discharged in Gujarat, taking the total to 91,470. The discharges include 242 from Surat, 150 from Vadodara, 127 from Ahmedabad, 114 from Jamnagar and 74 from Rajkot. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat reached 16,318, which accounts for 14.7% of the total positive cases in the state. It’s the first time for active cases to have dipped below 15% of total cases. The share of deceased and discharged patients is now at 2.9% and 82.4% respectively. Gujarat carried out 71,668 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 31.45 lakh. The state health department claimed that the testing rate is 1,102 tests per day per million people. As on Friday evening, Gujarat had 7.41 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 460 were under facility quarantine, whereas others were in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1344-new-cases-16-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78066937.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Trichy||NCT Trichy opts for pen & paper mode||Trichy: When many city colleges are planning to conduct end semester examination for final year undergraduate and post graduate students, National College Trichy (NCT), an autonomous arts and science college, has decided to conduct the exam offline in pen and paper mode from September 21. The college management says since students cited several difficulties in attending online classes, it would not be feasible to conduct the examination also online. “Since most students come from rural areas, many of them do not have access to gadgets. Such students will be disappointed if examinations are held in online mode,” said NCT principal R Sundararaman. “We will follow the norms laid down by the state government for Covid-19. After Unlock 4.0, government has significantly eased restrictions and even public transport is being operated,” he said. There are about 650 students who will be appearing for the end semester examination in the college. It will be conducted in three blocks with only 12 students in each class, which will ensure social distancing. Asked about outstation students, the principal said they have been informed in advance about the examination and hence they have to make suitable arrangements. With over 4,000 students awaiting end semester examination in Jamal Mohamed College (JMC) Trichy, the college finds the online mode safer. Principal S Ismail Mohideen said that initially they had plans for offline examination, but parents were apprehensive. Students will have to come for at least six days to college and there are chances of spread if even one person is Covid-19 positive. About 200 odd students from Kerala of their college say they will be in quarantine if they travel to Trichy and return. Hence, he found the online mode feasible. Those who could not take online exam will be allowed to appear offline at a later stage, he said. While Holy Cross College Trichy too is planning for online examination, principal of St Joseph’s college M Arockiasamy Xavier said they are also going for the online mode. About 1,500-odd students will appear for the examination as he found the virtual mode feasible considering the troubles of outstation students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nct-trichy-opts-for-pen-paper-mode/articleshow/78068313.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Parents want 40% fee cut for MBBS in pvt univ, move HC||Chennai: Noting that MBBS students who had paid up to Rs 22.5 lakh to Chennai-based SRM University last year did not get value for the hefty fee, and also citing pandemic-induced difficulties, petitions have been filed in the Madras high court seeking fee reduction for the next academic year. Assailing a circular issued by SRM Medical College Hospital And Research Centre, Kattankulathur, demanding full fee even for the lockdown period, a group of parents has approached the court seeking 40% fee reduction. Admitting the plea on Friday, Justice N Anand Venkatesh directed the institute and the authorities concerned to file their responses by September 28. The court also orally asked senior counsel for the university T V Ramanujum to use his good offices to resolve the issue and added that the university could consider only payment in instalments. Earlier, K Elangoo, counsel for the parents, submitted: “Medical education is not kindergarten and so online classes will not do any good for students. Foundation of medical courses is ‘clinical material’. Due to these online classes, first year students could not complete their cadaver practicals and study the central nervous system, second year students are unable to study skull and slide specimens, the third-year students are unable to go for clinical postings and study ENT and ophthalmology practical.” Though they pay Rs 22.5 lakh annually towards tuition and other fees, regular in-person classes were not held even for 50% of the agreed academic year. It is only fair that the management reduces the fee proportionately, he added. “For another 6 months there won’t be any physical classes, therefore the management stands to gain a lot towards administrative cost, electricity and other heads,” the petition from the parents said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parents-want-40-fee-cut-for-mbbs-in-pvt-univ-move-hc/articleshow/78066991.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Monumental share sought for Guj on world map||Ahmedabad: In a major boost to heritage tourism in Gujarat, the state government on Friday announced the new heritage tourism policy 2020-25. A slew of measures including financial assistance and relief in taxes and bills have been incorporated in the policy to place Gujarat’s heritage on the global tourism map. “As part of the policy, the state government will provide financial assistance up to Rs 5 crore for investments up to Rs 25 crore and assistance of up to Rs 10 crore for investments above Rs 25 crore for the renovation of existing heritage properties as well as for developing new heritage hotels,” a government statement said. The decision was taken during a high-level meeting chaired by CM Vijay Rupani held in Gandhinagar on Friday. Financial assistance of Rs 45 lakh will be offered for investments up to Rs 3 crore to develop new heritage museums, heritage banquet halls and restaurants, or for renovating existing sites. If the investment is above Rs 3 crore, assistance up to Rs 1 crore will be extended. If heritage hoteliers avail of any loan which is disbursed during the period of the policy, they will be eligible for 7% interest subsidy annually, up to the limit of Rs 30 lakh. That apart, incentives including 100% relief from electricity duty and marketing support through assistance for rent for national and international events will be provided for five years. “The new policy has been framed in such a way that heritage hotels, heritage museums, and heritage banquet halls and restaurants can be established and developed in historical palaces, forts, minarets and other monuments of Gujarat’s royals,” said the chief minister. “This will be a new way of showcasing Gujarat’s traditions, culture, food diversity and countryside to tourists from across the world.” The policy also includes measures to develop clean homestays with lodging and other amenities and to make them available to tourists at affordable prices. Heritage houses with one to six rooms where the families stay can be turned into homestays and relief in property tax and the benefit of residential power rates will be extended to such properties. The homestays registered with the Tourism Corporation of Gujarat will be encouraged to adopt solar power using the solar rooftop scheme of the state government. At present, Gujarat is home to at least 100 homestays and with the new policy, more will be added. This will be a huge opportunity to create employment in the tourism sector. The move has been received well by industry players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monumental-share-sought-for-guj-on-world-map/articleshow/78066992.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||MC awaits PPCB’s NOC to open Tajpur road garbage plant||Ludhiana: The civic body is waiting for the no objection certificate (NOC) from Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) for reduced derive fuel (RDF) garbage plant at Tajpur Road. The plant is closed as of now and garbage, which is being lifted from the dumps, is being piled up at the main dump site. The company that had won the contract for the work, A2Z, had applied for the NOC from the PPCB officials, but it was denied on certain grounds. The PPCB had mentioned that there are shortcomings in the project and documentation. Also, A2Z was not performing its duty properly. After denial of NOC, the company closed the plant. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu had to intervene and he called up a meeting with PPCB officials where they had discussed the issue in detail. During this meeting the mayor issued strict warning to the company and asked it to perform its duty properly. Also, the PPCB officials were urged to issue the NOC. The officials had assured they will issue the NOC as soon as possible. Meanwhile, requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that the company stopped lifting of garbage from the dumps over the non payment of dues. Seeing the piling up of garbage at the dumps, the civic body released the payment and now lifting has resumed once again, he added. Vishant Chaudhary, from A2Z waste management company, said they had applied for the NOC on September 5, but certain objections were raised and fee was also asked again. “We have completed the process now and we are expecting the NOC any time.” He said the plant is closed from August 26 and daily 1,100 tonne of garbage is being lifted from the garbage dumps and it is being thrown at Tajpur Road dump without processing. Medical officer Dr Vipul Malhotra said, “As of now, the plant is closed and company has applied for the NOC. In the meeting that was held with PPCB officials, we were promised that NOC will be issued in two days.” He said they are trying to manage garbage lifting from dumps so that there should not be problem in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-awaits-ppcbs-noc-to-open-tajpur-road-garbage-plant/articleshow/78069258.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Trichy||School honours two students who bagged nat’l scholarship with personalised stamps||Trichy: Recognising the achievement of two students of class VIII in the National Means Cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) examination, Government high school in Thiruvallarai in Trichy district has released postage stamps with their pictures. The personalised postal stamps of India post with the images of Y Rajeswari and R Rohini were released by district chief education officer, S Santhi. They were among the 6,285 students from across the state who appeared for the examination for the year 2019-20 in January this year. Rajeswari and Rohini brought laurels to the school by securing 93 and 88 percent marks respectively and became eligible for the monthly stipend of Rs 1000. Head master of the school M Saravana Vel said that such a felicitation will encourage other students to work hard and achieve laurels in their lives. “We trained 12 students for the examination from our school and Rajeswari and Rohini managed to clear the test. We wanted to honour the students for the hard work and dedication and decided to release postage stamps with thumb nail image of students’” The personalised stamp is a scheme of India Post where anyone can have their image in selected template sheets having postage stamps. Rajeswari and Rohini said that clearing NMMS has given them confidence to prepare for competitive examinations in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-honours-two-students-who-bagged-natl-scholarship-with-personalised-stamps/articleshow/78068324.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lack of traffic infrastructure sparks chaos at University Chowk||PUNE: The traffic at the SPPU junction continues to be disrupted because of lack of signals and road markings, more than a month after the demolition of the University flyover . Regular commuters say the situation is especially bad during peak hours, when the volume of traffic is higher. “People do not know where to stop, disrupting the movement of traffic from other lanes,” one commuter said. The SPPU junction is extremely wide, and vehicles coming from Pashan tend to stop in the middle of the junction, hindering vehicles travelling towards Baner Road via Ganeshkhind Road. “Similar is the situation on Baner Road and Aundh Road. There is a high possibility of accidents, since vehicles come from different directions at high speed and the lone policeman managing the traffic is not visible. This is a five-way junction, which cannot be managed manually by one or two policemen,” Nitin Thorat, who crosses the junction daily, said. Yash Jalan, who too drives on this stretch regularly, said, “The flyover was pulled down over a month ago and the infrastructure should have been installed immediately after. This is one of the busiest chowks in the city and should be given priority.” Pune traffic police sources said the authorities concerned had assured the installation of signals and painting of road markings as soon as the flyover was demolished. “This is among the busiest junctions in the city and our personnel have to manage traffic from 7am to 11pm. The climatic conditions are also erratic, with extreme heat during the day and heavy rain in the evening. It is becoming extremely taxing to manage the traffic at this junction manually,” traffic police personnel said. They said functional signals will also ensure smoother flow of traffic along the junction and all surrounding areas. Pune Municipal Corporation officials said they are aware of the problem. Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMC’s electrical department, said, “PMC is supposed to install the signals. This work should be completed in the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lack-of-traffic-infra-sparks-chaos-at-university-chowk/articleshow/78068329.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 12, 2020||Goa||IMA aids 4,200 patients in home isolation||Panaji: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Goa has reached out to 4,200 Covid patients in home isolation since it started aiding the state government under public private partnership (PPP) mode a month ago. IMA-Goa is offering its services through telecommunication. A total of 38 patients were shifted to nearby Covid care centres, said Dr S Samuel, president, IMA-Goa in a press statement issued on Friday. It provided patients in home isolation with medical kits containing oximeter, thermometer, medicines, disinfectants, gloves and masks at a nominal price. IMA is also operating Covid care centres at Colva, Sangolda and Utorda. It has 150 member doctors who volunteered their services to this project. The doctors attached to its branches at Mormugao, Margao, Bardez, Bicholim, Tiswadi, Curchorem, Quepem, Sanguem and Ponda worked round the clock to provide counselling to Covid patients, the press note read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ima-aids-4200-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78068903.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Two Congress MLAs and Lalu Prasad loyalist join JD(U)||PATNA: The opposition parties in Bihar received a major jolt as Congress MLAs Purnima Yadav and Sudarshan Kumar as well as RJD leader and former minister Udai Narayan Rai alias Bhola Rai joined the ruling JD(U) on Friday. The three-term MLA from Raghopur, Bhola had fulfilled Lalu Prasad’s wish to contest from the Yadav-dominated seat in Vaishali in the 1995 election. His son Suresh Rai, former Vaishali district RJD president Panchhi Lal Rai and RLSP spokesperson Abhishek Jha also joined the Nitish Kumar-led party. Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and state’s building construction minister Ashok Choudhary welcomed them to the JD(U) fold. Raghopur is currently represented by Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Bhola had won the seat in 1980, 1985 and 1990. Lalu, the then CM, contested the 1995 election from Raghopur and Bhola was then made MLC and also elevated as the minister of state in the consecutive governments headed by Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi. Moreover, Bhola not only remained loyal to Lalu-Rabri family but also played key role in the elections of Lalu from Raghopur in 1995, 2000 and then Rabri and Tejashwi in 2015. “Whenever, Lalu and Rabri won the Raghopur seat, Bhola used to become their official representative. But when Tejashwi won the seat in 2015, Bhola was not given that honour. It was the beginning of his growing disenchantment with Lalu’s family,” a senior RJD leader told TOI. Moreover, Bhola’s confidante Panchhi was not retained as the RJD’s Vaishali district president. “Now, Bhola is out from the RJD and have joined the JD(U), it will be very difficult for Tejashwi to save his Raghopur seat,” said Ajay Kumar Yadav, president of Vaishali District Mukhiya Sangh, who also joined JD(U). Of the two sitting Congress legislators, Barbigha MLA Sudarshan is the grandson of veteran Congress leader Rajo Singh. He won from Barbigha for the first time in 2015. Purnima, the three-term MLA from different seats in Nawada district, was earlier with JD(U). She contested the 2015 election from Gobindpur on Congress symbol as the seat went to the party during seat-sharing among the Grand Alliance partners. “Even when I won the election on the Congress symbol in 2015, my leader Nitish Kumar was the Grand alliance’s CM face. I won the assembly election in 2010 on the JD(U) symbol. Nitish ji always remained my leader,” Purnima said after joining the JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-congress-mlas-and-lalu-loyalist-join-jdu/articleshow/78067015.cms||Madan Kumar
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM persuaded people to fight pandemic: Shah||Gandhinagar: Union home minister and Member of Parliament (MP) from Gandhinagar Amit Shah on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has persuaded the people of the country to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Shah performed the ground-breaking ceremony for several projects in the district through video-conference.“The administration was in a state of standstill due to the coronavirus. At that point, the PM pulled it out of this state. He persuaded people to fight the coronavirus,” Shah said, adding, “Unlike other countries, where only governments were involved in the fight against the pandemic, 130 crore citizens are working together with the government in India, and we are now seeing good results.” He praised the state government for its efforts in containing the pandemic and ensuring business activity continues. “I want to congratulate BJP workers of Gujarat for helping people in this difficult times by distributing rations, masks or sanitizers. Although many contracted the virus and some even died, they did not stop their work,” said Shah, asking people to take all precautions against the virus. Shah inaugurated four projects worth Rs 176 crore of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and 306 projects worth Rs 45.9 crore in rural areas of Ahmedabad district which fall under the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha constituency. The major projects included the construction of 240 affordable houses at Bavla town under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, two new roads and 12 new classrooms in rural areas. Projects in Ahmedabad city included two water distribution stations, a 23km water pipeline and beautification of a lake in Chandlodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-persuaded-people-to-fight-pandemic-shah/articleshow/78068330.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Renovation aid has big scope: Gujarat's heritage hoteliers||AHMEDABAD: Tour operators and heritage hoteliers of Gujarat have lauded the state government’s renewed heritage tourism and homestay policy. Financial assistance from the state government for restoration and renovation of heritage properties was one of the key demands of heritage hoteliers and tourism industry experts for years. Industry players feel that Gujarat, which is home to at least 90 small and big palaces, will greatly benefit from this policy and if executed well, it can turn the state into a heritage tourism hub. “Royal families who have been managing several heritage properties in Gujarat are the ethos of the state’s culture. However, most of them are in a state of neglect because it takes a humongous amount to restore the property keeping in mind its original structure and heritage value. For a long time, existing properties could not avail the benefits from the policies. The state government’s decision will provide a much-needed booster dose to revive and promote the heritage tourism in Gujarat,” said Nawab Sultan Salauddinkhan Babi of Balasinor, who owns and operate the Garden Palace Heritage Home stays. Tour operators believe this will help boost heritage tourism in a big way in Gujarat. “Rajasthan is a classic example of developing heritage properties with government’s support. The new policy of Gujarat will go a long way by restoring and showcasing Gujarat’s heritage to the world by developing new tourist attractions,” said Manish Sharma, chairman, Tourism Development Society. Gujarat is already home to the Unesco world heritage city of Ahmedabad, and world heritage sites such as Rani ki Vav and Champaner along with historical cities such as Lothal and Dholavira. Industry players feel that the move will greatly benefit smaller players to set up homestays. Explaining this in context of Ahmedabad, Abhay Mangaldas, advisor, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said, “This is a great opportunity for the world heritage city of Ahmedabad, because residents of the pols, which is our living heritage, will now be able to easily start with homestays and bed and breakfast. While it will certainly help huge properties promote heritage and tourism in a big way, smaller players can reap the maximum benefit from this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/renovation-aid-has-big-scope-heritage-hoteliers/articleshow/78067006.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Rahon Road sewerage sent to Bhattian, Tibba Road STPs to prevent choking||Ludhiana: In order to solve the problem of choked sewerage at Rahon Road, the civic officials have now decided to divide the work load. One line will take water to Bhattian sewerage treatment plant while the other line will take it up to Tibba Road plant for releasing water into Buddha Nullah. In next few days, newly laid sewerage line will also be connected with main line at Basti Jodhewal Chowk. Meanwhile, requesting anonymity, one of the civic officials said Bhattian sewerage treatment plant is not upgraded yet and it will not be able to take the load. He claimed that it is almost 12-km long line from Basti Jodhewal to Bhattian STP and this is also in need of cleaning and if they will put entire load of Rahon Road in this line, Shivpuri and adjoining areas will drown. When contacted, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar said new sewerage line is going to be started in next 10 days after which load will be divided in two parts. He said people in the colonies at Rahon Road have faced a tough time, but it will pass now and residents will get the desired relief. He claimed that he was trying to find solution for choking in the main line up to Bhattian as well so that sewerage issue should be resolved completely. The problem at Rahon Road has been a major issue for residents of the area. There are over dozen localities situated on Rahon Road, including Jai Singh Nagar, Chander Lok Colony, Jainnagar, Sarwan Park, Naginder Nagar, Guru Vihar, Tilak Nagar, Baldev Nagar, Subhash Nagar, New Sarwan Park and Main Rahon Road. For solving this problem, cleaning with super suction machines was conducted twice — once in 2017 and then in 2019 — but it did not provide lasting relief. It is to be seen if the new solutions will set the problem right.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rahon-road-sewerage-sent-to-bhattian-tibba-road-stps-to-prevent-choking/articleshow/78069266.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||25-year-old furniture shop worker killed by wife||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old furniture shop worker was bludgeoned to death by his wife at their house in Tappachabutra on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Mohammed Aslam, 25, from Mujahid Nagar in Tappachabutra. According to police, Aslam married Samreen Begum, 22, twenty days ago. After the marriage, Aslam used to quarrel with Samreen everyday. “Aslam was an alcoholic and he used to quarrel with Samreen every day and assault her. On Thursday night. Aslam quarrelled with his wife. On Friday morning, they started quarrelling about his alcoholism. In a fit of rage, Samreen attacked Aslam on the head with pestle and killed him on the spot,” Tappachabutra inspector G Santosh Kumar said. Police registered a murder case against Samreen. No arrest has been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-yr-old-furniture-shop-worker-killed-by-wife/articleshow/78067002.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Staff con MC by claiming fuel for 3 defunct tractors||Ludhiana: It has been found out that civic employees were getting fuel against three defunct tractors. This came to light when officials started installing GPS in the vehicles and asked the staff to bring the three tractors from Zone c health branch. Regular fuel is being issued to tractors that do not even have seats. Moreover, the employees brought the tractors to the workshop at Hambran Road with the help of a tow machine. An inquiry in this case has been marked. MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon, who caught the fraud, told that an initiative is being taken up by civic body to install GPS in all vehicles and when these three tractors came to the workshop to be fixed with GPS, he said, he asked the employees to bring fuel records. When he checked, it was found that fuel was being issued on regular basis. Sekhon said he brought the matter to the knowledge of MC commissioner who has further marked an inquiry in this case. “It is to be seen from when these tractors are defunct,” he added. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu confirmed that an inquiry has been marked by the commissioner. He also said that they suspect sanitary inspector Jagtar Singh Singh’s involvement in this case. Earlier also, MC employees were caught “stealing” fuel by claiming it for vehicles used by them. To counter this problem, the civic body had decided to install GPS system in all vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/staff-con-mc-by-claiming-fuel-for-3-defunct-tractors/articleshow/78069274.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Robot to attend on Covid patients in Chennai railway hospital||CHENNAI: Southern Railway is planning to introduce a robot called RailMitra, developed inhouse, at the Railway Hospital in Perambur where Covid-19 patients are being treated to minimise infection risk of attendants. This will also cut down on the use of personal protective equipment (PPEs) in the facility. RailMitra is a remote controlled device that looks like a food trolley and can be used to carry items into Covid-19 ward as well. It is also equipped with ultra violet lights underneath to disinfect floors, a disinfectant sprayer to disinfect walls and rooms, a 360 camera and an automatic hand sanitiser dispenser. It was designed by railway engineer Nideej of Trivandrum division and is being manufactured at the Podanur workshop. Southern Railway general manager John Thomas said, “the robot will be inducted at the Railway Hospital in Perambur where many Covid-19 patients are being treated. This helps because attenders needed to go in wearing PPE.” The robot can be used to deliver things like food and other items to Covid-19 wards without human contact. He added that it was among the many measures taken by Southern Railway to step up Covid-19 care at the hospital, which sees around 80 Covid positive patients every day. Talking about the treatment in the facility, Thomas said use of high flow nasal oxygen units has helped in the recovery of even Covid-19 patients with high lung infection rate. “We could cure patients, even elderly with more than 30% of lung infection.” The hospital has helped 901 Covid-19 patients recover till August 31. Southern Railway also hired doctors and nurses. “We needed 46 doctors but got only 14. Many were not ready to take up the job.” They managed to recruit 72 staff nurses, 20 housekeeping assistants, 10 hospital attendants, two dietitians, three radiographers, three physiotherapists, three lab technicians, two hemodialysis technicians, one biomedical staff and four ECG technicians on contract basis. Other innovations by railways include a prototype non-invasive low cost ventilator being used at the hospital, improvised face shield and a cost effective device to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/robot-to-attend-on-covid-patients-in-city-rly-hosp/articleshow/78067007.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 58 roads and junctions to get a dash of green||BENGALURU: With Bengaluru having lost precious green cover to infrastructure projects over the years, BBMP has come forward to beautify the cityscape — particularly medians, circles, flyovers and underpasses — by planting creepers and ornamental species. Estimated to cost Rs 40 crore, the project aims at giving a new look to prominent areas that have lost their sheen due to concrete structures and work like whitetopping and TenderSURE road repair. The Palike has taken up cultivation of ornamental plants along these paths. “The city will attract tourists and investors only if hygiene and greenery are maintained. A clean ambience will help in creating goodwill among such visitors. After upgradation of several stretches, we have identified about 58 roads and junctions where we will plant ornamental and flowering plants, besides sprucing up pedestrian underpasses with paintings and other artworks,” explained N Manjunatha Prasad, commissioner, BBMP. The horticulture wing of BBMP had undertaken planting of ornamental species along major roads — including medians along Ballari Road and CV Raman Road — during the lockdown. A senior official attached with the wing said, “All whitetopping and TenderSURE projects have a provision for planting of trees along roads. We have created separate plans for each road, depending on the space available and kind of plants suitable for such stretches.” Commenting on the maintenance of these plants, another official said, “At the stage of planing itself, we included a one-year maintenance period. After that, the Palike has to make a separate budgetary allocation for maintenance. Or it can rope in a corporate company, which can handle maintenance under its CSR funds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/58-roads-and-junctions-to-get-a-dash-of-green/articleshow/78066993.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Excise and Taxation officials back to work, clarify their position||Ludhiana: The state excise and taxation officials who stayed away from work for three days, to protest against vigilance bureau’s (VB) action against their colleagues, returned to work on Thursday after VB chief allegedly agreed that before any action against officer in future, financial commissioner taxation (FCT) will be consulted. Meanwhile, the joint confederation of the officials of department, which comprises inspectors, excise and taxation officers, assistant excise and taxation commissioners and higher ranks, has now issued a public statement to clarify its stand. According to the statement, a meeting was held under the supervision of chief secretary of Punjab, Vini Mahajan. The confederation demanded VB’s should not interfere in the day to day working of the excise and taxation department and in case VB has solid evidence against some officer, it should be shared with FCT so that he can probe the charges, said the statement issued by the joint confederation. During the meeting, VB chief B K Uppal said action against excise and taxation officials was taken only after emergence of some facts. “Uppal had also assured us that in future no action will be taken without taking into confidence FCT. Chief secretary has assured confederation that any action by VB will totally be transparent and impartial,” added the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/excise-and-taxation-officials-back-to-work-clarify-their-position/articleshow/78069284.cms||Mohit Behl
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Don’t allow Navratri events: AMA to govt||Ahmedabad: Office-bearers of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) on Friday wrote to the state government, requesting them not to allow any event for Navratri this year in the light of ever-rising Covid-19 cases in Gujarat. The move came after reports that the state government is considering events with limited capacity. Dr Mona Desai, president of AMA, told TOI that they have written to the CM and deputy CM on Friday, requesting them not to allow any gathering during Navratri. “There may be rules regarding social distancing and wearing masks – but the nature of the festival is such that it’s difficult to follow. Moreover, one can celebrate Navratri at home and such gatherings is not a necessity especially in times of epidemic like Covid-19,” she said. AMA officials said that when the city has over 30,000 persons affected and more than 1,500 dead due to the pandemic, any event where large gatherings are involved should be avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-allow-navratri-events-ama-to-govt/articleshow/78067018.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops nab notorious gangster wanted for murder in Chd||Ludhiana: Notorious gangster Kancha alias Sonu of Shimlapuri area has been arrested by a team of organised crime control bureau (OCCU) on Friday. Kancha was wanted by Ludhiana police for a murder in Shimlapuri area, executed in June this year. The gangster along with his accomplices had assaulted his rival to death and thereafter had danced around his body, before escaping from the spot. He was also declared a proclaimed offender in different cases. The OCCU team has recovered a country-made pistol from his possession. Inspector general of police (IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, (OCCU) said the OCCU team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Vibhor Kumar nabbed Kancha from near Chandigarh. An FIR has been registered at state special operation cell (SSOC) in Mohali. He has been produced before a court of Mohali and has been remanded for three days in police custody. IG Kunwar said Kancha was a proclaimed offender in six cases registered in various police stations of Ludhiana. The IG said in the last month, OCCU team nabbed Karanvir Mani, an accomplice of Kancha from Muktsar area. On a specific tip-off, the OCCU team was able to nab Kancha. Director general of police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta has appreciated the role of OCCU and vowed to eradicate gangsters menace from the soil of Punjab. The DGP has announced to suitably award the OCCU team. The DGP has also tasked the OCCU to look after prosecution of all serious cases registered against gangsters. The IGP added that on the night of June 1, Ramandeep Singh (30) of Bulara village and his friend Gagandeep Singh of Jujhar Nagar, was brutally assaulted by the members of the notorious gang led by Kancha at Kwality Chowk, Shimlapuri. While Ramandeep had died, Gagandeep sustained several injuries. The assailants reportedly staged a disco dance at the scene of crime after the incident to celebrate Ramandeeps’ death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-nab-notorious-gangster-wanted-for-murder-in-chd/articleshow/78069282.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Graft case: Woman PSI denied bail||Ahmedabad: A special anti-corruption court rejected another bail application filed by woman PSI Shweta Jadeja in connection with the bribery charges slapped against her and her brother-in-law. Jadeja had approached the city sessions court for the second time after the investigators filed a chargesheet in this case two weeks ago. Refusing bail to her, additional sessions judge S H Patel said the accused was working in the police department for last four years, and the way she has allegedly committed the offence with the help of her brother-in-law reflects criminal mentality.  The court further said that corruption is a social evil and a countrywide phenomenon. It was the accused person’s duty to fight against corruption and she was tasked to bear an important responsibility. But she forgot her moral duty. If released on bail, it would give an adverse message to society and others may get encouragement to commit such offence in future.  The SOG crime branch has filed a chargesheet against Jadeja and her brother-in-law Devendra Odedara for accepting Rs 35.12 lakh bribe from two brothers for sparing them from PASA. She was accused of calling the complainant, who is an accused in a rape case, through WhatsApp call so as to avoid possibility of the conversation being recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/graft-case-woman-psi-denied-bail/articleshow/78068344.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power demand crosses 15,000MW||Ahmedabad: An increase in electricity consumption for agricultural purposes has pushed up total power demand in the state. Power demand in Gujarat crossed 15,000MW on Thursday. The maximum demand for power was 15,685MW on September 10, against 11,728MW on September 1, shows data compiled by the Western Region Load Dispatch Center (WRLDC), which is a central government entity. This is the first time demand has breached 15,000MW since August 1.Electricity demand, according to the Gujarat government’s State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC), was 15,088MW on Friday, September 11. “Consumption of electricity in the agriculture sector remains low during the monsoon but rises as soon as monsoon ends. Consumption in the agriculture sector has risen, which has pushed up power demand in the state,” said a source. Consumption from the industrial sector has been slowly rising with industrial activities resuming as well, the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-demand-crosses-15000mw/articleshow/78068333.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Mortalities rising as people delaying treatment: Goa CM||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 toll shot up to 276 following eight deaths on Friday. The active Covid cases rose to 5,104 with 555 new infections. Also, 473 patients were cured. Five deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, two from the ESI-Covid hospital, one each from South Goa district hospital, Margao, and a private hospital in South Goa. Of the eight mortalities, only one patient – a 44-year-old woman from Quepem—had no history of comorbid conditions. She died within six days of admission and had developed acute respiratory distress symptoms immediately after her admission to the hospital. Other patients, except one, were hospitalised for less than a week. A 41-year-old man from Vasco who was admitted with comorbidity – hypertension with acute kidney injury – on August 21, died on Thursday at ESI-Covid hospital. A 63-year-old man from Ponda also died in ESI hospital. A 53-year-old woman from Ponda having comorbid conditions died at a private hospital in Vasco. Other casualties reported from GMC are that of a 46-year-old man from Parra, a 79-year-old man from Mala, Panaji, a 74-year-old man from Margao, and a 45-year-old man from Agasaim. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that mortalities have risen since some people delay in seeking medical treatment and some patients have comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, Panaji continued to see a spike in cases as 31 new infections were reported on Friday. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said some people, despite warnings and awareness, report late for treatment. “People continue to stay home without seeking medical help even if they have cough and fever. They think it is a common cold and they will be cured,” he said. On Wednesday, 14 people from a family of 30 in Bhatlem tested positive, including a former councillor. “The family members were subjected to a Covid test after the death of a 70-year-old man. The man had tested positive,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mortalities-rising-as-people-delaying-treatment-sawant/articleshow/78068912.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Vadodara||Six loot a woman, her nephew||Vadodara: Geeta Rajput and her nephew had gone to recover her dues from a resident of Radhiyapura village on the outskirts of the city on Thursday evening. But the duo was looted of their jewellery and cash worth Rs 89,000 by the accused identified as Raju Rabari at his home. The Nandesari police have registered a complaint of loot against Rabari and five other men. According to police, Rajput, a resident of Kheda, had sold a buffalo and a cow for Rs 50,000 to Rabari six years ago. But he hadn’t paid her the full amount while she kept asking for her dues. On Thursday evening, Rajput reached Rabari’s home and asked for money. Rabari told her that she won’t get any money and instead asked her to give away the gold jewellery she was wearing along with the cash. The accused also looted Rajput’s nephew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-loot-a-woman-her-nephew/articleshow/78064876.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drive against narcos heats up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A crackdown against narcotics and narcos is under way in Gujarat and a rewards scheme has been proposed for cops taking part in the drive. The drive began on September 5 and will last till September 25. Gujarat DGP Ashish Bhatia ordered the initiative, which is being carried out with help from the CID and railways. Bhatia said that police teams across the state have been directed make preventive arrests of people who have more than one drugs-related case against them. “We have also proposed a rewards policy which is in place at the NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau),” Bhatia said. “This will motivate police to apprehend drug traffickers in the state.” Sources said that police have prepared a list of accused persons in drugs cases who have been absconding for long. Squads have been formed to nab them. Bhatia said that police units across the state have been directed to seize drugs and take action against offenders under the PIT NDPS (Prevention of Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act, 1988. “Under this Act, illegal properties of the accused and their relatives and associates will be liable for forfeiture,” said a senior police official. “These properties are bought with the proceeds of crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drive-against-narcos-heats-up-in-state/articleshow/78068352.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||3 masked men shoot at 23-year-old man thrice||Ludhiana: Three masked assailants opened fire on a man in Jassar village of Dehlon on Friday afternoon. The accused lured the victim to come outside his house and escaped after opening fire at him. The victim suffered three bullet injuries on his wrist, shoulder and ankle. The victim has been identified as Karamjit Singh, 23, of Jassar village, he is unemployed. Nirmal Singh, father of the victim, said two men knocked on the door of their house and asked for his elder son Kamaljeet Singh. However, he told the accused that Kamaljit Singh is not at home. Then the accused asked him to call the younger son Karamjit Singh. When Karamjit came out of the house in the verandhah. The accused took him out of the house on pretext of having a conversation. The accused after taking Karamjit out of the house, opened fire at him and escaped. The third accomplice was on a bike, near the house, and all three accused fled away. According to Nirmal, after hearing gunshots, he rushed to the street. He was shocked to see his son lying in the street in a pool of blood. He rushed his son to the hospital and informed the police. Inspector Sukhdev Singh, station house officer at Dehlon police station said an attempt to murder case has been lodged against the unidentified accused. The accused were known to the victim, however, his statements are yet to be recorded. The police will soon identify and nab accused, said the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-masked-men-shoot-at-23-year-old-man-thrice/articleshow/78069292.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||40-year-old woman shot in belly, 3 booked||Ludhiana: A middle-aged woman was injured after a youth fired at her in Hans Kalan village on Thursday night after she allegedly objected to him and his accomplice standing in the street in the late evening hours. Police have booked three in the matter. Victim Karamjit Kaur of the village, who is around 40 years old, told the police that she was standing outside her house at 9pm on Thursday. She added that Paramjit Singh and Ramandeep Singh, from the village and Surjeet Singh of Chajjewal stood outside on the street. The complainant told police officials when she asked them to leave, Ramandeep took out his gun and fired at her. She added that the bullet hit her in the abdomen. Police officials said after the incident, Karamjit was rushed to civil hospital where she is undergoing treatment. A team from Chowkiman police post reached the complainant and started a probe into the matter. Police later booked the accused in an attempt to murder case. In charge of Chowkiman police post Ramandeep Singh said the accused are yet to be arrested and a manhunt has been launched to arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/40-year-old-woman-shot-in-belly-3-booked/articleshow/78069289.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Cotton farmer immolates self to death||RAJKOT: A farmer died after he set himself ablaze following crop failure in Chhodvadi village of Bhesan taluka in Junagadh district on Thursday evening. Police said the victim, Babu Pokia (58), had been suffering from depression ever since his cotton crop, that he had cultivated in his 12 bigha farm, failed. “Due to heavy rains, the cotton crop got destroyed. Moreover, Pokia’s family members were constantly cribbing about the loss they had incurred and were reminding it to him. This made him sink into depression and he set himself ablaze after dousing himself with inflammables in his farm,” said R A Jadeja, subinspector with Bhesan Police Station. According to police, Pokia went to his farm after having lunch, but did not return till late evening. His son Bharat reached the farm looking for him and found is burnt body. Pokia was already dead when found by Bharat, said police. Bharat informed the police that his father had committed suicide. He also told police that his father was depressed due failure of cotton crop and this could be the reason for his suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-immolates-self-to-death-as-heavy-rains-destroy-cotton-crop/articleshow/78065415.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Central govt gave Rs 50 crore for development of Dakha constituency’||Ludhiana (Mullanpur Dakha): Akali Dal MLA from Dakha constituency, Manpreet Ayali, who just recovered from Covid-19, issued a report on the status of ongoing development projects in villages of his constituency on Friday. He claimed that the state government is not spending much on the development of these villages and that he received Rs 50 crore from the central government in the last two years. While addressing a press conference on Friday, the SAD MLA said on the basis of population of villages, the central government has issued a grant of Rs 20 crore from the 14th financial commission. Besides this, the central government has also issued Rs 26 crore under MGNREGA scheme (labour component) and Rs 4 crore under MGNREGA (material component) for construction material like bricks, crusher, sand, iron bars and interlocking tiles. While attacking the state government, Ayali said in the span of the last three-and-a-half year, the state government has failed to initiate rural development in the state. Stating that the Congress leaders are trying to grab the credit for central government funded projects, Ayali asked the state government to issue details of grants issued by it for the development of Dakha constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/central-govt-gave-rs-50-crore-for-development-of-dakha-constituency/articleshow/78069294.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops arrest dead gangster’s aide who supplied weapons to him||Ludhiana: The division number 8 police have arrested the aide of dead gangster Vijay Sidhu alias Chhota Lalla on Thursday for allegedly supplying illegal weapon to the gangster. The arrested accused had supplied a .32 bore pistol to Chota Lalla, in May 2019, five months before his death. The arrested accused has been identified as Shubham Sidhu alias Ganju, 24, of Ambedkar Nagar. He was wanted by the police for the past one year. Sub-inspector (SI) Rajinder Singh,in charge at police post Kailash Nagar, said the police have arrested the accused near Upkar Nagar Dushehra ground following a tip-off. He was already wanted by the police in a case of illegal weapon. He added that the police had arrested gangster Chhota Lalla on August 6, 2019 and had recovered an illegal .32 bore pistol and three bullets from his possession. A case under section 25, 54 and 59 of Arms act was lodged against the accused at police station Division number 8. During interrogation the accused told police that he had procured the weapon from Shubham Sidhu following which the police had booked Shubham Sidhu also in the case. Meanwhile, Chhota Lalla was murdered on October 20, 2019, but the Shubham was absconding. The SI added further the police will interrogate Shubham to find out from where he procured the weapon. Shubham and Chota Lalla were friends. Both were drug addicts too and used to consume drugs together. Shubham is also facing trial in a case of drug peddling lodged against him at police station Moti Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-arrest-dead-gangsters-aide-who-supplied-weapons-to-him/articleshow/78069295.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Daily footfalls at KTC bus stands reduce drastically||PANAJI: From a little over one lakh people per day, the daily footfalls at Panaji bus terminus have fallen to 6,000 to 7,000 people per day during the pandemic. People’s preference to travel through private transport to avoid intermingling with others and lack of students and working professionals travelling because of study/work from home trend, are the reasons cited by Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTCL) officials for the drastic drop. The same has been experienced at its other bus stands in the state as well. People would earlier travel from Sakhali, Bicholim, Valpoi, Mapusa and Margao to alight at Panaji thus having the highest density at this terminus, the officials said, adding, that the existing passengers are a few migrant workers and office goers who are seen on the bus stands only in the mornings and evenings. “Our per day earnings currently are about Rs 4-6 lakh as opposed to Rs 29-30 lakh prior to the lockdown,” an official said. As of now, the KTC is operating anywhere between 200 to 230 buses from its fleet of 500-odd vehicles due to lack of passengers. “It is highly impossible to operate all our vehicles if we resume full fledged operations since it will lead to heavy losses on diesel costs,” the official said. At its other bus stands as well, there is a visible drop in footfalls. The Margao bus stand would usually see people travelling from Sanvordem, Canacona and Cuncolim. Similarly, at the Mapusa bus stand, people coming from Siolim, Aldona, Pernem would add to its strength. “On an average there are approximately 4,000 to 5,000 people alighting at these bus stands due to the pandemic.” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/daily-footfalls-at-ktc-bus-stands-reduce-drastically/articleshow/78068926.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Three-year-old girl hit by father with stick in Hyderabad's Miyapur, dies||HYDERABAD: A labourer who picked up a quarrel with his wife in a drunken condition later killed their three-year-old daughter in Miyapur on Thursday night. Miyapur police said Sunitha died after her father Advaiah hit on her head with a stick. Police said Advaiah came to the house drunk and soon entered into a heated argument with his mother. When his wife Durgamma intervened, he admonished her. Durgamma, who has three children, took two of her daughters -- one-year-old Nandini and Sunitha — and left for her mother’s residence, which is close by. Advaiah followed them and tried to pull his wife by force. When she refused to accompany him, he tried to take away Sunitha, who resisted his attempts. Angered over this, Advaiah hit her with a stick on her head. Sunitha fell unconscious and was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. Advaiah was taken into custody. A case under section 302 (murder) of the IPC was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-yr-old-girl-hit-by-father-with-stick-in-miyapur-dies/articleshow/78067083.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Many genuine farmers left out of PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: When a scam of at least Rs110 crore has rocked the PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu and reports have emerged about five lakh ineligible people getting enrolled under the scheme, many genuine farmers across the state are struggling to get the benefits of the scheme. For instance, Kalyani Krishnan, 48, a farmer from Kalvirayanpettai village near Kumbakonam said she had received the first three instalments of Rs 2,000 each in 2019. However, it was stopped this year and repeated representations to the revenue and agricultural department officials have not helped, she said. “They have not given me any satisfactory answer too,” she said. R Rajamohan, a farmer in Thanjavur, said out of 215 farmers getting assistance under the PM Kisan Scheme in Ganapathi Agraharam, where he lives, four beneficiaries are government servants, who are ineligible to get such dole. V Murugan, 46, a second-generation farmer from Sunambur in Melur, near Madurai, who has been cultivating in 2 acres of land said he received only one instalment of PM Kisan Scheme since March 2019. “I have some issues regarding non-repayment of an agricultural loan. I have not been getting SMS alerts from the bank for some time. He was told to produce his land records recently. Since then, his dole has been stopped, he said. His neighbour, V Kumar, another farmer, said though he applied for the scheme in January 2019, till now he has not received even a single penny. “When genuine farmers are left out, many without even a square foot of land are getting payments,” he said. Similarly, K Thanikodi, 52, a farmer from Nallukkampatti in Usilampatti got just one instalment in January. There is no word from officials about further instalments, he said. Instead of giving such doles, the government should increase the procurement price of farm produce to improve the living condition of farmers, said Periyar Irrigation Farmers’ Distribution Committee member ANM Thirupathy. PM Kisan Scheme has made farmers look like beggars, he said. Meanwhile, the CB-CID has so far effected 21 arrests in the case. Out of them, five are erstwhile temporary contract employees of agricultural department, who were engaged as data-entry operators. All others booked in the case are internet café owners, who had helped ineligible people avail of the scheme benefits, said a CB-CID official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/many-genuine-farmers-left-out-of-pm-kisan-scheme-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78068391.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Erode||Many genuine farmers left out of PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: When a scam of at least Rs110 crore has rocked the PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu and reports have emerged about five lakh ineligible people getting enrolled under the scheme, many genuine farmers across the state are struggling to get the benefits of the scheme. For instance, Kalyani Krishnan, 48, a farmer from Kalvirayanpettai village near Kumbakonam said she had received the first three instalments of Rs 2,000 each in 2019. However, it was stopped this year and repeated representations to the revenue and agricultural department officials have not helped, she said. “They have not given me any satisfactory answer too,” she said. R Rajamohan, a farmer in Thanjavur, said out of 215 farmers getting assistance under the PM Kisan Scheme in Ganapathi Agraharam, where he lives, four beneficiaries are government servants, who are ineligible to get such dole. V Murugan, 46, a second-generation farmer from Sunambur in Melur, near Madurai, who has been cultivating in 2 acres of land said he received only one instalment of PM Kisan Scheme since March 2019. “I have some issues regarding non-repayment of an agricultural loan. I have not been getting SMS alerts from the bank for some time. He was told to produce his land records recently. Since then, his dole has been stopped, he said. His neighbour, V Kumar, another farmer, said though he applied for the scheme in January 2019, till now he has not received even a single penny. “When genuine farmers are left out, many without even a square foot of land are getting payments,” he said. Similarly, K Thanikodi, 52, a farmer from Nallukkampatti in Usilampatti got just one instalment in January. There is no word from officials about further instalments, he said. Instead of giving such doles, the government should increase the procurement price of farm produce to improve the living condition of farmers, said Periyar Irrigation Farmers’ Distribution Committee member ANM Thirupathy. PM Kisan Scheme has made farmers look like beggars, he said. Meanwhile, the CB-CID has so far effected 21 arrests in the case. Out of them, five are erstwhile temporary contract employees of agricultural department, who were engaged as data-entry operators. All others booked in the case are internet café owners, who had helped ineligible people avail of the scheme benefits, said a CB-CID official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/many-genuine-farmers-left-out-of-pm-kisan-scheme-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78071349.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Many genuine farmers left out of PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: When a scam of at least Rs110 crore has rocked the PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu and reports have emerged about five lakh ineligible people getting enrolled under the scheme, many genuine farmers across the state are struggling to get the benefits of the scheme. For instance, Kalyani Krishnan, 48, a farmer from Kalvirayanpettai village near Kumbakonam said she had received the first three instalments of Rs 2,000 each in 2019. However, it was stopped this year and repeated representations to the revenue and agricultural department officials have not helped, she said. “They have not given me any satisfactory answer too,” she said. R Rajamohan, a farmer in Thanjavur, said out of 215 farmers getting assistance under the PM Kisan Scheme in Ganapathi Agraharam, where he lives, four beneficiaries are government servants, who are ineligible to get such dole. V Murugan, 46, a second-generation farmer from Sunambur in Melur, near Madurai, who has been cultivating in 2 acres of land said he received only one instalment of PM Kisan Scheme since March 2019. “I have some issues regarding non-repayment of an agricultural loan. I have not been getting SMS alerts from the bank for some time. He was told to produce his land records recently. Since then, his dole has been stopped, he said. His neighbour, V Kumar, another farmer, said though he applied for the scheme in January 2019, till now he has not received even a single penny. “When genuine farmers are left out, many without even a square foot of land are getting payments,” he said. Similarly, K Thanikodi, 52, a farmer from Nallukkampatti in Usilampatti got just one instalment in January. There is no word from officials about further instalments, he said. Instead of giving such doles, the government should increase the procurement price of farm produce to improve the living condition of farmers, said Periyar Irrigation Farmers’ Distribution Committee member ANM Thirupathy. PM Kisan Scheme has made farmers look like beggars, he said. Meanwhile, the CB-CID has so far effected 21 arrests in the case. Out of them, five are erstwhile temporary contract employees of agricultural department, who were engaged as data-entry operators. All others booked in the case are internet café owners, who had helped ineligible people avail of the scheme benefits, said a CB-CID official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/many-genuine-farmers-left-out-of-pm-kisan-scheme-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78071346.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Madurai||Many genuine farmers left out of PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: When a scam of at least Rs110 crore has rocked the PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu and reports have emerged about five lakh ineligible people getting enrolled under the scheme, many genuine farmers across the state are struggling to get the benefits of the scheme. For instance, Kalyani Krishnan, 48, a farmer from Kalvirayanpettai village near Kumbakonam said she had received the first three instalments of Rs 2,000 each in 2019. However, it was stopped this year and repeated representations to the revenue and agricultural department officials have not helped, she said. “They have not given me any satisfactory answer too,” she said. R Rajamohan, a farmer in Thanjavur, said out of 215 farmers getting assistance under the PM Kisan Scheme in Ganapathi Agraharam, where he lives, four beneficiaries are government servants, who are ineligible to get such dole. V Murugan, 46, a second-generation farmer from Sunambur in Melur, near Madurai, who has been cultivating in 2 acres of land said he received only one instalment of PM Kisan Scheme since March 2019. “I have some issues regarding non-repayment of an agricultural loan. I have not been getting SMS alerts from the bank for some time. He was told to produce his land records recently. Since then, his dole has been stopped, he said. His neighbour, V Kumar, another farmer, said though he applied for the scheme in January 2019, till now he has not received even a single penny. “When genuine farmers are left out, many without even a square foot of land are getting payments,” he said. Similarly, K Thanikodi, 52, a farmer from Nallukkampatti in Usilampatti got just one instalment in January. There is no word from officials about further instalments, he said. Instead of giving such doles, the government should increase the procurement price of farm produce to improve the living condition of farmers, said Periyar Irrigation Farmers’ Distribution Committee member ANM Thirupathy. PM Kisan Scheme has made farmers look like beggars, he said. Meanwhile, the CB-CID has so far effected 21 arrests in the case. Out of them, five are erstwhile temporary contract employees of agricultural department, who were engaged as data-entry operators. All others booked in the case are internet café owners, who had helped ineligible people avail of the scheme benefits, said a CB-CID official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-genuine-farmers-left-out-of-pm-kisan-scheme-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78071347.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||AP Asara scheme to help 87 lakh women||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday launched YSR Aasara scheme promising to empower women socially and economically. The CM released Rs 6,792 crore towards the first instalment of the total due of Rs 27,169 crore to banks of 87,74,674 women belonging to 8.7 lakh SHGs in a virtual meeting with all district collectors and some of the beneficiaries. Jaganmohan Reddy said that during his 3,648-km padayatra, he had seen how the DWACRA groups were cheated by the previous government and he had promised to clear their dues as on April 11, 2019 in four instalments and kept his word by releasing the first trance here on Friday. The beneficiaries will have full freedom on how they would like to utilize the amount and there are no restrictions or compulsions. For those who intend to invest the money, and make use of the business opportunities, SERP (Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty) and Mission for Elimination of Poverty and in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) will coordinate in the process. The state has signed MoUs with ITC, Procter & Gamble, HUL, Amul, and Reliance besides banks and those interested can have training, technical transfer, marketing, loan and other facilities to set up cottage, petty, small and medium business units. Interacting with the beneficiary women, Jagan said that the YSRC government has been giving priority to women empowerment and welfare programme starts from pregnant women to old age. Aiming to provide nutritious food for pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children aged below six years, the state government introduced YSR Sampoorna Poshana. The state has introduced Amma Vodi scheme for children studying from Class I to Intermediate, where Rs 15,000 will be directly transferred to the accounts of mothers annually for sending their children to schools, benefiting over 43 lakh mothers. Providing financial support for middle-aged women, the state government introduced the Cheyutha scheme, where the women between 45-60 years belonging to SC, ST, BC, Minorities will be receiving Rs 18,750 annually for a period of four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-asara-scheme-to-help-87-lakh-women/articleshow/78067136.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Trichy||Many genuine farmers left out of PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: When a scam of at least Rs110 crore has rocked the PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu and reports have emerged about five lakh ineligible people getting enrolled under the scheme, many genuine farmers across the state are struggling to get the benefits of the scheme. For instance, Kalyani Krishnan, 48, a farmer from Kalvirayanpettai village near Kumbakonam said she had received the first three instalments of Rs 2,000 each in 2019. However, it was stopped this year and repeated representations to the revenue and agricultural department officials have not helped, she said. “They have not given me any satisfactory answer too,” she said. R Rajamohan, a farmer in Thanjavur, said out of 215 farmers getting assistance under the PM Kisan Scheme in Ganapathi Agraharam, where he lives, four beneficiaries are government servants, who are ineligible to get such dole. V Murugan, 46, a second-generation farmer from Sunambur in Melur, near Madurai, who has been cultivating in 2 acres of land said he received only one instalment of PM Kisan Scheme since March 2019. “I have some issues regarding non-repayment of an agricultural loan. I have not been getting SMS alerts from the bank for some time. He was told to produce his land records recently. Since then, his dole has been stopped, he said. His neighbour, V Kumar, another farmer, said though he applied for the scheme in January 2019, till now he has not received even a single penny. “When genuine farmers are left out, many without even a square foot of land are getting payments,” he said. Similarly, K Thanikodi, 52, a farmer from Nallukkampatti in Usilampatti got just one instalment in January. There is no word from officials about further instalments, he said. Instead of giving such doles, the government should increase the procurement price of farm produce to improve the living condition of farmers, said Periyar Irrigation Farmers’ Distribution Committee member ANM Thirupathy. PM Kisan Scheme has made farmers look like beggars, he said. Meanwhile, the CB-CID has so far effected 21 arrests in the case. Out of them, five are erstwhile temporary contract employees of agricultural department, who were engaged as data-entry operators. All others booked in the case are internet café owners, who had helped ineligible people avail of the scheme benefits, said a CB-CID official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/many-genuine-farmers-left-out-of-pm-kisan-scheme-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78071350.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Salem||Many genuine farmers left out of PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: When a scam of at least Rs110 crore has rocked the PM Kisan Scheme in Tamil Nadu and reports have emerged about five lakh ineligible people getting enrolled under the scheme, many genuine farmers across the state are struggling to get the benefits of the scheme. For instance, Kalyani Krishnan, 48, a farmer from Kalvirayanpettai village near Kumbakonam said she had received the first three instalments of Rs 2,000 each in 2019. However, it was stopped this year and repeated representations to the revenue and agricultural department officials have not helped, she said. “They have not given me any satisfactory answer too,” she said. R Rajamohan, a farmer in Thanjavur, said out of 215 farmers getting assistance under the PM Kisan Scheme in Ganapathi Agraharam, where he lives, four beneficiaries are government servants, who are ineligible to get such dole. V Murugan, 46, a second-generation farmer from Sunambur in Melur, near Madurai, who has been cultivating in 2 acres of land said he received only one instalment of PM Kisan Scheme since March 2019. “I have some issues regarding non-repayment of an agricultural loan. I have not been getting SMS alerts from the bank for some time. He was told to produce his land records recently. Since then, his dole has been stopped, he said. His neighbour, V Kumar, another farmer, said though he applied for the scheme in January 2019, till now he has not received even a single penny. “When genuine farmers are left out, many without even a square foot of land are getting payments,” he said. Similarly, K Thanikodi, 52, a farmer from Nallukkampatti in Usilampatti got just one instalment in January. There is no word from officials about further instalments, he said. Instead of giving such doles, the government should increase the procurement price of farm produce to improve the living condition of farmers, said Periyar Irrigation Farmers’ Distribution Committee member ANM Thirupathy. PM Kisan Scheme has made farmers look like beggars, he said. Meanwhile, the CB-CID has so far effected 21 arrests in the case. Out of them, five are erstwhile temporary contract employees of agricultural department, who were engaged as data-entry operators. All others booked in the case are internet café owners, who had helped ineligible people avail of the scheme benefits, said a CB-CID official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/many-genuine-farmers-left-out-of-pm-kisan-scheme-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78071351.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Labourer held for beggar’s murder||Hyderabad: Task Force police on Friday arrested a labourer in connection with the murder of a footpath dweller at Khairatabad five days ago. In another case, Siddipet police arrested a 25-year-old man for bludgeoning his father to death. Central zone Task Force inspector MA Jaweed said the accused, Mohammed Aslam Khan (27), killed a begger, Hassan, on September 7. “Hassan used to sleep on the footpath near the post office at Nirankari Bhavan. On September 7 night, Aslam threw a boulder on his head and killed him,” the inspector said. Task Force sleuths nabbed Aslam and handed him over to Saifabad police. In another case, Prasad (25), a mentally unsound man, was arrested for killing his father K Yellayya (60) in their Siddipet house on Thursday night. Prasad, who is a son of the second wife of Yellayya, used to beat up his father. Unable to put up with his son’s harassment, Yellayyya moved to a different house recently. On Thursday, when Ellayya returned to his old house for personal work, Prasad attacked him with boulders and killed him on the spot, Siddipet police said. Prasad was booked under section 302 of the IPC and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/labourer-held-for-beggars-murder/articleshow/78067114.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||TN govt should take responsibility: BJP||Coimbatore: BJP on Friday pinned the responsibility for the scam in Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme in Tamil Nadu on the state government. BJP state president L Murugan said the state government should take responsibility for the irregularities and set up a special probe panel to investigate the scam. “Centre wanted to simplify the registration procedure for the benefit of lakhs of poor farmers. But a proper implementation of the scheme is the responsibility of state,” Murugan told reporters in Coimbatore on Friday. “Whoever is behind the scam, the Tamil Nadu government should take action against them. A special investigation team should be formed and the probe should be intensified in all districts,” he said, adding that the government should ensure that the financial assistance reaches only the rightful beneficiaries. Meanwhile, a senior state government officer said that they have recovered Rs 42.3 crore credited to the bank accounts of ineligible beneficiaries. Few days back, state principal secretary of agriculture Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that Rs 32 crore has been recovered. Since then, the district collectors have intensified the recovery process. In Salem, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s home district, Rs 1.8 crore has been recovered out of Rs 6 crore credited to the accounts of ineligible beneficiaries. Salem collector S A Raman said that efforts are being taken to recover the remaining sum in the next three days. State authorities also maintained that so far they have not found involvement of officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-should-take-responsibility-bjp/articleshow/78068398.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Four FIRs day after farmers & cops clash||KURUKSHETRA: A day after police and protesting farmers at Krukshetra’s Pipli town clashed during an agitation against three agriculture ordinances passed by the Centre, district police on Friday registered four cases against farmers and BKU leaders. Police have booked farmers for allegedly attempting to murder Shahabad sub-division magistrate (SDM), violating Covid-19 norms, pelting stones at police, rioting, blocking National Highway (NH) 44, causing damage to public property, violation of prohibitory orders imposed by the Kurukshetra district administration, and others. Three cases have been registered at Thanesar Sadar police station, while the attempt to murder case has been registered at Shahabad Markanda police station. In Shahabad, police station house officer (SHO) inspector Devender Kumar lodged a complaint against BKU Haryana state president Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU media coordinator Rakesh Kumar Bains, BKU functionaries Jasbir Singh and Pankaj Hanaba, alleging that they disobeyed administrative orders and attempted to murder Shahabad SDM Kiran. SHO Devender stated to police, “Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU Haryana president, organised a rally at Pipli, Kurukshetra on September 10, 2020. In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the administration had imposed a ban on holding such a rally and Kurukshetra DC imposed Section 144. Despite this, Charuni announced publicly to reach the rally venue. Charuni released different videos on Facebook and WhatsApp, and announced to break police barricades and reach the rally venue.” “About 11 am on Thursday, my team was present at overbridge on GT Road near Sharifgarh village. SDM Shahabad Kiran, Shahabad tehsildar T R Gautam, Shahabad SEPO Shyam Lal, and Shahabad MC secretary Surinder Malik also came to the spot. We were talking to each other when, suddenly, due to instigation by Charuni, Bains, Habana and 100/150 farmers came there on tractortrollies, motorcycles, and cars. SDM tried to pacify them, but they did not listen and continued to march to Pipli .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-after-farmers-cops-clash-in-kurukshetra-4-firs-registered/articleshow/78069299.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 12, 2020||India||A life spent fighting bonded labour ends||NEW DELHI: Renowned social activist, Arya Samaj stalwart and former politician Swami Agnivesh passed away at 80 at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Delhi on Friday. He was suffering from liver cirrhosis. His role as the face of the movement against bonded labour and someone who brought the issue in focus in the 1980s is what Swami Agnivesh will be remembered for most. In 1981, he founded the Bandhua Mukti Morcha which continues to raise issues surrounding bonded labour in India. He was the chairman of the Morcha. tnn Agnivesh headed UN fund against slaveryOver the years, BMM estimates to have secured the release of more than 1,72,000 bonded labourers. Renowned internationally, Swami Agnivesh was thrice elected as chairperson of the UN Trust Fund on Contemporary Forms of Slavery. Recognition for his work came in the form of several national and international awards, including the Anti-Slavery International Award in London, 1990, the Freedom and Human Rights Award in Berne, 1994, the Rajiv Gandhi Award for Communal Harmony, and the Right Livelihood Award from Sweden, 2004. Swami Agnivesh was born Vepa Shyam Rao on September 21, 1939, in Andhra Pradesh. He gained degrees in law and commerce, became a lecturer at St Xavier’s College in Kolkata.In his student days, he gravitated towards the Arya Samaj. He finally plunged into political and social activism, leaving Kolkata for Haryana. In 1968, he became a full-time worker at the Arya Samaj, and two years later, embraced sanyas and became Swami Agnivesh. He also founded a political party, the Arya Sabha. His political life started with the struggle for Haryana’s fair share as it was emerging as a state separated from Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-life-spent-fighting-bonded-labour-ends/articleshow/78069514.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Government to start post-Covid clinics: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the government would start post-Covid clinics to provide treatment to people facing issues after recovering from the novel coronavirus. The clinics, which will start at primary health centres (PHCs), will offer counselling and treatment, he said. Sawant, who has recovered from Covid-19, said that some people do face health issues even after they have been cured of Covid-19. He said it has been observed signs of lung fibrosis have been observed in patients above 60. He, however, said the complications can be varied, and that more things are yet to be known since the virus is new. “There can be various complications. Some can’t maintain their regular breathing rate, some have headaches, some complain of body ache,” he said. Sawant said that post-Covid ailments can be tackled with proper counselling and treatment. “The clinics will play an important role in the management of health issues of Covid-cured people,” he said. Speaking about his personal experience, he said that he is dealing with post-Covid stress with regular exercise including pranayama, intake of lot of liquids, and a healthy diet. Replying to a question, he said that during his illness, he was prescribed antibiotics by doctors at Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, and he also consulted ayurvedic doctors to contain any complications that may arise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-start-post-covid-clinics/articleshow/78068414.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Delay in conducting exam may work in favour of students||CHENNAI: The delay of four months may be an advantage for many students who otherwise had little time to prepare for NEET immediately after the board exams. Though crash courses were not possible due to Covid-19, many students said their scores in mock tests have improved in the past four months. S Gokul, a NEET aspirant from Namakkal, said he used to score around 500 in mock tests. But now his score was above 600. He said he was able to clarify all his doubts online after every class. Sam Dharshan, a student from the city, said his performance has improved. “I have been preparing for the last two years for NEET. The four-month gap has helped me to improve in many areas,” he said. P Swaminathan, secretary of SRV Schools in Trichy and Namakkal, said the delay has worked in favour of regular students. “We have been able to conduct 35 full mock tests of 720 marks. The boys who scored 450 in May have improved around 100 marks in four months,” he said. Coaching institutes said the gap might help students. “It has allowed students to study and revise better. But there is a slight disadvantage to students as we could not conduct offline exams to simulate exam experience,” said B Pavan Kumar, deputy director, FIITJEE. R Deepalakshmi, a student from Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Ashok Nagar, said she has been preparing for NEET for the past three months online in the state-sponsored free coaching programme. “There is a test every day in our coaching programme. The delay in conducting NEET helped my preparation. In the full mock tests, I scored above 80% marks,” she said. With a separate quota for government school students, Deepalakshmi is confident of getting a medical seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/delay-in-conducting-exam-may-work-in-favour-of-students/articleshow/78067142.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Om Parkash Dhankar sets up 3-member panel for talks with farmers||CHANDIGARH: Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar on Friday constituted a three-member committee of MPs of the state to mediate in the issue of lathicharge on farmers in Pipli a day earlier. Dhankar said the police action was inappropriate but the farmers should also take the path of dialogue rather than conflict. The use of force on farmers, though, seems to have divided the party leaders as some have openly criticised it. Many senior party leaders have called the police action against farmers, in which over 50 protesters were injured, as inappropriate but they also advised caution, saying farmer organisations should have considered the sensitivity of pandemic and implications of huge assembly in such times. “Lathicharge is not appropriate For the wellness of self as well as the family members, farmers should avoid such gatherings. For us, farmers and their families are top priority,” said Dhankar. A dialogue will help find a solution, and not the conflict, he said. “We have constituted a three-member committee of MPs comprising Brijendera Singh, Nayab Singh Saini and Dharamveer Singh to hold a dialogue with farmers so that an amicable solution can be found,” he added. However, Haryana home minister Anil Vij dismissed the charge of police lathicharge on agitating farmers, saying, “We have verified and cross-checked from various sources as well as the officials. There was no lathicharge. We have just dispersed those blocking national highways.” He also confirmed that police had registered cases against protesting farmers under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, for violating the prohibitory orders and also for blocking the national highway. “Haryana has more than 20,000 progressive farmers who market their produce directly. Ordinances shall support and help these farmers. There is no change in the system of procurement,” said Dhankar. “I have asked the government to rush agriculture officers to villages to create awareness about the system,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dhankar-sets-up-3-member-mp-panel-to-mediate-with-farmers/articleshow/78069300.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Cong slams govt over action against farmers||Chandigarh: The Haryana Congress leaders have come together and criticised the ruling BJP-JJP coalition for Thursday’s incident on alleged cane-charging of farmers in the Kurukshetra district. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and party’s communication wing in-charge Randeep Singh Surjwala went to Kurukshetra on Friday. The deputy leader of opposition, Aftab Ahmed, and former Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry, also issued statements regarding the incident. Congress leaders took a strong exception to the statement of BJP, which claimed that “the agitation and agitators were supported and sponsored by their party”. Hooda, who is the leader of opposition, gave the government an ultimatum of 10 days to sort out the issue and withdraw cases against farmers registered in the Kurukshetra district. “The governments that have used force on farmers, could not survive for long in Haryana. We stand with farmers. We promise to hold a protest with 10-lakh farmers in Pipli after the pandemic threat is over. The government should withdraw cases and tender an apology to farmers,” he said. He said if the government was serious about the welfare of farmers; it should then bring a bill for implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report on prices for crops. Selja termed the constitution of the three-member committee by Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankha as a sham. “This is the height of hypocrisy as BJP has constituted a team for farmers. It is strange to see that first the ‘thagbandhan’ (coalition) cane-charged farmers, who are fighting for their rights, and then crack a cruel joke by constituting a committee for dialogue with them,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cong-slams-govt-over-action-against-farmers/articleshow/78069302.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||TN, Kerala to work on water diversion scheme||Chennai/Thiruvananthapuram: The Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments on Friday decided to move ahead in implementing the Pandiyar-Punnampuzha scheme that envisages utilisation of the west flowing waters of Pandiyar and Punnampuzha rivers that drains into the Arabian sea. The project is aimed at diverting the water eastward so that drought-prone areas of Tamil Nadu would benefit with additional scope for generation of hydropower on both sides, sources told TOI.  During the six hour-long meeting in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, both the governments represented by senior officers of irrigation and electricity departments discussed threadbare the inter-state water disputes, including Parambikulam-Aliyar Project that benefits the western districts. “This is just the preliminary stage in a series of discussions being held with Tamil Nadu. After we understand the requirements of the individual states, we will do the necessary homework and return to the discussion table. We hope to settle these matters amicably and as early as possible, hopefully within two to three months,” Kerala’s water resources minister K Krishnan Kutty said Both the governments set up high-level committees last year subsequent to a meeting of chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala in Thiruvananthapuram in October. The last meeting between the chief ministers took place in Chennai in 2004. “Kerala is positive. They have sought details like where the dam shall be, the capacity of the structure, the availability of water, and the share that each state would get and the mechanism for compliance,” a senior TN government official said. The Tamil Nadu government is pleased with Kerala's gesture and it has agreed to share the details within a week as way forward.  Pandiyar-Punnampuzha has its origin in The Nilgiris and joins Chaliyar river in Kerala near Nilambur. Of the 2,923sq kms of Chaliyar basin, the 388sq km of its water catchment areas fall in the hilly region of Tamil Nadu and the total annual yield of the basin is 108tmcft, including 27.6tmcft from Tamil Nadu. The Tamil Nadu government is keen on getting the waters diverted, since there are requests from the farmers to divert at least 7tmcft of water to Moyar arm of Bhavani river.  There was an understanding in 1965 itself between the governments for hydroelectric projects utilising the Pandiyar and Punnampuzha rivers. But the scheme did not take off despite interventions. The plan was to generate 100MW in phase I and 150MW in phase II utilising 14tmcft of water for Tamil Nadu. The officials are non-committal about the projects now.  The first review of the PAP agreement pending since 1988 with both states accusing each other of not sharing adequate water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-kerala-to-work-on-water-diversion-scheme/articleshow/78068402.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Task force arrests 2 peddlers, seizes 90g of mephedrone||HYDERABAD: The city’s Task Force arrested two peddlers and seized 90 grams of mephedrone and three cell phones from their possession. The accused were identified as Manoj Kumar Panwar (24), a BA student from Venkatreddy Nagar Colony, Ramanthapur, and Manohar Bishnoi (26), a factory worker from Meerpet. Both are natives of Rajasthan. About six months back, Manohar Bishnoi came to Hyderabad and started working at Meerpet. Due to meagre earnings, he contacted his friend Manoj Kumar Panwar and the latter suggested that he should sell mephedrone. Manoj used to buy this drug from one Jalaram of Rajasthan. “Manoj offered to pay Rs 20,000 per month to Manohar for selling mephedrone. As per the plan, Manohar started selling mephedrone to customers for Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 per gram,” Task Force DCP, P Radha Kishan Rao said. “About four days back, Manoj brought 100 grams of mephedrone,” the DCP added. While Manohar was waiting for prospective customers near the polytechnic college bus stop in Amberpet, police caught him with three sachets of the drug, containing three grams in total, and seized two cell phones. “Manohar took our team to Manoj’s house in Ramanthapur and we found 87 grams of mephedrone and a digital weighing machine from his possession,” said inspector Md Abdul Javeed. In another case, the East Zone Task Force reportedly apprehended three peddlers and seized over 100 kilos of ganja at Sultan Bazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-arrests-2-peddlers-seizes-90g-of-mephedrone/articleshow/78067140.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||HC issues bailable warrants against 4 senior HP officers||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh high court issued bailable warrant of Rs 25,000 each against the principal secretary of irrigation and public health department, engineer-in-chief, superintending engineer of Shimla circle and executive engineer of Sunni division on Friday, after they failed to file compliance affidavit before it. They will also have to furnish a surety of the same amount each. Justice Vivek Singh Thakur passed these orders following a contempt petition filed by one Govind Singh for violation of the April 23, 2019, tribunal orders directing the irrigation and public health department to allow the petitioner to serve the department up to the age of 60 years. The petitioner has appealed to the court to direct the respondents to release his salary till date along with 12%. After abolition of the erstwhile tribunal, the petition was transferred to the high court. When the respondents did not file compliance affidavit despite several opportunities, they were directed to appear in the court in person on Thursday. But, they did not only skip the hearing but also failed to file an affidavit. The court has posted the matter for hearing on October 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-issues-bailable-warrants-against-4-senior-hp-officers/articleshow/78069307.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Vadodara||Extend RTE application time: VPA||Vadodara: Demanding the state government and the district education officer (DEO) to extend the date for aspirants seeking admission under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, members of Vadodara Parents Association (VPA) on Friday reached DEO office premises at Karelibaug to submit a memorandum in this regard. “At a time when extensions have been granted for various purposes including filing income tax returns, why shouldn’t the children from underprivileged sections of the society not get a chance to apply,” said VPA member Deepak Palkar. VPA members said that many parents could not submit online applications before September 7, which was fixed as the last date for submitting such applications. “Also, there was lack of coordination. Earlier, parents used to get options of schools located in their vicinity. Now, only name of one school gets reflected. Such problems need to be addressed before finalising the admissions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/extend-rte-application-time-vpa/articleshow/78064923.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||After warning, fish sale at Goa's Caranzalem disciplined||PANAJI: Soon after the North Goa collectorate warned the fishermen at Caranzalem beach, fish buyers who were crowding at the shore and breaking social distancing norms were seen making their purchase from a stall designated for fish purchase near the beach. “This is a temporary structure made of bamboo that has been erected for a few months. Here we have asked volunteers to ensure social distance is maintained and police patrolling will also be done to ensure discipline,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. On Friday, fewer people were seen crowding the beach to purchase the fish from the stall. Fishermen from the area however attributed for the lesser footfalls to a decrease in fish catch owing to weather conditions. “Due to heavy rain and underwater current, we have not been able to net a big catch like we did last week. As a result, the buyers are also less. The restoration of order will be possible only if buyers stop crowding the area and maintain discipline themselves,” a fisherman said. The fishermen are currently able to accumulate only about 10 baskets of fish compared to 60 to 70 baskets last week. Each basket has about 15 to 20kg of fish, fishermen said. Last week, bumper fish catch attracted nearly 500 people at the Caranzalem beach who crowded the area to purchase the fresh fish directly from the boats. The blatant violation of social distancing norms resulted in police intervention. North Goa collectorate, along with the directorate of fisheries and the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP), held a meeting to warn the fishermen to follow proper SOPs or face suspension of fish sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-warning-fish-sale-at-caranzalem-disciplined/articleshow/78068939.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh: Row over pending rental dues of ex-SEC||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh government has landed in a controversy after the house owner, who provided accommodation to former state election commissioner V Kanagaraj, refused to let authorities pick up the furniture as he was vacating the premises in Vijayawada on Thursday. According to Machavaram police, they received a complaint from state panchayat raj department against the house owner, Valluri Ravindranath, for obstructing their duties. V Kanagaraj, a retired Madras high court judge, assumed charge as SEC for four months after the state government abruptly ended the tenure of incumbent Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on April 10 by reducing the tenure of the SEC to three years from five. From April 11 onwards, Kanagaraj was provided accommodation in a luxury flat in Landmark Pride Apartment near Benz Circle, Vijayawada, at a monthly rent of Rs 1,11,800. The state panchayat raj department provided the necessary furniture and other facilities for his stay during this period. Recently, the AP high court struck down the government’s orders reducing the tenure of Ramesh Kumar. Later, Kumar assumed charge as the SEC. Justice Kanagaraj, who wanted to return to Tamil Nadu, vacated the house. Officials sources said that Kanagaraj had assumed that the panchayat raj department would pay the rent. On the contrary, the panchayat raj department now made it clear that Kanagaraj should bear the rental as his salary component includes rental allowance. Ravindranath too believed that the panchayat raj would pay the pending Rs 6 lakh rent on behalf of Kanagaraj. Speaking to media, Ravindranath said that he has no political links and has no intentions of stopping the government authorities and is only fighting for the pending money that he should get as a house owner. He said he would move the court if justice was not done. The authorities had left the flat without taking the furniture as Ravindranath said that they could move the furniture only after his dues are cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/row-over-pending-rental-dues-of-ex-sec/articleshow/78067169.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 12, 2020||Rajkot||Cong wins jilla panchayat prez poll||Palanpur: The national party like BJP could not field a tribal woman for the reserved seat of president in Jilla Panchayat in Banaskantha. As a result Congress won the presidential election on Thursday. The president’s post had been reserved for the next two and a half years, on which Congress candidate Varkiben Parghi was elected unopposed. Bhupat Makawana of Congress was elected as the vice-president on Friday. A senior BJP leader on the condition of anonymity admitted that the party had no tribal woman candidate in Banaskantha district Panchayat. The Congress has 36 members, while the BJP has 30. However, the BJP has no woman tribal member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-wins-jilla-panchayat-prez-poll/articleshow/78065509.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||IMS fraud money deposited in court||Hyderabad: ACB sleuths seized Rs 2.29 crore ill-gotten money given to a real estate firm by IMS scam accused and deposited the same before the court on Friday. Former IMS director Devika Rani and ESI hospital pharmacist Nag Lakshmi had paid unaccounted money to a real estate firm. The amount was deposited online before court by the real estate firm, an ACB official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ims-fraud-money-deposited-in-court/articleshow/78067145.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maratha leaders talk to CM, urge him to keep quota benefits going||MUMBAI: In an online meeting with CM Uddhav Thackeray on Friday, Maratha community leaders demanded that students or job applicants from the community should not be deprived of the benefits of reservation. Eligible students of the socially and educationally backward classes should get fee reimbursement and candidates selected for government jobs should be given appointment letters immediately since the process had been initiated before the SC interim order staying the reservation was pass||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maratha-leaders-talk-to-cm-urge-him-to-keep-quota-benefits-going/articleshow/78076626.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
September 12, 2020||Shimla||Strong buzz about Kangana Ranaut and family joining saffron party||MANALI: Actor Kangana Ranaut’s native Himachal Pradesh was agog with speculation on Friday that she and the rest of the family were set to join BJP. The buzz got stronger after a video emerged of Kangana's mother Asha, a former Sanskrit teacher, thanking PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for standing by her family "despite knowing we supported the Congress". Video: Actor #KanganaRanaut 's mother thanks PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for standing by her… https://t.co/RwuWRFjaRB— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1599894132000Kangana’s late grandfather, Sarju Ram, was a Congress MLA from the erstwhile Gopalpur constituency of Mandi district. Read AlsoKangana Ranaut raises brows with tweet against Maharashtra CM Uddhav ThackerayAll eyes were on Kangana Ranaut as her flight landed at Mumbai airport on Wednesday afternoon from Chandigarh. She was returning to the city for the first time following her controversial remarks against Mumbai police and a war of words with the Shiv Sena.“We thank PM Modi and home minister Shah for providing security to Kangana. We also thank (Himachal) chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for his support. Had the government not given security to my daughter, I can’t even imagine what could have happened to her in Mumbai," Asha said after a BJP march to her ancestral home in Bhambla village, around 155km from Manali, on Thursday. Read AlsoDon’t back Kangana's POK comment: BJPLeader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday blamed the Shiv Sena for making the Kangana Ranaut affair a national issue. “Daily the cases are rising in Maharashtra, 40% of deaths on account of Covid-19 are in Maharashtra. All I would say to the government is that if it would employ even 50%The march was to show solidarity with Kangana, whose Bandra office was demolished by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation within days of her spat with Shiv Sena and threats by party functionaries not to return to Mumbai. While there is no official confirmation yet, sources said BJP's Himachal unit has already indicated its eagerness to lay the red carpet for the Ranauts. Read AlsoKangana flight chaos: Take 'appropriate action' against unruly passengers, DGCA tells IndiGo"There are multiple issues. The prominent ones include photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules. Violation of Covid protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behavior on board. We have asked the airline to take appropriate action against those responsible," aAsha said her family was overwhelmed by the support her daughter had been getting from the "whole nation" for standing up to the Shiv Sena. Read AlsoWhat affidavit says on Kangana Ranaut's bungalowIn the affidavit filed in the Bombay high court, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has stated that actor Kangana Ranaut has unlawfully made substantial alterations and additions to the property, contrary to the sanctioned building plan and termed her allegations against it as "baseless"."She (Kangana) always stands by the truth and will keep fighting for the truth. The Centre has won our hearts by extending tremendous support." The usually media shy former teacher has lately been active on Twitter, too. Most of the tweets from the handle, which was created only last month, are against Congress and Shiv Sena. At last count, Kangna’s mother Asha had just over 18,000 followers, of which around 10,000 were added in the last five days. Watch Kangana vs Shiv Sena: Political plunge next move for the actor?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/kangana-family-likely-to-join-bjp-soon/articleshow/78069305.cms||Suresh Sharma
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Agitated farmers protest outside deputy CM’s residence in Sirsa||Sirsa: In their protest against the lathicharge at Pipli rally, hundreds of farmers gheraoed the residence of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday. Heavy police force was already deployed outside the residence by the deputy chief minister. Farmers demanded the deputy chief minister to either provide compensation for damaged crops or resign within 48 hours, failing which they would intensify their protest. Farmers from all over the district have been protesting for the last four days at the mini-secretariat demanding compensation for crops damaged due to whitefly and rain. At the same time, terminated PTI teachers and ASHA workers’ union also supported the farmers. The farmers took out a march at noon and went to the residence of the deputy chief minister. They also raised slogans against the government. Vikal Pachar, state president of the All-India Swaminathan Sangharsh Samiti, said the government adopted a repressive policy to stop the rally held at Pipli in Kurukshetra against the government’s three anti-farmer ordinances. “There is anger among the farmers. The deputy chief minister claimed to be farmer-friendly before the elections, but today he stands with the government,” he said. The main demands of the farmers’ include compensation of Rs 40,000 per acre by making special girdawari of crops, issuing tubewell connections and 50 per cent share to farming in the Haryana budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agitated-farmers-protest-outside-deputy-cms-residence-in-sirsa/articleshow/78069309.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||After Kurukshetra rally, farmers to march till Parliament||Jind: A day after organising a farmers’ rally at Kurukshetra which was attended by thousands of farmers from across Haryana, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) announced a march till Parliament during the upcoming monsoon session, which starts from September 14. Fifty farmers each from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will carry out the march to raise their issues, including their opposition to three agriculture-related ordinances brought in by the Centre. The decision was taken at a meeting in Jind on Friday. Farmers even sent 500 letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding MSP on crops and timely payments instead of company rule. The BKU also set a target to send 5 lakh such postal letters from the state. Earlier, several farmers held a protest march on Friday till the post office and raised slogans against Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Modi. Ramphal Kandela, BKU national vice-president, said, “We strongly condemned the police action on farmers in Kurukshetra and decided to march till the Parliament. We will demand a law to include MSP and timely payment provision in the ordinance.” “The government has failed to win the trust and make farmers understand these issues. Who will be responsible for payment of crops if the private company runs away after procurement and what is the guarantee that companies will not cheat farmers by purchasing crops below the MSP? The present government is trying to stop the farmers from raising issues citing the pandemic, but farmers won’t take a step back and would launch an agitation even if police book us for violating corona norms,” he added. Farmers launched an attack against newly-appointed BJP state president O P Dhankar, saying that he was the one who used to hold half naked protests to raise farmers’ issues and was now misleading them by counting the benefits of three ordinances. These leaders formed the government on the pretext of helping farmers, but cheated us, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-kurukshetra-rally-farmers-to-march-till-parliament/articleshow/78069313.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Goa may soon see 1,000 cases a day: Goa minister||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that Goa may soon see 1,000 Covid-19 cases a day because “community transmission” is happening in the state. The pace of infection in the state has intensified this month, and Rane had earlier said that Goa may have over 25,000 cases by the end of September. “We are reporting 500-600 cases a day. We may go up to 1,000 cases a day,” Rane said, adding that containing mortality is a big challenge. He said the task has been rendered difficult as many patients are reporting late for treatment, and some die within hours of admission to the hospital. However, he said Covid-19 casualties are slowly reducing. As of Friday, 276 people in the state have died of Covid-19, and some of these fatalities were “brought dead” to hospital. Goa has reported over 22,000 Covid-19 cases, and 18,065 of them have recovered. Since September 1, over 5,000 new cases have been detected. Rane reiterated on Friday that Covid-19 patients with symptoms must immediately seek medical help for better treatment and cure. The health minister also refuted claims by some that the government was hiding data on Covid-19 patients. He said that while the Covid-19 vaccine is the ultimate hope to end the pandemic, he doesn’t see it being launched by the end of the year. Referring to reports that some pharma companies have stopped trials, he said, “The vaccine may be launched in the first quarter of next year.” Meanwhile, to mitigate the shortage of nurses in Covid care facilities, Rane said nurses currently attached to Goa dental college and hospital will also be absorbed for Covid duties. Considering the poor response for job advertisements — whether technicians or multi-task workers — he said 70 jobs would be outsourced. Rane said that the state government is incurring the highest expenditure per Covid patients, and that details of these expenses would be shared next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-may-soon-see-1000-cases-a-day-rane/articleshow/78068432.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Sulphur-like smell unnerves Hyderabad, locals approach PCB||HYDERABAD: A pungent smell left residents over a large swathes of the city on tenterhooks on Friday. Multiple complaints were made to the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) from Bachupally to Gachibowli regarding the “sulphur-like smell”. Sateesh Karanam, Hill County township, Bachupally, said, “Over the past week, the smell has been coming for a span of around 15 minutes a day. Today all of a sudden, it was extreme.” When contacted, TSPCB sources said ground teams had been moving from place to place for hours. “The gasses are suspected to have been released by pharma industry located near Bachupally,” said a TSPCB official, on condition of anonymity. Another official said that because of the slow movement of air, the dispersion of the pollutants had also been slow, worsening the smell. An investigation is ongoing. Hundreds of complaints poured from residents of Bachupally, Hafeezpet, Ameenpur, Nallagandla, Miyapur, Madinaguda and Gachibowli. People complained of a mix of smog and terrible odour. In an intense two-hour span, there were several complaints of ill-health, including headaches because of the pollution. Karanam said all that people expected was that adequate pollution-control measures be implemented. A resident of Gachibowli, Swati R, said, “I developed a headache because of the smell. I shut the windows because I did not want my children to breathe the polluted air.” Surendra Uplanchiwar, a resident of Ameenpur, said, “We suffered from 4.30pm to 6.30pm. I just couldn’t bear the odour. I had to make three calls to PCB to register a complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sulphur-like-smell-unnerves-city-locals-approach-pcb/articleshow/78067184.cms||Uttara Varma
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Bytco to soonget large O2tank: Official||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday said that it would complete the tender process for obtaining large oxygen tanks on rent for Bytco hospital within three four days, said additional municipal commissioner Pravin Ashtikar on Friday. The civic body has set up 200 oxygen beds with centralized system at Bytco, but they are not operational due to a lack of large oxygen tank. The last day for filing bids is Saturday. “We need a 20,000-litre tank for Bytco. We were planning to procure tanks and had floated bids twice, but did not receive response. There are only four industries in the country that make large oxygen tanks. However, three of them have stopped operations during the lockdown and only the one in Chennai is operational,” said Ashtikar. “We have floated a bid for the tank a third time, but this time it is for getting large oxygen tanks on rent. In fact, two agencies had approached us to rent out the oxygen tanks and we told them to file the bid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bytco-to-soonget-large-o2tank-official/articleshow/78064685.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 12, 2020||Goa||Govt planning to partially reopen schools after September 20: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the state government plans to reopen educational institutions for students of Classes IX, X, XI, XII and the final year graduation level in consultation with parent-teacher associations and headmasters’ associations. “Although we have not finalised this, we have initiated steps to begin after September 20,” Sawant told reporters during a virtual press conference. The central government had recently announced that educational institutions could reopen from September 21 for students of Classes IX-XII and that attendance would be voluntary. While stating that Goa was the first state in the country to provide virtual training to teachers, Sawant said that online classes have already begun for students of Classes X and XII and higher education. The chief minister, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 2, said he would restart work on September 17 and would hold physical meetings. He also said regular exercise and a healthy diet are key to overcoming the dreaded infection. Speaking on the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) initiative, Sawant said the state government’s focus is on reforms for land, labour, liquidity and law. Field work under the Atmanirbhar package will begin from October 2 in village panchayats and municipalities across the state, the chief minister said, and added that he has instructed government departments which still haven’t begun work under the concept to prepare a plan to make Goa self-sufficient. “Ninety per cent of the state’s population can benefit from the package,” he told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-planning-to-partially-reopen-schools-after-sept-20-cm/articleshow/78068447.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 9,000 smuggling cases, 660 encroachments in Telangana forests||HYDERABAD: As many as 6,721 smuggling cases were booked by the forest department during 2019-2020, in which the officials seized timber worth Rs 5.64 crore and collected a compounding fee of Rs 10.61 crore. Further, 2,585 undetected smuggling cases have been registered during the same period in which timber worth Rs 3.42 crores was seized and transported to the government timber depots. State forest and environment minister Allola Indira Karan Reddy further explained that apart from timber, 668 encroachment cases were also booked and strict punishments are being imposed under the PD Act on the culprits committing forests offences. Remembering the sacrifices made by the forest officers at Nehru Zoological Park on Forest Martyrs’ Day, observed on September 11, the minister informed that nearly 21 officers of various cadres in Telangana have sacrificed their lives for protection of forests and wildlife since 1984. “The Covid-19 pandemic has restricted all the citizens to their homes. But the officers and staff of forest department continued their service towards the forests even in this difficult situation,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-9k-smuggling-case-660-encroachments-in-t-forests/articleshow/78067233.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Goa||Free Covid care kits for home quarantined: Goa minister||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that asymptomatic patients in home isolation will be given Covid care kits. “Goa is the first state in the country to launch this kind of an initiative for patients in home isolation. The distribution of kits will start in a week’s time,” Rane told reporters. Times ViewThe government’s move to provide Covid care kits to asymptomatic patients in home isolation is commendable. However, the same should have been offered a month ago at the time when the option of opting for home isolation was announced. While it is claimed Goa is the first state in the country to launch this kind of an initiative for those in home isolation, the government is now all the more duty-bound to walk the talk and commence the distribution of kits within a week. What’s crucial is to expressly set up a no-nonsense distribution system to effectively reach out to even those in the hinterland. With the death rate spiralling, it is important the health department continue upgrading facilities for treatment of symptomatic patients.Apart from vitamin tablets and hydroxychloroquine tablets, a kit will contain a digital thermometer, an oximeter, a spirometer, disposable gloves, one N-95 mask, three triple-layered masks, a sanitiser bottle and other items required to take care of the patient in home isolation, he said. CM Pramod Sawant has approved this proposal because home isolation patients in villages are unable to access oximeters and other things needed for monitoring, the health minister said. The purchase committee will take its decision soon and the distribution of kits will be done through primary health centres, which will be the nodal bodies, he said. Rane said health officers will explain to the patients in home isolation on how to use the kits. “We don’t want patients to buy anything,” he said, adding that the Goa government is trying to give the best possible treatment to Covid-19 patients. As of Thursday evening, 394 patients are in home isolation. Taking pot shots at the Goa unit of AAP, Rane said, Goa doesn't need to emulate the model of a state which has floundered in Covid management and the Centre had to intervene. He said a combination of plasma therapy and remdesivir along with antiviral medication has proved effective in treating Covid patients. “We will not stop plasma therapy. More people are willing to donate plasma. We have 70 plasma packs today,” the minister said. Rane said director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa’s oxygen saturation level improved after he was administered plasma. D’Sa, who was treated at a private hospital for Covid, was discharged on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patients-in-home-isolation-to-get-free-covid-care-kits-rane/articleshow/78068444.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoist party courier held in Bhadradri||HYDERABAD: Bhadradri Kothagudem police arrested a Maoist party worker and seized explosive material, suspected to be used for manufacturing IEDs, from his possession. While Bhadrachalam SI B Mahesh and his team were on foot patrolling, they intercepted a suspect near Ambedkar centre. When his bag was examined, police found detonators and other explosive materials. The suspect was taken into custody. Paddam Kallu, 23, is a resident of Gelur village in Pusubaka of Bijapur district, Chhattisgarh. Kallu told police during interrogation that he was part of Maoist party’s children’s group and later started working as a courier for Papa Rao, a member of Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (SZC). “Kallu supplies explosive material to Maoist party dalams. As per the directions of Papa Rao, he procured 150 detonators and two liquid boosters from an unknown person. We caught him while he was going to Chhattisgarh,” said Bhadrachalam ASP, Rajesh Chandra. Recently, Maoist party members had triggered a land mine blast on BT Road in Cherla mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-party-courier-held-in-bhadradri/articleshow/78067240.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man assaulted by residents for feeding community dogs||CHENNAI: James Baynes, an animal lover who has been feeding stray dogs at Jayachandran Nagar near Pallikkaranai, was assaulted and abused by residents on Friday morning. Baynes, who filed a complaint with the nearby police station, also took to social media to recount the traumatic experience. “I have been feeding about 100 strays in the area for the past five years. The residents have not been happy about it though the animals have not caused any nuisance,” said 56-year-old Baynes. “On Friday, at 5:30am, I went to feed the dogs as usual. A resident, who was watching it, suddenly threw a stone at one of the dogs. Since it hit its head, I asked him why he was hurting an animal unnecessarily.” This led to an argument. “The man abused me, caught hold of my shirt, tore the pocket and sleeves and pushed me. Soon 10 other people surrounded me, I was scared and called my son for help,” said Baynes. When his son, David, 25, reached the spot, he found his father surrounded by an angry crowd. “They were shouting at us and using abusive language. So we went to the S10 police station in Pallikkaranai and filed a complaint,” said David, adding that when police said that they would be sending personnel to investigate the matter. “We returned to the spot and found about 40 people who had gathered there. My brother and a colleague had also arrived to help us,” said David, adding that some residents again tried to abuse and hit them. “Later, a few cops came, but they listened to the residents and just asked us to feed the animals elsewhere.” Azhagu, inspector of police, S 10 Pallikkaranai police station, said, “We have registered a complaint and will be enquiring into the matter.” Feeding strays is not a crime and is not forbidden by the law. “During the lockdown, the PM asked people to feed stray animals in their area. And we have laws in place too,” said Chinny Krishna, co-founder, Blue Cross of India, adding that no one can prevent animal lovers from feeding stray dogs. “According to the Animal Welfare Board of India’s revised guidelines on pet dogs and street dogs, there is no law that prohibits the feeding of street animals. Citizens who do so are in fact performing a duty cast upon them by the Constitution of India – of showing compassion to all living creatures. Courts have upheld feeding of street dogs since the same reduces human-animal conflict and suspicion, and facilitates animal birth control “by making dog catching easier,” said Chinny.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-assaulted-by-residents-for-feeding-community-dogs/articleshow/78067236.cms||Priya Menon
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Over 2,000 booked for not wearing masks in Aug||Nashik: Over 2,000 people were booked by city police in the month of August for not wearing mask in public places. According to a senior police officer, there has been a significant drop in the number of people booked in August as there was more awareness among people about the use of masks. “On September 2, the total number of people booked by the police for not wearing masks stood at 19,194. On July 31, the total number of people booked were 17,158, which means in over a month’s time we have booked only 2,046 people,” the officer said. “The rate of infection has increased owing to which there is greater awareness among people with respect to wearing mask. The result of this is that the police are finding lesser number of people who are without mask,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-2000-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-in-aug/articleshow/78064714.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Homeward ho! The new travel trend amid pandemic||CHENNAI: For the past seven months, Indu Balakrishnan has been cooped up with her two children and husband in their two-bedroom apartment in Velachery. That’s why, this Saturday, she, along with her family, plans to hop into their car and drive down to their hometown in Kannur. “All of us are tired of being at home, especially the kids as we couldn’t go for our annual summer holiday. So we thought we would head back home, especially as my mother’s house is by the sea,” says Indu. “We will get to meet our parents, our children will get to have a beach holiday and my work won’t get interrupted as our company has given us a work from home option till January,” says the 36-year-old HR manager. Lockdown restrictions have eased, and cities are now abuzz with activity. But even as more people head back to offices, a smaller segment is packing their bags to go “hometown tripping”. With fear of the pandemic still in the air, people bitten by the travel bug are sticking to safer options, such as visiting family and friends in nearby places -- they feel it’s safer, cheaper, yet provides you with a much-needed change of place. A trend, industry experts say, which may not benefit the travel trade – as people may opt to drive down and give hotels and resorts a miss – but is likely to remain till things get better. “People are tired of sitting at home for months and want a change of scene. So they are looking at visiting relatives and friends. It will give them break of sorts and they will feel safer staying in known surroundings rather than hotels,” says Faisal Sharhabeel of Magellan Travel services Pvt Ltd. “Of course, they are still nervous about travel and take all precautions. But I feel, once things get better, this trend may change as people will want new experiences,” he says. Suchi Sekri, for instance, has decided to visit her brother in Bengaluru next week. “I know the situation is not good in Karnataka but we are driving down, and will be staying in his home, which is spacious. Though we may not go out much, at least my children will get to spend time with their cousins,” says the 40-year-old. WFH will be a challenge, she admits, with more people around. “But since we can’t holiday, this is the next best thing.” Bharath Gowtham, a 26-year old advocate practising at the Madras High Court, is heading back to his mom’s house in Nagiampatti, a village about 100km from Salem. “I haven’t met her since March 1, and during these months she has managed to build a new house there. So, I will be there for the housewarming and get to spend time in my new home with my mom,” he says. (With inputs from Harshitha Kumayaa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/homeward-ho-the-new-travel-trend-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78067239.cms||Priya Menon
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro to don old avatar, in new-normal limits||NEW DELHI: After 173 days, the capital’s lifeline, Delhi Metro, donned its old avatar even as it adapts to the “new normal”. The graded resumption of service entered its final stage on Saturday with train operations reverting to pre-lockdown timings of 6am to 11pm. All corridors are now functional with the addition of the high-speed Airport Express Line. After staggered operational timings and gradual reopening of its primary corridors over the past five days, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will push 288 trains into service from Saturday, which will make more than 3,700 trips through the day. The longest and busiest corridor, Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City), will see 66 trains being deployed for nearly 640 trips, followed by 57 trains on Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) making more than 600 trips. With the opening of more corridors, ridership reached nearly 1.3 lakh on Friday. The increase in ridership was aided by the opening of more interchange stations, which would reach 28 on Saturday providing multiple travelling options to commuters. Though Delhi Metro will make many more trips through the day from Saturday without any “off peak” hours, the weekends usually don’t see much rush. Monday is going to be the real challenge for DMRC as its ability to handle increasing footfalls through longer service hours will be put to test. Anticipating a huge rush in the morning and evening peak hours, DMRC’s managing director Mangu Singh took to social media on Friday and urged commuters to “break the peak” by trying to stagger the timings at which they reach office or leave for home. Before the pandemic, 11am to 4pm were considered off peak hours and frequency of trains was reduced. However, owing to the new norms of social distancing, which has significantly reduced the number of passengers allowed in a train, DMRC has decided to run the peak hour frequency of trains from 8am to 8pm. Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. said, “From 6am to 8am and from 8pm to closing of services, trains will be available at a frequency of 3 to 15 minutes. However, from 8am to 8pm, the frequency would be between 2 minutes 45 seconds and 6 minutes.” In the case of Blue Line, trains coming from Dwarka leave alternately for Vaishali and Noida Electronic City. The waiting period for passengers destined to any of these two places would be double of other sections. A high-speed train would be available on Airport Express Line every 10 minutes from 8am to 8pm as earlier. “Commuters should keep 15-30 minutes extra time at hand because of thermal screening, hand sanitisation at the entry point of stations and trains halting for a few extra seconds to ensure people board and deboard smoothly in adherence to social distancing norms,” said Dayal. As most stations have only one entry gate open for public, DMRC has advised passengers to check earmarked gates by visiting http://delhimetrorail.com/corona/entrygatedetails.aspx. “For your and everyone else’s safety and to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, wearing of face mask and adherence to social distancing norms throughout the travel period has to be ensured by all commuters. Violation could attract penalties and removal from the premises. Anyone with a cloth face cover won’t be allowed entry,” Dayal said. On Friday, DMRC penalised 92 commuters for not wearing a mask or failing to maintain social distancing. On Sunday, train services will begin at 6am on all corridors instead of 8am. “This arrangement is being made to facilitate the candidates appearing for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test examination,” Dayal said. Watch Delhi Metro: Full steam ahead from Saturday, no off-peak hours||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-to-don-old-avatar-in-new-normal-limitsentire-349km-network-to-be-operational-with-over-3700-trips-through-the-day/articleshow/78068946.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Low-lying areas flooded due to heavy rain in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Moderate to heavy rain that pounded the city from Thursday night left low-lying areas in knee deep water. More than 150 houses in the city’s low-lying areas got waterlogged and the compound walls collapsed of a few houses in Alape and seven cars got buried under the debris after a retaining wall of an apartment building collapsed at Derebail on Friday. The severity of the rain can be gauged from the fact that Mangaluru taluk received 210 mm of rain in the last 24 hours from Thursday till 8.30am of Friday. The average rain for the district was 79mm, and Bantwal taluk received the highest rain at 88mm, followed by Belthangady at 73mm. The severity of rain was particularly felt in Jappinamogeru and Kottara Chowki areas of the city which were submerged in knee deep water. Many residents voluntarily shifted to safer places after water inundated ground floors of buildings. Those who had first floors in their homes, shifted to the upper floors. Though the Mangaluru City Corporation had cleared all the drains and stormwater drains of silt, water gushed into houses in low-lying areas. There was water on the road at Kodialbail West after a stormwater drain overflowed there due to relentless rain from Thursday. However, after 2 pm the rain abated and water levels went down in the affected areas, giving relief to the people. Mayor Diwakar, who visited the affected places and supervised rescue and relief efforts, said the effect of heavy rain was prominent in Jappinamogeru, where at least 150 houses got flooded and about 50 to 60 people were shifted to Maratha Bhavan nearby, with the help of fire department personnel, by using rubber dinghies. District fire officer Mohammed Nawaz Zulfikar told TOI the collapse of a retaining wall of an apartment building at Derebail damaged several vehicles. Later in the evening, chief fire officer B Tippeswamy said that the apartment complex was safe, but all residents have been evacuated as per the deputy commissioner’s orders. “They will only be allowed back after a safety audit is conducted,’’ he added. He said seven cars in the parking lot were buried under the debris, and that the retaining wall was still unstable. The KSNMDC predicted that scattered to widespread light to moderate rain with isolated heavy to extremely heavy rain was likely over Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts and heavy rain was likely over Uttara Kannada. Warning fishermen, the bulletin stated that high waves in the range of 2.5-3.3m were forecast along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar. Highest rainfall in state in the last 24 hours 281mm in Innanje, Udupi taluk 276mm in Badanidiyoor, Udupi taluk 269.5mm in Kemral, Mangaluru taluk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/low-lying-areas-flooded-due-to-heavy-rain-in-mangaluru/articleshow/78063927.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Vadodara||Three caught selling 15 red sand boas in Narmada||Vadodara: The forest department on Friday rescued 15 red sand boas from the possession of three men from Narmada district who were trying to sell the endangered reptiles. The trio was arrested when they tried to sell to one of the decoy customers sent by the forest department. The department, with the help of Vadodara Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and Animal Welfare Board of India, was conducting the operation to trap the wildlife smugglers. “We had received a tip-off about the accused being in possession of red sand boas. They used to contact prospective customers and promise them to sell the snake anywhere between Rs 40 and Rs 50 lakh. They used to broker the deal and accept some amount in advance,” said Jatin Vyas, an animal activist, adding that the group would vanish after accepting the advance. “Through the decoy customer we learnt that the accused have duped around eight people in a similar fashion and took lakhs of rupees,” Vyas added. The accused trio has been identified as Narendra Vasava, Atul Vasava and Faiyaz from Dediapada taluka. They were lured out of their village by the decoy customer on Friday. The accused caught the boas from the forests of Dediapada. In July this year, the forest department in Vadodara had nabbed five persons trying to sell a red sand boa for Rs 42 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-caught-selling-15-red-sand-boas-in-narmada/articleshow/78064900.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka likely to go in for Rs 30,000-crore market borrowings||BENGALURU: The cash-strapped government, faced with a steep revenue shortfall, is contemplating market borrowings to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore. The crunch has hit development projects and welfare schemes and left the state barely able to pay the salaries of its 6 lakh employees. This would help it balance development works while maintaining its current fixed overheads. The leeway given to states to be able to borrow up to 5% of the state’s GDP has made the BS Yediyurappa government look at this avenue to raise funds. “Our hopes are tied to the proposed borrowings of close to Rs 30,000 crore to tide over the crisis. All this will be, of course, within the stipulated parameters by the Centre that gave an additional leeway to borrow up to 5% of GSDP,” said a senior cabinet minister. He said the limit has increased from the earlier 3% GSDP cap on market borrowings for states. Of the additional 2% granted to states, 1% is untied and 1% is linked to reforms in various sectors. CMO sources said Karnataka, after calculations by the Centre, can borrow close to 4.6% of its present GSDP. Finance department sources said the biggest challenge for the government is to assess the revenue shortfall and calculate exactly how much funding through market borrowing is required to compensate it. “The calculations are being made periodically, based on the performance every month. However, the real impact is not yet known fully,” said a finance department official. Government officials suggest the drop in GST collection and the lack of compensation due to the “act of god” has seriously dented Karnataka’s revenue streams and hurt its fiscal plans. “With that being the case, we have no option but to borrow funds for our fixed overheads and carry out priority development works for the next six months,” said the CMO official. The recent decision of the state government to exercise option 1 in the GST compensation formula proposed by the Centre has given the state a little respite, with Rs 18,289 crore being provided under a combination of cess collection and special category borrowing from Reserve Bank of India. “The GST compensation is not part of the 5% dispensation as the government of India will repay that out of the cess money,” said additional chief secretary (finance) ISN Prasad. Thus, with the responsibility of repaying interest and principal amount to the RBI falling on the Centre, the Rs 30,000 crore market borrowing window is wide open for the government to exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-likely-to-go-in-for-rs-30k-cr-mkt-borrowings/articleshow/78066502.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 12, 2020||Pune||Two Delhi doctors lose Rs 6.5 lakh to admission fraud||PUNE: The Yerawada police have arrested a 29-year-old man from New Delhi on the charge of duping two doctors of Rs6.5 lakh on the pretext of helping them secure admission to an ayurveda college here in August 2019. One more suspect is on the run. Assistant inspector Balbhim Nanaware said the suspect — Rrudra Pratap Das — rented an office in Kalynaninagar for a very short period last year to create the impression that he was running a business. “The two doctors got in touch with him through a common acquaintance and were told that he could help them get admission into the postgraduate course at the college,” Nanaware said. “One of the doctors, in her complaint, said that the suspect convinced them to visit Pune to complete their admission process. He gave them the college prospectus containing an admission form and demanded Rs10.25 lakh each,” Nanaware said. The doctors met the man, who hails from West Bengal, at the Kalyaninagar office. The doctors paid Rs2.5 lakh and Rs4 lakh in cash to the suspect and his friend after they refused to accept cheques. “They made the payment after the doctors’ relatives confirmed that seats were available in the college,” Nanaware said. “The suspects told the doctors to wait in the office for some time before they could all go visit the college together. The duo went out on pretext of counting the currency notes and took to their heels,” Nanaware said, adding, “They simply folded up their operation and went incommunicado.” “The doctors lodged an FIR on September 17 last year.,” Nanaware said. The police traced the man to Delhi, arrested him and brought him to the city on September 9 this year. “The suspect has been remanded in police custody till Saturday,” Nanaware said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-delhi-docs-lose-rs-6-5-lakh-to-admission-fraud/articleshow/78067247.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Fearing contagion, 50-year-old ends life at hospital in Jalgaon||NASHIK: A 50-year-old man, hailing from Jamner taluka, ended his life by hanging himself at Jalgaon’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), which is a district Covid Hospital, in the early hours of Friday. The deceased, Kaduba Nakul Ghongade, was admitted as a suspected patient in the hospital on Wednesday night. However, before his test result could arrive, he decided to take the extreme step. Later in the day when the swab sample report arrived, Ghongade had tested negative for the contagion. The Zillapeth police have registered a case of suicide and are investigating the case. GMCH dean Jaiprakash Ramanand said, Ghongade committed suicide between 12.30 am and 1 am. “He committed suicide in the passage towards the toilet that is not more than 10 feet from his bed. There was a partition in the passage, which had a horizontal plywood stick. Ghongade used his shawl to hang himself from the stick,” he said. “We had collected his throat swab sample on Thursday morning. However, Ghongade seemed a little disturbed on Thursday night. The ward nurse was continuously keeping a watch on all the patients. In fact, Ghongade had also objected to the frequent visits of the nurse into the ward. At around 12.30 am, when all other patients were sleeping in the ward, Ghongade was awake. The nurse again asked him to go to sleep. She also saw that the dinner served to Ghongade was left untouched,” he added. The dean said that when the nurse went into the ward at 1am she could not find Ghongade on his bed owing to which she started looking for him. “She immediately alerted the other staff of the hospital and after a brief search Ghongade was found hanging in the toilet passage. The test report of Ghongade arrived at 10 am and it was negative,” the dean said. The hospital was also in news in June when the body of an 82-year-old woman was found in a toilet five days after she was reported missing by her relatives. On backdrop of this incident, the state government suspended the then dean of the medical college Bhaskar Khaire and two other doctors for alleged negligence. Ramanand said that after the June incident the entire working mechanism of the hospital has changed. The doctors, nurses and other staff are maintaining complete vigilance on patients admitted and providing best treatment to change the image of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-yr-old-man-commits-suicide-at-jalgaon-gmch/articleshow/78064737.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 27,500 students to take NLAT on Saturday||BENGALURU: The National Law School of India University will hold National Law Aptitude Test on Saturday for 27,500 registered candidates in three sessions for its under-graduate programme and one session for the post-graduate programme. NLSIU had promised students a simulation test on Friday. However, several candidates complained of teething problems during the session, making them anxious about logging in for the real exam on Saturday. The issues ranged from getting login links late to logging in and proctoring. “Many of them complained they received login details late. Some said they couldn’t even pass the verification stage. The face-recognition system failed in many cases. Some feel since their Aadhaar card is old, the system failed to match their current picture with the ID,” said a volunteer helping students with the exam. “The helplines were not working. I tried reaching them several times, but nobody answered the calls. I sent multiple mails to the email ID, but that too elicited no response. This is an exam with no technical support. What if the same thing happens in the actual exam?” said an aspirant. The students were also disappointed that the questions were similar to the sample question papers given earlier and didn’t have anything new to offer. Some were given another chance to take the simulation test later in the day. “Students have put in so much of effort since class 11 for this exam. There are those who have taken gap years. It’s all for this one day and it’s nerve-wracking,” said a parent. University officials said students who received late emails with login details were given another chance to appear for the test at 8pm on Friday and that the helpline was active through the day. With the new exam announced just 10 days in advance, the varsity has been on its toes releasing related updates almost every day. NLAT is an online proctored examination that students can take from their home or 35 centres NLSIU has listed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/27-5k-students-to-take-nlat-today/articleshow/78066896.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Passion, innovation drive award-winning teachers||BENGALURU: Twenty-two primary school teachers, 11 higher secondary teachers and 10 PU college principals and lecturers were awarded at an event organised by the education department on Friday to mark Teacher’s Day. Three teachers who had won national awards were also felicitated at the event hosted in Vidhana Soudha. They are: Chemmalar Shanmugam, principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Jalahalli, who has played a major role in helping children develop an interest in language and IT; Yakub S, assistant teacher, Government Secondary School, Dakshina Kannada and Surekha Jagannath, assistant teacher, Government Secondary School, Afzalpur taluk, Kalaburagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/passion-innovation-drive-award-winning-teachers/articleshow/78066519.cms||Farheen Hussain
September 12, 2020||Mysuru||Abhimanyu may carry howdah this year||Mysuru: He has lain in wait to take on the mantle for some years now, and his hour of glory has finally beckoned: 54-year-old Abhimanyu may be the elephant who will carry the 750kg golden howdah or the ambari in the finale of the Naada Habba celebrations this year, taking over from Arjuna, who has been leading the jamboo savari for the past eight years. Be it in his role as a part of the jumbo convoy during the Vijayadashami procession or in the part he plays in operations to nab rogue tuskers in the wild, Abhimanyu has acquitted himself with distinction, earning for himself the title of ‘Mr Dependable’ among the foresters. In keeping with the orders of the Supreme Court and the guidelines of the central government, elephants aged above 60 are not to be subjected to stressful tasks, which includes carrying extremely heavy objects. Deputy conservator of forests Alexander MG confirmed to TOI that Arjuna had crossed the age limit prescribed by the apex court and was not eligible to be the howdah elephant this year. Alexander said that the forest department was keen on Abhimanyu succeeding Arjuna, given the former’s experience in the Mysuru Dasara celebrations - Abhimanyu has been a part of the Nadda Habba for the past 18 years. “We have made the recommendation to the chief wildlife warden, who will take the decision,” he said. Moreover, Abhimanyu is no stranger to shouldering the ambari, a feat he has repeatedly performed at the Mandya Dasara in Srirangapatna for the past five or six years. In the meanwhile, the forest department has selected Gopi and Vikram as the ‘Pattada Aane (royal elephant’ and ‘nishane aane (lead elephant)’ respectively. Both the jumbos are veterans of the Mysuru Dasara, having participated in the fete for 13 years. Vijaya and Cauvery, meanwhile, will be the kumkis for the howdah elephant. “We have sent the entire list to the chief wildlife warden in Bengaluru, who is likely to approve it next week,” said Alexander. On subjecting the participating elephants to a Covid-19 test, the DCF said that the veterinarians would take a decision keeping in view the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place. “We have a separate veterinary hospital, and so far, there have been no reports of an elephant testing positive for the novel coronavirus anywhere across the globe. If we are issued instructions from the higher authorities to conduct the test as a precautionary measure, we will do so,” Alexander added. A jumbo for all seasons *54-year-old Abhimanyu is from the Mathigowdu Elephant Camp, and is 2.68m tall, and weighs approximately 4,550kg *He was captured in 1977 in the Hebballa forest range in Kodagu district *Foresters, not only in Karnataka, but in other states too, enlist his services to capture elephants gone rogue. *He helped Madhya Pradesh foresters capture 22 elephants who were causing trouble to locals living on the fringes of the woods *In the Mysuru Dasara celebrations, Abhimanyu drags the Aane Gadi – a vehicle carrying the band of musicians attached to the KARP Mounted Company in Mysuru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/abhimanyu-may-carry-howdah-this-year/articleshow/78064437.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 12, 2020||Rajkot||No positive signs of Covid situation easing in Rajkot||Rajkot: Rajkot’s fresh battle with Covid-19 seems to be a long drawn affair with very little respite being visible in the situation in spite of the all-round efforts by the district administration. Even the presence of principal secretary health, Jayanti Ravi in the city, to help contain the spread of contagion has had little impact as the district recorded around 150 positive cases per day in the first 10 days of September itself.In an alarming twist to the gloomy scenario, even frontline warriors are getting infected by the deadly virus. While the health officer of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) and another doctor tested positive on Friday, nearly 125 doctors have tested positive so far. Meanwhile, the RMC has increased its antigen tests to detect more cases. According to data provided by the district administration, the civic body is conducting average 5,000 antigen tests on a daily basis. However, the reliability of the tests are being debated as they are seen not fetching the expected results. Deputy leader of opposition in RMC, Mansukh Kalariya said, “I have many cases where people have tested negative in the antigen tests and within hours tested positive in CT scan. This exercise by RMC is nothing but a wastage of time and resources merely to showcase numbers and prove that they are conducting more tests.” Kalariya further stated that RMC and district authorities are only trying to cover up their failure. “It was set as a rule that RMC team will visit patients in home quarantine once everyday. I have received complaints that nobody had visited such people for the past six days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/no-positive-signs-of-covid-situation-easing-in-rajkot/articleshow/78065458.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two steal cash, phone from man injured in accident||PUNE: A 54-year-old man on Thursday lodged an FIR with the Hadapsar police, alleging that two men stole Rs27,000 and a cellphone worth Rs3,000 from him after he met with a road accident on August 31. The complainant, Jayantilal Babuji Rawal, who had fractured his leg in the accident, stated in the FIR that he was on his way home to Bhekrainagar, when his scooter skidded off the road. “The duo, passing by the spot on a motorcycle, stopped and rushed towards the complainant as if they wanted to help him. Instead, they removed the cash and the phone from the accident victim’s pocket and sped away on their bike,” police said. Inspector Humraj Kumbhar (crime) from Kondhwa police said Rawal did not report the theft perhaps because he was in a state of shock at the time. “An inquiry conducted by assistant inspector Sanjay Chavan revealed that Rawal did not disclose the incident to the doctor treating him at a private hospital. The doctor would have alerted police immediately otherwise,” Kumbhar said. Rawal approached the police after he was discharged from the hospital. “We are working to establish the suspects’ identities at the earliest,” Kumbhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-steal-cash-phone-from-man-injured-in-accident/articleshow/78067244.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Expand cabinet before monsoon session or face rebellion, CM told||Bengaluru: A section of senior party legislators has issued an ultimatum asking chief minister BS Yediyurappa to take up cabinet expansion or face open rebellion before the monsoon session of the legislature begins on September 21. The rebel legislators include Murugesh Nirani, Umesh Katti, CP Yogeshwar and GH Thippa Reddy besides defectors MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and AH Vishwanath, whom Yediyurappa had promised to induct in return for their contribution towards bringing the BJP government to power. The warning comes at a time when the BJP leadership is extending Yediyurappa a cold shoulder even as he is seeking nod for the expansion. While all other BJP functionaries and ministers are making trips to Delhi and meeting senior leaders, the CM is not getting the appointment reportedly because the leadership is upset with his style of functioning. While agriculture minister BC Patil, who joined the BJP recently, met party president JP Nadda on Wednesday, senior leader and industry minister Jagadish Shettar camped in Delhi on Thursday after meeting senior leaders. Water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, medical education minister K Sudhakar, MLC Yogeshwar and many others have managed to meet national leaders. Shettar called on governor Vajubhai Vala at Raj Bhavan soon after his return from Delhi on Friday, further fuelling speculations. The BJP high command has reportedly summoned party functionaries from Karnataka in batches. Tourism minister CT Ravi and Nirani are expected to leave for Delhi shortly. Even Jarkiholi will make another trip to the national capital. “It is apparent that the BJP brass is not in sync with the Karnataka CM,” said a BJP functionary close to Yediyurappa. The CM wanted to accommodate Nagaraj, Shankar and a couple of others in his cabinet in July soon after they were elected to the council in June, but the party leadership didn’t give nod and asked him to focus on fighting the pandemic. BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, who arrived in Bengaluru recently, also indicated the expansion will happen only after a revamp ‘from top to bottom’ in December after Bihar elections. Nagaraj said a rebellion will be inevitable as their patience is running out. “We hope Yediyurappa keeps his word and expands the cabinet before the session,” said Nagaraj. Realising the danger ahead, Yediyurappa has deployed party functionary Shankar Gowda Patil as Karnataka government’s special representative to Delhi to ensure an appointment in the guise of seeking relief funds. However, he too has failed to get one so far. “I will visit Delhi in 4-5 days to discuss many issues, including cabinet expansion. The dates are being worked out and I am waiting for party leaders’ time,” Yediyurappa told reporters. But BJP sources said he’s playing a cat-and-mouse game by asking his own loyalists to give an ultimatum to him to pressure the party brass to grant nod for cabinet expansion. Wait getting longer The wait is getting longer after the expansion was put off due to the pandemic. Now that the situation has eased with the opening up of economic activities, I think it’s high time the CM takes it up. If Yediyurappa fails to do so, aspirants will have no choice but to do something that causes embarrassment to him and the party Umesh Katti, legislator||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/expand-cabinet-before-monsoon-session-or-face-rebellion-cm-told/articleshow/78066311.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ailing senior citizen hangs himself in Bhosari house||PUNE: A 68-year-old Bhosari resident suffering from cold and minor fever for the past few days was found hanging from a ceiling bar in his house early on Friday morning. The police found a note, purportedly written by him, stating that his doctor had advised him to go for a Covid-19 test. “Based on circumstances, we suspect that the deceased may have hanged self to death out of fear of the contagion,” senior inspector Shankar Awatade of the Bhosari police said. The Bhosari man is the fifth elderly person committing suicide because of coronavirus fear in and around Pune from April. Awatade said a family member of the man saw him hanging from the hook at the ceiling with a rope. “He was immediately taken to a hospital, where the doctors pronounced him dead,” Awatade further said. He said the note found at the site stated, “The elderly man was suffering from cold and mild fever. When he visited a doctor, the latter had suggested him to undergo Covid-19 test. He was ending his life because of fear. No one was responsible for his death.” Awatade said the man’s son told the police that his father was under tension fearing that he might have contracted the infection. “We have registered a case of accidental death. Our probe is on,” Awatade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ailing-senior-citizen-hangs-himself-in-bhosari-house/articleshow/78067242.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Senior citizen cheated for Rs 17,000 in Nashik bank||Nashik: A 74-year-old man was cheated of Rs 17,000 by two conmen in a city-based bank on Thursday. According to police, the senior citizen had gone to the bank to withdraw cash. “After the complainant, a resident of Makhmalabad Road in Panchavati area, got the money, the suspects approached him saying that the currency notes handed over to him are fake. They offered to help him get the money replaced from the cashier,” a police officer said. “The duo asked the complainant to take a seat while they would get the task completed. After sitting for sometime the man could not find the suspects and realised that he had been cheated. However, by the time he informed the bank staff, the suspects had fled,” he added. Following this, the senior citizen went to the Panchavati police station and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/senior-citizen-cheated-for-rs-17000-in-nashik-bank/articleshow/78064755.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 12, 2020||Noida||Noida: Builders told to instal anti-smog guns by October||NOIDA: All builders will have to install anti-smog guns at large construction sites by October, failing which penal action may be taken, authorities said on Friday. An anti-smog gun is an automatic water-sprinkling device which helps reduce dust pollution. Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) officials said the order is part of the preventive measures being taken for the winter “pollution” season in NCR that starts from October, as per the Supreme Court directive in January. The rule is also applicable to state and central government projects. The board will carry out a compliance check at all construction sites for anti-smog guns, officials said. The Supreme Court had, on January 13, made it compulsory for all projects which require an environment clearance from the state and central governments and which have a built-up area of more than 20,000 sqm, including excavation and other dust generating activities, to install anti-smog guns to control local dust pollution. “We have started working on our winter pollution control plan. The graded response action plan (GRAP) rules are implemented by October when the smog season starts, so we are now taking stock of all the large construction sites where this rule has to be implemented,” Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB-Noida, said. A”ll large projects, including state and central government ones, will have to install anti-smog guns. Non-compliance will attract fines,” he added. The department is also working on ensuring compliance of the pollution control norms, as per the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules of 2016, at all large construction sites where work is in progress, officials said. The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) enforced GRAP rules for controlling pollution during the smog season is activated in October every year in NCR. The UPPCB on Friday also instructed Noida Authority officials to control dust pollution in Sector 51, where the latter is currently building an underpass. “We have carried out an inspection of the site, they have anti-smog guns, but there is mud piled up. The site will have to be covered with a green net. We have asked them to use the anti-smog guns to prevent local pollution,” Kumar said. The SC had directed anti-smog guns to be installed in NCR at large construction sites, road construction stretches, excavation sites, large parking sites and during demolition activities to prevent a build-up of PM 10. A member of Credai-NCR said they would comply with the UPPCB order to control dust pollution at large construction projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/install-anti-smog-guns-by-oct-or-face-action-builders-told/articleshow/78068298.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||AP HC dismisses CID case against web portal||Vijayawada: Police registering cases without any material evidence and harassing people in the name of investigation creates an impression that citizens are living in a ‘khakistocracy’, though this is a democracy, the AP high court said on Friday. Quashing a case registered by the crime investigation department against a web portal for causing disrepute to the government, the HC observed that the CID officer abused the process of law while registering the case. The CID had registered a case against Kantamaneni Ravishankar, who runs a web portal, based on a complaint by one Prathuri Jagadeesh for telecasting an audio clip that allegedly had content insulting the chief minister. The CID registered a case under sections 188, 505(2) and 506 of the IPC and section 54 of Disaster Management Act. Ravishankar moved the high court and argued that none of the sections would apply to the alleged crime. While section 188 deals with disobedience of orders promulgated by a public servant, section 505(2) deals with punishment for making, publishing or circulating rumour with an intent to create hatred between two groups, and section 506 deals with criminal intimidation. In the case of section 54 of Disaster Management Act, which deals with false warning that can lead to panic, a complaint has to be lodged by a competent authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-hc-dismisses-cid-case-against-web-portal/articleshow/78067296.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt writes to railways with request to put off demolition||NEW DELHI: Intending to protect the slums along the railway tracks, Delhi government wrote a letter to Indian Railways on Friday, requesting it not to proceed with the demolition of the houses without providing the residents with alternative accommodation. Following the Supreme Court order on the clearance of railway land of encroachments, posters had been put up asking slum residents to vacate the areas. Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB)’s letter, addressed to the divisional railway manager of Northern Railway, underlined that the city’s slums were protected under Delhi Laws (Special Provision) Second Act, 2011, and were eligible for compensatory dwelling under the Delhi Slum & JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had directed officials to prepare a plan for the rehabilitation of evicted slum dwellers to no one was left without a house to live in. Referring to the apex court order, Abdul Dayyan, director (rehabilitation), DUSIB, said in the letter: “It is clarified that as per provisions of Section 3(1)(a) of the NCT of Delhi Laws (Special Provision) Second Act, 2011, which has been extended up to 31.12.2020 by the NCT of Delhi Laws (Special Provision) (Second Amendment) Act, 2014, JJ bastis which have come up before 01.01.2006 are protected and shall not be removed without orderly arrangement for relocation and rehabilitation of JJ dwellers in accordance with the provisions of the DUSIB Act, 2020.” The letter explained that DUSIB policy mandated in-situ rehabilitation of slum dwellers and the development agency had to provide alternative accommodation to residents of affected JJ bastis either on the same land or within a radius of 5km or in exceptional circumstances beyond. The letter also pointed out that in the case of affected JJ bastis located on lands belonging to central government agencies like Railways and DDA, the DUSIB policy provided for such agencies to either carry out the rehabilitation themselves or entrust the job to DUSIB. In the latter case, the land-owning agency has to pay for the costs of construction of alternative dwelling units, land and relocation. The DUSIB executive’s letter, written with the approval of the DUSIB vice-president, said that the relocation charges were payable by the land-owning agency and, for different locations, had been fixed between Rs7.5 lakh and Rs11.3 lakh per flat. Dayyan also annexed location-wise details of the flats constructed or yet to be completed under JNNURM and available with Delhi government. The timelines for making them ready to move in were also clarified in the letter. A Delhi government agency, DUSIB provides civic amenities in Delhi’s slums and also manages any resettlement issue whenever a cluster is redeveloped or relocated or , its objective being to improve the quality of the life in the slums by implementing plans and schemes that have been approved by the state government. The Delhi chief minister is the agency’s chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-writes-to-rlys-with-request-to-put-off-demolition/articleshow/78067353.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police book three, seize gutka products worth Rs 9 lakh||PUNE: The crime branch on Thursday booked three men from Bhekrainagar in Hadapsar on the charge of transporting gutka products worth over Rs9.14 lakh. Rajendra Mohite, senior inspector, in-charge, anti-extortion cell, said, “We received information that a tempo driver had visited a housing society to supply gutka products to a local shopowner. A police team rushed to the spot and found the tempo driver and shopowner waiting there. We recovered the gutka products from the tempo.” Mohite said, “The driver and shopowner revealed the name of the businessman dealing in gutka products. We then seized the tempo and registered a first information report with the Hadapsar police against all the three men under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.” “Sale, manufacture, distribution and storage of gutka and all its variants is banned by the government. Investigations revealed that the suspects were involved in transporting and selling the products to shopkeepers, among others, in housing societies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-book-3-seize-gutka-products-worth-rs-9-lakh/articleshow/78067274.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000 new cases, 77 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,999 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 5,47,686. The toll jumped to 4,779 as 77 more people succumbed to the disease. As many as 11,069 patients were declared cured on Friday. There are currently 96,191 active cases with 4,46,716 cumulative recoveries and 4,779 deaths. This translates to an overall recovery rate of about 82%. Krishna was the last district to cross the 20,000-case mark on Friday. There seems to be no respite for East Godavari, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus outbreak in the state, as the district reported 1,499 fresh cases on Friday, followed by West Godavari 1,081, Chittoor 1,040, Guntur 920, and Prakasam 901. East Godavari has the highest caseload of 73,996 Covid-19 cases. Kurnool stood in the distant second place with 50,679 cases, while Anantapur occupied the third place with 48,105 cases. At least eight districts of the state registered more than 40,000 cases as of Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-10k-new-cases-77-deaths/articleshow/78067376.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Safe homes tagged to West Bengal hospitals for stable patients||KOLKATA: As per policy decision, government hospitals are sending clinically stable Covid patients to safe homes tagged to them. The government has set up several safe homes across the state, including six in the city, to house asymptomatic patients who have no facility for home isolation. The protocol management team has advised Covid hospitals to shift patients, whose symptoms have ceased but who might need some monitoring, to these safe homes before discharging them straight away. “The occupancy at Anadapur safe home that has 400 beds is 70%. Patients, including those from MR Bangur Hospital, whose oxygen saturation is above 95% or who are asymptomatic but do not have facilities for home isolation, are being referred here,” said Somnath Mukherjee, CMOH, North 24 Parganas. “Their parameters are being monitored regularly. If anyone develops any health issues during their stay at safe home they are shifted back to the hospital,” added Mukherjee. The Anandapur safe home, an initiative of the state health department and the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, currently has the highest occupancy, ahead of the one at Tangra that has occupancy of about 30%. “These safe homes have helped a lot in freeing up hospital beds. We came across many patients unwilling to go back home even after they are clinically stable either due to lack of confidence or absence of home isolation facility,” said an official at CNCI, New Town. The 600-bedded Haj House and 150-bedded NBCC Square are tagged along with the CNCI, which is a 425-bedded government Covid Hospital. Sources said occupancy in the hospital as well as the safe homes is relatively low at the moment. “At present, we are not tagged with any safe home as we have around 150 vacant beds on an average. If need arises we will do that in future,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice principal at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safe-homes-tagged-to-state-hosps-for-stable-patients/articleshow/78067351.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Number of dengue, malaria cases dips in Chennai||CHENNAI: Covid-19 may have reduced the number of dengue and malaria cases in Chennai this year, Greater Chennai Corporation officials said. Till the first week of September, only 20 dengue cases have been recorded in the city while there have been around 150 malaria cases. There has been no incidence of the third major vector-borne disease, filaria, in the city so far this year. The numbers are way lower when compared to previous years. Last year, Chennai had around 800 cases of malaria. In 2018, there were around 1,300 cases, said officials. But corporation officials are not taking it easy and are continuing with intense anti-larval activities in the city. Tiruvottiyur, Tondiarpet and Royapuram are the known malaria hotspots in the city. There are two main reasons for the drop in the number of cases, officials said. Due to Covid-19, a majority of people have stayed indoors and have invested more time and effort in keeping their surroundings clean. This may have contributed to lower breeding of mosquitoes, an official said. “Water is being used every day. Since there is no storage of water in large drums, breeding of the dengue mosquitoes has been less,” an official said. The dengue-causing aedes mosquitoes breed in stagnant fresh water. Also, since most hospitals have not been operational for non-Covid patients, dengue cases may not have been registered. “The same reason may be true for labs as well as they are busy focusing on testing for Covid-19. It is only now that they would have started taking blood samples for dengue,” the official said. Along with the regular anti-larval measures, the corporation has also planned to introduce special larvivorous gambusia fish in wells and tanks. This is a type of biological control of vector-borne diseases. These are procured from Madhavaram, an official said. “Last year, we had used 2 lakh such fish. These stay at the surface and eat up the larvae preventing the spread of the infection,” the official said. The regular work includes checking fresh water sources for larval breeding and fogging. Also, last year’s breeding spots have been surveyed by officials for vector density. Apart from this, door-to-door survey workers are checking backyards and terraces of houses to ensure that there is no stagnant water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-of-dengue-malaria-cases-dips-in-chennai/articleshow/78067350.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal's Dankuni likely to become hub for private trains in eastern India||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) has been contemplating for long to develop Dankuni as a satellite coaching terminal along the lines of Santragachhi. Now, with the ministry of railway working on a plan to rope in private train operators, Dankuni is likely to turn into the eastern hub for them. There could be 11 pairs of private trains operating between Kolkata and various locations across the country and officials believe that Dankuni is best suited as the operational base. “The private operators will require space for maintenance and stabling of their specialised rakes. There is no space at the Santragachhi, Tikiapara or Howrah carsheds. Sealdah is not an option either. The only possible location is Dankuni that connects to both the ER and South Eastern Railway (SER) networks. The private operators will also have to develop an appropriate terminal for their passengers with all modern facilities. This will be possible at Dankuni,” a senior railway official said. Dankuni is well connected to Kolkata by rail and road. With a flyover being built along the Kona Expressway, it could take about an hour to drive to Dankuni from the city. It is also connected through suburban services to Howrah and Sealdah. The railways has also earmarked Dankuni as a freight terminal to be developed by a private operator. While the railways will provide the land, the private operator would develop infrastructure and do business on a profit sharing basis. This will actually help in development of Dankuni into a passenger hub by private operators. “Apart from railway lines to Howrah and Sealdah, Dankuni is also connected to SER network through the tracks connecting Bhattanagar to Baltikuri. The railways already runs a few trains along this route. Dankuni is already getting proper approach roads. Private operators may like to develop proper parking space and modern amenities that passengers of private trains will look out for. This may not be possible at already busy terminals like Howrah and Sealdah,” the official said. According to another official, private trains may operate to different locations like north Bengal, north India as well as places in the south. There may also be trains towards western India, including Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Dankuni will be a convenient location for all routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dankuni-likely-to-become-hub-for-pvt-trains-in-eastern-india/articleshow/78067385.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 12, 2020||Delhi||AAP-BJP confrontation intensifies||NEW DELHI: The confrontation between Aam Aadmi Party and BJP over demolition of slums along railway tracks continued on Friday with AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha saying that Delhi government was ready to rehabilitate slum dwellers and give them 45,857 pucca houses. He also slammed BJP for “noting in its affidavit in Supreme Court that slum dwellers made railway tracks dirty, so the slums should be demolished.” An action taken report of North Delhi Municipal Corporation had been submitted in the apex court, which said that demolitions were stuck because of the AAP government. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta hit out at the AAP government saying that the party only considered slum dwellers as a vote bank and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was only a pretend well-wisher. Chadha stated that in a letter to the railways, the Kejriwal government had given a list of 45,857 pucca flats that could be allotted to slum dwellers. “Railways ministry has clearly stated that they had formed a special task force to demolish the slums, but were unable to do so because of the Kejriwal government. Before the elections, BJP used to go to every slum and ask for votes by promising that no demolition would take place. But now they have reneged on their word,” Chadha said. Stressing that not a single person would be displaced, Chadha said, “I want to tell BJP that without giving rehabilitation, the Kejriwal government will not allow any slum demolition in Delhi.” Delhi government had written to the railways requesting it not to demolish any houses in slums without providing alternative accommodation. “The letter also noted that the BJP government should provide houses to every slum dweller. If they fail to do so, then the Kejriwal government will give it,” Chadha said. Gupta countered by saying that no steps had been taken by Delhi government to provide alternative accommodation to slum dwellers. “The AAP government doesn’t care about the sufferings of slum dwellers, that is why it stopped implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Delhi BJP has been continuously appealing to Delhi government to allot vacant houses to slum dwellers, but there has been no positive response from them,” he added. A major portion of the railway tracks stretched over 140km in Delhi is dotted with slums. Supreme Court had recently ordered removal of 48,000 slums located along the tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-confrontation-intensifies/articleshow/78067399.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Pune||Zilla parishad teacher in Palghar works hard to arrest dropout rate||PUNE: Babu More, a zilla parishad schoolteacher in the tribal area of Khomarpada in Palghar district, joined the primary school in December 2013 only to realize that over 90% of the agrarian families were seasonal migrants and about 20% took their children with them when they headed back home. Consequentially, most children dropped out of school. More, realized that the main reason for the migration was single-crop farming and decided to help the villagers earn a living within the village. Over six years, More has managed to completely stop migration and help 100 farmers from 10 villages by introducing crop rotation. “The area gets good rainfall hence people here were only cultivating paddy and they would migrate to cities in search of work at brick kilns or construction sites in December-January. Some parents took their children along with them and the children found it hard to adjust to new surroundings, which in turn affected their education,” said More (33). More knew that preaching about agriculture to hardened farmers wouldn’t help. So he decided to practice before preaching. “There was half a guntha land near our school. Along with two teachers, students tilled the land and sowed vegetables. We started getting a good crop of onion, potato, spinach, ginger, fenugreek and tomato. The produce was used to prepare the midday meal,” said More. In 2016, he called a meeting of about 35-40 parents and convinced them about the benefits of crop rotation. Reluctantly, they agreed. “That year we grew onion, cucumber, some legumes and brinjal. They got good money for it and more people started doing it. This caught the eye of the local NGO Akshardhara Foundation in 2019-20,” said More. Soon, with help from the foundation, More convinced 40 families from various villages to take up crop rotation. “The foundation helped 18 parents. But, last year, the onion sapling cost around Rs40,000 per acre, which was a huge input cost. A villager, Kiran Gahala, gave us his land for free along with water. The crop was so good that the farmers were able to sell it between Rs15-25 per kg while the market rate was Rs8-10,” said More. The Suhrid Foundation also helped out in the initiative. The farmers also cultivated okra, chilli and cluster beans. More’s course has not been devoid of problems. “During the lockdown, there was no power for almost eight days and I watered the land manually till 2am. I also helped a farmer dig deeper into his well when the water level dropped to save his watermelon crop. Once, a scorion bit me,” he said. “If we can make our farmers self-sufficient, we can solve more than half the country’s problems. What is the point of my education, if I am not able to help others in need?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-teacher-works-hard-to-arrest-dropout-rate/articleshow/78067424.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Ridership up 52% in Delhi Metro; Yellow, Blue and Red draw crowds||NEW DELHI: As all Delhi Metro corridors except one became functional on Friday, the effect was immediately reflected on the ridership figures. From nearly 85,000 on Thursday, ridership jumped to almost 1.3 lakh on Friday, an increase of 52%. With nearly 400 kms of Metro network and 27 out of 28 interchange points operational on Friday, commuters had a wide range of travel options to choose from. “The total ridership witnessed in Friday’s operational hours from 7am to 1 pm and from 4 pm till 7.30 pm was 1,28,886,” said Anuj Dayal executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). Though Friday saw the reopening of the 37.5 km long Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West) and the 4.3 km long Grey Line (Dwarka-Najafgarh), it were the old workhorses of Delhi Metro that pulled in the crowd. Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) witnessed a footfall of 41,689, followed by tnn38,623 riders on the Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) and 15,485 on the network’s oldest corridor Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal). Delhi Metro’s three oldest corridors accounted for nearly 75% of the ridership on Friday, even though their combined length is just 42.5% of the total network. The Magenta and Grey Lines witnessed ridership of 6,953 and 514, respectively. Most of the Magenta Line stations bore an eerie look with only a handful of passengers, with the exception of the Hauz Khas interchange station, which is usually thronged by passengers traveling between Noida and Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ridership-up-52-yellow-blue-and-red-draw-crowds/articleshow/78068954.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 12, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation to monitor cleaning of urinals in public places||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to strictly monitor cleaning of urinals and toilets in public places to ensure better hygiene against the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases. The agencies and staff involved in cleaning have been told to clean the toilets at least thrice daily. The administration has asked the authorities at ward offices to check if the facilities are unclean or filthy. Cleaning of toilets near slum pockets is being monitored closely, the officials said. A civic administration official said, “Concentrated efforts are being made to clean toilets in densely populated areas where there are more chances of the virus spreading. Many slum pockets have common toilets used by local residents. We are ensuring availability of adequate water at these facilities. The administration has fixed hands-free wash basins in toilets to prevent chances of the virus spreading. Officials have been told to upload the photos of cleaning on the PMC app as well.” The administration has said that it was seeking feedback from citizens on the status of toilets and cleaning. For roadside urinals and toilets, the administration has instructed cleaning during morning hours. Plans have been put in place to increase the frequency as per requirement. “We have asked for at least one-time cleaning at places that are less crowded. The frequency will be increased, if required,” an official said. The civic administration has marked the locations of most common toilets on the map available on the PMC website. Sign boards have also been put up on roads to help citizens identify washroom facilities. Sanjay Shinde, a resident of Shivajinagar, said that many urinals and toilets require repairs and maintenance. “Taps do not work at many places. Also, there is no monitoring of these facilities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-monitor-cleaning-of-urinals-in-public-places/articleshow/78067393.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Covid effect: West Bengal's Monglahaat to open only on Saturday nights||HOWRAH: Monglahaat — Asia’s largest garments wholesale market — will reopen after five months since it went out of business due to Covid-19. But the reopening from September 19 will be a new chapter in the history of the 130-year-old Monglahaat. It will remain open from 10pm every Saturday till 6am on Sundays. For the first time, the wholesale market won’t be in business on Tuesdays — the day from which it draws its name. And to ensure the market doesn’t keep the Howrah Maidan area chock-a-block, Howrah City Police has directed that the market will remain open only on Saturday nights. The directive on the day and timing for business by Monglahaat traders was issued by Howrah police commissioner Kunal Agarwal. Only traders with permanent stalls in the haat complex will be allowed to carry out business, the CP’s order said. Traders and regular buyers of Monglahaat are unhappy over the decision. Mohammad Akram, a trader, said, “How will I bring my stock of garments from Bankra to Howrah Maidan so late at night? There will be major security issues if the market remains open at night.” A regular Monglahaat buyer Bidhan Ray said, “It is a wrong decision. The night-long market once a week will hardly witness any business. It will also be a security risk for traders and buyers alike.” In its pre-Covid avatar, Monglahaat would be in business from morning till evening every Monday and Tuesday. Initially, it would be in business only on Tuesday. Popular demand forced the authorities to allow business on Mondays too. Till Covid intervened, Monglahaat would throw the crucial Howrah Maidan and Bangabasi area into complete chaos every Monday and Tuesday. Monglahat has 35,000 permanent stalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-effect-monglahaat-only-on-saturday-nights/articleshow/78067433.cms||Rupak Banerjee
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Only 273 passengers book seats in spl Panchavati Exp||Nashik: The ‘Special’ Panchavati Express train that will undertake its maiden run on Saturday has got poor response from the Nashikites with only 273 people booking their seats in the second class. Owing to the safety guidelines in place due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the railways is running trains only on select routes and Mumbai-Manmad-Mumbai Panchavati Express is one such train. These trains are being called special as only people will confirmed tickets will be allowed to board the train. In the entire train that will have commuters seated by following social distancing norm, there are 1,522 seats in 2nd class of which 273 seats have been booked. Also, there are 192 seats in air-conditioned coach of which only six seats have been booked. The railway authorities on Friday has announced that passengers with the monthly seasonal tickets (MST) will not be allowed to travel in this train under any circumstances. The MST holders had appealed to the railways to allow them to travel in MST coach by following all the norms and paying the reservation charges, but their demand remained unheard. This has resulted in increase in travel expenditure for the MST holders who will have to book a ticket for Rs 125 on each side for travelling in the 2nd class compartment. A railway official said that as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), the travellers will have to arrive at the station at least 90 minutes before the departure of the train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/only-273-passengers-book-seats-in-spl-panchavati-exp/articleshow/78064825.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 12, 2020||Pune||Youth held, 16 stolen smartphones recovered||Pune: A 22-year-old man was arrested on September 6 for stealing over 15 smartphones from different parts of the district over the last month. Bramhanand Naikwadi, senior inspector from Swargate police station, the police said the suspect — Devram Chillawar from Ranjangaon in rural Pune — took to stealing smartphones after losing his job with a private company during the lockdown. Chillawar would target people who would post advertisements on an online marketplace for selling their smartphones. He would visit them and tell them he was instersted in buying the smartphone. On the pretext of making the payment, the would request the person to accompany him to a nearby ATM kiosk and would escape from there with the smartphone, the police said. Bramhanand Naikwadi, senior inspector from Swargate police station, said, “Chillawar used this method to steal over 15 smartphones from different parts of Pune district over the last month.” Naikwadi and his team arrested Chillawar on September 6. “We have recovered a total of 16 smartphones, a laptop and a motorcycle, collectively worth Rs6 lakh from him,” Naikwadi said. Chillawar would contact the person after seeing the advertisement. “After finalizing the deal, he would take the receipt and the handset and would request the owner to come with him till the ATM kiosk by saying he didn’t have the entire cash with him,” Naikwadi said. Chillawar would drop his footwear and stop his motorcycle. The owner of the handset, who would be sitting pillion, would get down from the bike. Chillawar would then escape from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-held-16-stolen-smartphones-recovered/articleshow/78067422.cms||---
September 12, 2020||India||Top doctors call for fresh sero survey to map Covid spread||NEW DELHI/CHENNAI/MUMBAI: A day after an ICMR report created a stir in medical circles when it revealed that the country potentially had 6.4 million Covid infections in May, health professionals say there is a need for another national-level sero-survey to study the spread of the infection and that the result of the survey was declared too late for affirmative action. The result of the country’s first sero-survey, published on Thursday in the ICMR’s Indian Journal of Medical Research, also revealed that for every confirmed case there were 82-130 infections that went undetected and that the infection had spread to rural India by June. The month-long investigation took place in the midst of the lockdown. Dr Ulhas Kolthur of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, who is associated with the two sero-surveys conducted in Mumbai, said national-level sero-surveys should be repeated to understand the spread across regions. “Trends are likely to be different in different districts,” he said. Epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, who was a part of the sero-survey, said the results have been released too late. The survey talks about the situation in May, when the country was detecting only 1% of the cases. “At that time, they isolated and treated patients, but containment was still for 1% of the problem. The infection spread in the following months. There was a wider disconnect between what the government was doing and what it was claiming to do,” he said. Now, increasingly, reports from other sero-studies show that the impact of the epidemic is higher in cities. “We are experiencing a true epidemic in urban areas and a silent one in rural areas. In the beginning, I had said herd immunity can be achieved if 60% of the population is affected. Now, after seeing Dharavi and other places, I think we overestimated. We will achieve herd immunity when a little more than 50% of the population is infected,” he said. This means that the virus will go away with or without containment, he said. “Containment can be comforting; the virus has not noticed it at all. And the only impact of the lockdown has been on the people, not on the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-doctors-call-for-fresh-sero-survey-to-map-covid-spread/articleshow/78069531.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nashik||At 3.91%, ready reckoner rate hike highest in Pune district||PUNE: The government on Friday announced an average hike of 1.74% in the ready reckoner (RR) rate for properties across the state, except for Mumbai where it reduced by 0.6%. The rates will come into effect from Saturday. Pune district registered the highest hike of 3.91%, followed by Raigad and Nandurbar at 3% in the revision announced for 2020-21. TimesViewHigher ready reckoner rates push up the agreement value of a property, thereby effectively nullifying the stamp duty reduction granted earlier by the state government. The hike will impact property sales and affect both homebuyers and developers. It comes at a time when the realty sector was actually looking at a downward revision in RR rates.The increase for Pune Municipal Corporation areas is 1.56% and 3.41% in Pimpri Chinchwad limits. The rate for the rural areas in Pune district was a high 8.62%, while it was 2.92% in the influence areas where infrastructure projects have been announced and 5.4% in municipal council areas. “We have parameters to assess transactions, and we have seen the maximum transactions in Pune district. Therefore, there is a rise in the rates here,” Inspector General of Registration and Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said on Friday. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI that the rates had to be corrected, and for the first time after a revision in the rules, it was reduced in some areas. “We decided on a realistic rate. The RR rates were reviewed after 2017, and we found that in many areas, the rates were consistently high, and hence we rationalised them,” he said. Developers had requested that the rates be reduced as they were very high in some areas, he added. The average hike for rural areas in the state is 2.81%, for influence areas 1.89%, municipal council areas 1.29% and corporation areas 1.02%. RR rate is the standard value of an immovable property assessed and regulated by the state. New rates come into effect from April 1. But this year, the announcement was deferred to September for the first time by the revenue department due to the pandemic. The fall in the rate for Mumbai is also a first. It was done as per the revised order in 2018 where RR rates could be reduced. The rates were announced after recommendations from district collectors, interactions with people’s representatives, and realtors. Thorat said the department had been working on the rates for the last six months. “We reduced stamp duty. The RR rates in most areas have been marginally increased or reduced,” he told TOI. The state government had reduced the stamp duty by 3% for the September-December period, and by 2% for the January-March 2021 period to boost sales. Developers have been demanding a reduction in the RR rates. Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said their members were taken aback by the increase in rates for Pune. “It is surprising that the government announced a hike in the RR rates especially for Pune which is the most affected. They are the highest whereas we were expecting it to decrease. This system of deciding ready reckoner rates is not scientific,” he said. A property watcher told TOI that there were suggestions to the government to bring down the rate by as much as 40% for the next two years to boost the real estate sector. Increasing the RR rates after reducing the stamp duty in most areas of Maharashtra comes as a surprise, though it was reduced in Mumbai, said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants. “Bringing down the RR rate considerably was expected as it would have given some room to developers to bring down the prices of properties. In most micro markets, the RR rate is almost equal to the ongoing sales price, and buyers and sellers have to pay tax if the sales are below the RR rate. This limitation has been cited by developers to bring down prices. An increase in RR rates limits the room for them to bring down prices while marginal reductions make no difference,” he added. The real estate industry was expecting a downward revision in the RR for better aligned with on ground reality. It impacts both buyers and developers as a hike dampens sentiments, said NAREDCO vice chairperson Manju Yagnik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-3-91-rr-rate-increase-highest-in-pune-district-but-falls-in-mumbai-by-0-6/articleshow/78069648.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 12, 2020||Nashik||PWD proposes concreting of road connecting Ghoti||Nashik: The state public works department (PWD) has proposed concreting the road connecting Ghoti in Nashik district and Bhandardara in Ahmednagar district under the Asian Development Bank (ADB) project. The 13-km stretch of the road falls in Igatpuri taluka of Nashik district and it will be reconstructed keeping in mind the safety and other features required for the project. More than 80% of tourists visiting Wilson’Dam, Kalsubai Peak and Ratan Gad use this road. SN Rajbhoj, the superintendent engineer, said, “There are several teams of the ADB visiting the project site. We have prepared an estimate of about Rs 80 crore for the construction of this concrete road. The estimate has been presented to the state government and a decision will be taken soon.” According to another senior PWD officer, the complete reconstruction of the road is on the anvil and includes many other features other than just laying of the concrete. Most of the road’s surface that was damaged was cleared just before the monsoon and during this season, the work of filling potholes are being carried out. A jet patcher machine is being used on a stretch of around 3 km on the road to make it motorable. Speaking about the development of the road, the officer said, “It will include reconstruction of bridges on the stretch, construction of retaining walls, gabion walls and ghat walls in order to reduce the chances of landslides besides strengthening the entire road that will be constructed in concrete.” This is going to be a good road that will sustain the vehicular traffic between parts of Nashik district and the neighbouring district of Ahmednagar, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pwd-proposes-concreting-of-road-connecting-ghoti/articleshow/78064837.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 12, 2020||Pune||At 3.91%, ready reckoner rate hike highest in Pune district||PUNE: The government on Friday announced an average hike of 1.74% in the ready reckoner (RR) rate for properties across the state, except for Mumbai where it reduced by 0.6%. The rates will come into effect from Saturday. Pune district registered the highest hike of 3.91%, followed by Raigad and Nandurbar at 3% in the revision announced for 2020-21. TimesViewHigher ready reckoner rates push up the agreement value of a property, thereby effectively nullifying the stamp duty reduction granted earlier by the state government. The hike will impact property sales and affect both homebuyers and developers. It comes at a time when the realty sector was actually looking at a downward revision in RR rates.The increase for Pune Municipal Corporation areas is 1.56% and 3.41% in Pimpri Chinchwad limits. The rate for the rural areas in Pune district was a high 8.62%, while it was 2.92% in the influence areas where infrastructure projects have been announced and 5.4% in municipal council areas. “We have parameters to assess transactions, and we have seen the maximum transactions in Pune district. Therefore, there is a rise in the rates here,” Inspector General of Registration and Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said on Friday. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI that the rates had to be corrected, and for the first time after a revision in the rules, it was reduced in some areas. “We decided on a realistic rate. The RR rates were reviewed after 2017, and we found that in many areas, the rates were consistently high, and hence we rationalised them,” he said. Developers had requested that the rates be reduced as they were very high in some areas, he added. The average hike for rural areas in the state is 2.81%, for influence areas 1.89%, municipal council areas 1.29% and corporation areas 1.02%. RR rate is the standard value of an immovable property assessed and regulated by the state. New rates come into effect from April 1. But this year, the announcement was deferred to September for the first time by the revenue department due to the pandemic. The fall in the rate for Mumbai is also a first. It was done as per the revised order in 2018 where RR rates could be reduced. The rates were announced after recommendations from district collectors, interactions with people’s representatives, and realtors. Thorat said the department had been working on the rates for the last six months. “We reduced stamp duty. The RR rates in most areas have been marginally increased or reduced,” he told TOI. The state government had reduced the stamp duty by 3% for the September-December period, and by 2% for the January-March 2021 period to boost sales. Developers have been demanding a reduction in the RR rates. Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said their members were taken aback by the increase in rates for Pune. “It is surprising that the government announced a hike in the RR rates especially for Pune which is the most affected. They are the highest whereas we were expecting it to decrease. This system of deciding ready reckoner rates is not scientific,” he said. A property watcher told TOI that there were suggestions to the government to bring down the rate by as much as 40% for the next two years to boost the real estate sector. Increasing the RR rates after reducing the stamp duty in most areas of Maharashtra comes as a surprise, though it was reduced in Mumbai, said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants. “Bringing down the RR rate considerably was expected as it would have given some room to developers to bring down the prices of properties. In most micro markets, the RR rate is almost equal to the ongoing sales price, and buyers and sellers have to pay tax if the sales are below the RR rate. This limitation has been cited by developers to bring down prices. An increase in RR rates limits the room for them to bring down prices while marginal reductions make no difference,” he added. The real estate industry was expecting a downward revision in the RR for better aligned with on ground reality. It impacts both buyers and developers as a hike dampens sentiments, said NAREDCO vice chairperson Manju Yagnik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-3-91-rr-rate-increase-highest-in-pune-district-but-falls-in-mumbai-by-0-6/articleshow/78067447.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Trying our best to comply with SC order: Railways||NEW DELHI: Amid the growing controversy over removal of slums from railway safety zones in the capital, railway officials said they are doing everything to comply with the Supreme Court order, though there is little progress since discussions started with the Delhi government last week. Officials said the task of removing the slums as per the SC order has to be completed by railways, the Delhi government and municipal bodies. “The Supreme Court has issued directions, which have to be complied with. We are trying our level best to put the plan in place and that can happen only when all the agencies come together,” said an official. Last week, Railway Board chairman V K Yadav had told reporters that Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Satyendar Jain, a senior minister in the Arvind Kejriwal government, had met after the SC order and subsequently officials from the Delhi government and Northern Railway had detailed discussions. He had said the action plan would be submitted to the apex court within a month. “Some issues have been raised by the Delhi government, which we can’t divulge. The focus is to abide by the SC order,” said the official. The apex court has set three months’ deadline to remove jhuggis along railway tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rlys-trying-our-best-to-comply-with-sc-order/articleshow/78067538.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||3 flyers held with foreign cigarettes worth Rs 13 lakh||Lucknow: The customs department at Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport caught three men for smuggling South Korean brand cigarettes worth Rs 13.05 lakh. The seizure was made after Indigo flight 6E 8457 from Dubai landed at Amausi airport here at 3:15am. According to customs department, 85,000 sticks of ESSE special gold and ESSE light cigarettes were seized. One of the passengers was from Lucknow, while others hailed from Bareilly. Niharika Lakha, deputy commissioner, customs, Amausi airport, said, “During questioning, the trio confessed to smuggling cigarettes in Lucknow and Bareilly to make a quick buck. We caught the accused during luggage scanning as their baggage showed full with stacked cigarette boxes.” Last Saturday, customs sleuths seized cigarettes worth Rs 53.64 lakh from 13 passengers, along with perfume worth Rs 2.12 lakh and gold Rs 15.28 lakh. On Monday, the department caught another passenger with gold worth Rs 12.35 lakh. All the accused were smuggling the consignment into Lucknow via Dubai or Sharjah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-flyers-held-with-foreign-cigarettes-worth-rs-13-lakh/articleshow/78068480.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolhapur||At 3.91%, ready reckoner rate hike highest in Pune district||PUNE: The government on Friday announced an average hike of 1.74% in the ready reckoner (RR) rate for properties across the state, except for Mumbai where it reduced by 0.6%. The rates will come into effect from Saturday. Pune district registered the highest hike of 3.91%, followed by Raigad and Nandurbar at 3% in the revision announced for 2020-21. TimesViewHigher ready reckoner rates push up the agreement value of a property, thereby effectively nullifying the stamp duty reduction granted earlier by the state government. The hike will impact property sales and affect both homebuyers and developers. It comes at a time when the realty sector was actually looking at a downward revision in RR rates.The increase for Pune Municipal Corporation areas is 1.56% and 3.41% in Pimpri Chinchwad limits. The rate for the rural areas in Pune district was a high 8.62%, while it was 2.92% in the influence areas where infrastructure projects have been announced and 5.4% in municipal council areas. “We have parameters to assess transactions, and we have seen the maximum transactions in Pune district. Therefore, there is a rise in the rates here,” Inspector General of Registration and Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said on Friday. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI that the rates had to be corrected, and for the first time after a revision in the rules, it was reduced in some areas. “We decided on a realistic rate. The RR rates were reviewed after 2017, and we found that in many areas, the rates were consistently high, and hence we rationalised them,” he said. Developers had requested that the rates be reduced as they were very high in some areas, he added. The average hike for rural areas in the state is 2.81%, for influence areas 1.89%, municipal council areas 1.29% and corporation areas 1.02%. RR rate is the standard value of an immovable property assessed and regulated by the state. New rates come into effect from April 1. But this year, the announcement was deferred to September for the first time by the revenue department due to the pandemic. The fall in the rate for Mumbai is also a first. It was done as per the revised order in 2018 where RR rates could be reduced. The rates were announced after recommendations from district collectors, interactions with people’s representatives, and realtors. Thorat said the department had been working on the rates for the last six months. “We reduced stamp duty. The RR rates in most areas have been marginally increased or reduced,” he told TOI. The state government had reduced the stamp duty by 3% for the September-December period, and by 2% for the January-March 2021 period to boost sales. Developers have been demanding a reduction in the RR rates. Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said their members were taken aback by the increase in rates for Pune. “It is surprising that the government announced a hike in the RR rates especially for Pune which is the most affected. They are the highest whereas we were expecting it to decrease. This system of deciding ready reckoner rates is not scientific,” he said. A property watcher told TOI that there were suggestions to the government to bring down the rate by as much as 40% for the next two years to boost the real estate sector. Increasing the RR rates after reducing the stamp duty in most areas of Maharashtra comes as a surprise, though it was reduced in Mumbai, said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants. “Bringing down the RR rate considerably was expected as it would have given some room to developers to bring down the prices of properties. In most micro markets, the RR rate is almost equal to the ongoing sales price, and buyers and sellers have to pay tax if the sales are below the RR rate. This limitation has been cited by developers to bring down prices. An increase in RR rates limits the room for them to bring down prices while marginal reductions make no difference,” he added. The real estate industry was expecting a downward revision in the RR for better aligned with on ground reality. It impacts both buyers and developers as a hike dampens sentiments, said NAREDCO vice chairperson Manju Yagnik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/at-3-91-rr-rate-increase-highest-in-pune-district-but-falls-in-mumbai-by-0-6/articleshow/78069649.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 12, 2020||Aurangabad||At 3.91%, ready reckoner rate hike highest in Pune district||PUNE: The government on Friday announced an average hike of 1.74% in the ready reckoner (RR) rate for properties across the state, except for Mumbai where it reduced by 0.6%. The rates will come into effect from Saturday. Pune district registered the highest hike of 3.91%, followed by Raigad and Nandurbar at 3% in the revision announced for 2020-21. TimesViewHigher ready reckoner rates push up the agreement value of a property, thereby effectively nullifying the stamp duty reduction granted earlier by the state government. The hike will impact property sales and affect both homebuyers and developers. It comes at a time when the realty sector was actually looking at a downward revision in RR rates.The increase for Pune Municipal Corporation areas is 1.56% and 3.41% in Pimpri Chinchwad limits. The rate for the rural areas in Pune district was a high 8.62%, while it was 2.92% in the influence areas where infrastructure projects have been announced and 5.4% in municipal council areas. “We have parameters to assess transactions, and we have seen the maximum transactions in Pune district. Therefore, there is a rise in the rates here,” Inspector General of Registration and Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said on Friday. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI that the rates had to be corrected, and for the first time after a revision in the rules, it was reduced in some areas. “We decided on a realistic rate. The RR rates were reviewed after 2017, and we found that in many areas, the rates were consistently high, and hence we rationalised them,” he said. Developers had requested that the rates be reduced as they were very high in some areas, he added. The average hike for rural areas in the state is 2.81%, for influence areas 1.89%, municipal council areas 1.29% and corporation areas 1.02%. RR rate is the standard value of an immovable property assessed and regulated by the state. New rates come into effect from April 1. But this year, the announcement was deferred to September for the first time by the revenue department due to the pandemic. The fall in the rate for Mumbai is also a first. It was done as per the revised order in 2018 where RR rates could be reduced. The rates were announced after recommendations from district collectors, interactions with people’s representatives, and realtors. Thorat said the department had been working on the rates for the last six months. “We reduced stamp duty. The RR rates in most areas have been marginally increased or reduced,” he told TOI. The state government had reduced the stamp duty by 3% for the September-December period, and by 2% for the January-March 2021 period to boost sales. Developers have been demanding a reduction in the RR rates. Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said their members were taken aback by the increase in rates for Pune. “It is surprising that the government announced a hike in the RR rates especially for Pune which is the most affected. They are the highest whereas we were expecting it to decrease. This system of deciding ready reckoner rates is not scientific,” he said. A property watcher told TOI that there were suggestions to the government to bring down the rate by as much as 40% for the next two years to boost the real estate sector. Increasing the RR rates after reducing the stamp duty in most areas of Maharashtra comes as a surprise, though it was reduced in Mumbai, said Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants. “Bringing down the RR rate considerably was expected as it would have given some room to developers to bring down the prices of properties. In most micro markets, the RR rate is almost equal to the ongoing sales price, and buyers and sellers have to pay tax if the sales are below the RR rate. This limitation has been cited by developers to bring down prices. An increase in RR rates limits the room for them to bring down prices while marginal reductions make no difference,” he added. The real estate industry was expecting a downward revision in the RR for better aligned with on ground reality. It impacts both buyers and developers as a hike dampens sentiments, said NAREDCO vice chairperson Manju Yagnik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/at-3-91-rr-rate-increase-highest-in-pune-district-but-falls-in-mumbai-by-0-6/articleshow/78069650.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||2,526 catch virus, Punjab posts another record in new cases||Chandigarh: Punjab posted yet another single-day highest surge in new cases with 2,526 people testing positive, taking the overall tally to 74,616. The virus claimed the lives of 63 more people, pushing the death count to 2,212. Nine districts recorded cases in three figures. The state’s fatality rate stood at 2.95%, andit was expected to rise when this report was filed as 79 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support, while 529 patients were on oxygen support. Among the new casualties, 12 were in Ludhiana, eight in Jalandhar, seven each in Bathinda and Patiala, five in Hoshiarpur, four each in Tarn Taran and Sangrur, three each in Pathankot, Muktsar and Gurdaspur, and one each in Faridkot, Ferozepur, Mohali and Moga. The highest number of new cases, 326, were reported in Jalandhar. It was followed by 315 new caes in Patiala, 262 in Mohali, 237 in Gurdaspur, 186 in Ludhiana, 181 in Amritsar, 166 in Kapurthala, 161 in Hoshiarpur, and 116 in Bathinda. As many as 72 people were tested positive in Ferozepur, 67 in Sangrur, 61 each in Pathankot and Mansa, 59 in Muktsar, 58 in Faridkot, 50 in Fazilka, 37 in Moga, 28 each in Barnala and Ropar, 25 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 17 in Tarn Taran, and 16 in Nawanshahr. A total of 1,402 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 53,308. Of them, 289 were discharged in Patiala, 190 in Ludhiana, 182 in Mohali 151 in Amritsar, 95 in Hoshiarpur, 78 in Faridkot, 70 in Fazilka, 55 in Barnala, 47 in Pathankot, 39 each in Sangrur and Muktsar, 38 in Moga, 34 in Ropar, 31 each in Nawanshahr and Bathinda, 21 in Fatehgarh Sahib, and two in Kapurthala. There were 19,096 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2526-catch-virus-punjab-posts-another-record-in-new-cases/articleshow/78067496.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||24 locations in New Town get 700 smart solar lights||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has installed over 700 “intelligent” solar lights along 24 streets across New Town. The move is expected to reduce the electricity bill by Rs 3 lakh per year. The solar panels fitted with sensors enable the lights to automatically switch on when the sun sets. Also, the intensity of the street lights reduces after a set time, which is currently configured at 10pm. Officials said the solar power is stored in fixed-use lithium batteries that have long life span with no maintenance and are safe and efficient. Nearly all solar energy installations in New Town use the net-metering mechanism, in which the generated solar energy is fed into the electricity grid during the day while power from the grid is drawn at night. Earlier, NKDA had installed smart LED streetlights on a 1-km stretch in the township. NKDA has been promoting solar power in New Town as part of its green initiatives. The authorities are working on plans to install five steel-based tree-like devices that will generate solar power and about 1,300 solar road studs across the township to reduce consumption of conventional energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/24-locations-in-new-town-get-700-smart-solar-lights/articleshow/78067481.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Patients with no comorbidity dying of Covid sparks concern||Nashik: A closer look at the fatalities due to Covid-19 in Nashik district has revealed that 81.3 % of the last 515 deceased, across all age groups, did not have any known comorbid conditions. This share is more than double the share reported in the state.The Nashik district has reported 1,020 deaths till September 10. Of these, 610 deaths (59.8%) were of non-comorbid patients. However, the percentage of patients with no co-morbidity among the 505 deaths was 37.8% (191 people).“It is a major concern among the medical fraternity over the very high number of deaths among patients with no known co-morbidity in the last 515 Covid-19 deaths,” said civil surgeon Dr Suresh Jagdale.He added that more than 72 % patients are asymptomatic and only 18% require hospitalization. “People, who had no comorbidity could have easily overcome the infection in home isolation if they had been diagnosed early. They have lost their lives largely because of their late self-reporting,” he claimed.Additional civil surgeon Nilesh Saindane said, “It has come as a shock for us too. The health team used various tools to identify and take care of vulnerable population from the society – those with comorbidity and senior citizens. But others in the society, they need to at least acknowledge that they have some kind of covid-19 symptoms and approach the medical facilities for right kind of treatment.”Saindane advised people to follow ‘SMSS’ for their safety -- defining it as ‘Social distancing, use of Mask, use of Sanitizer and Self-monitoring of health’.Doctors said that 75% of patients only require few medicines prescribed by the doctors, home isolation and monitoring of their pulse oxygen and temperature less than.The officer also appealed to the people not to go for choice of beds only because they have medical insurance as such activity during trying conditions could possibly lead to deficiency of bed for a needy person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/patients-with-no-comorbidity-dying-of-covid-sparks-concern/articleshow/78064854.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: 1,181 new cases; capital way ahead of UP cities in count||LUCKNOW: Registering a new high, the city recorded 1,181 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours, which not only constituted over 16% of the total 7,103 cases reported in the entire state on Friday, but was also more than the count of the three districts at second, third and fourth places taken together. The spike, biggest since the outbreak, saw close to 50 people testing Covid positive every 60 minutes in Lucknow. Experts said they were not surprised by the surge given the public disregard of safety protocols and poor vigilance and contact tracing by authorities. They predicted daily numbers to rise further in the coming days. Gomtinagar and Alambagh reported the highest number of cases — 59 and 52, respectively — on Friday, followed by Aliganj 48, Aashiana 47 and Indiranagar 45. Other areas with a substantial number of cases included residential areas on Rae Bareli Road 42, Jankipuram 41, Chowk 39, Madiaon 35, Mahanagar 33, Hazratganj 29, Thakuragnj and Talkatora 27, Chinhat and Vikasnagar 25 each. The city’s caseload now stands at 37,220, which is over 12% of UP’s cumulative figure of 2.9 lakh. Lucknow is way ahead of other districts in the state, both in terms of total count and active patients. Although of the total count, 27,464 (73.7%) patients including 827 on Friday have recovered so far, number of active patients were 9260 (24.8%), more than double of that in Kanpur (4445). Another UP min tests positive UP state minister for jails, Jai Kumar Singh Jaiki, tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. The Apna Dal (S) politician broke the news on his social media accounts. He got himself tested after developing symptoms. He also appealed to those who had come in his contact with him in the past few days to isolate and get themselves tested. He is in home isolation on doctor’s advice. Jaiki is the 16th minister to contract the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1181-new-cases-capital-way-ahead-of-up-cities-in-count/articleshow/78068488.cms||Yusra Husain
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After pleas don’t work, DMRC fines violators||NEW DELHI: Since the resumption of Delhi Metro services on Monday, most commuters have been diligently following safety norms to avoid the spread of the novel coronavirus. However, there have been a few not wearing a mask or maintaining social distancing inside the trains. After four days of advisories and announcements, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) finally decided to crack the whip on Friday. “As part of a special drive, flying squads were deployed on all corridors to randomly check inside trains for violations and counsel people to refrain from doing so for their own and others’ safety. DMRC on Friday counselled over 150 passengers and penalised 92 Rs 200 each under Section 59 of Delhi Metro Operations & Maintenance Act for creating nuisance. These passengers did not wear masks or maintain social distancing inside trains even when counselled,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. On Friday, TOI had reported how some passengers were seen throwing caution to the wind and removing face masks. Some even talked loudly inside trains with their faces uncovered despite continuous appeals by DMRC. Many commuters also took to social media to complain about co-passengers violating safety norms, putting the health of others at grave risk. Dayal said the decision to deploy flying squads on all corridors was taken on the basis of complaints received on social media. “Owing to the ongoing pandemic, everyone is required to wear a face mask throughout the journey on Delhi Metro and also adhere to social distancing norms to help prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus,” Dayal said. He added that DMRC had not only introduced new announcements advising the public to wear masks throughout the travel, but was also running short films on new travel norms at stations and inside trains on LED screens. Dayal said entry gates at the stations also had prominent displays on dos & don’ts for Metro travel during the pandemic so that commuters entering stations were well-informed. “There is a deployment of over 1,500 DMRC personnel and civil defence volunteers at stations across the network to guide and help commuters who might not be fully aware of the newly introduced norms,” he added. “Our intention at this time, when Metro services are yet to be made fully operational, is to advise and counsel passengers in adopting these norms with a positive attitude rather than merely being punitive,” Dayal said, adding that if people were still found flouting the norms, they would be penalised and could also be handed over to police. The DMRC official said, “We hope that people will soon be well-versed with all the new norms and help DMRC run its services without any health risk to passengers.” Watch Delhi: DMRC cracks the whip on those not wearing masks inside trains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-pleas-dont-work-dmrc-fines-violators/articleshow/78068964.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 12, 2020||Nashik||50-year-old killed in road accident in Nashik city||Nashik: A 50-year-old man was killed in an accident when a car knocked down the two-wheeler he was riding pillion in at Makhmalabad Road on Monday at 4.30 pm. The deceased’s son lodged a complaint with Panchavati police station against an unidentified car driver who knocked down the vehicle in front of Maruti Mandir on Makhmalabad Road and fled the scene. As per the complainant, his mother was driving the scooter with his father riding pillion. They were on the way to their home when the incident took place. As the vehicle crossed the Dream Castle Square towards Mhasrul, a car, which was being driven negligently, knocked down the scooter from behind. Both the passengers were thrown off the road when the deceased received injuries in head and chest while his wife also received injuries. The car driver fled the spot without helping. The 50-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Thursday. Police have registered a case under section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-year-old-killed-in-road-accident-in-nashik-city/articleshow/78064881.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Casteist slur on JU prof: FIR against 3rd yr student, others||Kolkata: The Jadavpur police on Thursday lodged an FIR against a third-year college student and others for trolling and making casteist slurs on a Jadavpur University history professor for questioning the Centre’s decision to hold terminal semester examinations. Professor Maroona Murmu said, “I have lodged a formal complaint with the local police station, the Commissioner of Police, DC (South) as well as the district magistrate, informing them about the online harassment and casteist hatred which I have been subjected to. They shall now take the necessary steps.”“We have registered the FIR under the stringent SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act. The probe has begun,” said DC (south suburban) Biswajit Ghosh.The professor said the incessant trolling against her was taking a toll on her mentally. “The incessant trolling over the past couple of days has taken a toll on my mental well-being. There are more than 1,900 people who are commenting while targeting me and my ethnic identity, relentlessly, without even knowing an iota about my academic achievements. I may need to seek medical attention,” said Murmu.A petition to the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes too has been submitted by several prominent educationists, global researchers, eminent historians and stalwarts seeking cognizance and action against the trolling of Murmu.TOI had on September 5 reported that several academics, including Jadavpur University Teachers Association (JUTA), strongly condemned the “vicious trolling and hate attacks” on social media against the Jadavpur University academic.The Kolkata college where the student studies is holding sensitisation programmes for its students. “We are holding a sensitisation programme for students about how to behave responsibly on social media and educating students about the existing laws and acts,” the college principal said. TOI was unable to reach out to the college student. Messages to her social media account went unanswered.Police said the FIR has been drawn up on a four-page complaint letter emailed to the Jadavpur police on September 10, eight days after she began facing trolling. “The ACP of Jadavpur will be the investigating officer. We are writing to Facebook to ascertain if certain comments on the social site were indeed posted by the suspects,” said a senior officer. Police said they may seek help from cyber experts to retrieve even the deleted messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/casteist-slur-on-ju-prof-fir-against-3rd-yr-student-others/articleshow/78067537.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Surat||Much ado about missing mop: FIR lodged, 3 nabbed!||Surat: This one missing mop will surely sweep clean all other crime stories. For, a complaint was lodged in the theft of a Rs150 mop from a shop in Yogi Chowk in the city. Sarthana police too didn’t sweep the matter under the carpet ‘as trivial’ and booked unidentified persons under section 379 (Punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code and launched a probe!Janak Bhalala, 29, a resident of Saurashtra Palace in Utran in Surat city, lodged the complaint of the mop missing from his shop, Sahjanand Business Hub.According to the FIR, on September 4, while going out of the office for some work, Bhalala’s brother-in-law Keval Kyada put the mop outside the office. However, upon return, he couldn’t find it. Distressed, he called his brother-in-law to inform about the mysterious disappearance. The next day, Bhalala along with Kyada went around inquiring among the neighbours and watchmen if anybody spotted the missing ‘objet utilitaire inestimable’. But in vain. Crestfallen, Bhalala, a diamond trader and native of Umej village in Una taluka of Gir-Somnath district reached the police station. “I had purchased the mop for Rs 150 from Happy Home Complex. However, I did not take a bill while purchasing it but its cost must be around Rs 150,” Bhalala said in his complaint.Cops lost no time and checked CCTV camera footage to find the real culprits. And the cameras spoke: It showed Bharat Kanani, a land broker, Kalpesh Tejani, an embroidery unit owner, and Vignesh Mangukia, a diamond trader in the city carting the item!While sources said that the three accused had some quarrel and wanting a stick to solve the impasse, used the mop for ‘justice’. However, they clearly forgot to restore it to its rightful position. Police were unrelenting too. They arrested the three persons on Friday, thereby busting the case of the missing mop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/much-ado-about-missing-mop-fir-lodged-3-nabbed/articleshow/78066023.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, 2,388 more infected, 25 succumb||Chandigarh: Haryana reported 2,388 new Covid-19 cases and 25 more fatalities due to the virus on Friday, raising the state’s tally to 88,332 and toll to 932. The day also recorded the highest number of 1,820 recoveries, making overall recoveries 68,525 in Haryana. At present, there are 18,875 active Covid-19 cases in Haryana. Of the 25 fatalities, four were reported from Karnal district, three each from Gurgaon, Sirsa and Ambala, two each from Yamunanagar, Panchkula, Rohtak and Faridabad, and one each from Panipat, Palwal, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra. The highest spike in fresh cases was reported from Gurgaon district (289), followed by Faridabad (281), Panchkula (180), Kurukshetra (173), Ambala (168), Sonipat (167), Karnal (155), Panipat (153), Rohtak (103), Sirsa (98), Hisar (82), Yamunanagar (79), Fatehabad (70), Rewari (67), Kaithal and Jhajjar (63 each), Mahendragarh (62), Palwal (55), Bhiwani (49), Nuh (25) and Charkh Dadri (6). As of Friday, the state's recovery rate stands at 77.58%, case fatality rate at 1.06% and doubling rate of infections 29 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-haryana-2388-more-infected-25-succumb/articleshow/78067535.cms||Manvir Saini
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Pilot run for first gantry-based toll system on Delhi-Meerut e-way||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will carry out pilot studies of the country's first gantry-based tolling system on Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) and Panipat-Ambala stretch of NH-1. In the new system, the toll charges will be automatically deducted from the FASTag wallet linked to the vehicle registration number after reading the registration numberplate, and vehicles won’t need to stop or slow down for this purpose. “Since these are pilot studies, actual amounts won’t be deducted from users’ FASTag accounts. The pilot will be for three months on each stretch. The performance will be reviewed regularly. The intention is to make the process of paying toll charges seamless. This will be of huge help for tolling in urban areas,” said a source. Under this new system, which is also being termed as e-FASTag, there will be no physical toll plaza on the 6-lane access controlled stretch of the DME that has been barricaded. Commuters using the service roads will always be exempted from paying toll charges. The pilot study will start by the end of December. In Panipat-Ambala stretch, the pilot is likely to start by October end. Automatic Numberplate Recognition (ANPR) cameras will be fixed at all the entry and exit points of the expressway. “Once the system is established, commuters will pay for the kilometres travelled rather than paying for the entire stretch, which is also known as closed tolling,” said an official. A source said two check plazas will also be established; one on Delhi-Dasna stretch and other on Dasna-Meerut greenfield stretch. “The purpose of these check plazas will be to detect if vehicles are using the toll corridors even without having FASTag wallets. We are aware of the issues that would crop up because of non-uniform numberplates and likely violation of norms by commuters. During the pilot period, there will be focus on addressing these issues,” said a senior NHAI official. Officials admitted that enforcement would be a big challenge due to various reasons including people not updating their new address where the challan of the evaded toll amount could be sent, people violating the standards of displaying vehicle registration numbers and fixing fake numberplates. The NHAI had first announced its intention to introduce the multi-lane free flow (MLFF) RFID gantry-based tolling system on the eastern Peripheral Expressway, but it couldn’t be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pilot-run-for-first-gantry-based-toll-system-on-delhi-meerut-e-way/articleshow/78068967.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 12, 2020||Delhi||East corporation gets 6 more trommel machines for Delhi's Ghazipur landfill||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday added six trommel machines at the Ghazipur landfill to augment its capacity to segregate garbage and process legacy waste. Now, 12 machines have been installed to deal with 2,400 tonnes of waste every day. “Through consistent efforts, the height of the landfill has been brought down by 40 feet in the past one year. I don’t believe in spending Rs 40 lakh on advertisement daily. I believe in honest hard work. We shall not stop until there is a complete change,” said east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir while inaugurating the machines. Ghazipur is not an issue of only east Delhi but of the entire city, he said. “To get rid of it, all agencies need to work together. I had written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in February inviting him to visit the landfill site together and have a meeting of all authorities concerned; but till date there has been no response,” the MP alleged. “He rather indulges in petty politics by sending his MLAs to disrupt the work. This is the attitude and seriousness of our CM towards one of the biggest problems of our city,” Gambhir added. Despite TOI reaching out to it, Delhi government didn’t comment. The civic agency also plans to install a modern plant at the site for more segregation. “Talks are on with manufacturers for the installation. Going by the performance of trommel machines, it will be difficult to achieve 100% results,” said an official. “We need a technology that will work efficiently with legacy waste and process at least 1,500 tonne waste per day. Manufacturers are being invited to demonstrate their machines or operate them here on pilot basis,” he added. TOI found on Friday that fresh waste was being dumped at the back of the landfill, a site originally meant for extending the capacity of the existing waste-to-energy plant. “Due to space restriction, we have installed new machines near the green patch,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-corpn-gets-6-more-trommel-machines-for-ghazipur-landfill/articleshow/78067559.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Some auditors not checking bills: Panel||Nashik: The standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday alleged that some of the auditors appointed to check the bills of Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at private hospitals are working with hospital management and overcharging the patients. The members of the standing committee alleged that some of the auditors appointed by the NMC were not checking the bills properly, as a result, the private hospitals have been fleecing the Covid patients. The civic officials said they would direct divisional officers to keep a tab on the auditors. Ganesh Gite, the chairman of the standing committee, directed the civic administration to cancel the registration of those private hospitals refusing to admit patients despite having vacant beds and those hospitals which are not cooperating with the NMC This directive comes after the members alleged that some private hospital are also refusing to admit Covid patients. The NMC has appointed 64 auditors for private Covid hospitals and 132 auditors for private non-covid hospitals to conduct pre-audit of patients’ bills in order to curb overcharging. Sudhakar Badgujar, one of the members, said there is a nexus between auditors with private hospitals, and are looting patients through overcharging. Gite told the civic administration officials during a meeting that a big corporate hospital overcharged his family members. Pravin Ashtikar, the additional municipal commissioner, in a meeting said, “One medical officer each will be appointed in all the six divisions of the municipal corporation and they will coordinate with the auditors to ensure pre-audit of bills are being conducted properly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/some-auditors-not-checking-bills-panel/articleshow/78064905.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||4 lose battle, 318 +ve in Himachal; tally near 9,000||Manali: Four Covid-19 patients died in Himachal Pradesh and 318 more persons tested positive for the virus on Friday. With this, the number of cases in the state reached 8,784, of which 69 patients had died, 2,874 cases were still active, 5,824 had been cured so far, and 15 had migrated out of the state. Also, 158 patients were discharged during the day. A death each was reported from Shimla and Bilaspur, and two from Kangra. A 55-year-old woman from Kangra, who was diabetic and complaining of breathing problem, died at the medical college in Tanda. The woman tested positive after her death. A 50-year-old woman with gastroenteritis too tested positive after her death. In Shimla, a 64-year-old person from Sanjauli who was admitted to IGMC two days ago, died during treatment. A 39-year-old man from Naina Devi in Bilaspur also died of the disease. He had influenza-like illness (ILI) and adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). This is the first death of a patient from the district. Health minister Rajeev Saizal on Friday said Covid community spread was in the initial stage. New cases included 12 from Bilaspur, 16 from Chamba, 20 from Hamirpur, 57 from Kangra, six from Kullu, 48 from Mandi, 24 from Shimla, 24 from Sirmaur, 73 from Solan, and 38 from Shimla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-lose-battle-318-ve-in-himachal-tally-near-9000/articleshow/78067553.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||As condition worsens, Punjab imposes curbs on oxygen supply to other states||CHANDIGARH: In view of rising demand for medical oxygen amid deteriorating Covid-19 situation in the state, the Punjab government has imposed restrictions on state-based manufacturers for selling it to other states and directed them to give priority to home demand. There are about 10 units in the state manufacturinng medical oxygen. Besides, the government sources oxygen from units in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand. Due to the rise in patients needing oxygen, the demand has touched about 100 metric tonnes (MTs). The food and drug administration (FDA), Punjab, had sent a letter to these units asking them not to "sell and supply" medical oxygen manufactured in their units outside the state. “Priority shall be given to meet the daily requirement of Punjab. No part of the manufactured medical oxygen strictly be supplied out of Punjab without prior written permission of zonal licensing authority," the communication said. These units have been directed to charge the rate fixed by the central government and National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority, or face action under Essential Commodities Act. They have been instructed to submit a daily report informing about the daily quantity of medical oxygen produced, quantity sold and stock in hand as any violation or non-compliance will lead to cancellation of their licences. Since the virus attacks the respiratory system, patients have to be put on oxygen and ventilator support. There has been a manifold increase in the number of patients requiring oxygen, intensive care units (ICUs) and ventilator support. The health department data reveals that in May only three patients needed oxygen support, while five were put on ventilators. The next month, 21 patients were put on ventilator support, while 82 required oxygen. In July, as many as 181 patients required oxygen support, 89 were in ICUs and 63 needed ventilator support, while in August as many as 505 patients required oxygen support. A total of 250 were admitted in ICU and 233 were put on ventilators. In the ongoing month, 123 new patients are on oxygen support, 35 in ICU and 93 on ventilators. As on September 10, 544 patients are on oxygen and 79 in critical condition on ventilators. Joint commissioner (drugs), food and drug administration, Punjab, Pardeep Kumar maintained that there is no shortage of oxygen and the directions have been issued to maintain regular supply of oxygen to hospitals in view of the increasing cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-condition-worsens-punjab-imposes-curbs-on-oxygen-supply-to-other-states/articleshow/78067549.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Doctor shortage hits NMC’s Covid hosp||Nashik: There are just four physicians at the two Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC)-managed hospitals treating over 250 covid-19 patients. The four physicians are working on a part-time basis. Two each are working part-time in the Zakir Hussain and Bytco hospitals. This information was shared during the special standing committee meeting of NMC held on Friday. The panel members rapped the civic administration for its failure to appoint more doctors and also blamed it for poor planning for oxygen beds at a time when there has been a spike in Covid-19 positive cases. The death rate of Covid patients in these two hospitals is over 13%, when that of Nashik district is 2.07% and Nashik city is 1.70%. The civic officials present in the meeting said that they had invited applications to appoint 10 MD (medicine) doctors, but they had not received even a single application. But they managed to hire the four doctors from private hospitals on a part-time basis. The NMC doesn’t have a single full-time physician doctor (MD) of its own. Moreover, NMC wanted 100 MBBS doctors to treat patients in Covid-19 hospitals and covid care centres (CCCs), but it received applications of only 10 doctors. The standing committee chairman, Ganesh Gite, directed the civic administration to immediately increase the salary offered to the doctors so that they would be willing to work fulltime in the two hospitals. Moreover, Gite also directed the administration to immediately start recruiting doctors on a war footing, and upgrading infrastructure. A total 3,428 patients have been admitted so far in these two NMC-managed hospitals and 460 have succumbed to infection in both the hospitals. Presently, 256 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment in both the hospitals. “Most of the Covid-19 patients who died at the hospitals were admitted at the eleventh hour and in the last stage. They had earlier taken treatment in other hospitals and were shifted to these hospitals after their conditions deteriorated. Admitting patients in the last stage is the major reason there have been more deaths in both the NMC-managed hospitals,” said B Nagargoje, medical superintendent, NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/doctor-shortage-hits-nmcs-covid-hosp/articleshow/78064920.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU Covid hospital to get 200 more beds||Lucknow: The capacity of the newly inaugurated 320-bedded Covid-19 hospital of King George’s Medical University will be increased to 500 in a phased manner over the next 10 days. The decision was taken at a meeting between Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram and KGMU vice-chancellor Lt Gen Dr Bipin Puri. The meeting was called in the wake of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directions to three premier institutes in the city to increase the strength of ICU beds by 1,000 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. KGMU’s Covid-19 hospital is yet to start taking admission. Meshram said that KGMU has agreed that of the total 500 beds, 200 will be ICU and high-dependency, while 300 will have oxygen support facility so that Covid-19 patients with breathing difficulties can get required treatment. Chishti Univ registrar has Covid Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University registrar Ashok Kumar Arvind tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. Though he had last visited his office on Monday, the university’s administrative block was sanitised as a precaution. Vice-chancellor Prof Mahrukh Mirza said that no official work will be hampered by the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-covid-hospital-to-get-200-more-beds/articleshow/78068505.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist crosses 50K Covid cases||Nashik: The total number of Covid-19 cases across Nashik district crossed the 50,000-mark on Friday with addition of 1,551 new patients. According to a health official, 1,551 is the highest one-day total of positive cases reported in the district. The tally of Covid-19 patients in the district rose to 50,760, including 34,924 cases in Nashik city. Of the fresh 1,551 Covid-19 cases, 1,081 cases have been reported in the city. A total of 15 patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday, including eight from the city. The death toll stands at 1,035 in the district, including 584 in Nashik city. As many as 1,130 patients were discharged from across the district on Friday, of which 817 patients were from the city. The district has 9,927 active cases, including 5,863 in Nashik city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-crosses-50k-covid-cases/articleshow/78064929.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad starts pool testing||GHAZIABAD: To expedite Covid-19 testing, the district administration has started pool sampling in Ghaziabad. Under this initiative, swab samples of five people will be mixed together in a tube to create a super sample for testing. In case, the sample is negative, all the five people will be considered Covid-free. Vice-versa, each sample will be subsequently tested to find positive patients. According to officials, there are several benefits to this method — it will help in doing more tests at lesser costs as well as manpower, and help save a lot of testing kits. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said the initiative started in Ghaziabad on Thursday, following an approval from the state government. And so far, 50 pool samples of 250 people have been tested, of which only two were found to be positive. Earlier, pool sampling of selected groups of people from various segments like cab drivers, hospital staff, doctors, prisoners and vegetable vendors were done to gauge the spread of the corona infection. Health officials said that so far 2.32 lakh samples have been tested through various methods — rapid antigen kits, RT-PCR and Truenat — and over 10,000 positive cases have been reported in the district. The test positivity rates of rapid antigen kits, RT-PCR and Truenat are around 3%, 4% and 5%, respectively. Moreover, after mobile-testing vans, district authorities now plan to introduce mobile helpdesks in the district. Equipped with oximeters and thermal scanners, these helpdesks, along with testing vans, will be parked at market places for conducting mass screening of locals and shopkeepers. “Crowds are back in markets with Unlock 4 in place and restrictions over most activities removed. The aim of this initiative is to screen people with Covid symptoms. These vans will move from one place to another and through the public address system, staff will inform the public about the facilities available,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-starts-pool-testing/articleshow/78067798.cms||Aditya Dev
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||NCP president Sharad Pawar for quota ordinance as Maratha unrest begins||MUMBAI/KOLHAPUR: Members of Maratha organisations staged protests in different cities on Friday, blaming the state government for not arguing the reservation case for the community properly in the Supreme Court, leading to a stay on it. NCP president Sharad Pawar said that since the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the 2018 state law granting reservation to the community in education and jobs, it would be appropriate to bring in an ordinance to ensure that the on-going reservation policy was not affected adversely. "This could help avoid protests by the community, which is unhappy over the court order," he said. Udayanraje Bhosale, the 13th descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, in a statement posted on social media, demanded promulgation of such an ordinance immediately. "Government was never serious about Maratha reservation. You will have to face the consequences if action is not taken immediately," he said. While staying the implementation of the law, the Supreme Court had on Wednesday referred the case to a larger, constitution bench. In Solapur, workers of Maratha Kranti Morcha tried to block traffic on the Pune-Solapur road. They burnt tyres and shouted slogans against the government. Traffic was disrupted for a few minutes before the police arrived. Maratha organisations in Pandharpur set ablaze placards while MKM coordinator Rambhau Gaikwad warned the government about intensified agitation if it failed to take steps by September 20. Bhosale, a BJP Rajya Sabha member, said the Supreme Court decision was a fallout of the casual approach of the state government and pledged full support to the Maratha organisations. Satara BJP MLA Shivendraraje Bhosale said: "I will always be with Maratha organisations," he said. In Kolhapur, BJP staged a protest in Bindu chowk. Leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP blamed the MVA government for the stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncp-president-sharad-pawar-for-quota-ordinance-as-maratha-unrest-begins/articleshow/78076439.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: All NDMC services now on one platform||NEW DELHI: The long-awaited project of monitoring and integrating all 30 civic services of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on a single platform, the integrated control and command centre, was inaugurated by LG Anil Baijal via videoconferencing on Friday. It took two years for the project to complete at a cost of Rs 65 crore under the Smart City initiative. The first-of-its-kind project includes coordination, command and control of civic services from one point, including LED streetlights, CCTV cameras, solid waste management, air quality sensors, smart parking system, Wi-Fi, electricity and water supply, e-hospitals, property tax management and estate management. NDMC chairperson Dharmendra said 19 services were integrated in the first phase, while the others would be added in phase-II. “This project will help in providing real-time and historical data of municipal services on a single platform. Their customisable analysis will be visible 24x7 on surveillance monitors at the command centre. This will enable NDMC to take decisions faster and rope in multiple agencies to address an issue or a crisis,” he added. Baijal suggested that the maintenance of the hi-tech asset be done regularly for greater efficiency. “It is a smart package of technologies to improve the monitoring and tracking of service delivery to citizens in the new digital era. The NDMC chairperson should call the head of other civic bodies and agencies and ask them to implement this idea,” he said. “The primary objective of this project is to improve governance by enhancing efficiency of services, safety and security. At least one employee from all departments will be a part of the team at the control and command centre so that complaints and issues of residents can be resolved timely,” said a NDMC official. Dharmendra gave details of the recently redeveloped Shera Maidan Sports Complex, which was also inaugurated on Friday. “The sports complex at Mandir Marg has been redeveloped at a cost of Rs 3.2 crore to provide better recreation and sports facilities. It has a synthetic football field, two synthetic lawn tennis courts, jogging track and outdoor gymnasium,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-ndmc-services-now-on-one-platform/articleshow/78068993.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||War on virus: NIPER nebuliser offers hope||HYDERABAD: NIPER along with two private companies has developed a nebuliser that pumps medicine into the lungs to treat Covid-19. The nebuliser-based therapy also works against various respiratory ailments ranging from common cold to severe acute respiratory syndrome. The novel therapy targets the nuclear base called guanine present in the genetic material. By targeting guanine, one of the four nuclear bases that make the DNA and the RNA, the nebuliser-based therapy stops the novel coronavirus from replication in the human body. Once the replication is stopped, the body immune system takes over and kills the remaining viral load. According to the application submitted to Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation seeking permit for clinical trials using new therapy, chlorine water is used to target virus, which is made of RNA. Chlorine is known to target guanine in the RNA of the virus thus stopping it from replication. Chlorine also kills the DNA in the bacteria by targeting the nuclear base. This is the reason why chlorine is used to disinfect water supplied for drinking by municipal authorities. However, the research team did not specify the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in the nebuliser. Dr Shashi Bala Singh, director of NIPER, Hyderabad, said: “In the fight against Covid, it is not known yet what the promising drug will look like till date. NIPER, Hyderabad, with industry partners LifeActivus and Supreme Industries, invented “LifeViroTreat”, a nebuliser-based therapy for respiratory viral infection and more importantly Covid-19.” Dr Keshav Deo and Dr D Panchasara are other team members. A team comprising Dr Dharmendra Khatri, Dr Pankaj K Singh, Dr Nandkumar Doijad and Dr Rahul from NIPER carried out the preclinical toxicity studies in animals and found it safe for use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/war-on-virus-niper-nebuliser-offers-hope/articleshow/78067565.cms||Syed Akbar
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Worrying spike in coronavirus infections among Telangana women||HYDERABAD: In a worrying trend, the percentage of Covid-19 cases among Telangana women has seen a spike of more than three percent in just 10 days. At present, the overall count of women infected by the virus stands at 38 per cent. While there was only a one percent increase — from 34 to 35 per cent in the month of August — a steady three per cent rise has been witnessed in the last 10 days, as recorded on Friday. According to data, this sharp increase has been witnessed amomng women in the age group of 21 years to 50 years. However, there has been no significant change among those below 21 years and above 50 years. Meanwhile, the second round of Delhi’s SARS-CoV2 seroprevalence survey released last week shows that infections are higher among women than men. The Mumbai and Ahmedabad sero surveys had similar findings and the magnitude of the gap is higher in the Maharashtra capital. Delhi’s seroprevalence study revealed that 32 per cent of infections were among women. In Mumbai, it was 43 per cent among women and 38 per cent among men. In the case of Ahmedabad, it was 18 per cent and 17 per cent among women and men respectively. Professor BR Shamanna of Hyderabad Central University’s school of medical sciences attributed this rise to increased testing. “This rise may be due to increased testing. Women should be more careful as they are more vulnerable because of low immunity levels. In states like Maharashtra the infection rate among women has increased to 40 per cent,” Shamanna said. While maintaining that there might be no particular reason for this trend, Gandhi hospital superindent, Dr Raja Rao, advised people “in this age group or gender” to be aware that “the virus is spreading like wildfire”. “No one should panic but should wear mask and follow social distancing,” Rao added. “There is a need to assess the socio-economic status of women from districts to understand why the infection rate is higher among them,” said Dr Subhodh Kandmuthan, professor and director, centre for health care, Administrative Staff College of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worrying-spike-in-coronavirus-infections-among-t-women/articleshow/78067576.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Malihabad mob clashes with cops over Dalit death||Lucknow: A large number of villagers clashed with police when the latter tried to dispel the mob from blocking Hardoi Road on Friday evening. The mob was protesting against alleged police apathy in an incident in which a Dalit youth was allegedly beaten to death by people of another community in Malihabad on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Ram Vilas Rawat (30) of Dilawar Nagar. According to the villagers, Rawat was watering a field using a hosepipe which he had laid on the road. During this, Gulam Ali, Mustquim, Shanu, Guddu and Muquir—all of the same village—passed by on their bikes over the pipe. When Rawat objected to this, Ali and his aides got so furious that they thrashed Rawat and injured him severely. When Rawat’s family members got to know, they rushed him to a CHC where he was declared brought dead. Later, a case of causing death due to negligence in road accident was registered but the deceased’s family demanded to register a case of murder. A press statement issued by SP rural Aditya Langeh also stated that Rawat was sitting on the roadside and was run over by some men on a bike. As a result, on Friday afternoon, Rawat’s family, along with a huge number of villagers, blocked the road at Bhatoiya village demanding a case of murder against the accused. Police teams reached the scene but the mob did not listen. Police also stopped some people who were carrying the corpse fearing that they would put the corpse on the road to stage a protest. This made the protesters angrier and the cops had to resort to mild cane charging to dispel the mob. The situation worsened as villagers started pelting stones at police. A youth also sustained injuries and was admitted to KGMU trauma centre. IG Lucknow range Laxmi Singh told newsmen that three persons have been arrested in the case. She denied any reports of a youth being injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/malihabad-mob-clashes-with-cops-over-dalit-death/articleshow/78068537.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Retired army officers, college students join hands to help Amphan victims in Sunderbans||KOLKATA: A team of retired officers from the armed forces has become saviours for several Amphan-affected households in the Sunderbans. They organized relief operations in coordination with a group of Good Samaritans in the city. The officers responded to an appeal of 20 college students from the city to form a team that would help residents of Bali Island 2 in the Sunderbans. In the first instalment, help worth Rs 4.5 lakh was taken to the island last Sunday for 200-odd villagers. These officers got to know how the young team from the city comprising students of St Xavier’s College and Bhowanipore Education Society had been collecting funds and buying essentials to help the affected. One of the Army veterans, settled in the city, Colonel Manmohan Burman, got in touch with the team and a plan was struck up. Burman used digital platform to connect with his friends of 1962 batch of NDA Pune. About 59 among them, who are setted across the country, immediately agreed to send help. Veterans of Armed Forces 23 NDA Batch collected Rs 3.1 lakh while Rotary Club of Calcutta Victoria donated Rs 50,000 and Rotaract Victoria and Interact club of Chowringhee High School also helped in raising funds. A total of Rs 4.5 lakh was collected. Essentials weighing approximately 5 tonnes were bought from the fund and distributed among people. The relief materials included monthly ration, hygiene kits, medicines, clothes, towels, blankets, mosquito nets, torches, nylon ropes, tarpaulin, buckets and mugs. The city team is being headed by Rishi Jindal, a student of St Xavier’s College. “Two years back during an annual reunion in Kolkata, our batchmates had planned a trip to the Sunderbans but it didn’t materialise. When they heard about the plight of the people back there, they were moved and generously contributed for the relief operation,” said Colonel Burman. The young college boys and girls travelled with the relief material to the Island and oversaw the distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/retd-army-officers-college-students-join-hands-to-help-amphan-victims/articleshow/78067607.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Body of 45-day-old exhumed||PANCHKULA: Suspecting foul play in the death of a 45-dayold infant, Panchkula administration, on Friday, exhumed the body of the baby boy on the complaint of the parents. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the general hospital in Panchkula, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa said, adding that postmortem will be conducted on Saturday. Parents of the infant lodged a complaint with the Panchkula Police saying that doctors at a dispensary in Sector 16 administered the wrong injection to the infant, because of which he died. They have sought a probe into the matter. DCP Mohit Handa said, “We received a complaint from family members and community head alleging that their baby died of negligence on the part of doctors. After acquiring permission under Section 174 of the CrPC in the presence of the duty magistrate, the body of the infant was exhumed. The entire process has been videographed. The postmortem will now be conducted by a panel of doctors at general hospital probably on Saturday.” The incident occurred on the morning of September 10, when the child was taken to the Sector 16 dispensary as he was suffering from fever and was unable to have food. The child’s mother, Rachna, a resident of Rajiv Colony in Sector 17, Panchkula said that they took their child to Sector 16 dispensary where doctors administered an injection after which the child fell unconscious and his condition deteriorated. Paternal uncle of the child, Ramparsad and aunt Usha Rani said the doctors referred the child to the general hospital in Sector 6, where the child was declared dead. Family members and relatives staged a protest outside the dispensary, after which they buried the infant. Later, family members went to the Sector 16 police post and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/body-of-45-day-old-baby-exhumed-for-postmortem-in-pkula/articleshow/78066132.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 12, 2020||Mangaluru||DK continues to witness a high number of Covid cases||Mangaluru: Even as Dakshina Kannada district continues to witness a high number of Covid-19 cases, the district administration has advised the aged, children and those who are suffering from various illnesses to test for Covid-19 immediately. The district has recorded 3,845 Covid-19 cases and 66 deaths in the last 11 days from September 1. Meanwhile, on Friday, the district reported 446 fresh Covid cases, which is the second highest single-day spike. The district had recorded its highest single day spike with 448 positive cases on August 28. The district also reported seven Covid-19 related deaths on Friday, taking the total death toll to 434. While the district has 3,515 active cases, the total people infected with the virus has increased to 16,558. Deputy commissioner K V Rajendra said, “The spread of infection may worsen the health of the elderly, children and those suffering from various illnesses. Hence, they should immediately go for a check-up if they have come in contact with an infected person.” He said the district administration has directed manufacturers to supply oxygen to hospitals on a priority. “Manufacturers have been asked to supply oxygen to hospitals on a priority, before supplying it to industries. Increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district will not cause a shortage of oxygen. We have been receiving enough oxygen for hospitals from manufactures. The public need not panic just because the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing. The district administration will extend its support to manufacturers to ensure uninterrupted production. Mescom has been directed to provide uninterrupted power supply for all oxygen manufacturing units in the district. At present, oxygen manufacturing units get raw materials from Palakkad in Kerala and Toranagallu in Ballari district. We are in touch with the Ballari district administration to ensure supply of raw materials adequately,” the DC said. In UdupiUdupi reported 168 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Friday. The district has 1,831 active cases including 834 in hospitals and 997 in home isolation. With 232 positive cases getting discharged from hospitals and from home isolation on Friday, the total number of people cured in the district increased to 11,784. Out of two deaths reported, one of the victims was a 73-year-old man who was from Kundapur, and 60-year-old man who hailed from Davanagere district. The total number of Covid-19 fatalities has increased to 128 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-continues-to-witness-a-high-number-of-covid-cases/articleshow/78064946.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi transport minister inspects e-ticketing trials on buses||NEW DELHI: On Friday, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot reviewed Phase-II trial of contactless e-ticketing mobile application in cluster buses, which included real time inspection of the application on route number 429. In August, Delhi government’s transport department had carried out a public trial of e-ticketing system in all buses on route no. 473 through the Chartr mobile application and its second phase of trial is being carried out now. Passengers can buy e-ticket through the application by scanning the QR code of the bus. A user can see all stoppages of a bus and can view — by typing the name of the stop — all the buses arriving in the next half an hour with expected time of arrival. The application is available in Google Playstore. “Now that we’ve increased testing and is witnessing another spike in cases, an app-based contactless ticketing is crucial in minimising surface contact. This is a very simple and smooth process, and I could book my ticket in a few seconds,” Gahlot said after the inspection. He said that within five days of starting trial, 6% of total ticketing on the selected routes, are being done through the app now. “It is particularly encouraging to see the response from female passengers, who account for more than 75% of total tickets issued via this app,” he said. “We are also starting trials in DTC buses alongside installation of CCTV, GPS and panic buttons in buses,” the minister added. The ongoing 14-day trial of this app covers 332 cluster buses on 14 routes and the trial will also be extended to 29 DTC buses on route number 534.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gahlot-inspects-e-ticketing-trials-on-buses/articleshow/78067627.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bareilly||57 repeat offenders making spurious liquor slapped with Gangsters Act||BAREILLY: After seven people succumbed to spurious liquor in Meerut and Baghpat districts a few days ago, Bareilly police have now slapped Gangsters Act against 57 repeat offenders who were earlier booked for selling such liquor on multiple occasions. Notably, police in Bareilly were already running a campaign in the district on the instructions of their SSP Shailesh Pandey since August 16. After the recent hooch tragedy, Pandey has also instructed the SHOs to maintain a strict vigil on the activities of the liquor mafia in the area. On Friday, Pandey sought a list of the repeat offenders to book them under the stringent Gangsters Act. Pandey has also instructed the SHOs to maintain a strict vigil on the activities of the liquor mafia in the area. Any information, even from the public, would be taken seriously and raids would be conducted to demolish illegal manufacturing units. “We were already running a campaign against spurious liquor and illicit arms manufacturing units since August, as these two things are main factors behind most of the crimes. We have identified 57 offenders who were involved in manufacturing or selling of spurious liquor in the district. Twenty-two of them are from the city circle while 35 are from rural areas," Pandey told TOI. "We have booked all of them under the Gangsters Act to cease their illegal activities. Most of these offenders usually don't fear the law as they know that they would not remain in custody for long when booked under the sections of Excise Act. Crackdown will continue against those involved in the manufacturing or selling of spurious liquor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/57-repeat-offenders-making-spurious-liquor-slapped-with-gangsters-act/articleshow/78067640.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||IAS death: Bro demands probe by another team||Lucknow: Two weeks after a special CBI court rejected the closure report filed by the central agency in connection with the mysterious death of Karnataka cadre IAS officer Anurag Tiwari in Lucknow on May 17, 2017, CBI summoned the officer’s brother, Mayank Tiwari, to its headquarters in New Delhi on Friday. Through his counsel, Mayank has appealed to the CBI director to change the team which probed his brother’s case and claimed that Anurag Tiwari’s death had been wrongly concluded to be an accident while it was a murder. He said the CBI summoned him to seek evidence, if any, about the mysterious death of his brother and to know the reasons for filing objection to the closure report. Mayank was served summon under Section 160 of the CrPC (police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses) on September 9 to get his statement recorded on September 11. "I met the investigation officer of the case who asked me about the evidence and why I was dissatisfied with the probe," he said, adding that he was questioned from 11am to 2pm. The CBI had on June 15 taken over the case of mysterious death of IAS Anurag Tiwari and filed a final report stating that the IAS officer died of an accidental fall leading to asphyxial death. However, Mayank filed a protest against the final report the next day. On August 27, the Lucknow court quashed the CBI’s closure report and directed for reinvestigation. The court also directed the CBI to submit a progress report of the investigation on September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ias-death-bro-demands-probe-by-another-team/articleshow/78068563.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||India may surpass US tally by October: BITS study||HYDERABAD: India is likely to surpass the United States of America (USA) as the country with the most number of Covid-19 cases by the first week of October, shows research by the BITS Pilani, Hyderabad. A three-member research team, which has been studying the Covid-19 trends for the past four months, said that they have arrived at this conclusion by using two different models. “We will witness over 70 lakh Covid-19 cases by the first week of October to emerge as the country with the highest number of Covid-19 infections,” said TSL Radhika, lead researcher on this project. Speaking to TOI, Radhika, a professor at the department of applied mathematics, BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus, said that they have used advanced statistical learning techniques in their research.  “We have used four to five models for our research. Using two models — autoregressive model (AR) and the growth rate model —we could arrive at this conclusion. Even our last prediction, that India will surpass Brazil by September 5 or September 6 was almost correct as we became the country with the most number of infections on September 7.” Explaining the AR model, she said that the model helps in figuring out the exact amount of data required to give out prediction with the least margin of error. “Using these models, we could predict how the trend is going to be in the next one month,” she added and said that the team has communicated its findings to the International Journal of Infectious Diseases, published by Elsevier, on Thursday. We have used four to five models for our research. Using two models — autoregressive model (AR) and the growth rate model —we could arrive at this conclusion||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/india-may-surpass-us-tally-by-oct-bits-study/articleshow/78067633.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||Facility to train policemen to sharpen investigation skills opens in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A centre for training policemen in investigations, forensics, cyber crime and surveillance was inaugurated by ADG, Meerut, Rajeev Sabharwal, in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday. Abhishek Yadav, SSP, Muzaffarnagar, said, "The purpose to develop this facility is to bridge the gap between lack of regular training and skill up-gradation opportunities for our investigation officers. And, this will be facilitated through in-house trainers and guest speakers and professional expertise and state-of-the-art infrastructure." Upendra Agarwal, DIG, Saharanpur, was also present on the occasion. "Training, to improve the quality of investigations of crime against women, children, cybercrime etc, will be given to investigation officers from all police stations," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/facility-to-train-policemen-to-sharpen-investigation-skills-opens-in-mngr/articleshow/78067699.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: First double lung transplant Covid patient discharged||HYDERABAD: The first Covid-19 patient in the country to receive a double-lung transplant was discharged from a city hospital on Friday. The 32-year-old patient who hails from Chandigarh received lungs from a brain-dead person in Kolkata, was suffering from sarcoidosis, leading to fibrosis of the lungs. Doctors from a city-based hospital, who were treating 32-year-old Rizwan, put him on the lung transplant waitlist after they observed that his condition was rapidly deteriorating. A double lung transplant was the only permanent option. The situation worsened when the patient contracted Covid-19 while waiting for the lungs. “Fortunately, a match to his lungs was found in a person declared brain dead in Kolkata, and the harvested lungs were airlifted to Hyderabad,” said Dr Sandeep Attawar, transplant surgeon, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-double-lung-transplant-covid-patient-discharged/articleshow/78067661.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dead woman issued opium licence in Chittorgarh dist||UDAIPUR: In a bizarre incident reported from Chittorgarh’s Nimbahera block, a woman who had never applied for opium cultivation licence (patta), was sanctioned one, surprisingly, that too after her death. The licence was transferred to a third party who cultivated the crop and even received payment from the government. The scam was exposed after the deceased woman’s daughter gave a written complaint to the police. Role of the officials of the Central Bureau of Narcotics (CBN) cannot be ruled out since the district opium officer is responsible for issuing licences. Meanwhile, Sadar police station has lodged an FIR and an investigation is underway under sections of forgery charges while the complainant demands that the case be taken under the provisions of NDPS Act which entails severe punishment for contravention. On the other hand, narcotics officials deny any foul play in the episode. District opium officer (IIIrd Division) A P Choudhary said that procedures are carried out as per the norms and no fake patta has been issued by the office. If there is any such complaint, it would be investigated. Complainant Nani Bai held in her prayer that her father Asaram, son of Partha Dhakad, was granted the opium licence for 1998-1999 crop year and he was found eligible for cultivation in the successive year too, however, Asaram refused to cultivate the crop. In 2018, under the new opium policy, Asaram’s patta was transferred to his wife Bhani Bai. When the patta was issued, Bhani Bai was not alive and the complainant even claimed that her mother never went to the narcotics office to apply for the licence. “My mother never tried to get my father’s afeem patta transferred in her name. Perhaps her documents were misused and now it is known that the patta has been transferred to one Kamla Devi who we do not know,” Nani Bai said. The patta is valid for opium cultivation in the revenue village of Kochva in Kanera.  “The beneficiary cultivated the crop, tendered it to the weighment center and even took the payment from the department which is shocking,” Nani Bai said. She further said that the officials of the narcotics department furnished false information on her RTI application claiming that no patta was issued to her father . But when she went to the appellate authority, the truth was exposed. It may be noted that licences for licit opium cultivation are issued as per conditions notified by the Central Government. The licence for opium poppy is granted by the district opium officer. A cultivator-wise joint licence for the village is also issued to him. The documents have to be verified and attested by the village sarpanch. “Prima facie, the documents prove that the patta was issued after the woman died. As per rules, Bhani Bai was eligible to get her husband’s licence after his death but it needs to be ascertained whether she had applied for it or someone else did it wrongfully. When complainant Nani Bai went to the office to apply for her father’s patta, she came to know that someone was using the patta issued in her mother’s name. A thorough investigation would reveal whether the narcotics officials are involved in any criminal conspiracy or it was unintentionally done,” Deepak Bhargava, SP, Chittorgarh, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dead-woman-issued-opium-licence-in-chittorgarh-dist/articleshow/78067711.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Special Cell arrests 5 with Rs 90 crore heroin in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Special Cell arrested five drug traffickers and seized 23 kg of fine quality heroin worth over Rs 90 crore in the international market. In another operation, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) seized 4.5kg heroin along with 455 gram of cocaine, 1.1kg marijuana and 2 kg of charas. The Special Cell’s operation was conducted by a team led by inspectors Shiv Kumar and Karamvir Singh. The men arrested by them have been identified as Uday Kumar, Subodh Das and Sanjeev Kumar from Bihar and Nityanand and Rahul Handique from Assam. The trio from Bihar was arrested from north Delhi with drugs in their Swift car, which had secret cavities in shape of pipes placed beneath the running board of the car. The other two accused were arrested from Pragati Maidan. Their WagonR — with a cavity behind the music system used for concealing drugs — was also seized. The contraband, officers said, was being smuggled to India from Myanmar via Manipur. On NCB’s operation, its deputy director said that they were tracking members of an African syndicate since September 1 and had earlier arrested seven people, including an African-origin man and a Burmese woman. During their questioning it was found that they had supplied 10 consignments to India already. A raid was conducted, during which one of the consignments containing the stash of drugs was seized. “The consignor of these parcels was found to be based in South Africa. The details of the same have been shared with South African authorities and further probe is on to nab the rest of the members of the racket,” said Malhotra. The bureau also seized charas from a man based in Noida, who used to collect the drugs from different producers in Himachal Pradesh and supply them to customers in Delhi. Due to the lockdown, he would travel to the suppliers in a rented car and drive back to Delhi. He was apprehended near Panipat on Wednesday. The accused always used rented vehicles for transport. The mastermind of the charas trafficking syndicate was operating from Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/special-cell-arrests-5-with-rs-90cr-heroin/articleshow/78067726.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Mentor dad & fire in belly helped Jyoti kiss success||LUCKNOW: Daughter of a head constable, Jyoti Sharma, 25, tread the path of her dreams with grit and determination, buoyed by her father’s inspiration when the chips were down. She appeared for the second time in the UPPSC exam to better her grades, not knowing this time she would be catapulted to the hall of fame with a third rank. The UPPSC-2018 results were declared on Friday. In August, Jyoti took up her first job as block development officer in Milkipur, Ayodhya, after clearing the PSC exam in the first attempt in 2017, but there was a fire burning within her to better her rank. That made her continue her preparation and she re-appeared for the 2018 test. “I was expecting a good rank this time, but the third topper slot has come as a surprise. I owe my success to my father, who told me never to give up. He taught me patience, inculcated the spirit of embracing criticism and working round-the-clock,” said Jyoti. After clearing UPPSC-2017, it was patience that helped her bag her first posting as BDO. The pandemic delayed her joining by six months, but it was patience that again helped her bag the third rank in the 2018 examination. “I hail from Mathura and since my father was posted in Lucknow, I did my schooling from Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial School and graduation from Isabella Thoburn College in 2015. After completing my BSc, I kept preparing for civil services exam. I would follow a rigorous routine and held on with patience. It’s not always about studying for more hours, but it’s about studying with concentration that pays,” she said. Now, Jyoti has raised the bar. “I want to become an IAS officer and will continue to study to achieve my dream,” she said. Talking to TOI, her father Devendra Sharma, said, “My daughter was not happy with the rank after her first attempt. I have served as a constable and I believe no job is small or big. A job is a job. One should be ready to grab opportunities and I asked her to join the services and continue with her studies. I am happy her perseverance has borne fruit and my daughter took a giant leap to bag the third slot in her second attempt.” Sharma is posted as a head constable at Sitapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mentor-dad-fire-in-belly-helped-jyoti-kiss-success/articleshow/78068571.cms||Mohita Tewari
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||LMA to lay alternative road to ease traffic jams||SECUNDERABAD: In a major respite for commuters suffering from repeated closure of civilian roads in the Secunderabad cantonment, the local military authority (LMA) is planning to construct an alternative road. After drawing flak from various quarters for shutting down these roads, it is learnt that LMA has come up with this plan. Though a decision to this effect has not been announced, the recent developments indicate that LMA has already rolled out a plan to come up with these roads. Defence sources told TOI that a team, comprising a surveyor and land acquisition officer from the defence estates office, has started surveying the defence land. The road construction is likely to begin at the ‘Stop N Go Bakers’, Wellington Road and pass through West Marredpally (adjacent to Thapar Stadium), cross the Allahabad Gate before connecting the Anandbagh/Uttamnagar area. The distance of this upcoming road would be around three to five kilometres. Giving more credence to these claims the officials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has already fixed boundary pillars between Wellington Road and the electricity sub-station near the Allahabad Gate. “This proposed new alternative road is planned to provide relief to commuters using the Wellington Road, Entrenchment Road, Gough Road and Ordnance Road to reach Safilguda, Neredmet, Yapral and other nearby residential colonies,” a defences source told TOI. Once the survey is completed the report will be submitted to LMA, who would in turn, forward it to the ministry of defence (MoD). “After GHMC gets the land from the defence, tenders would be floated for the construction of the alternative road,” a GHMC official said. Several leaders including KT Rama Rao wrote to defence minister Rajnath Singh and sought his intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lma-to-lay-alternative-road-to-ease-traffic-jams/articleshow/78067703.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 12, 2020||Bareilly||Agra: 3 junior doctors, head of forensic department SNMC test Covid +ve||AGRA: At least 94 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Friday evening, taking the district tally to 3,836. The patients included three junior doctors and the head of the forensic department at SN Medical College (SNMC). Three jawans of the provincial armed constabulary were also tested positive. Moreover, 72 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 3,836 cases reported in the district, 77.2% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 763 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,961 people have recovered.” In Bareilly district, 145 cases of Covid-19 were reported on Friday. Overall, 8,272 people have been reported positive here and 127 have died during treatment. Also, 109 positive cases were reported from Shahjahanpur district and 44 people tested positive in Budaun district. Overall 4,338 people tested positive in Shahjahanpur, so far, with 58 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-jr-docs-head-of-forensic-deptat-snmc-test-covid-ve-in-agra/articleshow/78067667.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Court grants bail to Sector 45 flesh trade racket accused||CHANDIGARH: A local has granted bail to one of accused alleged to be running flesh trade racket from a city-based hotel along with other members. The court directed her to be released on regular bail on furnishing bail bonds of Rs 25,000 along with one surety. The matter dates back to July 28, when accused was booked. The case case was registered on the complaint of Neha Yadav, ASP, South, Chandigarh, whereby she reported that on July 27 she along with police party was on checking duty in Burail, Sector 45, Chandigarh. At about 10:15 pm, when they reached near Sanatam Dharam Mandir, Sector 45, Chandigarh, they received a secret information that one Pardeep and Ajay, owner of the hotel, the accused and others were running the business of flesh trade by supplying women to customers. A raid was conducted and three girls were rescued. The counsel for the accused submitted that accused was working as a sweeper in the hotel and has been falsely implicated in the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bail-granted-to-1-in-flesh-trade-racket-case/articleshow/78066161.cms||Neha Sharma
September 12, 2020||India||NEP curriculum to be in place by 2022: PM||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Friday said a new curriculum in sync with the new National Education Policy (NEP) will be in place by 2022, coinciding with the 75th year of Independence, which will be ‘forward-looking, future-ready and scientific’ and relieve school students of the ‘pressure of marksheet’. Addressing the “School Education Conclave” organised by the ministry of education, the PM said the new curriculum will be learning-driven and promote critical thinking, creativity, communication and curiosity. It will reduce syllabus and make learning a fun-based and complete experience, he said. Modi lamented how marksheet-driven education had over-shadowed learning in the country. He said marksheet has now become like a “mental pressure sheet”. “Removing this stress from education is one of the main objectives of the NEP. The effort is that students should not be evaluated by just one examination, but based on various aspects of development like self-assessment, peer-to-peer assessment,” he said adding that NEP has proposed for a holistic report card which will incorporate a student’s unique potential, aptitude, attitude, skills, efficiency and competency. Advocating teaching up to Class 5 in mother tongue, Modi said language is just a mode of study and not learning in itself. “We should understand it scientifically. Language is a medium for education and not an education in itself. Therefore, in whatever language a child can learn should be the medium of instruction. We have to see whether the child is utilising most of the time dealing with the language rather than understanding the subject ... in most countries, primary education is delivered through mother tongue,” said the PM, citing Japan, South Korea, Finland, Poland, Ireland etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nep-curriculum-to-be-in-place-by-2022-pm/articleshow/78069559.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid case positivity rate is half of India average||Lucknow: Against a national case positivity rate (CPR) of 8.4%, Uttar Pradesh clocked a CPR of 4.1%, which was half the India average, on Friday. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said, “The CPR has remained in control despite a spike in cases over past few weeks,” he said, crediting the achievement to the state’s pandemic control machinery. Prasad warned that with life entering a total ‘Unlock mode’, a further surge in cases would be possible and strict adherence of Covid protocols was necessary. “Though Covid-19 help desks will remain in place, economic activity would be fast-tracked and this entails movement of people. In the absence of specific medicines or vaccines, following pandemic protocols is the only safe bet,” he said. Meanwhile, Covid cases continued to pour in with 7,103 fresh entries in past 24 hours. With this, total number of cases in the state touched 2.99 lakh. Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi recorded maximum cases during the day. The number of active infections in the state reached 67,321. Of the active cases, 34,920 are under home isolation. Prasad said, 1,09,227 patients have recovered so far. Health officials also recorded deaths of 76 persons due to the infection which took the state toll to 4,282 and state capital Lucknow crossed the 500 death count with 16 casualties on Friday. Kanpur and Prayagraj followed next with seven deaths each. At least 5,936 persons were discharged from hospital taking the total number of recoveries to 2,27,442.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-covid-case-positivity-rate-is-half-of-india-average/articleshow/78068580.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||PGI rheumatologists crack disease mystery||Chandigarh: Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGI, has said a pioneering research done by the rheumatologists from the institute in the field of systemic vasculitis has shown that a disease known as ‘DADA2’ which was previously known to occur predominantly in children also occurs in adults. This disease was recognized in 2014, and is caused by a defect in ADA2 gene which results in deficiency of ADA2 enzyme. What was known till now was that this disease manifests in the form of vasculitis, immunodeficiency and bone marrow failure. The median age of involvement of all the 210 cases known till now was four years, whereas the present study has had a median age of 15 years with patients presenting even as late as in the fourth decade of life. The researchers led by Prof Aman Sharma, rheumatology services, department of internal medicine, reported manifestations not known to be associated with this disease till now like hemorrhage in lungs and infarction of pancreas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-rheumatologists-crack-disease-mystery/articleshow/78066186.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||‘Kota power co may be blacklisted soon’||UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal compared the Kolkata-based private power distribution company Kota Electricity Distribution Limited (KEDL) with East India Company and alleged that it is looting residents by charging high tariff. Dhariwal said the state government is collecting evidences to put up a strong case against the power company to blacklist it as the 20-year contract with the company cannot be terminated through normal course. The company will be blacklisted soon, he claimed. He was speaking to mediapersons on Thursday during his visit to Kota where he inspected development works worth Rs 1,000 crore at various sites in the city. Dhariwal also opposed the privatization of railways by the Centre. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-power-co-may-be-blacklisted-soon/articleshow/78067730.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||Three armed men loot Rs 35 lakh worth jewellery from Aligarh shop||AGRA: In a daring daylight robbery, three bike-borne miscreants, carrying country-made pistols, burgled a jewellery shop in Aligarh’s Bannadevi area and decamped with Rs 40,000 cash and gold ornaments worth Rs 35 lakh on Friday. The entire robbery was recorded on CCTV installed at the shop. According to the police, three of the robbers had entered the shop around 1 pm and after sanitising their hands, they took out pistols and looted jewellery and cash, even as three customers were sitting inside. They took only a minute to rob the cash and jewellery boxes, the police said. Sundar Verma, the shop owner, said that he has provided all the details along with the CCTV footage to the police. “The robbers looted around 700 grams of gold along with a cash bundle of Rs 40,000,” Verma added. SP city, Abhishek Kumar, said that an FIR has been registered. “We have circulated their photographs to all police stations. They will be nabbed soon,” the SP added. A few months ago, five young men were arrested in the loot of Rs 22.48 lakh from a cash van of CMS info systems, parked outside a Life Insurance Corporation office in Aligarh. Police had recovered cash to the tune of Rs 12.21 lakh and two country-made pistols and a motorcycle from them. Seven persons were involved in that loot, according to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-armed-men-loot-rs-35-lakh-worth-jewellery-from-aligarh-shop/articleshow/78067727.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand removes Vigilance from RTI ambit||DEHRADUN: The Vigilance department in Uttarakhand has been declared an intelligence organisation putting it out of the ambit of the Right To Information (RTI) Act. A notification on this was issued by the state government on Thursday following the Governor's consent. The step has been taken using powers vested in the Governor under sub-section 4 of section 24 of the RTI Act, 2005 and sub-section 1 of section 4 of the Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965, the notification signed by secretary, personnel and vigilance, additional chief secretary Radha Raturi said. Earlier on September 4, the Uttarakhand cabinet had passed the proposal to this effect. The state government had justified the move arguing that being under the purview of the RTI Act was hindering investigations taken up by the vigilance department. Urban development minister Madan Kaushik had said, “There are several sensitive matters, which are taken up by the vigilance department and it is not possible to share that information under the RTI. Therefore, the cabinet gave a green signal to the proposal.” The opposition Congress and RTI activists termed the move a bid to dilute the RTI Act as people will not be able to get the “transparency” in various key matters. Hemant Goniya, a RTI activist from Haldwani, said that this is an attempt to “block transparency in the functioning of the government”. “The government wants to hide information and this notification is an attempt in that direction. If the PMO, sections of defence and all other ministries of the Centre can be subject to providing information under the RTI Act, why is the Vigilance being kept out of it,” he asked. In a no-holds-barred attack, the Congress also questioned the state government on its own bill to bring Lokayukta in the state. Uttarakhand Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana told TOI, “The Trivendra Singh Rawat government itself brought a bill in the House on the Lokayukta, but there has been no progress on that front in the past three years. While on one hand, they are unwilling to bring Lokayukta, on the other, they are denying the common man the right to know about acts of alleged corruption in the state.” In 2016, the Odisha government had also taken vigilance out of the RTI ambit attracting strong criticism from the opposition parties and activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-removes-vigilance-from-rti-ambit-oppn-calls-it-bid-to-dilute-act/articleshow/78064996.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Union health ministry asks PGI to increase bed strength by 100||Shimona.Kanwar@timesgroup.com Chandigarh: The Union ministry of health and family welfare has directed PGI to increase its bed strength of 250 in Nehru Hospital extension by another 100 for Covid-19 patients. The institute, which only has non-Covid area left, is converting the fourth and fifth floor areas as Covid wards. This will accommodate 100 patients in Nehru Hospital, while those admitted in private wards will be shifted. Moreover, routine surgeries, which resumed in June, have been suspended for two weeks in PGI to reduce admissions of operated cases and make room for Covid patients. At the moment, the health staff is quarantined and admitted in these wards. Also, the Covid hospital is fully occupied and most of the patients have to be adjusted on corridors. Last month, UT administrator V P Badnore also asked PGI to increase bed strength in the Covid hospital by another 110 beds. The same is being worked out in the institute. “A total of 49 patients tested positive in a day today and all were health workers. We will surely have more cases in the hospital with the expansion of facilities,” said a doctor. Sources said a survey has been conducted to assess which wards can be pooled to expand area for Covid patients. However, some of the faculty are concerned as there can be contamination of non-Covid and Covid patients because of such beds in the non-Covid zone. “The only option is to conduct rapid antigen tests for all those who wish to enter the hospital. The test can be conducted in a makeshift area in the open area outside the hospital building. Those who test negative and show symptoms can be confirmed with RTPCR. There can be a holding area for such patients,” a faculty member said. At the moment, there are more than 200 patients admitted in the NHE, the dedicated Covid hospital in PGI. “These require a staff only for such patients. the same staff cannot be adjusted elsewhere. With more Covid cases, we are facing manpower crunch,” said a faculty member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/union-health-ministry-asks-pgi-to-increase-bed-strength-by-100/articleshow/78066200.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Checks at roads leading to AOC||Secunderabad: Surprise checks at four major civilian roads leading to AOC Circle in Secunderabad Cantonment — Allahabad Gate road, Wellington road, Safilguda railway junction road (towards Ordinance road) and Gough road — inconvenienced commuters on Friday. Jawans checked the ID proof of commuters passing through the civilian roads and also requested them to wear masks and helmets. The jawans continued the checks amid the rain too. Defence sources told TOI the checks were “routine”. At Wellington road, traffic halted up to half a kilometre at the time of checking. “Without prior information, local military authority (LMA) is stopping us for checking. Not all of us have ID proof with us all the time, those without ID proof are being denied entry,” Venkateswarlu, a resident of Anandbagh told TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/checks-at-roads-leading-to-aoc/articleshow/78067734.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Millennium-old Beary language gets a script||Mangaluru: For a millennium, Beary language, spoken predominantly by Muslims along the Western Coast of India, has not had a script, but nine writers in the language have succeeded in putting together a script that is synchronous with the Unicode technology. The initiative to develop a script for the nearly 1,000-year-old language was an initiative of the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy. Rahim Uchil, chairman of the academy, said that the script developed for Beary did not resemble the alphabet of any other language. Unveiling the new script to the world on Friday, Uchil said that the academy was conferring with Google to launch an app that would allow for the download of the script on to mobile phones and computers. “We want to popularise the script through online platforms. The academy has submitted a proposal to the state government seeking introduction of Beary as a third language for students of class VI and above. It will initially be taught to schoolchildren with Kannada script, and they will later be taught the new letters,” Uchil said. Uchil said that the Beary script had 13 vowels and 33 consonants, in addition to its own numbers. Pointing out that Beary was a Dravidian tongue spoken by nearly two million people across the globe, he added, “It serves as a vital link to Tulu, Malayalam, Kannada, Konkani and other languages. We will not impose the new script on the Beary speakers. Use of Kannada script will continue alongside efforts to popularise the new alphabet. To begin with, we will publish a Beary calendar ‘Naalkanakk’ for 2021.” Abdul Rasheed Zaini Kamil Sakhafi, Aboobakker Siddiq, Haider Ali, Abdul Razak Ananthady, AK Kukkila, Muhammed Fouzeed, Abdul Samad Bava, Abdul Rahiman Kuthethoor and Hamza Malar were the nine writers who developed the script.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/millennium-old-beary-language-gets-a-script/articleshow/78064723.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||ED probing hawala angle: Bommai||Bengaluru: State home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said the Enforcement Directorate, a late entrant on the scene, will investigate financial aspects of the drug scandal and a possible hawala (illegal transfer of funds) angle. “In most drugs cases there is suspicion of a foreign connection and various activities like hawala,” Bommai said. “So for a thorough investigation, ED’s role is important. ED will also inquire into matters that come under their purview.” The minister insisted city police will continue their investigation, while reiterating that none “however influential” will be spared. On allegations against Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan, Bommai said police have been asked to investigate information from all sources. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa also reiterated that the government is serious on the issue and officials are investigating the case thoroughly. “A lot of things are coming out. We have taken it very seriously. You wait for some time, many things will come out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ed-probing-hawala-angle-bommai/articleshow/78066274.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hubballi||Govt will be lenient towards pvt unaided schools, says Suresh Kumar||Dharwad: The education department is likely to take a lenient stance while renewing the recognition of the unaided private schools for the academic year 2020-2021. It is expected that the department will not insist on fulfilment of conditions for renewal of recognition. The indication came from primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar during his visit to Dharwad on Thursday. According to the president of the Unaided Private Schools’ Development Association, Shankar Halagatti, the minister has assured a delegation of managing committees of unaided private schools which met him, that the government will not deny renewal of recognition to any school. The managing committees of unaided private schools in Dharwad district appealed to Suresh Kumar to direct the officials to be lenient in renewing the recognition of the schools. They said the financial condition of the private unaided schools in North Karnataka is totally different from those in Bengaluru and Mysuru, and they cannot be compared with each other. These institutions were started with the main objective of providing good education to the children in rural and backward areas, and as such are financially not strong. The lockdown has further pushed these institutions into misery, as the students have not been able to pay their fees, while the institutions are compelled to pay the teaching and non-teaching staff. The main source of income for these schools is the fees collected from the students. Under such circumstances, forcing the schools to pay full salary to the staff and threatening not to renew the recognition for the ensuing academic year will put the students and staff in a quandary, the memorandum said. The delegation urged the minister to provide financial assistance to the schools as per the demand, with a condition that it is returnable. Such a measure will help the institutions to pay the salaries of the staff for the ensuing year, they said. Shankar Halagatti urged the minister to release the second instalment of RTE fees so that the schools can purchase study materials and pay the arrears salary to the staff. The minister assured that the second instalment of RTE fees will be released soon, and that other demands will be looked into.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-will-be-lenient-towards-pvt-unaided-schools-says-suresh-kumar/articleshow/78064830.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hubballi||Those who sacrificed lives to protect natural resources saluted||Dharwad: The sacrifice of those who paid with their life for the preservation of natural resources and particularly the rich jungles of India was remembered and the slain heroes paid rich tribute on Friday, when the forest department in Dharwad celebrated Forest Martyrs’ Day. In remembrance of the martyrs, three rounds of bullets were fired in the air, and silence observed for two minutes. Principal district and sessions judge for Dharwad Umesh Adiga, deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil and chief conservator of forests (Dharwad circle) Manjunath were among the dignitaries who participated in the ceremony. They placed a wreath on the memorial constructed in the honour of the martyrs. “Youngsters must be made aware of the importance of protecting natural resources. The dedication and sacrifice of those who stake their life to preserve forests must be appreciated. To be in a job where one has to protect oneself and the forest is a challenging one,” said Umesh Adiga, calling on the authorities concerned to ensure that families of the martyrs were compensated fairly. He added that protection of natural resources was a duty not merely of the forest department but also of the general public, who he said must assist the law enforcement agencies in safeguarding natural wealth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/those-who-sacrificed-lives-to-protect-natural-resources-saluted/articleshow/78065800.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Highest in a day, UP carries out over 50,000 RT PCR tests||LUCKNOW: In a first, more than 52,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted through RT PCR method in the state in a single day. Of these, 50,000 were done by laboratories in government sector. Considered to be the gold standard in case of coronavirus testing, RT PCR leaves no room for doubt on infection. Experts said that the chances of bias and false positive or negative were lowest through RT PCR as compared to other methods like Rapid Antigen and Truenat. Additional chief secretary health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: "As many as 1,48,055 Covid-19 tests were conducted in last 24 hours. Of these, 52,860 tests – highest in a single day – were done through RT PCR methodology." Secretary to the CM, Alok Kumar, said: "The credit for this surge goes to recent addition of 10 new labs." Adding that the progress of each lab was being monitored by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on a daily basis, he said: "There is no stopping here. Daily targets assigned to the labs are monitored by the CM. He has also instructed officials to increase RT PCR tests. Possibility of undertaking pool testing in some of these labs is also being explored." Government sources said effortsw were on to develop some more BSL-3 labs which would also add to the capacity of RT PCR testing. Kumar said the state government was monitoring variation between tests like RT PCR, Rapid Antigen Test and Trunat to ensure that the expected scientific ratio remains intact. "While the Union health ministry recently instructed states to conduct RT PCR of all those who test Covid-19 negative to rapid antigen test, we are following this since the beginning," he said. The scientific community has warned against overuse of rapid antigen tests as they may not present the accurate picture of the pandemic in the population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/highest-in-a-day-up-carries-out-over-50k-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78068584.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Invigilators let student swap roll numbers on answersheets in exam||AJMER: In connivance with the invigilators, a Class XII science student in Dholpur swapped his roll number with that of a brilliant student. He wrote the other student’s roll number on his answersheet and his roll number on the said student’s paper in RBSE board physics exam. When the matter came to light, the board debarred the accused student from sitting in any board examination for the next two years. The board has asked the education department to take disciplinary action against three in-charges of the exam centre. Also, the education director has been directed to remove invigilator Alka Parma of government senior secondary school of Firozpur district in Dholpur and invigilator Pradeep Dixit of government senior secondary school, Lehpura Badi. Additionally, the board has decided not to hold board exams in private schools in the future. The incident came to light when Deepti, a student of a private school in Dholpur found that she had scored poor marks in physics when the result of Class XII science was declared. She applied for the photocopy of her answersheet and found that she was provided the answersheet of another student though the roll number was hers. The matter reached RBSE and a committee of three members was formed and investigation was started. The committee handed over the report mentioning that the examination centre for board exam was in a private school in Dholpur and the invigilators aided a student Dhanraj Singh. When the exam was over, they exchanged the roll number of Dhanraj with Deepti. Dhanraj got good marks in physics while Deepti failed in the subject. Following this, the officials asked the director of education board to remove the two teachers from post and also asked to suspend the examination centre in-charge Kedar Singh, teacher of government senior secondary school, Firozpur, and centre superintendent Mukesh Sharma, principal of senior secondary school, Firozpur, and additional centre superintendent Neeraj Sharma of senior secondary school of Birlapur, for negligence in duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/invigilators-let-student-swap-roll-numbers-on-answersheets-in-exam/articleshow/78067769.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Greater Kailash seepage: SDMC extracts water from three borewells||NEW DELHI: Residents of Greater Kailash II finally saw some action on the ground on Friday to minimise the problem of water accumulating in their basements, with South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) starting extraction of water from three borewells at three parks as mentioned by Central Ground Water Board (CGWB). The board has suggested extraction from the three parks at E Block Sehgal Market 2, M Block Tokona Park and next to Chandan Market at S Block. “Our pumps are working round the clock, except for an hour’s break. The extracted water is being disposed of in drains,” said an official. The work started after GK-II residents met the deputy commissioner of the South zone on Wednesday. Earlier, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) had written to the public works department (PWD) and SDMC. “We have asked SDMC to drain out groundwater till the water level declines to 7 metres and below,” said an official. “Since the CGWB report also talks about the need for proper flow in storm water drains, both SDMC and PWD have been asked to look into the matter.” A CGWB team checked the water levels at five-six places on Friday. “They didn’t find any major difference in the situation and will come again on Monday,” said Sanjay Rana, president of GK-II residents welfare association. During a visit to these areas, TOI found many people demanding immediate resolution of the matter. “We can’t start salon service in the basement for over a month because of waterlogging. Our motors are working non-stop; else there will be flooding,” said a staffer at a salon in the GK-II M Block market. Vidhu Kataria, a physiotherapist in the same block, reported slight improvement. “Instead of three places, seepage is happening at only one place in the evening,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gk-seepage-sdmc-extracts-water-from-three-borewells/articleshow/78067796.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Father-son duo get life term for murder||Jaisalmer: A Barmer court on Friday sentenced two persons to life imprisonment for committing a murder over a land dispute. Additional district and sessions judge Sushil Kumar sentenced Ridmal Ram and his son Asuram Vishnoi, both residents of Barudi to life imprisonment. Additional public prosecutor number 1 Jaswant Bohra said, on June 6, 2016, Hari Ram filed a complaint with the Gudamalani police station that his father Ramchandra was attacked Ridmal Ram and Asuram near the former’s shop at Barudi. Hari Ram had said in his complaint that Ridmal Ram hit on his father’s head and Asuram hit on his hands in which Ram Chandra suffered serious injuries and later Asuram ran over a tractor on him. On seeing Hari Ram and Bhanwar Lal the culprits ran away leaving the tractor. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/father-son-duo-get-life-term-for-murder/articleshow/78067743.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mysuru||Cannabis cultivation rampant owing to ease and low costs involved||Mysuru: The state-wide crackdown on cultivation and peddling of drugs has resulted in the rampancy in the growth of Indian hemp or cannabis – the raw material used in the preparation of ganja – into the spotlight. What lures people into cultivation of Indian hemp is the ease of the entire process: The plant can be grown in all weather conditions, regardless of the condition of soil, and along with other crops. Since it does not need to be dedicatedly nourished, people take to growing it in the hope of making a quick buck. In Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, most of the cases booked recently under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 pertain to the illegal cultivation of cannabis. The leaves, fruiting tops and resin of the cannabis plant are either smoked or ingested in fluids. Youngsters take to the substance to achieve a state of temporary euphoria, which can at times last up to four hours. In 2019, as many as 28 cases were registered under the law, with most people held for possession and peddling of ganja. Mysuru additional superintendent of police R Shivakumar that as many as 19 cases relating to possession and sale of narcotics had been registered in the past three years across the district, excluding the city. The last of these cases was booked on Friday. “Most of the cases we register pertain to illegal cultivation of cannabis plant. We have also received complaints of ganja being transported to neighbouring Kerala via Mysuru,” Shivakumar told TOI. A few months ago, a father-son duo was held for allegedly cultivating ganja on a farm near the backwaters of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam. Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths seized 24kg of ganja from the tea stall that the duo was running. A police officer said that the lack of an effective deterrent had resulted in cultivation of cannabis getting rampant in the district. Secretary of the Chamarajanagar District Tribal Welfare Association C Madegowda said that, although cultivation of cannabis was not prevalent among tribal communities, miscreants were involved in the activity on the fringes of the forests. Head of psychiatry department at Government Medical College, Mysuru Dr Raveesh BN said that, in many cases, parents learnt of their kids’ addiction at a later stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cannabis-cultivation-rampant-owing-to-ease-and-low-costs-involved/articleshow/78065305.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 12, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar farmers stage protest to seek fair compensation for their land acquired for road||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Farmers on Friday staged a massive protest in Titawi area here to press for equal circle rate in determining compensation for their land acquired for construction of the Panipat-Khatima road. A huge police and PAC force was deployed at the spot to prevent the situation from going out of control. The farmers dispersed after prolonged talks between farmer leaders and officials, who said they would look into their demands. Farmers, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), demanded equal circle rate for every farmer and compensation for their tubewells, standing crops and trees on their farm fields acquired for the road. According to official sources, 300 hectares of land was acquired last year and 80% of the farmers were compensated. The Panipat-Khatima state highway will be passing through Muzaffarnagar and neighbouring Shamli district. Additional district magistrate (enforcement), Amit Singh said," An assessment for farmers' tubewells and trees will be conducted again but there are no rules to give compensation for the standing crops sown after land acquisition. But we are trying to solve this issue. Equal circle rate for every village can't be given because every village has a different circle rate." On Thursday, farmers had staged a dharna outside Titavi police station. BKU's media spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said, "Administration has acquired about 300 hectares of land from farmers. But not enough compensation has been given. We want equal circle rates for all the acquired farm land. National president of BKU, Naresh Tikait has called this dharna and it will continue till farmers' demands are not met." Raju Ahlawat, BKU's Muzaffarnagar unit general secretary, accused the administration of damaging farmers' crops. He said, "Compensation for crops and trees, which are standing on farmers' fields should also be paid."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mngr-farmers-stage-protest-to-seek-fair-compensation-for-their-land-acquired-for-road/articleshow/78067742.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 5 youths kill shepherd after goats ‘spoil’ picnic||KOTA: A 55-year-old shepherd was beaten to death by some youths after his goats ‘spoiled’ their picnic at Bardha Dam in Bundi district on Thursday. The police have booked five youths under various sections of IPC. However, nobody has been arrested so far. The deceased has been identified as Babulal Bheel, a resident of Gagoesh village in Bundi. Bundi DSP Deepak Garg said that the reason behind death can be ascertained only after post-mortem. Circle inspector at Talera police station Mahesh Singh said that investigation revealed five to seven youths of nearby Nayabardha village, who were partying at the dam on Thursday, got into a scuffle with the shepherd after his goats had moved two to three times to the spot where they were cooking. Bheel is likely to have been beaten to death in the scuffle, while another shepherd with him identified as Manoj, who managed to escape from the spot, sustained injuries in the attack, he added. Singh said the police have lodged a murder case under Section 302 of IPC and SC/ST Act against five youths identified as Sameer, Chetan, Preetam, Jitendra of Nayabardha village and Manoj of Selor village of the district. However, none of the five accused has been arrested so far. The police teams are in the field to trace their location, he said. Singh said the police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by medical board on Friday morning and initiated further investigation into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-youths-kill-shepherd-after-goats-spoil-picnic/articleshow/78067738.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||People coming to Uttarakhand now to get test themselves at border check posts||DEHRADUN: For people coming to Uttarakhand without getting their Covid-19 test done or those who fail to upload the test report on the official website, the state government has directed the authorities of districts sharing borders with other states to ensure tests at the border check post on a payment basis. As per the government’s directive, all people coming to Uttarakhand are mandated to upload their report on the website of Dehradun Smart City. People who have got their RT-PCR/TrueNAT/CBNAAT test done from an ICMR-authorised lab, not earlier than 96 hours from the time of travel, reflecting a Covid-19-negative status, have been exempted from institutional and home quarantine. However, for those who could not upload their report on time or were unable to get the test done, the state has decided to provide them a paid facility at the border itself. A government order issued by the chief secretary on Thursday mentions, “All the inbound persons to Uttarakhand, shall be given an option of taking up Covid-19 test on payment basis at the testing facility arranged by the district administration at the border check post if they have reached the check post without undergoing RT- PCR/ TrueNAT/ CBNAAT test and report. If such inbound people are found positive in the test, it shall be the responsibility of the concerned district authorities, in co-ordination with the health authorities, to follow protocols as laid down by the health ministry and state government. If they are found Covid-19-negative, then the inbound person shall follow all protocols like social distancing, wearing mask etc.” The order was addressed to senior state officials and police officials. The order further states, “If the person develops symptoms later, then they shall immediately contact the health and district administration and shall report to the nearest government medical facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/people-coming-to-ukhand-without-covid-test-to-now-get-themselves-tested-at-border-check-posts/articleshow/78063879.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to seek nod for researchers’ laboratory visit from September 21||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University will seek permission from UT director, higher education (DHE) for the visit of research scholars to the campus from September 21. According to Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs, research scholars, postgraduate students from technical and professional programmes, who need to avail laboratory and other facilities may be allowed on the campus from September 21. This will be permitted by the department of higher education in consultation with the home ministry, “based on an assessment of the situation and keeping in view the incidence of Covid-19 in states and union territories.” On the basis of these instructions, Panjab University will seek permission from the Chandigarh administration next week, a highly placed official said on condition of anonymity. To seek permission, dean, student welfare office asked all wardens to furnish detailed data about the number of research scholars who want hostels to access labs. After the data is submitted to the DSW office, all the departments will send the list of their respective scholars asking whether they need to visit the lab for research. After verification from the head of department, the list of scholars who can be allowed into the labs after September 21 will be made, officials said. In a meeting on SOP, officials stated that whenever research scholars are allowed to avail the lab facility, they should also get hostel facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-to-take-permission-for-researchers-lab-visit-from-sep-21/articleshow/78066218.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Digital land survey to put an end to disputes: Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday said abolition of VROs was only a beginning of the radical revenue reforms and added the government will soon take up a comprehensive digital land survey in the state, which would end land disputes by 99%. He said that in undivided AP, there were 160 to 170 revenue Acts. In Telangana, 87 revenue Acts still exist. “All other Acts will be continued apart from Dharani and Record of Rights Acts. The government is scrapping those which are not relevant and creating problems to the people,” he said in the assembly. “The approach on revenue and land issues by previous regimes was unscientific and led to problems. Some parties used to disburse pattas to the poor during elections without showing the land and boundaries. As a result, actual extent of the land would be less while the land on papers was more,” the CM argued. The government cannot be a mute spectator and that is why it is trying to resolve issues in a phased manner through new Acts, he said. There are 16,000 cases pending in various revenue courts and 2,000 cases in high courts. “Survey of land will resolve these issues to a great extent,” he said. However, litigation rate is very low compared to land extent and number of farmers, he said. The CM dismissed claims by some opposition members that Dharani web portal and other changes in the procedures would lead to land disputes. He said the web portal would be maintained by the revenue department with help of TS Technological Services . “Land records will be saved in three modes. The government would take every step for the safety of land records,” KCR said. Stating that since there were issues in mutation of succession properties (land) where the government had proposed a joint family agreement for mutation of inheritance properties, he said if a family member has objection, he/she can approach the tahsildar to stop the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/digital-land-survey-to-put-an-end-to-disputes-cm/articleshow/78067739.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 12, 2020||Kochi||Hosp in Aluva exclusively for Covid +ve palliative patients||Kochi: As the number of Covid-19 positive cases continues to rise, authorities have now shifted focus towards the safety of palliative patients in the district. Health officials have identified Charaka Medical Mission Anwar Memorial Hospital in Aluva to treat palliative patients who are tested positive for Covid-19 as a section of the hospital has been set aside exclusively to treat such patients. As many as 13 palliative patients have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Ernakulam so far. One of them was tested positive posthumously. “Around 15,000 to 16,000 patients in Ernakulam avail palliative care facility. A proposal to open exclusive quarantine facilities to lodge palliative patients is also under consideration as they require special attention in case their family members are tested positive or placed under quarantine. In such cases, palliative patients will have to be shifted to selected quarantine facilities, which would function as treatment facilities too. But the problem is that the patients need support of bystanders. A final decision on this is yet to be taken,” said a health official. Meanwhile, officials at Anwar Memorial Hospital said so far, they have not received any Covid-19 positive palliative patient. “We are ready to provide treatment for Covid-19 positive palliative patients as well as non-Covid patients who require palliative care. As we already have a palliative facility in place, health officials selected us,” said an official. Before the pandemic, palliative patients were asked to visit hospitals once in three months for consultation. But due to Covid-19, needy patients were consulting via video consultation. But soon, video conferencing of doctors with all the palliative patients in the district will start in Ernakulam. “Four doctors at the palliative unit in Ernakulam general hospital will meet the palliative patients through video conferencing. Currently, doctors meet patients through video call based on the request or need of patients. With the new move, four palliative units will visit the patients at their location and call the doctors sitting beside the patients for direct consultation with doctors,” an official said. If any patient develops seizure, vomiting or pain, medication would be provided at their houses itself instead of taking them hospitals. “It will be difficult to shift palliative patients to hospitals considering the risks involved. In view of this, cannula can be left on the body of the patient so that medication can be administered by trained family members. There are many nurses in our neighbourhood and family members can also utilize their services too. We are looking to bring down admission of patients in hospitals,” said another health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hosp-in-aluva-exclusively-for-covid-ve-palliative-patients/articleshow/78066279.cms||T C Sreemol
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Wear mask in PU or pay Rs 500 fine||Chandigarh: Those who do not wear a mask at Panjab University will be fined Rs 500 by the team deployed on campus. In the case of PU employees, disciplinary action will be taken for non-compliance with orders. The chief medical officer (CMO) said this was part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on Friday. A team of seven members constituted by the committee recently held a meeting to review the SOP after the number of cases increased on campus. It was found that employees are not disclosing their Covid-19 status to heads of branches. In the meeting, a proposal was mooted to impose fine under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). CMO Dr Rupinder Kaur said teams have already been constituted to monitor the execution of the SOP in departments and other buildings of the campus. She said they will ensure people wear masks and impose fine on defaulters. According to the SOP issued by the CMO, meetings should be held through video-conferencing. Some of the members pointed out that a few faculty and non-teaching heads are holding physical meetings, which should not be allowed in this situation. People above the age of 65, employees who are pregnant, have underlying medical conditions and those who have undergone organ transplants have been advised to take extra precautions. On closure of offices after the detection of Covid-19 cases, the CMO said if one or two cases are reported, disinfection will be limited to places or areas visited by the patient in the past 48 hours. She said there is no need to close the entire office building and halt work in other areas of the office. Work can be resumed after disinfection in accordance with laid down protocol, she said. However, in case of a larger outbreak, the building or block will have to be closed for 48 hours after thorough disinfection. All the staff will work from home, till the building or block is adequately disinfected and is declared fit for re-occupation, she said. Box: Cosure of admn block PU staff association submitted a representation for closure of the administrative block and Aruna Ranjit Chandra hall on September 14 and 15 in view of increasing Covid-19 cases. PU registrar Vikram Narryan held a meeting with officials, in which it was decided that on September 12, buildings will be sanitised, on September 14, offices in these two buildings would open at 11am instead of 9.30am. On September 14 and 15, heads of the branches of these buildings will only call those staff members whose presence was absolutely necessary for work. Other employees would be allowed to work from home. Office will resume on September 16. Members said as examination has already been announced, it is not possible to close these buildings for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wear-mask-in-pu-or-pay-rs-500-fine/articleshow/78066259.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||Neighbour held for murder of retired woman professor on outskirts of Doon||DEHRADUN: Two days after a 67-year-old retired woman professor was found murdered inside her house, her neighbour was held for the crime on Friday. The accused, Tanuj Aswal, 45, was arrested from the Jolly Grant area after the police team collected evidence of his involvement in the crime. He also stayed in the same area — Sunnar village of Athoorwala in Doiwala — as the victim, Putul Ghosh. Speaking about the arrest, DIG Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi told TOI, “We have arrested Aswal and during questioning, he confessed to the crime. The two were known to each other for the past few years and he was a frequent visitor at her residence. After killing her, Aswal took away some items from the house and damaged the window to project the intention of the crime to be robbery and mislead the probe.” The retired woman professor hailed from Kolkata and was living in the same house since 2014. Prior to this, she was staying in a rented accommodation on Sahastradhara Road. She was unmarried and was living with one of her maternal uncles, who had died a few months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/neighbour-held-for-murder-of-retired-woman-professor-on-outskirts-of-doon/articleshow/78063899.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Revenue Acts made Muslims poor: Akbar||Hyderabad: AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi said Muslims suffered a lot because of several revenue Acts and land reforms undertaken by previous governments in the last four to five decades. “Jagir Abolition Act, Inam Abolition Act, Agriculture Land Ceiling and Urban Land Ceiling Acts have made Muslims poorer. Apart from individuals’ land, Waqf land and dargah land were also encroached upon by private individuals and firms. Land the government allotted to assignees and agencies has also been gobbled up,” he charged. “The previous governments gave 3,000 acres to international airport at Shamshabad and many companies have come up on Waqf land in Gachibowli, Manikonda Jagir and other places. The government did not pay compensation for the aqf land taken over for various purposes, including for the international airport,” Akbaruddin said. He urged the government to identify green zones in the state, especially in HMDA limits, where no permissions for buildings are granted. He also sought a separate sub-registrar office (SRO) for the Old City. The CM immediately okayed it. Congress leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka demanded the government to introduce cultivator column in the revenue records and also in the pattadar passbooks. He said a comprehensive land survey should be done. He also sought to know how the government would rectify mistakes in the Dharani website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revenue-acts-made-muslims-poor-akbar/articleshow/78067771.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt mullingCovid underAarogyasri||Hyderabad: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Friday said the state government is actively considering bringing Covid-19 treatment under the Aarogyasri health scheme. Replying to questions raised by MLCs in the legislative council, the minister said there was a great need to increase the spending on health infrastructure. “Covid-19 has exposed the public health care system,” he agreed. The minister said health care workers, including doctors, hade played a major role in controlling the pandemic. “Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M Raja Rao did a great job. Many doctors have not taken a single day off and worked wearing PPE kits for more than 8-10 hours a day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-mullingcovid-underaarogyasri/articleshow/78067780.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||Four dead after head-on collision of cars on kasganj-Bareilly highway||AGRA: Two speeding cars - a BMW and a Swift Dzire - coming from opposite directions collided on UP's Kasganj-Bareilly highway early on Friday leaving four members of a family, including a two-year-old boy, dead and four others seriously injured. The impact of the collision was such that people trapped inside the mangled remains were pulled out after a lot of struggle by police and locals. Traffic movement on the highway also remained affected for two hours. The injured were sent to a hospital in Aligarh. According to Kasganj police, the accident took place at 6:30 am. Dinesh Singh, a resident of Adarsh Nagar village in Firozabad district, was going to Rampur with his wife and two children in his Swift Dzire car. While travelling on the Kasganj-Bareilly highway, a BMW coming from the opposite direction collided with their car near Tumaria village under Soron police station limits. Dinesh, 32, his wife Nisha, 30, and younger son Abhi, two, died on the spot. Dinesh’s daughter Chavi, four, and elder son Rudra, six, were critically injured. Later, Chavi died on the way to SN Medical College in Agra. Meanwhile, three people inside the BMW, who were going to Gujarat, received severe injuries. They were identified as Zubair, Sohail and Babu and belong to Badaun district. Deputy SP (city) RK Tiwari said, “In the collision of two cars, four people of a family passed away. Their bodies have been sent for postmortem and the injured are undergoing treatment. Both the cars were moving at high speed. For now, we cannot hold anyone responsible for the accident. No complaint has been received so far."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-dead-after-head-on-collision-of-bmw-swift-dzire-on-kasganj-bareilly-highway/articleshow/78067758.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Assembly passes new Revenue Bills||Hyderabad: The assembly on Friday passed the Records of Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Bill 2020 and Abolition of Village Revenue Officers’ (VROs) Bill, besides amendments to the Panchayat Raj and Municipal Acts after discussing them for over six hours. Akbaruddin Owaisi, Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, D Sridhar Babu, T Raja Singh, Guvvala Balaraju, Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, Gandra Venkata Ramana Reddy and others gave opinions on the new Revenue Act. Chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao responded on the new Revenue Act for nearly two hours. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assembly-passes-new-revenue-bills/articleshow/78067766.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||PGI docs revive corona patient who suffered twin heart attacks||Lucknow: Rigorous monitoring by a team of two dozen doctors at Rajdhani Covid-19 hospital of SGPGI brought back a 60-year-old man from the verge of death. The patient, Haseeb, who had a history of diabetes and had undergone an emergency angioplasty after a heart attack was discharged on Friday after almost two weeks of tireless monitoring and care. The patient was referred to SGPGI from a private hospital after he tested Covid-19 positive and complained of difficulty in breathing. "When he approached us. His cardiac health was extremely poor," said Dr Tanmoy Ghatak, a faculty at emergency medicine department of SGPGI. Dr Ghatak said Haseeb suffered another cardiac arrest and was revived by Dr Jey and Dr Anand who were on duty. "Their promptness saved the man’s life and helped him recover from severe cardiogenic and septic shock," he said. Later, he tested negative to Covid-19 and was discharged. 2L tests so far: SGPGI has conducted over two lakh Covid-19 tests so far. Head of microbiology department, SGPGI, Prof Ujjala Ghoshal said on Friday, the institute conducted maximum 6,241 tests in a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgi-docs-revive-corona-patient-who-suffered-twin-heart-attacks/articleshow/78068608.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 2,400 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday recorded 2,426 new cases of Covid-19 and 13 deaths, even as the total number of cases went up to 1.52 lakh. While the death toll rose to 940, altogether 1,19,467 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection in the state, while 32,195 patients are under medication in hospitals and at home. On Friday, the recovery rate in the state was 78.2 percent as compared to the national average of 77.63 percent. However, it is still behind the recovery rate of many states. The case fatality rate which is a measure of the number of patients succumbing to the virus when compared to the total number of infected patients, dipped slightly in the state and stood at 0.61 percent, while the national average is 1.67 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-2400-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78067753.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to provide land to Air Force near border areas||DEHRADUN: Amidst the ongoing tussle with neighbouring China and the border differences with Nepal, Air Marshal Rajesh Kumar, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Central Air Command, met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday and requested him to provide land for setting up ‘air defence radar’ and ‘advance landing ground’ in areas close to the border of the two neighbouring countries. A communique from the CM’s office said that the senior official also discussed in length with the CM the projects of expansion of airports of Dehradun and Pantnagar, and also took up the issue of further developing the Pithoragarh airstrip. Further, the Air Marshal sought assistance and land from the chief minister to construct an airstrip in Chaukhutia area of Almora district. As per the communique, the Air Marshal told the CM that the availability of land in Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Uttarkashi regions of Uttarakhand would be convenient for establishing the radars. He further added that under the present circumstances, it is necessary to have radar and airstrip facilities at suitable sites in a frontier region like Uttarakhand. The CM’s office said that subsequent to the meeting, the chief minister has directed state authorities to appoint a senior officer as a nodal officer for the project. The nodal officer would identify the land and also look into all the aspects related to the matter. Secretary (revenue) Sushil Kumar said that land has been identified in Bhainsauli area of Almora district for setting up a defence radar and the remaining areas would be soon identified and informed to the Air Force authorities. Civil aviation secretary Dilip Jawalkar who was present in the meeting informed the Air Force team about the present condition of Pantnagar, Jolly Grant, and Pithoragarh airports and the efforts being undertaken to upgrade them. To recall, a few weeks back, the CM had spoken to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had given an in-principle approval for a new airstrip at Chaukhutia, which would be the fourth airstrip in Uttarakhand after Gauchar, Pithoragarh, and Chinyalisaur. After the in-principle approval, a team from the Centre had inspected the location for the airstrip and given its consent for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-provide-land-to-air-force-to-set-up-air-defence-radar-and-advance-landing-ground-near-china-nepal-borders/articleshow/78065015.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 12, 2020||Meerut||UP man's arm chopped off in Panipat||MEERUT: A Saharanpur man’s arm was chopped off by some local men in Panipat allegedly after they saw a religious tattoo on his hand. Ikhlaq Salmani, 28, had gone to the Haryana town in search of a job and was resting in a park in Kishanpura colony when the attackers accosted him and upon learning his name thrashed him. Salmani is a resident of Nanauta locality in UP's Saharanpur district. He is now recovering from the incident that happened on the night of August 23. An FIR based on a complaint by his family was registered on September 7, nearly two weeks after the incident, when Ikhlaq was declared fit to give a statement by doctors at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, where he was kept under observation. On the same day, another FIR was registered at Chandni Bagh police station alleging that Ikhlaq sexually assaulted a 7-year-old boy in the area. Based on a complaint of the uncle of the minor victim and a medico-legal report dated August 27, an FIR under section 323 and under relevant sections of the POCSO Act was also registered. "The boy claimed that he was sodomised by Ikhlaq following which an FIR was registered on September 7. His statement was later recorded in court. The family of the minor victim has admitted roughing up Ikhlaq but there was no mention of severing his arm," said Ankit Nandal, SHO at Chandni Bagh police station. "Hours after the first assault in the park, a thirsty Ikhlaq knocked on the door of a house in the area asking for water. Unfortunately for Ikhlaq, the house was owned by the same people who had earlier roughed him up. This time, he was pulled inside and was brutally assaulted. His right arm below the elbow, with 786 tattooed on the palm, was amputated with a saw machine," Ikram Salmani, the elder brother of Ikhlaq said. He (Ikhlaq) was then thrown near the railway track and regained consciousness only in the morning of August 24, following which his family and local police at GRP Panipat were alerted. A zero FIR under sections 326, 323 and 34 was lodged at GRP Panipat on September 7. The case was later transferred to Chandni Bagh police station in Panipat. Ikhlaq was discharged on September 8 and was brought to his native place in Saharanpur. "We are yet to take a medical opinion on the severed arm -- whether a sharp weapon was used to chop it off or it was caused by an accident on the railway track. Investigation in the matter is on," said SHO Nandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-mans-arm-chopped-off-in-panipat/articleshow/78067773.cms||Piyush.Rai
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||State eyes Rs 1L cr export of electronics and software products in three years||Lucknow: As the state prepares a new export policy, the government is targeting increasing the value of export of electronics and software products from Rs 10,000 crore currently to Rs 1 lakh crore in the next three years. Addressing a webinar on export of electronics and computer software and hardware, additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said that UP was implementing various investor-friendly steps and had ranked second in the most recent national ease of doing business ratings. The webinar was organised by Uttar Pradesh Export Promotion Council and Electronics and Computer Software Promotion Council on Friday and attended by members from India, France, Germany, South Korea, Malaysia, UAE, Oman and Hong Kong. “Under ease of doing business scheme, it is the government’s priority to provide all possible assistance to manufacturers and exporters. The government has implemented the MSME Act under which an application for setting up of units in the state will be acknowledged within 72 hours. Entrepreneurs can establish their units while getting all approvals issued from various departments in the next 1,000 days,” he said. He added that the government is also considering giving exemption on various taxes and duties on the lines of the Centre’s bonded manufacturing scheme. A proposal to give more relaxation on establishment of common facility centres has also been accepted, he said. Talking about efforts by the Uttar Pradesh government in export promotion, Sehgal said that a new export policy was being formulated to provide maximum facilitators to the exporters. Besides, the procurement policy stated that 25% of all purchases made by all departments should be from MSME units only, emphasised Sehgal. ACS (IT and electronics) Alok Kumar elaborated on the state’s electronics policy and said that in addition to the exemptions provided by the Centre to manufacturers, the state could also provide exemptions from taxes and duties. Chairman of Electronics and Computer Software Promotion Council Sandeep Narula, lauding the development of global infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh, said that there is immense potential in the field of electronics and software industries in the state. Other members too apprised Sehgal on problems and suggestions of their member units. Sehgal convinced the members that the state government would consider their problems and try to implement the suggestions. The Council also asked for developing special skills and expertise in the field of software and hardware, saying that it was necessary to prepare a corresponding curriculum in technical institutes. Sehgal assured them that a webinar will be organised in the coming days in which discussions will be held with representatives of technical institutes and universities of the state. On the demand of the council members, representatives of Yamuna Expressway and Industrial Development Authority were also invited. They said 900 acres had been reserved for Electronics Mega City near Sector-21 and Sector-28, Noida. The representative of the authority also proposed a meeting with the council members .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-eyes-rs-1l-cr-export-of-electronics-and-software-products-in-three-years/articleshow/78068612.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur residents up in arms against ‘polluting’ unit||Mohali: The residents of a dozen housing societies in Nagla village of Zirakpur on Friday staged a protest outside a gelatine manufacturing factory, seeking its shifting to some other location. The affluent discharged from the unit is threatening their lives, they claimed. The residents said they are also protesting against the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB)’s failure to take action against the factory owner, although during a recent inspection, the PPCB officials had directed him to halt its operations until further orders. However, contrary to the residents’ claim, sources in the PPCB said the unit has been given all requisite permissions to operate. The residents, who threatened to intensify their agitation if the unit is not shifted, asked if the factory owners did not have the permission to run the unit since 1990, how the consent letter was issued now. “If the conditions were not favourable earlier, then how come they suddenly become favourable now?” said a protester. The protesting residents from Motia Royal City, Arrow Homes and Maya Garden City, among others, sat on a dharna led by Sukhdev Chaudhary. They said Ajay Gelatine Products Pvt Ltd is releasing smoke, which is causing problems to them. The other affected societies include Escon Arena, Bajwa Colonyand Aero Homes, and Bazigar Colony. Residents alleged that the unit is in the middle of a densely-populated residential area where there are approximately 40,000 residents and a reputed school with around 2,000 students within the radius of 1km of the industry. They claimed that the factory is operating without any effluent treatment plan (ETP) or water treatment plant and the hazardous liquid waste is being discharged into the open land around the factory and also in the river Ghaggar, whose water is used by the residents for their crops and animals. BOX PPCB norms flouted The residents alleged that as per the PPCB norms, an industry cannot be operated from a densely-populated residential area and the same must operate from an authorised industrial area. In the light of norms, the residents questioned the issuance of ‘consent to operate’ to the unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/zirakpur-residents-up-in-arms-against-polluting-unit/articleshow/78066335.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bareilly||Paramedics at Covid hospitals in Shahjahanpur go on strike||BAREILLY: Around 50 paramedics at a Covid-19 facility of Shahjahanpur district hospital stopped their work for over two hours and staged a protest against the hospital administration for "not providing salary on time along with other basic facilities such as proper food, water and accommodation". The staff alleged that their salary was often delayed due to "official negligence". The protest continued for over two hours on Friday and the health services inside the Covid-19 hospital came to a halt causing difficulties to patients. However, the hospital administration claimed that the protest was held due to a clash between two groups and the issue has been resolved. Anupama, a staff member, told TOI, “We don’t get salary on time and sometimes there is no salary for even three months. It is really difficult to survive under such circumstances. We were promised Rs 14,000 as salary, but only Rs 7,000 is being given to us, after repeated requests.” Another staff member Sumit Kumar said, “There is no proper arrangement of food and accommodation and even salary is not given on time. We are risking our lives but the administration is not bothered about our well being.” Meanwhile, Dr Pooja Pandey, spokesperson of the medical college, said, “The allegations regarding salary are completely baseless. Salary for the month of July has been already sent to the accounts of the staff and the August salary will be credited soon. We are providing proper food, water and accommodation to everyone." The spokesperson further said, "As far as the issue of impolite behaviour is concerned there was an issue between two internal groups. Two staff even had a scuffle inside the hospital. This possibly led to the protest. We have discussed with the staff and the issue has been resolved now."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/paramedics-at-covid-hosp-in-shahjahanpurgo-on-strike-for-timely-salary-better-food/articleshow/78067801.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||No emergency duties from today: OGH docs||Hyderabad: Protesting junior doctors from Osmania General Hospital have said that that they will boycott emergency duties from Saturday if the authorities do not reopen the old building or set up a temporary facility for surgery at the earliest. The old Quli Qutb Shah block of the hospital has been shut since July after rainwater entered the premises due to a sewage pipe blockage. “We have been facing difficulty in performing surgeries due to the lack of facilities after the closure of the old building. The general surgery and orthopaedic departments have been provided with just one operation theatre and post-operative ward, while scores of patients visit OGH, as it is the biggest government hospital after Gandhi,” said Dr Vaibhav, one of the protesting doctors. “If administration does not respond to our demands, we will also boycott the emergency services from Saturday,” said Dr Vaibhav. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-emergency-duties-from-today-ogh-docs/articleshow/78067800.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bhopal||20-yr-old takes exam from Covid centre||Bhopal: A corona positive student is appearing for the BSc final year open-book exam in Chattarpur. The 20-year-old biology student has been under tremendous stress after her father died of Coronavirus infection on September 3. She was admitted to the Covid care centre of Chattarpur city on September 5 from where she has been writing her exams. The woman said she is determined to face every challenge. She told TOI, “Despite adverse circumstances, one should always try to be positive.” The good news is that she may be discharged on Saturday. Her swab sample report was found to be negative on Friday. Covering her face with a mask and wearing surgical gloves, the student has already written two papers in the last two days. In all, she has to write five papers. The woman’s father, a grain merchant, was in the vulnerable category as he suffered from a kidney ailment. One of his kidneys was removed some time ago, her family said. Her brother told TOI over phone, “My father was unwell for the past 15 days before he was detected Corona positive on September 2. He passed away the next day.” He said that his sister and mother were looking after his father. Amid the raging Covid-19 infection, universities in Madhya Pradesh have decided to hold open-book exams. A student of Maharaja Chatrasal Bundelkhand University, Chattarpur, the woman studies in Maharaja college of the city. College principal, Dr DP Shukla, told TOI over phone, “We have uploaded the question papers and the students have been downloading them for writing the exams. Five days have been given to write the answer sheets. They can be sent through e-mail. They can also submit the hard copies.” “In case she opts for hard copies, we would get them sanitized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/20-yr-old-takes-exam-from-covid-centre/articleshow/78066304.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanjay slams CM for ignoring T champs||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar slammed chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for completely ignoring the sacrifices of those who fought for separate Telangana state. At a press conference on Friday, Sanjay alleged that KCR had become a follower of Owaisis. “The CM is not allowing the Telangana Liberation Day to be observed because he wants only his family to be remembered in history,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-slams-cm-for-ignoring-t-champs/articleshow/78067799.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University VC to hold syndicate meeting to discuss final-year examinations||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University vice-chancellor will discuss a detailed plan of action on conducting final-year examinations of PU departments and affiliated colleges at a Syndicate meeting. On Friday, members of the Syndicate, who expressed their concern on conducting examinations during the pandemic received a communication from the VC office saying that Syndicate meeting would be held soon. Sources said the date and mode of the meeting, which can be both offline and online, is yet to be decided by the vice-chancellor. Recently, meetings on urgent issues have been held on blended mode to take key decisions. Sources said in the syndicate meeting, chairman of the special committee on the academic calendar and examination will present a detailed report on the conduct of final year exams. Another issue likely to be discussed is the objection raised by a few colleges, saying that they, as stakeholders, were not asked how to conduct the examination. The university has already scrapped all undergraduate entrance exams and conducted admissions on the basis of merit. Recently, it was proposed that entrance exam for postgraduate courses should also be scrapped as holding it online is not possible and it cannot be conducted conventionally in a pandemic situation. A final decision is yet to be taken on the issue. Meanwhike, a few Syndicate members wrote to the vice-chancellor saying that if the Syndicate meeting was not called in the next three days, they would not be responsible for the harm suffered by the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/v-c-to-hold-syndicate-meeting-to-discuss-final-year-exams/articleshow/78066293.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS legislators pitch for reservations in gurukuls||HYDERABAD: Several TRS members are seeking legislators’ quota in government residential schools on the lines of MPs having a similar quota for admission of students into Kendra Vidyalayas. With the gurukuls producing impressive results, members said that there is a lot of pressure on them from the people of their respective constituencies, seeking admission into these SC, ST, BC, and minority residential institutions. Presently, admission into these schools is provided on the basis of qualifying marks secured by the students in the entrance test. Lauding the standards maintained by these residential schools, most of which were established by the TRS government, the ruling party members G Kishore Kumar, Shakeel Mohammed, Athram Sakku, Anjaiah, Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, D Vinay Bhaskar among others wanted the government to fix a certain quota of seats for the legislators. The members also urged the government to construct its own buildings for these schools as Rs 175 crore is being spent towards payment of rent every year. They also requested that assembly constituency should be taken as the local criteria against the undivided district for admission into these schools. Welfare minister Koppula Eshwar said the government would look into their demands. Meanwhile, MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi said that the state government should consider the construction of these school buildings or setting up of these institutions on Waqf properties by evicting squatters. Minister Eshwar said there are a total of 970 residential schools including 603 established by the TRS government. Over 4.31 lakh students belonging to SCs, STs, BCs. minorities and EBCs are pursuing their education from these institutes and the state government is spending over Rs 57,000 on an average per student. Though the government is already trying to honour all the recommendation letters from MLAs for admission into the residential schools, the minister said that he will look into the issue of fixing a quota for the legislators. “Depending upon the availability of funds, own buildings for these schools would also be constructed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-legislators-pitch-for-reservations-in-gurukuls/articleshow/78067804.cms||Roushan Ali
September 12, 2020||Kochi||Relay road from Petta Junction to Kundanoor: Residents||KOCHI: Despite Kochi Metro rail starting operations from Petta, the road from Petta Junction to Kundanoor Junction continues to remain filled with potholes. It seems that the public clamour to relay the roads have fallen on deaf years, and there has been no sincere effort to repair roads and ease down movement of vehicles. “Though Kochi Metro will serve people from Maradu and Kundanoor regions, commuters from these places are reluctant to travel through the Kundanoor-Petta stretch to reach Petta station. Instead, they prefer taking the NH66 to reach Kochi city,” said Trivikraman Pillai, a bank employee and resident of Mangayil. According to commuters, if this stretch of the road is well laid, many motorists who currently commute via Kalamassery and Aluva regions will take this stretch to reach their destinations. “There has been some effort to repair the road by filling potholes. But, once it started to rain again, the potholes re-emerged. Motorists, particularly two-wheeler riders find it difficult to navigate through the large puddles formed on the road,” said Unnikrishnan Petta, a resident. Residents have also highlighted the need for improving pedestrian facilities along the stretch. As Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) actively promotes non-motorised transport (NMT) systems and cycling, residents are hopeful that the metro agency will take up the task of improving basic infrastructure required for NMT in these areas also. However, officials with the PWD (NH Wing) said they have undertaken repair works by laying concrete tiles at badly damaged portions and has plans to do BM&BC tarring works at the remaining stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/relay-road-from-petta-jn-to-kundanoor-residents/articleshow/78066307.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bhopal||216 new cases take city count to 13,125||Bhopal: A total 216 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state capital on Friday. With these, the tally of positive cases has increased to 13,125. Covid-19 infection is again spreading in the city and, on an average, more than 200 new cases have been reported daily in the city in the 11 days of September so far. There are a total 2,040 active cases in the city as on September 11. The percentage of active patients has increased from 14% of the total tested positive on August 31 to 16% of the total positive reported so far in the city. More than 320 people have died due to Covid-19 infection in the city so far. Hundreds of people are reaching the city’s fever clinics every day. Among the areas from where these positive cases were reported on Friday were Jehangirabad where two people tested positive, one person tested positive in Gandhi Medical College, one person tested positive in a city mall and two employees of a private university also tested positive. Among other positive patients, three of a family tested positive in the Habibganj railway colony, one person at MLA rest house, one person from police headquarters and three people from police lines in Nehru Nagar. In a spot of good news, the recovery rate has also improved in the city. As of now, close to 82% of the people who tested positive have recovered from Covid-19 and have been discharged from the hospitals. On Friday, government ordered that 20% beds of the hospitals be reserved under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. This will lead to maximum increase in the number of beds in the state capital as out of the 100 empanelled hospitals in the state, 45 are in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/216-new-cases-take-city-count-to-13125/articleshow/78066357.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani to remain in police custody for 3 more days||BENGALURU: A local court on Friday extended police custody of actresses Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, arrested on charges of drug peddling, for three more days. The court also extended the custody of event manager Rahul Thonshe, Senegalese national Pepper Loom Samba, businessman Prashanth Rankha and model Niyas Mohammed, all accused in the same case, for three more days. The actresses appeared in court through video conferencing. They are housed at Santwana rehabilitation centre near Kiwai hospital and reportedly broke down following the court decision. Police said the actresses pleaded with personnel guarding them that they be sent home at night and that they don’t mind appearing for questioning every day. CCB police had appealed to extend custody of the accused for five days. “We have to question the accused a little more. Also, we need to collect nail samples of the accused for forensic tests. It will help us find out if they had consumed drugs,” police said. However, advocates appearing for the accused opposed the request, pointing out that police are basing their investigation only on digital evidences and mobile call details. There is no hard evidence, they said. Meanwhile, leaked video footage shows Ragini arguing with police when she was taken to KC General Hospital on Thursday to give blood and hair samples. A leaked video on Thursday had shown Sanjjanaa had resisted the tests, before falling in line. “If we are caught in this case, we will be sent to jail. Already our lives have been ruined. Forward the copy of the court order to our advocates. Let the blood test happen before them,” Ragini was seen arguing. The actresses were shown videos of them partying, but they told their interrogators that they did attend the parties but had no idea of drugs being sold or being used on such occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/actresses-ragini-sanjjanaa-to-stay-in-police-custody-for-3-more-days/articleshow/78066372.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bareilly||Over Rs 21 crore released for 2 government women colleges in Meerut||MEERUT: The district minority officer on Friday announced that the state government has released Rs 21 crore for the construction of two government women colleges in Meerut, to improve the lot of minority women in the area. Scholarships will also be given to the women who study there. “While 232 smart classes have been set up in primary schools, upper-primary schools and inter-colleges, the state government has given permission to construct two state-run degree colleges here, and to provide scholarships to their students according to merit,” said Mohammad Taariq, assistant director, minority development department, Meerut. He also said, “The new government degree colleges for women in Meerut will be built in villages Mehrauli and Panchayat Bali, at a cost of Rs 10.78 crore each,” adding that scholarships will be given to students of classes IX and X whose family income is less than Rs 1 lakh annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-rs-21-crore-released-for-2-govt-women-colleges-in-meerut/articleshow/78067826.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast Guard rescues 24 fishermen stranded at sea||Mangaluru: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has successfully rescued 24 fishermen from fishing boat Qamrul Bahar, which was stranded at sea, due to gales and swell, about 15 nautical miles off the Bhatkal port. DIG S B Venkatesh, commander, Coast Guard, Karnataka, said that the rescue was carried out off the Bhatkal port. ICG Ship Kasturba Gandhi, which was on operational deployment off the Karnataka coast, was diverted immediately for undertaking search and rescue operations. The ship arrived at the spot at 8 pm on Thursday and established communication with the stranded fishermen. The fishing boat lost propulsion owing to engine failure. Because of rough weather conditions in the area, the owner of the fishing boat had requested the deputy director(DD) fisheries, Karwar, to rescue the fishermen, who in turn requested the Coast Guard. On Friday, at around 10.30 am, all the fishermen, who were in good health, were safely shifted on board the ICG ship. Thereafter, the ship proceeded to Karwar Port for handing them over to the DD fisheries. Electronic surveillance in the area is being maintained through a coastal surveillance network, to shepherd fishing boats in the area to safer locations and regular weather, warning advisory is also being transmitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-guard-rescues-24-fishermen-stranded-at-sea/articleshow/78065035.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||BJP MLA Deshraj Karnwal, Rudrapur ASP test Covid-19 positive||DEHRADUN: With 995 fresh cases of novel coronavirus reported in Uttarakhand on Friday, the state’s Covid-19 tally reached 29,221. Among those found infected on the day were Jhabreda BJP MLA Deshraj Karnwal and Rudrapur’s assistant superintendent of police (ASP). Also, the state president of the ruling BJP, Bansidhar Bhagat, who was tested Covid-19 positive on August 30 and was discharged from hospital on September 8, was again moved back to hospital after he complained of dizziness and weakness. With over 8,500 fresh cases reported in just the last 11 days, the Covid-19 infection rate crossed 6.1% mark in the Himalayan state on Friday. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that Dehradun on Friday reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state for the ninth time in last 11 days with 281 new infections. Udham Singh Nagar also reported 271 fresh cases, followed by 161 cases from Haridwar, 110 from Nainital, 43 from Pauri, 39 from Pithoragarh, 29 from Tehri, 17 from Uttarkashi, 14 from Almora, 10 from Champawat, seven from Bageshwar, and five from Rudraprayag. Eleven deaths were also reported from the Himalayan state. Among these, nine were from reported Dehradun district (six from AIIMS Rishikesh and three from Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital in Dehradun) and the other two deaths were reported from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. “Apart from fresh cases, 644 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on the day, taking the recovery rate to 66.4%. With this, the total number of cured cases have reached 19,428 in Uttarakhand,” added Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-mla-deshraj-karnwal-rudrapur-asp-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/78065036.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro link goes live, mock e-passes issued||KOLKATA: Around 400 people downloaded the mock boarding e-passes within the first 30 minutes of the launch of the link — ‘https//pathadisha.com/metro’ — on Friday, around 50 hours before its scheduled Sunday 7.59pm official launch. Last Wednesday, a team led by Metro additional general manager Sharad Srivastava had attended a meeting convened by home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay at Nabanna to discuss ways to resume services of India’s oldest rapid transit system. They came up with this ingenious way to regulate crowd in Covid times: making commuters self-generate the QR-coded e-pass on their phones or take printouts and furnish them to enter a station. The state government appointed Sanjoy Chatterjee, director of Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the transport department, to develop the Pathadisha Metro e-pass. The excitement was palpable among people who chanced upon the link while surfing the Net on Friday. “I managed to download it once, but couldn’t save my e-pass,” Supratik Chatterjee, an 18-year-old resident of Sovabazar, said. “I am extremely curious about the link and the e-pass. Initially, I thought it was a complex affair. But after going to the link, I found the steps quite simple. It seems to be a novel way to decongest the Metro and regulate crowd at stations,” said 32-year-old executive and Kalighat resident Ashish Manna. When the link becomes functional from Sunday evening, precisely 12 hours before the first train on Monday, one can generate the e-pass, valid for an hour. The link will be available in Pathadisha app, station entry points, Metro Railway’s app, Metro Railway’s website, along with many state government websites. But on Friday, one could access the link just by typing it out. “These were practice sessions. There are no trains on Saturday. So the e-pass generated were of no use,” said a transport department official. Even as 74 trains will run on Sunday, only NEET aspirants can ride them between 10am and 7pm. They just need to show their admit cards to walk into a station. The use of e-passes starts only when Metro resumes for the public at 8am on Monday. The valid e-passes will be issued only from 8pm on Sunday, 12 hours before the first train that starts at 8am on Monday. In all, 110 trains will ply in the north-south section and 72 trains along the East-West corridor. No e-passes will be needed in East-West Metro. Only smartcard users can board trains for now. No tokens will be issued for fear of contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-link-goes-live-mock-e-passes-issued/articleshow/78066365.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 12, 2020||Kochi||Swami Agnivesh chose Kerala to launch his forum||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In October last year, Swami Agnivesh came to Thiruvananthapuram. An ardent lover of Kerala for the secular and renaissance values the people here upholds, Agnivesh chose Kerala to launch his new movement ‘Vasudhaiva Kudumbakam’. The aim of the new forum was to unite hindus who think above communal lines. He had believed that to check the growth of Sangh Parivar, there needs to be a forum that united sensible hindus. Swami Agnivesh had invited Arif Mohammed Khan, who had just then assumed the office of Kerala governor, to inaugurate the forum. However, the governor opted out of the function in the last moment. There was a small crowd of people which assembled there and they were seen impressed by the concept of Vasudhaiva Kudumbakam. Though he had plans to visit the state this year too to campaign for the forum, Covid-19 situation had sabotaged those plans. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan remembered Swami Agnivesh as a philanthropist who had relentlessly fought for social justice, human rights and secularism all through his life. “He had sacrificed his life to bridge the casteist and economic inequalities in the society. He rose to fame through the fight against slavery in agrarian labour,” he said in a condolence message here. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala remembered Swami Agnivesh as a personal friend who had long association with him. “He had fought hard against fascism and communalism. He had firm belief that pluralism and secularism are the cornerstones of the concept of India,” Chennithala wrote in a condolence message. He said with the demise of Swami Agnivesh, secular forces lost a frontline warrior.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/agnivesh-chose-state-to-launch-his-forum/articleshow/78066360.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan’s posers to T on central support||Hyderabad: Kishan Reddy on Friday sought to know if funds from the Centre sent directly to the CM are the only benchmark for claiming central aid. Interacting with reporters through a virtual press conference, he said the state government does not want to acknowledge what the Centre is doing for Telangana. “Central funds are utilised for Basti Dawakhanas and KCR Kits scheme. But, TRS leaders never tell this to public.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishans-posers-to-t-on-central-support/articleshow/78067835.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||State’s first flatted factory complex coming up in Agra||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh’s first flatted factory complex will be coming up in Agra. Set to be built in Foundry Nagar, the factory will be developed in an area of 5 acres and the four-storey building will house 68 MSME units. Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said the complex will be built at a cost of Rs 125 crore. “Space will be allocated on each of the four floors for setting up of factories. Due to its location within the city, the distance between the place of production and the market will also be reduced. The decision to set up the factory was taken after receiving positive feedback from industrialists in the city,” he said. The factory complex, Sehgal said, will come equipped with high-end facilities. Non-polluting industries pertaining to footwear, ACs, coolers, cycles, non-motorised vehicles, tea packaging, block making, printing, cotton and woollen hosiery, light engineering will be allocated space here. The building will have separate lifts for material and passengers. Ramps will be available for light vehicles while administrative office space, a telecommunication centre, optical fibre network, conference halls, board room, exhibition area, centralized data centre, food court, parking will also be provided. The complex will be just 10km away from the Yamuna Expressway and there will be a direct link to it from the national highway. In June, the UP State Industrial Development Authority had adopted a policy to allow flatted factories, multi-storeyed buildings in which multiple non-polluting industrial units can operate. The concept allows more activity in a limited space. As per the policy, minimum land requirement of 5 acres has been set for development of such a factory which cannot be developed in a residential area or mixed land use area. The model can be adopted only for non-polluting manufacturing unit permitted by industrial development authority like manufacturing of readymade garments, handicrafts. A minimum structure of ground plus three stories will be permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/states-first-flatted-factory-complex-coming-up-in-agra/articleshow/78068624.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Go local with lockdowns, health experts advise West Bengal government||KOLKATA: The state government is examining a proposal made by health experts which suggests local lockdowns in high Covid-prevalence zones instead of total state-wide lockdowns. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to discuss this issue with the Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee-chaired global advisory committee on Monday before deciding on whether to declare fresh lockdown schedules in the last two weeks of September. Friday was the last announced total lockdown till September 20. Senior state officials suggested that whether or not to continue with the lockdowns will be decided at a meeting either on September 18 or 19. “We have advised the state not to continue with intermittent total lockdowns. The purpose of total lockdowns, we feel, is getting defeated because of the unchecked mixing of population on other days. Instead, we have asked the state to redefine containment zones and impose stricter rules in those areas for a longer period. This will be more effective in containing the spread of the disease,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, who is also a member of the Global Advisory Committee. Another committee member refused to comment on this. The Global Advisory Board for Covid in Bengal had earlier advised that a long-term lockdown was “unsustainable”. A senior state officer indicated the September 18-19 administrative meeting with the CM will take stock of other factors, including resumption of Metro, possible local train movement and possible timelines for reopening educational institutions. On July 20, Bengal announced a bi-weekly complete lockdown after scientists, experts and stakeholders felt that “some specific community transmission was taking place”. These total lockdowns were in addition to the containment-zone approach. At that time, Bengal had 17,204 active Covid cases and a total case count of 44,769. On Friday, the state’s active case count stood at 23,461 and the total case count was 1,96,332. Experts said this was due to the high testing rates and the hospital discharge rates being among the highest in India at 86.1%. The state’s containment-zone policy, too, has undergone a change from localized lockdowns to hyperlocal lockdowns. The initial containment zone lockdown policy envisaged cordoning off larger zones. The revised strategy led to individual homes or groups of houses, which reported multiple cases, being cordoned off. But officers said, with 66,395 people in home quarantine in Bengal now, the hyperlocal containment formula needs to be evaluated. It was argued that such a containment policy was breeding social ostracism, leading to mental trauma. Containing a larger zone will, therefore, be more effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/go-local-with-lockdowns-health-experts-advise-govt/articleshow/78066348.cms||Saibal Gupta
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Security to Kangana Ranaut on her dad’s request: G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Friday said the Centre has no role in providing Y-plus category security to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut. He also denied that Centre has a role in the CBI case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. He said security to the actor was provided after her father wrote to Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur. Earlier, reports said Ranaut was accorded CRPF security by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in the aftermath of her spat with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and after she said she feared for her life. Replying to a query, he said her father personally met Thakur following statements that she would not be allowed into Mumbai. “She is a busy actress based out of Mumbai. When there was a threat perception and a request was made, CRPF security was provided to her,” he said during a virtual press conference here. Experts said the level of security needed is decided by MHA based on inputs from Intelligence Bureau and Research & Analysis Wing. On the Sushant case, Kishan said the CBI probe began following the Supreme Court’s orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/security-to-kangana-on-her-dads-request-kishan/articleshow/78067829.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 98% clear ECET, girls fare better||HYDERABAD: Over 98% of candidates cleared Telangana Engineering Common Entrance Test, results for which were declared on Friday. While a total of 25,448 candidates appeared for the exam on August 31, as many as 24,832 candidates qualified in the test. Girls managed to put up a better show than boys as 98% of them qualified against 63% boys. While Neelam Divya Sri from Mahabubabad secured the state first rank in computer science engineering stream, Koilakonda Sai Praneeth topped the chemical engineering stream and Kura Vyshnavi from Rangareddy emerged topper in electronics and communication. Banoth Anjali from Khammam secured top rank in civil engineering, Jadigam Varun Sai from Rangareddy in electrical and electronics engineering, Ramagiri Reshma from Karimnagar in electronics and instrumentation engineering , Soma Sai Kishore from Warangal in mechanical engineering, Gummadavelly Srujana from Hyderabad in metallurgy, and Pydakula Sai Varshan from Komaram Bheem in mining engineering. Bollu Bheemeshwari from Wanaparthy and Sivala Srinivas Rao from Srikakulam declared toppers in pharmacy and BSC mathematics. Telangana State Council of Higher Education’s chairman, T Papi Reddy, said admission schedule for lateral entry into BE/BTech or pharmacy courses will be released in next few days. When it comes to streamwise performance, 99% of candidates qualified in the CSE stream, 99% in ECE, 99% in EIE, and 97% in EEE. The pass percentage is over 96% in other streams as well||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/98-clear-ecet-girls-fare-better/articleshow/78067814.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Hearing in Kodanad robbery case adjourned to Sept 15||Udhagamandalam: The hearing in the sensational Kodanad estate murder-dacoity case was once again adjourned on Friday, this time to September 15, after police failed to produce all the 10 accused before the district court. Three accused are still at large.While hearing the case on August 21, the court had issued arrest warrants against eight out of the 10 accused in the case. On that day, police had produced only two accused – K V Sayan and Valaiyar Manoj, who are lodged in the Coimbatore Central Jail – before the court.Police had subsequently arrested another four accused. The Kerala police have, meanwhile, one accused (Jamseer Ali) in their custody. The remaining three - Santhosh, Deepu and Sathesan - are still on the run. The case had come up for hearing before the court twice in the past two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hearing-in-kodanad-robbery-case-adjourned-to-sept-15/articleshow/78067863.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit mining inspector suspended for corruption||PILIBHIT: A mining inspector, Jitendra Kumar Sharma, was suspended by the director of geology and mining in UP, Roshan Jacob for corruption here on Thursday. Pulkit Khare, district magistrate, had also recommended departmental action against the inspector a few days ago after an audio clip had gone viral on social media in which Sharma was purportedly heard directing his assistant to collect a bribe from brick kiln owners. In her suspension order, Jacob said action against Sharma was based on several complaints alleging the inspector's involvement in permitting illegal mining in Pilibhit. She said the suspended official will remain attached to the state headquarters during his entire term of suspension. On his part, DM Khare told TOI that after listening to the audio clip and taking cognizance of many complaints against Sharma, he had recommended to Jacob stern action against the mining official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-mining-inspector-suspended-for-corruption/articleshow/78067836.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Retiring rooms, roster tweak to help Kolkata Metro staff||KOLKATA: Retiring rooms for night halts and a rational duty roster to accommodate all those living in the suburbs are some of the provisions Metro Railway is working on to help its staffers attend office from Monday. “We are aware that a number of our personnel live on the outskirts and depend on suburban trains to come to work in normal circumstances. Since local train services are suspended and other modes of transport are not functioning normally either, we are scheduling duties in such a way that those who live within the city limits are allotted morning duty. Some of those who live far may come in the evening, spend the night in retiring rooms and report for early morning duty,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said on Friday. On Thursday, Joshi had convened an online press conference, along with senior officials like AGM Sharad Srivastava, making the first formal announcements relating to re-starting commercial runs. Much as the employees have been looking forward to the resumption of Metro’s services, many of them have been worrying about travelling to and from work at 7.15am and 9pm respectively, with no local trains and very few buses plying in the pandemic times. According to the new timetable, Metro services will start at 8am and end at 8pm. So, employees would need to report latest by 7.30am. They wouldn’t be able to leave before 8.30pm. Ever since Metro services stopped on March 23, a staggered work schedule was being followed, with a standard 10am-6pm work hours. Four pairs of staff trains would ply from 9.30am to ferry staffers to different stations. Employees would come to work in two-wheelers, autos and the few public buses that are available. Staff trains were available in the evenings, too, after duty ended at 6pm. “But now we can’t leave before 8.30pm and must report at 7.15am. How will we manage? Hope the authorities will do something about it,” a traffic assistant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/retiring-rooms-roster-tweak-to-help-metro-staff/articleshow/78066374.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Only four flights to take off today as most airlines pull out fearing fewer bookings||KOLKATA: A day after no flight movement at Kolkata airport due to the lockdown, only four flights will take off on Saturday with all major airlines other than Air India (AI) pulling out fearing they would have to otherwise cancel flights en masse due to extremely poor loads. No flights were originally scheduled to operate on Saturday as it was among the announced lockdown dates. It was only on Thursday evening that the state announced its decision to withdraw Saturday’s lockdown following pleas from NEET aspirants. On Sunday though, it will be back to business with over 105 flights set to operate. More than 27,000 passengers are expected to either fly in or out of the airport that day. “The airport will be functional on Saturday. But hardly any flights are expected to operate as airlines said they did not have enough time to open bookings and get adequate passengers on either outbound or incoming flights,” an airport official said. On a regular Saturday, 70-80 flights operate from Kolkata airport. Prior to the pandemic, the daily flight count was around 240. IndiGo was the first to pull out, followed by SpiceJet. AirAsia, GoAir and Vistara followed suit as none was sure of whether they would get even a dozen passengers for flights that usually ferry 160-170. That the airport was shut on Friday due to the lockdown added to the problem as it was difficult to sell tickets offline. AI is the only airline that decided to take a gamble. “We opened bookings on a flight each to Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar-Jharsuguda and Leelabari around 8pm on Thursday. Since there were no other flights on offer, the Bengaluru and Hyderabad flights picked up and by 11pm, 90% seats were booked. The other two sectors are serviced by smaller ATR aircraft. They have got good booking,” an AI official said. An IndiGo official said the window was too short to even attempt viable operations. “If we had opened bookings, a handful of passengers may have booked tickets. They would have ended up being harassed as we would have eventually had to cancel flights because one cannot operate a 180-seater aircraft unless there are at least 90-100 passengers,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-4-flights-to-take-off-today-as-most-airlines-pull-out-fearing-fewer-bookings/articleshow/78066387.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Manickam Tagore new Congress general secretary in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Forty five-year-old Manickam Tagore is the new Congress general secretary in charge of Telangana affairs. He replaces RC Khuntia. Congress president Sonia Gandhi issued orders appointing the party MP from Tamil Nadu as the general secretary to look after the party affairs in Telangana. Khuntia had completed his term a few months from now. The appointment of Tagore has set in motion the overhaul of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC). Tagore, who will be attending Parliament sessions starting Monday, is likely to take a decision on the date of assuming charge as general secretary soon, sources said. His appointment has already triggered a speculation that there would be a change of guard in the state soon. Manickam is an MP from Virudhunagar constituency in Tamil Nadu. He started his journey in Congress from the National Students Union of India (NSUI) and rose to the post of NSUI all-India vice-president, Indian Youth Congress general secretary and chairman of party central election authority. He has also served as member of AICC screening committees for assembly elections in Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Bihar, Assam, Haryana and Delhi. Presently, he is serving as AICC secretary, Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manickam-tagore-new-congress-gen-secy-in-t/articleshow/78067869.cms||Roushan Ali
September 12, 2020||Bhopal||CM: No crisis of oxygen in state||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Friday there is no crisis of oxygen in the state. "Adequate oxygen is available. No one needs to worry. Necessary arrangements have already been made by the state government. Coordination is also being established with various state governments.  Principal secretary medical education, Sanjay Shukla, has been entrusted with the responsibility for monitoring the availability of oxygen in the state", Chouhan said. Addressing a Coronavirus review meeting, Chouhan said there is a need for constant awareness on Coronavirus pandemic in the state. "Fever clinics" set up in health institutions should work constantly to test and treat individuals with possible symptoms. For monitoring of the people under home isolation, the officers in-charge should also constantly monitor the arrangements of the command and control centres, set up at the district level, he said. It was informed at the meeting that the recovery rate of the state is 75.3%. So far, 83,619 positive cases have been reported in the state. The number of recovered cases is 62,936. During review of the district-wise situation, Chouhan instructed to send a specialist from Gwalior medical college to Shivpuri. Chief minister also sought information about the capacity and resources available at AIIMS Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-no-crisis-of-oxygen-in-state/articleshow/78066380.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Youth ends life after losing Rs 4 lakh on betting in Telangana||HYDERABAD: An engineering student committed suicide at Kakatiya canal in Karimnagar allegedly after losing around Rs 4 lakh on cricket betting on Thursday night. The LMD police of Karimnagar commissionerate said that B Niteesh (22) who went missing on Thursday evening, was found drowned in Kakatiya canal on Friday morning. At around 7.30pm on Thursday, the police found an abandoned two-wheeler near the canal. With the help of the vehicles’s registration number, the police traced the deceased’s kin. Suspecting that Niteesh might have committed suicide, the family members rushed to the canal. The body was found by local fishermen on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-ends-life-after-losing-rs-4l-on-betting/articleshow/78067847.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government allows 50% staff at schools & colleges from September 21||HYDERABAD: In what comes as a huge relief to teachers, the Telangana government, on Friday, issued an order directing only 50 per cent of the staff to attend duties from September 21. The GO has been drafted in line with the guidelines of unlock 4, issued by the central government earlier this month. Since August 27 — keeping with a previous diktat of the state — all teaching and non-teaching staff have been attending to their duties, albeit reluctantly. The staff even submitted multiple representations to the authorities, seeking respite from the rule after more than 500 members of the community tested positive for the coronavirus. As per the new GO, “maximum of 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff are permitted to be called to the schools/colleges at a time for online teaching/tele-counseling and related work, in areas outside the containment zones only” even though “online/distancing learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged”. Over 1.27 lakh teachers work in government schools across the state. “We have been told that the officials are planning to either call 50% staff on alternate days or ask teachers to attend in two shifts—morning and afternoon — so that everyone attends schools every day. It would be better if they ask teachers to attend school every alternate day,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, United Teachers Federation seeking detailed guidelines as early as possible to avoid confusion. Following the initial GO, the school education department issued another order late on Friday evening urging all teaching and non-teaching staff to attend to work from home “for counselling/Whatsapp group study/other online study group etc, till September 20.” While welcoming the order M Ravinder, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation, Hyderabad said the authorities must also focus on basic sanitisation facilities at the institutes. He said: “They should also hire support staff and provide us with the necessary budget to get the premises sanitised as each and every institute has reported at least one or two Covid-19 cases since August 27.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-government-allows-50-staff-at-schools-colleges-from-sept-21/articleshow/78067866.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam: Six-year-old finds twin stem cell donors||KOCHI: Many-a-times, it is difficult to find one match for a patient looking for a stem cell donor because of less number of people registering for donations. But, a six-year-old patient was fortunate enough to find twins – Minna and Minni from Ernakulam – who were willing to help. While one donated, the other stood as a backup. Minna and Minni had registered with Datri as blood stem cell donors in a donor registration drive conducted at Vishwajyothi College of Engineering and Technology (VJCET), Vazhakulam, in 2017 as part of world cancer awareness week. Datri got in touch with them when both were found to be a match for a patient. Minna picked up the call and was counselled for donation. “When we reached out to Minna about the donation, her twin sister Minni was along with her and they decided that Minna will donate as she got the call first and we kept Minni as a backup in case if Minna marked ineligible during health checkups,” said Aby Sam John, head of donor recruitment and counselling (Kerala). Usually blood stem cell donation is a day care procedure and most of the time donor need to donate only once. “For Minna, we could not get enough cells for the patient after first day of donation and only option was to go for a second donation very next day. As her peripheral veins were used for donation procedure on day one, during the second donation femoral veins were used. Even though Minna and Minni had urgent official needs and family Onam get-together, knowing the situation of the recipient, they postponed everything and decided to donate soon after we updated them the situation,” he said. Coincidently, the duo had registered as donors during world cancer awareness week and donation took place when the World Marrow Donors Day (September 3) awareness activities were going on globally. Amid Covid threat, the team from Datri ensured safety of Minna and her family at every step. Speaking on this donation, Minna Shaji, the donor said, “I’m afraid of needles but that should not be an excuse to avoid lifesaving donation or someone’s final hope. It’s someone’s life and it no one should not say any excuses to ignore such need. In future, if I’m a match again, I will do it again for sure.” Minna’s twin sister who was by her side said this was an opportunity to do her bit to give someone a new lease of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/six-yr-old-in-city-finds-twin-stem-cell-donors/articleshow/78066378.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bhopal||1.2K samples collected under Sero survey||Bhopal: After initial hiccups, the Sero survey in the state capital is in the fast lane now. “There were issues in the initial two days. People were a little skeptical. Our teams, too, had problems as the app which is being used to collect data is new but now things are smooth,” said additional collector, Ashish Vashishtha, who is co-ordinating the survey on behalf of the district administration. As many as 1,200 samples were collected till Thursday in the survey that began on Monday. Another 600 samples are expected to be collected on Frday. The total size of survey is 7,500 persons from across 85 wards of the city. “Bhopal has a population of 20 lakh and after calculation, it was decided that the size of the sero seurvey should be 7,500 persons. By testing Covid-19 antibodies in these many people, they would be able to ascertain the ratio of population affected by coronavirus in Bhopal,” said Vashishtha . The survey is being conducted by Institute of Diease Control, Delhi, in association with Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal. The survey is being conducted by 60 teams. Each team consists of four persons — a lab assistant, who takes the blood sample of persons covered under the survey, a teacher, who fills the desired information about the person whose blood sample is taken into app, BMC ward in-charge, to help the team find addresses of persons covered under the survey in the ward under his charge and a police constable, to accompany the team for security purpose. BMC zonal officers are the team in-charge in areas under their jurisdiction. Vashishtha said that sample size in each ward is in proportion to population od the ward. In some wards it could be 110 and somewhere else 94 but on- an- average, sample size in each ward is around 100 persons. The app being used to store data for analysis is fed with general information about the person whose sample is taken like his name, address, blood group, age group etc. " We could have done the survey offline, manually. But, at the time of analysing the data, app comes handy. The survey is age group-wise and age group is very important. It will be age less than 18 or 18+ for both male and female. When you have all the desired information in an app, the analysis becomes easy", Vashishtha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1-2k-samples-collected-under-sero-survey/articleshow/78066394.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Fill all potholes in Moradabad div: CM||Lucknow: During a review of Moradabad division on Friday, CM Yogi Adityanath said the revenue collection from the five districts of the division — Moradabad, Rampur, Amroha, Sambhal and Bijnor — has been extremely low and asked the administration to ensure that no illegal mining took place in these areas. The CM has directed authorities to ensure that all roads in the division are free of potholes before Navaratra. He said that work should start immediately after monsoon. While reviewing projects of over Rs 10 crore being implemented in the five districts, the CM said that officers should release money for pending projects so that works do not suffer. Comparing the districts to Sonbhadra, which he said is a backward district, Yogi said that because the district administration was proactive in giving mining leases on time, the district generated additional revenue this year, despite the pandemic. He asked the five districts to follow its example. Yogi also directed authorities to finish all pending works under the Moradabad Smart City Project. He said clean drinking water to all households was extremely important for all districts and the government would ensure funding for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fill-all-potholes-in-moradabad-div-cm/articleshow/78068638.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||UP to provide broadband uplink to schools in nearly 28,000 gram panchayats||MEERUT: The UP government has issued instructions to provide fibre-to-home broadband connections to schools under 27,944 gram panchayats across the state. The initiative has been taken by the state department of telecommunications, to provide last-mile internet connectivity. “We’ve planned to provide last-mile internet connectivity under the ministry of electronics and information technology. Fibre-to-home broadband connections will be provided to schools in 27,944 gram panchayats across the state,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director general of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Anand added the work will be undertaken by authorities at common service centres. “Authorities at common service centres will carry out the survey work for the fibre to home connections to the selected schools. Regular electricity connections will also be ensured to the schools, and all equipment will be kept under lock and key to ensure their safety,” read Anand’s order. All basic shiksha adhikaris (BSAs) have been asked to ensure the work is carried out without any negligence, the order read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-to-provide-broadband-uplink-to-schools-in-nearly-28k-gram-panchayats/articleshow/78067868.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur crematoriums running out of space to keep ash urns||JAIPUR: Lockdown rules have been relaxed, but people are still scared to make long distance journeys leading to the piling up of ash urns in city crematoriums. Since complete lockdown was imposed in April, there were restrictions on travel and all kinds of transportation — road, rail and airways — were under lockdown. Now that the rules have been relaxed, people are still scared to use public transport due to the fear of pandemic and are not making journeys to Haridwar. Prem Chandani of Haldighati crematorium said, “Ash urns are piling up in our crematorium. We provide people lockers on minimum charge a month where they can keep the urns till they travel to Haridwar for immersion. With the pandemic, people are still not able to travel which has created this problem.” <p><br></p>Space to keep urns is full at Cheelgati crematorium in Jhalana Doongri areaPramod Sharma of Cheelgati crematorium at Jhalana Doongri area said that because of space crunch they are keeping the urns in whatever space available. “All the lockers have been occupied and we are forced to keep the urns on the floor. Although people from Sindhi community are travelling to Pushkar and nearby religious places for immersion, most of the people prefer Haridwar. Some came after lockdown relaxation to take the urns, but most are still kept here. We are expecting thet the situation might continue for some more time,” Sharma said. Adarsh Nagar crematorium is facing a similar problem too. “Our lockers and store rooms are packed with ash urns,” said Mukesh Sharma, Adarsh Nagar crematorium. A few months ago, some politicians took initiative to take the ash urns to Haridwar in a special bus. Ashok Lahoty, sitting MLA from Sanganer constituency, who was part of the initiative, said, “We took that initiative at the time of complete lockdown when no transportation was available. Now, if people are still facing such issue, they can contact us, and we will try to help them.” Before the recent lockdown relaxations, crematoriums in the city were facing shortage of firewood due to lack of transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-crematoriums-running-out-of-space-to-keep-ash-urns/articleshow/78067862.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Patna||Govt body, Vishnupad templemgmt asked to settle dispute||Patna: The Patna high court on Friday orally observed that the Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts and the private managing committee of the Vishnupad temple in Gaya should settle their legal dispute over ownership of the shrine so that it could finally become a public property.Temple’s private management body had filed a title suit before a Gaya court in 1978. The court had passed an ex-parte decree in their favour in 1991. The state religious body’s subsequent appeal was dismissed. Later, it filed a petition for restoration of the appeal, which is still pending for a final order.The high court had pulled up the temple’s body during the September 4 hearing. The temple attracts 30-40 lakh devotees and huge amount as offerings annually. The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL filed by one Gaurav Kumar Singh seeking direction to the state government to take control over the temple and declare it a public property.The petitioner has also urged the court for directing the authorities concerned for appointing a board on the lines of Vaishno Devi shrine and Tirupati Balaji temple and construct basic amenities for devotees around the temple complex.The bench orally observed that priests of the temple would continue to get share from the offerings made by devotees along with their right to worship even if the temple becomes a public property.Appearing for the petitioner, counsel Sumeet Kumar Singh submitted that the Tirupati Balaji model be replicated for the proper maintenance and upkeep of Vishnupad temple and to provide all required facilities to the devotees.State government’s additional advocate general Anjani Kumar, when asked by the court, submitted that the religious trust could seek details from Tirupati Balaji temple management committee.Senior counsel Rai Shivaji Nath appeared for the temple’s private managing body while Ganpati Trivedi represented the government’s religious body. The matter will be heard again on September 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-body-vishnupad-templemgmt-asked-to-settle-dispute/articleshow/78066392.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Flower display work begins in Ooty garden||Ahead of the autumn season, the display work of about 7,000 flower pots at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) in Ooty commenced on Friday. The garden was reopened for visitors last Wednesday. The flower pots include over 140 varieties of flowers, including Dahlia, French marigold, Balsam, Salvia and Petunia, among others. For the past three days the garden has been witnessing around 100-200 visitors a day. Correction: In the report ‘NIA seizes gold ornaments, money from city jeweller’ published in these columns on September 10, it has been erroneously mentioned J Nandagopal as the owner of Sri Senthur Jewels and gold ornaments and cash were seized from the shop. Sri Senthur Jewels issued a clarification on Friday stating that NIA didn’t carry out searches in the shop. It also said that Nandagopal is the landlord of the property in which the shop is being run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flower-display-work-begins-in-ooty-garden/articleshow/78067909.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Will try to start services before Durga Puja, says South Eastern Railway general manager||KOLKATA: South Eastern Railway (SER) may consider running graded suburban services before the Pujas after consultations with the state government and after studying the impact of resumption of restricted Metro Railway services, general manager Sanjay Kr Mohanty announced during a virtual press meet in Kolkata on Friday. On Wednesday, Eastern Railway (ER) general manager Suneet Sharma had indicated that the infrastructure at wayside stations would not allow for resumption of operations at suburban stations anytime soon. On August 28, Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote to the Railway Board chairman, indicating that the state government was in favour of running Metro Railway and suburban services in a graded manner. While the ministry of home affairs (MHA) granted clearance to Metro railway systems across the country to resume services according to guidelines laid down by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, there was no mention of suburban trains. “There is still some time before the Pujas. We shall interact with the state gov-ernment and also see how the running of Metro services work out in Kolkata. If everything is fine, we may resume graded suburban services. However, no decision has been taken as yet,” Mohanty said. ER and SER used to operate nearly 1,600 suburban trains daily before restrictions were imposed due to the pandemic. The SER GM indicated that the situation is still not conducive to resumption of normal long-distance or suburban services. Mohanty also spoke on the steps taken by SER to handle more freight during these troubled times. SER is known as the blue-chip zone of Indian Railways due to its low operating ratio (OR) and capacity to handle freight. In 2019-2020, SER registered an extremely healthy OR of 64. “The situation was bad and our OR rose to nearly 178 in April this year. Through our concerted efforts, we succeeded in bringing this down to 98 by the end of August. We have taken several steps to handle more freight and the situation should improve further,” the GM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-try-to-start-services-before-durga-puja-says-se-rly-gm/articleshow/78066397.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets a share in CWC rejig||Jaipur: Former union minister Jitendra Singh and former Udaipur MP Raghuveer Singh Meena from Rajasthan have found a place in the Congress Working Committee (CWC) that was rejigged by party president Sonia Gandhi late on Friday. Meena was a member in the previous CWC too, while Singh was earlier a special invitee in the party’s top decision-making body. Singh has been further appointed AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam. Singh is seen as close aide of Rahul Gandhi, while Meena is considered Ashok Gehlot loyalist. Delhi-based Ajay Maken, who was made AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan last month, has been included in the CWC. Maken had taken over from Avinash Pande, who was removed purportedly to pacify former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot following a rebellion in Rajasthan Congress in July-August. Pande has now been accommodated in the CWC, which has been reorganised in in the backdrop of party’s senior 23 leaders writing to Gandhi for radical organisational reforms in the Congress. AICC secretaries Vivek Bansal and Devendra Yadav, who were co-incharges of Rajasthan, have now been made independent in-charges of Haryana and Uttarakhand, respectively. Bansal and Yadav have been made permanent invitees too in the CWC. Randeep Singh Surjewala, Maken and Pande, who played a key role in managing the political crisis in Rajasthan in July-August, have been rewarded with important responsibilities in the CWC rejig. Besides including him in the CWC, the party has appointed Surjewala as AICC general secretary in-charge of the poll-bound Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-gets-a-share-in-cwc-rejig/articleshow/78067898.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad developed under Congress: N Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday said Greater Hyderabad witnessed development only during the previous Congress regimes and claimed that only a Congress government can give further fillip to ‘brand Hyderabad’. Addressing party presidents from various divisions in GHMC and senior leaders here at a preparatory meeting for the GHMC polls, Uttam said party candidates’ names will be decided well in advance. Party’s mayoral candidate would be decided after the finalisation of reservation of wards. Earlier in the day, Uttam addressed a meeting in connection with Dubbaka bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-hyd-developed-under-cong/articleshow/78067888.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||UP: Speeding car runs over two bikers||PILIBHIT: Two bikers, who were talking to each other on the side of Pilibhit-Madhotanda road near village Khaspur, were mowed down by a speeding car on Friday afternoon. The bikers, who were brothers-in-law, died on the spot. Police have sent the bodies for autopsy and have lodged an FIR in the matter. A big crowd of locals assembled on the road in protest soon after the incident. The protesters demanded the immediate arrest of the accused and for a while, prevented police from taking away the bodies for autopsy. The situation was eventually resolved after the intervention of Kalinagar SDM Ram Das and Puranpur circle officer Uttam Singh, who rushed to the spot accompanied by a police force to prevent any untoward incident. In his written complaint, Ram Das of village Khaspur stated that he was riding his bike to his agricultural field along with his brother Bhagwan Das (32), when they met their relative Dev Das a short distance from their village. They had just begun to chat when a car speeding on the highway lost control and ran over his brother and Dev Das, both of whom died on the spot. He had a lucky escape as he was standing at a distance from the victims, the complainant said. The SHO of Madhotanda police station, Shahroz Anwar, said the unidentified driver of car was booked under sections 304A (death by negligence), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 279 (driving a vehicle in a negligent manner that endangers human life) of IPC. The car has been impounded, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/speeding-car-runs-over-two-bikers-locals-block-road-in-protest/articleshow/78067885.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Three tribals fined Rs 75,000 for hunting deer in Coonoor||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Three tribals were asked to cough up a penalty of Rs 25, 000 each on Friday for hunting a deer using snares in a private tea estate in Coonoor. A tip-off prompted forest officials to rush to Palaniappa tea estate near Kolacombai in Coonoor range where they found a dead deer due to the use of snares. The accused were identified as M Manikandan, 28, K Vignesh,22, and S Raju, 48. All three hail from Mooparkadu tribal village near Kolacombai. The carcass of the deer was confiscated. Forest officials collected Rs 75, 000 from the accused before releasing them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-tribals-fined-rs-75000-for-hunting-deer-in-coonoor/articleshow/78067897.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cops book FIR against Prashant Sambargi||BENGALURU: Chamrajpet police on Friday registered an FIR against activist Prashant Sambargi after a court directed an investigation into Congress MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan’s complaint of defamation against the activist. In a separate development, sleuths from Central Crime Branch (CCB) have issued notice to Sambargi, directing him to appear before them on Saturday and share information on the drugs scandal. Sambargi has been passing comments on public platforms on Sandalwood’s drug links. On Thursday, he claimed a Kannada film producer and distributor is a big-time gambler and well connected to the drugs mafia. “If police catch him, mammoth information on the drugs mafia will come out,” he had said. CCB police have called him for questioning on the basis of this claim. “We decided to seek his involvement. We have directed him to appear at CCB headquarters, Chamrajpet, at 10.30am on Saturday,” CCB police said. In the FIR registered based on Ahmed’s complaint, Chamrajpet police booked Sambargi under IPC sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult) 506 (act of criminal intimidation) and 463 (forging documents). Sambargi had claimed Ahmed had accompanied actress Sanjjanaa Galrani to Sri Lanka to attend a party last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-book-fir-against-sambargi/articleshow/78066402.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Dist admin procures 1,500 oxygen cylinders||Jaipur: Looking at the increasing number of Covid positive cases in the district, collector Antar Singh Nehra has procured 1,500 oxygen cylinders from six firms. The district administration has procured 400 oxygen cylinders from Maluka Engineering, 300 from Ajmer Air Product Private Limited, 250 from Wilson Cryo Gasses, 350 from Shree Hari Gasses Pvt Limited, 100 from Shivam Gasses and 100 from Ankur Agencies. The district administration has also raised a demand with the state government for 1,800 more oxygen cylinders. During a meeting on panchayat polls on Friday, the collector informed that training of returning officers and assistant returning officers will be held on September 14 for the first phase of panchayat polls; September 17 for the second phase, September 20 for the third phase and September 25 for the fourth phase. For polling officers and assistant polling officers, the training will be held on September 19, 22, 24 and 29. For the first and second phases, zonal magistrates and police officials will be trained on September 23 and for the third and fourth phases, the training is on October 3. He said action will be taken against officials for non-compliance of training orders and absenting themselves from election training. If officials are found to be absent, the action will also be taken against the tehsildars concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dist-admin-procures-1500-oxygen-cylinders/articleshow/78067899.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka Arts College’s heritage clock restored by SWR||Hubballi: The building currently housing the college of the Karnataka Art College in Dharwad was once the central office of the Southern Mahratta Railway (SMR), and consequently, it reaffirms the city’s tryst with the city’s colonial legacy and cultural heritage. However, a clock tower of the building sustained damage over the years. However, the South Western Railway (SWR), Hubballi division has fixed the damaged tower, thereby restoring a piece of Dharwad’s history. A statement released to the press jointly by SWR additional general manager PK Mishra, Roopa Shrinivasan and other senior officials, indicates that a team of experts visited the college in June, when they were informed about the clock tower having been in a state of disrepair for the past decade. The railway officials subsequently got in touch with the HMT Watch Factory in Bengaluru to see if the technicians there could repair the clock, but it turned out to be a dead end. After the Karnatak University registrar submitted an official request seeking its restoration, a SWR team headed by P Ravi Kumar and Niraj Jain, chief works manager, took it up as a challenge, and successfully repaired the clock. When the team visited Karnataka College, Dharwad to assess the condition of the clock, the members identified those parts that were either defective, broken or missing. While those components in need of repair were fixed using techniques such as gas welding, arc welding, et al, parts such as counterweights, pins and arms that were missing were manufactured at the workshop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-arts-colleges-heritage-clock-restored-by-swr/articleshow/78065704.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur markets in ‘self-lockdown’ mode over spike in Covid cases||JAIPUR: Due to the rising number of coronavirus cases in the city, many trade associations in Jaipur have voluntarily decided to shut the market early from Friday onwards. Raja Park Market Association president Ravi Naiyar said, “The number of cases is rising every day, so we have decided to shut the market by 8pm and re-open next day by 11 am. On Sunday, Raja Park market will remain completely shut. It is better this way with some rules and regulations.” Jayanti Market Traders’ Association member Mahendra Jain said, “Our market will open at 11 am and close at 7pm. On Sunday, the market will remain closed. We are expecting that there will be resistance from a few businessmen, but we will try to persuade them. The number of cases is rising and being in public contact for very long time makes it risky for us and the customers as well.” Markets were shut from March 28 to June 30 till the state was under complete lockdown. However, with the relaxations in the lockdown rules, people started to come out and shops started opening up. Although the footfall is still low, markets are open and social distancing has become a problem. At present, Jaipur has more than 4,000 active cases. Subhash Goyal, president of Jaipur Vyapaar Mandal, said that they are working on to implement this rule in the entire city. “Government has not made any norm regarding this but market associations, looking at the risk involved are voluntarily taking steps to shut down the market early. We have called a meeting of Jaipur Vyapaar Mandal on Sunday and this will be an important issue. We can implement this rule in the entire city markets as well,” said Goyal. Other market associations that have imposed such rule are Jhotwara, Raja Park, Mahesh Nagar, Sanjay Bazaar and Bapu Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/markets-in-self-lockdown-mode-over-spike-in-cases/articleshow/78067874.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru police commissioner ready to donate plasma||Mysuru: Against a backdrop of surging Covid-19 cases in Mysuru district, city police commissioner Chandragupta, who recently recovered from the infection, expressed his willingness to donate plasma so as to help in the treatment of critical patients battling the illness. The Mysuru city top cop’s statement might inspire more patients who have recovered to follow suit since Karnataka is grappling with shortage of voluntary plasma donors. On the other hand, Hunsur MLA HP Manjunath, his wife and niece tested positive for the novel coronavirus, and have decided to isolate themselves at home. The legislator appealed to those who had been in contact with him to quarantine themselves, and take a test should they display symptoms of the infection. District’s tally inches closer to 25k On Friday, 676 more people were confirmed infected with Covid-19 in Mysuru, and the district’s overall tally is now inching ever so closer to the 25,000-mark. As on Friday, the tally stood at 24,449. However, 16,925 have been cured of the infection. On the bright side, 517 people were discharged after recovering from Covid-19 on Friday, while 13 people succumbed to the novel coronavirus, the district’s death toll rising to 562, second only to Bengaluru Urban in the state. A total of 13 people succumbed to infection including a 59-year-old woman who was brought dead to a private hospital. Mysuru has second highest covid deaths, 562, in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-police-commissioner-ready-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/78065066.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Nigerian nabbed for smuggling ecstasy pills||BENGALURU: A Nigerian national was apprehended by Bangalore Customs sleuths in connection with the haul of ecstasy pills worth Rs 1 crore at Bengaluru airport recently. Sylvester Henry Owen, 41, was detained at his rental home near Hommadevanahalli, near Bannerghatta Road, on Thursday. Sleuths say he was staying in Bengaluru on the pretext of importing and exporting hair for wig making. On Tuesday, Customs’ Cargo Intelligence Unit (CIU) sleuths had unearthed about 1,980 ecstasy pills hidden inside a German-made foot massaging machine at the air cargo complex at KIA. The machine had arrived from Belgium through DHL couriers. Growing suspicious after scanning the package, sleuths had opened it to find three packets containing the pills also known as MDMA or Molly, neatly hidden inside brown duct tape packing in the machine. Tracking the consignee details with help from DHL delivery staff and Hulimavu police, a team of customs officials knocked on the doors of the receiver in Hommadevanahalli on Thursday morning. “A man came to the courier van and attempted to take delivery of the parcel by producing his identification card. Our team immediately pinned him down and raided his rented home where we found another 200g of ganja,” an investigating officer said. He was identified as Sylvester Henry Owen, a Nigerian passport holder. Customs says Owen had the pills sent through his associate in Brussels and it was concealed in the massager and sent to KIA. Sleuths say Owen had planned to procure the psychotropic substance for sale in Bengaluru. Owen was produced before a magistrate on Friday evening and remanded in judicial custody, sources added. An investigation is underway to find out if Owen had smuggled drugs on earlier occasions and on his local links in substance peddling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nigerian-nabbed-for-smuggling-ecstasy-pills-worth-rs-1-cr-worth/articleshow/78066499.cms||Petlee Peter
September 12, 2020||Bhopal||Flood loss pegged at Rs 9,500cr, CM tells central survey team||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that there has been a loss of about Rs 9,500 crore caused by heavy rainfall and floods in the state according to a preliminary assessment. Floods affected crops, houses, cattle as well as roads and infrastructure in the state. In this situation, people were rescued from their homes and were taken to relief camps. Efforts were made to prevent loss of life and we also succeeded in doing so. Chouhan was deliberating with the members of the Central Study Team, which came to take stock and study the flood affected areas on Friday at his residence. He said that the Union Government has been informed in detail about the losses caused in MP by heavy rains occurred in August last week. Survey work is being carried out continuously and situation of more loss may also emerge. The state government has lent maximum help to the affected people. No stone will be left unturned to provide further relief. Chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains, agriculture production commissioner, KK Singh, principal secretary to CM, Manish Rastogi and other officers were present on the occasion. The situation in the flood affected areas of the state has already been put forth to the study team on Thursday through a detailed presentation. Chouhan said that losses are being compensated through crop insurance and relief amount; he expects cooperation from the Centre to compensate for the damage caused by insects. Damage is being surveyed by the revenue staff of the state. He also requested to send a separate central study team to assess the damage caused by insect-disease. It was informed in the meeting that mainly soyabean, maize and gram crops have been affected due to insect disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/flood-loss-pegged-at-rs-9500cr-cm-tells-central-survey-team/articleshow/78066430.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||Cops bust illegal arms making units in Bijnor, Amroha; 5 arrested||BIJNOR: In the wake of upcoming panchayat polls, Bijnor police busted an illegal arms making factory on Friday and arrested three persons. Police also seized 35 arms and other equipment. Moreover, Amroha police also seized illegal arms and arrested two people for arms manufacturing. Amroha SP Vipin Tada said,"Police have launched a crackdown on illegal arms making factories. Operation is ongoing." According to officials, police have launched the crackdown on illegal arms factories in the region. They have busted five illegal arms making factories in the past eight days. Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said, "Police had received a tip off that some people were running an illegal arms factory at Dattiyana village close to an Inter-college of Chandpur police station area. The cops then raided the place and arrested two persons identified as Pitam Singh of Meerapur village and Ramautar of Jamaluddin village under Chandpur police station. A case has been registered against them under relevant sections of IPC and the Arms Act. They were involved in the activity for the past three years." Police have seized 35 illegal arms, including rifles, guns and pistols, as well. They used to sell pistols at Rs 5,000, guns at Rs 20,000 and rifles at Rs 35,000. The accused told the cops that the demand for illegal arms is on the rise due to the upcoming panchayat polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-bust-illegal-arms-makingunits-in-bijnor-amroha-5-held/articleshow/78067921.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Industries dept, SIDBI ink MoU to help MSMEs||Jaipur: State industries department and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) on Friday entered into an MoU for setting up a Project Management Unit (PMU) to facilitate need-based intervention, increase access to financial products, and work to create a conducive environment for Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the state. The MoU was signed by commissioner, industries, Archana Singh and general manager of SIDBI Balbir Singh in the presence of state industries minister Parsadi Lal Meena, principal secretary, industries, Naresh Pal Gangwar, and joint secretary Chinmayee Gopal. “The present MoU is a step in the direction for strengthening the MSMEs. It would help them with finance options and overcome other challenges,” said Meena. The PMU will be developed by SIDBI taking inputs from the state government to design schemes, programmes in the areas of equity support, interest subvention, resolution of stressed MSMEs, supporting MSME entrepreneurs, and facilitate other need-based intervention. “Along with increasing outreach of the state government schemes, the MoU will help create a framework for evaluating the impact of government interventions and provide inputs for policy advocacy,” said Gangwar. There has been a rise in the number of applicants for new MSMEs following the implementation of the Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme 2019. The MoU is also intended to help these budding enterprises. “The PMU may also reach out to the new applicants and offer assistance with choosing finance options. The small businesses are likely to benefit from SIDBI expertise in the area,” said Archana Singh. The initiative is aligned to expectations laid down in UK Sinha Committee on MSMEs set up by RBI. It envisions more focused engagement of SIDBI with state governments for MSME promotion & development. The PMU will also prepare the process for handholding MSMEs in the state for their onboarding onto digital platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industries-dept-sidbi-ink-mou-to-help-msmes/articleshow/78067915.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Kheri SP transferred after 3 back-to-back rape cases||Lucknow: The state government has shifted 13 IPS officers, including the police chief of Kheri, Satendra Kumar. The district reported three back-to-back incidents of rape in the past one month. Siddharth Nagar SP Vijay Dhul will take over as the new police chief of Kheri. Kumar has been sent to 23 Bn PAC, Moradabad as commandant. In other reshuffles, Kanpur Dehat SP Anurag Vats has been made the new SP of Hardoi while Keshav Kumar from 35 Bn PAC Lucknow has been sent to Kanpur Dehat as SP. Hardoi SP Amit Kumar was made SP in UP 112 while SP Traffic, Muzaffaranagar has been sent to Siddharthnagar as the police chief. Similarly, SP Kushinagar Vinod Mishra has been made SP in CB-CID, while Vinod Kumar Singh who was posted as SP ATS is now Kushinagar SP. Rae Bareli SP Swapnil Mamgain was made DCP in Lucknow police commissionerate while SP Hamirpur, Sholk Kumar was made the new SP Rae Bareli. Narendra Kumar Singh, who was posted in Prayagraj, was made the new SP Hamirpur. SP Unnao Rohan P Kanay was shifted to PAC in Prayagraj while SP EOW Anand Kulkarni was made SP Unnao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kheri-sp-transferred-after-3-back-to-back-rape-cases/articleshow/78068650.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Raj-Haryana cops meet to draw strategy to nab Papla||Jaipur: In a bid to nab the elusive gangster Papla Gujjar, who escaped from Behror lockup more than a year ago, police officials of Rajasthan and Haryana held a meeting on Friday to form a strategy to find Papla. On September 6, 2019, the gangster escaped from the lockup in a Bollywood-like getaway when his accomplices broke into the police station firing weapons and since then Papla has managed to outbid cops though at least 23 of his gang members have been arrested. According to officials, the meeting was held in order to take action against all fugitives, including Papla, of neighbouring districts of Jaipur Range and South Range of Haryana as well as for interstate coordination as many officers have joined their places of postings recently. Ashok Rathore, SOG and ATS, who co-chaired the meeting, told TOI, “We are very much concerned about this fact that we have not been able to arrest the fugitive Papla, but we are making efforts to nab him soon. Today’s meeting with senior officers of Haryana and Rajasthan was conducted to facilitate the same. And it’s assured that each one of us is sensitive and serious about it.” The meeting also deliberated on cybercrimes and local gangs involved in the region. “We have further worked on forming a few teams to develop intelligence and to take quick action on any piece of information. Papla’s possible areas of hideouts would be under strict watch,” Rathore added. Papla, who is wanted in Haryana for five murders, was taken into custody by Behror police after he was found to be in possession of Rs 31 lakh cash. When he was being held at the police station, at least 15 of his gang members barged into the station and fired indiscriminately with AK-47s and fled with him. Although teams have been working, they are yet to trace the elusive gangster. Police had found that Papla was in Alwar to eliminate the gang responsible for the murder of Jasram Gujjar, a BSP candidate from Behror constituency in the 2018 assembly polls. Papla was carrying Rs 31 lakh, which he had received as advance for the contract killing. Since he was unable to explain the source of the cash, the patrol team took him to police station. The cops posted at night were not aware of the fact that the man in their custody was the notorious Haryana gangster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-haryana-cops-meet-to-draw-strategy-to-nab-papla/articleshow/78067926.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||UT opens Sukhna on weekends too||Chandigarh: UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday ordered the discontinuation of weekend closure of Sukhna Lake but directed the police authorities to strictly enforce wearing of masks and social distancing. In the review meeting on Friday, the administrator directed that 10,000 additional antigen kits may be procured for enhancing testing in Chandigarh. Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, said people staying in containment zones will be first tested with antigen kits on priority. Besides, in another important decision, Badnore decided to hand over Infosys Sarai on PGI campus to the authorities, so that they could utilise it for creating 200 additional beds for Covid-19 patients. The sarai will now be utilised as infectious disease hospital till further orders. Earlier in the meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGI, said they have 270 Covid patients, out of which 81 belong to Chandigarh, 78 to Punjab, 43 to Haryana and 19 to Himachal Pradesh. He also stated that 52 mild patients have been transferred to a private ward. The director also stated that they have 10 plasma units ready, which can be given to any Covid patient, whenever needed. Dr B S Chavan, director-principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said they have tested 369 samples, out of which 118 belonging to Chandigarh were found positive. Dr G Dewan, director health services, said they have tested 1,142 samples, out of which 718 were antigen tests. He also mentioned that 5,000 wellness kits comprising vitamins and medicines have been issued for distribution among home quarantined and Covid Care Centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-opens-sukhna-on-weekends-too/articleshow/78066505.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||Woman held for 'trying to sell' minor girl||HARIDWAR: In a 2017 case relating to the sale of a minor girl, Muni-ki-Reti police held a 35-year-old woman, identified as Meenakshi, who mediated the deal between the victim family and her brother-in-law. The woman was mediating the deal so that her brother-in-law could marry the minor victim. The victim girl is still missing and police are trying to trace her. The details of the girl were shared with Uttar Pradesh and Delhi police. Back in 2017, the father of the girl, Rajpal, was held for selling her daughter for Rs 45,000. The case had come to light after the victim’s mother had filed a police complaint. Later, it was found out by the police that the girl was sold by accused Rajpal to a truck driver Naveen Kumar, a resident of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh. Investigation officer Neeraj Rawat told TOI, “Meenakshi, a resident of Lisad village of Shamli, is one of the main accused in this case as she played the role of a mediator in buying the victim girl for her brother-in-law Naveen Kumar. We are trying to trace the victim girl, who ran away from the accused house in 2019, and is still missing. We have asked for help from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi police to find the girl.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-held-for-mediating-sale-of-minor-girl-in-2017/articleshow/78065108.cms||MS Nawaz
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Ex-Navy officer assaulted over Maharashtra CM cartoon, 4 held||MUMBAI: A retired Navy officer was hospitalised after being attacked by around 10 men, some of them identified as Shiv Sena workers by police sources, in Kandivli (East) on Friday over a cartoon featuring CM Uddhav Thackeray he had forwarded on WhatsApp. Four of the attackers have been arrested. Madan Sharma (65) said first he got four calls asking about his details and the cartoon. Later, he got a call on intercom asking him to reach the society entrance. “Around 10 men were waiting... They rained kicks and punches on me,” Sharma said. Police tried to arrest victim over cartoon?Sharma, who lives with family at Thakur Complex, forwarded an image to another WhatsApp group comprising housing society members. He said his phone started ringing since 10.30am on Friday. The caller asked him his name and address, which Sharma provided. He later got a call from another number. The person introduced himself as Kamlesh Kadam, and asked about the image he had shared two days ago. Sharma clarified that it was a forwarded image from some other WhatsApp group. At noon, he got a call asking him to come to the gate, where he was attacked. CCTV footage shows Sharma rushing into the building and the men dragging him out. “Police later reached my house, to arrest me, when I was the victim. My family contacted BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar, who helped us lodge a complaint, and I was taken to hospital,” said Sharma, who received eye injuries. Kadam and Sanjay Manjrekar are among those arrested. Police denied they had gone to arrest Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-navy-officer-assaulted-over-cm-toon-4-held/articleshow/78068666.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Agra||Mathura administration proposes online appointment for temple visits||AGRA: As temples in Vrindavan and Mathura are preparing to reopen doors to the public amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mathura administration has sent a proposal to the state government for an online appointment for 'darshan' at all major temples in order to control crowds. Though many temple authorities feel that this move may not be feasible, ISKCON has already started online booking and will be allowing public for darshan from September 21. District tourist officer DK Sharma said the idea behind online booking for 'darshan' is to control crowds at the temples. He said, “It is difficult to provide police force for crowd management outside each temple in the district.” The proposal can be implemented with the help of temple managements as they will have to start this facility, he added. The main temples where the administration plans to provide the online appointment service include Banke Bihari temple, ISKCON, Prem Mandir, Vishnu Devi Dham, Shri Radhavallabh temple and Sri Rangji temple. Ajay Tripathi from Prem Mandir said, “The idea is good but difficult to implement as a large number of devotees are not familiar with online systems. We cannot stop the entry of devotees inside the temple if they reach there.” ISKCON spokesperson in Vrindavan Saurabh Das told TOI that internal trials are going on to implement this service. “Time slots will be given to devotees for Lord Krishna’s 'darshan' inside the temple and not more than 20 people will be allowed in one slot,” he said, adding that this service will be functional till October 15 only as the temple will completely open for public thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-admin-proposes-online-appointment-for-darshan-at-temples/articleshow/78067929.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Construction of Ram temple pillars begins||Ayodhya: Eight days after the Ram temple blueprint and map of Ramjanmabhoomi received the official nod of Ayodhya development authority, heavy earth-moving machines rolled into the premises on Friday. Secretary of Ram Mandir Trust said, Champat Rai, said, “Construction giant L&T has begun moving their machines to execute the project. The first giant machine, Casagrande, reached Ayodhya from Kanpur to dig the foundation of temple pillars that will sink 200 feet below the ground.” Sources in the temple Trust confirmed that the digging has begun for the first pillar on Friday.A quality check will be performed at every stage. After one pillar is erected, a quality test and load capacity check will be conducted and the process will continue for a month. After October 15, the remaining 1,199 pillars will be constructed, said a Trust member. Ayodhya Development Authority’s (ADA) approval of the blueprint and map of Ramjanmabhoomi last week had opened the doors to architects and engineers to kickstart construction. The Ramjanmabhoomi layout plan straddling 67acre mandated by the Supreme Court in its Ayodhya verdict encompasses 2.74 lakh sqm and maximum height of the temple domes was fixed at 49.24 metre in keeping with aviation norms as nearest airport at Faizabad is 6.5km away. The temple Trust had deposited Rs 2.113 crore as development charges and Rs 15.4 lakh as labour cess with the ADA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/construction-of-ram-temple-pillars-begins/articleshow/78068667.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 12, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh administration warns sugar mills to clear all arrears||PILIBHIT: The state sugarcane administration has directed sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh to clear all sugarcane arrears as soon as possible. They also issued a strict warning to sugar mills belonging to Bajaj, Modi, Simbhaoli and Yadu groups to expedite payment to sugarcane growers, failing which they threatened with stringent action. Notably, 119 sugar mills in UP currently owe farmers Rs 9,000 crore in cane price arrears. According to Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary, sugar industry & cane development, sugar mills belonging to the four private groups named, have been sluggish in clearing dues, and hence carry maximum liabilities to farmers. The mills have also been asked to complete seasonal repair and maintenance work, so that the forthcoming crushing season could begin on time, he said. Modifications in sugar policy introduced in July this year had brought up to 85% of byproducts of sugar mills and their distilleries, like ethanol, molasses, bagasse and press-mud, under the tagging system. The utilisation of their sale value to pay off procured sugarcane has extended succor to farmers, said Bhoosreddy. He added that under the online licensing policy, the government has also issued 156 new licenses to open pan sugar mills, in order to provide optional arrangement for farmers to sell their sugarcane crop. He further said that during the 2019-20 crushing season, UP sugar mills had created a new crushing record of 11,180 lakh quintals of sugarcane, while 5,832 units manufacturing jaggery and khandsari (muscovado sugar) had crushed an additional 801.31 lakh quintals of sugarcane. The liberalisation of licensing policy for khandsari and jaggery units was specifically aimed at facilitating those sugarcane growers, who, despite having a definite supply arrangement for their crop, had failed to get their supply bonds executed with the cane department due to unavoidable circumstances, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/state-admin-warns-pvt-mills-of-stern-action-over-delay-in-cane-payment/articleshow/78067954.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot plays down sloganeering by supporters during Maken visit||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister and PCC president Sachin Pilot played down the incident of some of his supporters indulging in sloganeering during party general secretary Ajay Maken’s recent visit. Pilot said it is nothing but the energy and enthusiasm of the workers who wanted to work for the party. He said such things should not be viewed in a negative shade. He said during Maken’s visit, leaders were able to talk freely on various issues and such meetings help strengthen the party and the government to better its performance. The objective should be strengthening the party and bringing it back to power in the next elections, he said. Pilot appreciated the Maken’s initiative to obtain feedback from workers on various issues. “It is a good platform. Holding a feedback programme is a good Congress tradition which is integral to democracy. I have full faith that the high command will take action on the feedback given to the state in-charge,” he said. Maken left for Delhi on Friday morning after a two-day visit in which he met leaders of Ajmer and Jaipur division. Pilot said the issues raised by former party chief Rahul Gandhi recently are justified as industries are shutting down, the economic scenario of the country is grim and people are losing their jobs. “The issues raised by Rahul Gandhiji are justified. The country is facing an economic crisis, industries are shutting down, 2.10 crore people have lost their jobs, salaries are being cut and on the other hand, China is entering our territory,” Pilot told reporters. He alleged that other issues are being talked about in the media to divert people’s attention from the pressing issues facing the nation like Chinese aggression in Ladakh. He said the entire country is with the government and the armed forces and the government should take a decisive action. In a series of tweets, Gandhi raised issues related to the Chinese aggression on the India-China border, job loss, unemployment, fall in the GDP growth rate etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-plays-down-sloganeering-by-supporters-during-maken-visit/articleshow/78067935.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R introduces term system in its 2-yr MBA programme||ROORKEE: In an endeavour to revamp the curriculum in tune with requirements of current times and achieve excellence, the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (IIT-R) has introduced the term-based (quarter) system in its two-year MBA programme wherein each year of the programme has been divided into four terms as on the lines of country's premier B-schools such as IIMs. The restructured management studies programme came into effect from the August 2020 session. “The new structure (programme) is in tune with industry needs and has a successful track record of implementation in reputed B-schools in India and abroad. The term system will allow students to explore a wider knowledge terrain through the introduction of diversified courses. It will be supplemented by practical components that will equip students with problem-solving, critical-thinking and decision-making skills to tackle the challenges of Industry 4.0 (a term used for fusion of digitalization with traditional industrial process),” said Professor M Parida, deputy director of IIT-Roorkee. Henceforth, the first year of the MBA programme will comprise mostly theoretical subjects while the second year would be inclined more towards practical learning such as industry visits, corporate interactions, projects, and research. The last term (eighth quarter) would constitute only the Final Project for exposing students to a greater degree of the practical aspect of the course. The move will also allow faculty project mentors to devote a greater number of hours to support students in the completion of their project, Professor Parida added. Some of the salient features of the new program structure are the introduction of fast-paced courses of 1 credit, 1.5 credits, and 2 credits that will allow for the inclusion of more subjects in the curriculum, the ability to choose electives (subjects/course a student can choose) from the fourth term (1st year) itself, teaching the electives which are in high demand by the companies in the first year itself to equip students with the required knowledge before the placement season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-introduces-term-system-in-its-2-yr-mba-programme/articleshow/78065117.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 12, 2020||Bhopal||If you wan’t to see me as CM, vote for BJP: Chouhan||Bhopal: Continuing their tirade against the previous Congress government led by Kamal Nath, BJP trio of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar addressed several meetings besides launching development works worth crores of rupees on the second day of their joint tour of Gwalior-Chambal region. The leaders also jointly addressed a series of public meetings in Pohri, Karera and Dabra assembly segments that would go to by-polls soon. Committing development in the area, Chouhan said that Kamal Nath had cheated the public, but BJP government will bring justice to all. "The Kamal Nath-led Congress government cried over paucity of funds and cheated the public in the name of promises. The BJP government will resume all welfare schemes stopped by the Congress government," said Chouhan. He also appealed to the people to vote for BJP to bring the party in majority. "If you want me to continue as chief minister and BJP in power, then bless the party in the coming elections," he appealed. RS member Scindia recalled the contribution of his grandmother late Vijayaraje Scindia and development undertaken in the region. "The goal of my grandmother Rajmata ji, my father and present generation has not been mere politics, but public service. I raised the Congress flag at the age of 20 with a lot of hope and desire. The aim was development and progress of the public. During 15-year BJP rule, despite being in opposition, we worked with the central government and Shivraj ji for the development of the area and would continue to do the same," said Scindia. Making a scathing attack on the Congress he said, "When the Congress government was formed, there was hope that development would follow, but it didn't happen. There was the CM and super-CM who used to stay behind the curtain and they stopped development and got involved into severe corruption apart from illegal sand mining, liquor sale and transfer industry," said Scindia. "Congress has dubbed our MLAs as traitors but the real traitor is Kamal Nath who betrayed the public and the post," said Scindia appealing people to vote for BJP. In Pohri, Scindia had to face an unpleasant situation when some people in the crowd raised slogans demanding development in the area. Scindia, tried to pacify the agitated crowd, which resorted to sloganeering after which he had to cut short his speech. The trio of Chouhan, Scindia and Tomar are trying to woo the people ahead of by-polls besides calming dissenting voices in the part. The leaders would continue their poll campaign till September 13, said sources in BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/if-you-want-to-see-me-as-cm-vote-for-bjp-chouhan/articleshow/78066508.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||Two men crushed under bus wheels, one dies||MEERUT: After a dispute among bus managers, a 32-year-old man was crushed to death while another individual sustained injuries. The incident occurred in Simbahwali region of Hapur where police have been deployed. According to police sources, Nazim Ahmad worked as a driver on a private bus while Bilal Ahmad was a conductor. A feud developed between the two and one of them called his brothers to evict the driver. When they arrived at the scene, the driver ran over the bus on the two men, killing one instantly and injuring the second. Simbhawali's station officer Mahender Tripathi said, "The Friday's incident is a result of an argument that took place at a 'dhaba' at Garh Mukteshwar a few days ago where Bilal disallowed Nazim to drive the bus and phoned his brothers Parvez and Wasim to stop the vehicle. When the two came at the site as narrated by Bilal, instead of stopping the bus, Nazim ran over the vehicle on them. At present, the culprit is on the run and a case has been registered for murder."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-men-crushed-under-the-wheelsafter-fight-over-bus-driving-one-dies/articleshow/78067969.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Doctor dies of Covid||Mangaluru: A postgraduate medical student at Srinivas Institute of Medical Sciences & Research Centre reportedly died of Covid-19 on Thursday. The 27-year-old student had joined the course recently. A relative told TOI that the doctor, a resident of Hardalli in Kundapur, was a first year postgraduate student in surgery. His parents are settled in Mudigere in Chikkamagaluru district. His last rites will be held at Mudigere. A source from the medical college said that the doctor was not on Covid-19 duty. He had joined the postgraduate course on a government quota, a few days ago. Though he was diagnosed with Covid-19, he was fine, and was undergoing treatment in the ward, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/doctor-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78065110.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||204 new cases, Mohali count is 6,060||Mohali: Kharar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) was among 204 people to test positive for novel coronavirus in the district on Friday, the fifth PCS officer to be infected. Earlier, Mohali SDM, a SDM on probation, regional transport officer and municipal Commissioner had contracted the virus. All of them have been cured. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said a 66-years-old woman from Nayagaon died at Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Chandigarh, taking the toll to 126 Once again, the highest single-day cases of 79 surfaced from Mohali city, 36 from Dhakoli in Zirakpur, 27 from Kharar, 35 from Gharuan block, 10 from Lalru, nine from Boothgarh, and four each from Derabassi and Kurali. The total count is 6,060, with 2,067 active cases. As many as 271 patients were discharged, pushing the recovery count to 3,867 In Panchkula, two people died and 180 new cases surfaced. The death toll is 40. The victims were a 47-year-old woman from Sector 4, and a 60-year-old woman from Sector 20. As many as 19 cases were from Pinjore, including a 16 months old baby, 14 each from Kalka, Raipurani and Sector 15, 13 from Sector 4, 10 each from sectors 20 and 21, six each from sectors 8, 9 and 14, five each from sectors 6, 10, 12 and 12-A, four from Amaravati Enclave, Sector 11 and 25, three each from MDC, Sector 4, sectors 7, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 27 and 29, two each from Surajpur, Badon Khurd and Barwala and one each from Chandimandir, Garhi Kotaha, Billa, Hangola, Industrial Area, Khera Sitar Ram, Manaktibba, Manakpur, Nandpur, police lines, and Ramgarh. The count is 3,812, with 1264 active cases. The recovery count is 1,208. 3 deaths, 168 fresh cases in Ambala In Ambala, three people died of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the toll to 56, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. “The victims were a 62-year-old man of Nahan House, Ambala city, a 70-year-old woman of Kesri village in Barara, and a 59-year-old man of Sadar Bazaar, Ambala Cantt,” said Dr Singh. “Ambala reported 168 fresh positive cases on Friday, increasing the tally to 5,444, with 1,069 active cases. As many as 60 cases were from Ambala Cantt, 49 from Ambala City, 35 from Chourmastpur, 14 from Shahzadpur, four from Naraingarh, and three each from Barar and Mullana”, said Dr Singh. As many as 110 patients were discharged on the day, taking the recovery count to 4,319. 3 deaths, 305 new cases in city Chandigarh reports three Covid-19 deaths and 305 new cases on Monday, raising the count to 7,292, with 2,606 active cases, and the toll to 83 The victims are a 68-year-old man from Sector 48 suffering from diabetes, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease, an 83-year-old woman from Sector 32 having diabetes and a 59-year-old man from Sector 50 suffering from diabetes As many as 269 patients are discharged, taking the recovery count to 4,600||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/204-new-cases-mohali-count-is-6060/articleshow/78066512.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow to get largest incubation centre||LUCKNOW: Lucknow is set to get India’s largest incubation centre. The project has been planned in an area of 2.5 lakh square feet in land opposite the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has written to the Union ministry of IT and Electronics, asking for assistance from the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) to implement the project. Additional chief secretary, IT and electronics, Alok Kumar said that the Uttar Pradesh Electronics Corporation, the startup nodal agency, will be responsible for building and operating this centre with help from STPI. “STPI has made a presentation to the infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, sharing their plan and the scale of the project,” he said. Kumar said the facility will be developed on the plug-and-play model to offer an all-inclusive ecosystem to startups and innovators. Kumar said the facility will be developed on the plug-and-play model to offer an all-inclusive ecosystem to startups and innovators. “This centre will work on a hub and spoke model in which the largest incubator will act as a hub for all other government recognised incubators and e-cells in the state,” he said. UP government is working with STPI to develop IT Parks in various tier-II and III cities like Meerut, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Agra, Lucknow, Kanpur, Bundelkhand and Bareilly. An official said that the Prayagraj IT Park is now operational while the Meerut IT Park is expected to be operational by November this year. The construction of IT Parks in Agra and Gorakhpur is expected to be completed by December this year. These parks will also provide incubation facilities. The government has also received a proposal from IIT Kanpur to establish a Centre of Excellence on Artificial Intelligence in Noida. Kumar said the government has undertaken a realignment of its startup policy in accordance with the startup ranking framework. This resulted in the new UP Startup Policy 2020 for promoting entrepreneurship and innovation. The policy has also set a goal of establishing 100 incubators in the state by 2025, with at least one in each district. He added that the policy addresses regional imbalances as well to give a thrust to uplift of weaker sections of the society and bring them into the mainstream of business by offering additional incentives. “Additional incentives to the tune of 50% have been offered to startups based out of Purvanchal and Bundelkhand and to those startup whose founders or co-founders are women, divyangjan or from the transgender community,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-to-get-largest-incubation-centre/articleshow/78068679.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||90 test positive for virus, two die in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 90 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally to 2,218, of which 477 are active cases. The hill district also saw two people succumbing to the virus. Among the deceased was AIADMK Kothagiri west union secretary H Pachananjan, who died in the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore on Thursday night. The death hasn’t been included in the state bulletin. Chief minister Edappadi K Palanisamy and his deputy O Panneerselvam have condoled his death. The new cases were spread across Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur and villages such as Kasolai, Yedappali, Melur and Kinnakorai, among other areas. At least 15 people were tested positive for the virus from Ooty alone. Among the new cases were a 36-year-old truck driver, a 56-year-old woman undergoing treatment in Coimbatore, two police department staff and four staff members of Ooty government hospital. Earlier in the day, Supriya Sahu, CEO, Indcoserve, flagged off three Covid-19 mobile vans and unveiled a Covid-19 kiosk in Ooty. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/90-test-positive-for-virus-two-die-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78068001.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Expedite Ukkadam flyover work: MLA||Coimbatore: Singanallur MLA N Karthik has written to the highways department to speed up construction of Ukkadam flyover, which would start from Oppanakara Road and end at Aathupalam. He said the work was currently progressing at a snail’s pace, adding to the woes of residents and commuters, who have to negotiate heavy traffic and take longer routes to reach their destinations. The flyover work had begun in May 2018. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who laid the foundation stone for the project, had then said the flyover would be ready in 30 months (two and half years). “Now two and half years have lapsed and not even all the pillars for the flyover have been erected,” the DMK MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/expedite-ukkadam-flyover-work-mla/articleshow/78067989.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||CM Yogi Adityanath's demand rekindles hope for airports in Meerut, Bareilly||MEERUT/BAREILLY: A long standing demand of Uttar Pradesh to have multiple airports in western part of the state received a major boost when Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath renewed the demand and urged the Central government to build airports in Saharanpur, Meerut and Bareilly districts, on Thursday. Notably, the airport in Bareilly is already complete and PM Narendra Modi had even announced that "commercial flights from Bareilly will start in a few weeks", during an election rally on March 10, last year, in Greater Noida. Soon after, the Model Code of Conduct was invoked and the airport is still waiting for its maiden flight. Project director of Airport Authority of India (AAI) for Bareilly, Rajeev Kulshreshtha, told TOI, “The operations got delayed because of Covid-19. As of now, final inspection by the AAI is pending and will take place tentatively in October. And once the issue related to the lease agreement between AAI and IAF base which is under consideration with the Ministry of Civil Aviation is resolved, we are ready to go.” Meerut, too, has an airstrip on the outskirts and it was to be developed into a full-fledged airport. However, several high-level meetings between local administration and representatives of the AAI over the past five years bore little fruit. But, local authorities now feel that the CM's initiative will certainly bring the project back on track. Meanwhile, there has been considerable work in progress in Saharanpur in this regard. The district administration has acquired 25.3 hectares of land adjacent to Sarsawa Air Force Station whose payment of Rs 42.3 crore has been done already. "The land was acquired four months ago. The Air Force station's airstrip will be used for commercial flights and civilians' movement will take place only from civil terminals which will be constructed on the 25.3-hectare land. A joint team of AAI, state aviation department, Indian Air Force and local administration have already conducted the survey. Now, the ball is in the Central government's court. The AAI has to prepare a Detailed Project Report [DPR] after which tender will be floated for the construction of Sarsawa Civil Enclave. The possession of the land has also been handed over to AAI," Sanjay Kumar, the divisional commissioner, said. Moreover, both Saharanpur and Bareilly have IAF bases and the proposed civil airports will be using the Forces' infrastructure - which is not the case in Meerut. The airport plan for Meerut has been marred by several controversies ever since the proposal was made by the UP government way back in 2010. Same year, Meerut Development Authority (MDA) was made the nodal authority for the project and it was slated to be completed by 2016. However, it was not until 2014, when an MoU was signed between UP government and AAI to develop seven airports, including Meerut. A total of 158.7 hectares of land was required for the project in Meerut. And, the airport will be developed around the already existing airstrip [Bhimrao Ambedkar Airstrip]. Most of the land bank belonged to the farmers of two villages - Gagol [120 hectares] and Kashi [106]. After prolonged negotiations, a rate was fixed at Rs 5,800 per square metre. But now, farmers want an updated rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cm-yogis-demand-rekindles-hope-for-airports-in-meerut-bareilly-saharanpur/articleshow/78067997.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 boosts digitisation of insurance||Hyderabad: With many insurance companies facing challenges in issuing a physical policy document and hard copy of proposal form to policyholders due to Covid-19, insurance regulator, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), has allowed insurers to issue e-policies. With this, customers can buy any non-life insurance policy, such as health or motor cover, with just the help of a one-time password (OTP) received on their mobile number validated by the insurance company, according to the new guidelines issued by IRDAI. As per the latest IRDAI circular, insurers are also allowed to obtain the customer’s consent without the need for a wet signature on the hard copy of the proposal form. Insurers can now send the completed proposal form to the registered e-mail ID or mobile number of the customer, who in turn can give consent through a confirmation link or OTP that is duly validated. These exemptions are valid till March 31, 2021. The policy document sent electronically should contain all the schedules, terms and conditions, benefits etc that are available in the physical document. However, the regulator has stated that wherever policy documents cannot be sent through electronic means, the companies must send physical documents to the policyholders. Commenting on the move, Sanjay Datta, chief-underwriting, claims & reinsurance, ICICI Lombard General Insurance, said, “For consumer, it means a quicker and hassle-free process, which will help bring in further transparency and security given the electronic format. Companies however will need to have a robust system in place to ensure protection against cyber fraud.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-boosts-digitisation-of-insurance/articleshow/78068000.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Meerut||AMU to start admission process on Nov 1||Agra: The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has announced to conduct entrance tests for admission to various courses in Aligarh and other cities in November, according to a notification issued on Friday. The entrance tests were postponed earlier due to the Coronavirus pandemic.Mujib Ullah Zuberi, controller of examinations, said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, special measures have been taken by the university. Wearing of face masks, he said, will be mandatory and social distancing will be observed by increasing the number of test centres. The candidates found suffering from fever will be allocated special isolation rooms at the examination centres, he added.Moreover, the university will hold examinations in phases. According to the revised schedule, the admission test for SSSC in Science, Humanities and Commerce and Diploma in Engineering and joint entrance test for admissions in MBA will take place on November 1.While the test for admissions in the Bachelor in Education (B.Ed) course will take place on November 2. And the BSc, BCom, BA tests will be conducted on November 8.Meanwhile, the entrance for admissions to classes VI and IX at schools affiliated to the university will be held on October 23 and 27, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amu-to-start-admission-process-on-nov-1/articleshow/78067982.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Madurai||Suspected positive patient dies five days after discharge from Tamil Nadu hospital||MADURAI: Five days after being discharged from Tenkasi Government Hospital, a 49-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient of Alwarkurichi in the district died on Thursday. K Raja Subramanian was admitted to the hospital on September 3 with fever symptoms and was treated for three days. The patient had to be readmitted to the GH on Tuesday as he again developed symptoms during his home quarantine. He was subsequently referred to Tirunelveli medical college hospital, where he died on Thursday morning. Though the copy of the discharge summary issued by the Tenkasi GH showed him to have tested positive in an RT-PCR test, officials and doctors said the discharge sheet format was wrong and the man had tested negative and hence was discharged in three days. “The patient was admitted only to the severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) ward and he became asymptomatic within a day of treatment. He was only being given oral tablets by the third day, said a doctor from Tenkasi GH. “The patient had multiple co-morbidities including diabetes, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD). For the SARI ward, there is a printed format for discharge of Covid-19 patients which was wrongly used,” the doctor said. Tenkasi district health officials later picked him up from his home and got him readmitted to the hospital on Tuesday after he developed symptoms again. As his condition worsened, he was referred to the Tirunelveli MCH. “After he was admitted here in a critical condition, the swab samples taken from him here returned negative for Covid-19. We treated him as best we could for SARI but he succumbed on Thursday as he had multiple co-morbid conditions,” said Tirunelveli MCH dean Dr M Ravichandran. According to the mortuary label from Tirunelveli MCH, the death was considered ‘Covid-19 suspect’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/suspected-ve-patient-dies-5-days-after-discharge-from-tn-hospital/articleshow/78067998.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||Cricket Association of Uttarakhand to induct female cricketers from other states||DEHRADUN: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand has decided to induct female cricketers from other states into Uttarakhand's women cricket team. The decision has been taken after it was noticed that the women’s team of the state lacks match experience and its performance has been ordinary at the domestic tournaments in the past two seasons. Previously, outstation players like Unmukt Chand, Rajat Bhatia, Tanmay Srivastava, and others were invited for the men's team. The CAU said that its members, along with the coaching staff, have started shortlisting the players from other states who could potentially be invited to represent Uttarakhand. Notably, several female cricketers like Ekta Bisht, Mansi Joshi, Neelam Bisht, Sneh Rana, and others hail from Uttarakhand but are plying for other states at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-to-induct-female-cricketers-from-other-states/articleshow/78065128.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Nodal officers appointed to oversee reservation of beds at pvt hospitals||Mangaluru: As part of its measures to effectively check the transmission of the novel coronavirus, the Dakshina Kannada district administration appointed nodal officers to oversee reservation of 50% of beds in designated private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. In accordance with the move, senior officials from across departments were tasked with the additional responsibility of serving as nodal officer. People in Dakshina Kannada can now contact any of the nodal officers tasked with the supervision of the 25 private hospitals in Mangaluru to receive admission and treatment at these healthcare institutions, besides reaching out to them for redressal of any grievances they may have with respect to the hospitals. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner KV Rajendra said that the district administration had taken cognisance of the alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, and was working towards ensuring sufficient beds. “The number of beds at the designated government Covid-19 hospital – Wenlock District Hospital – may prove insufficient in the days to come. In order to overcome such a crisis, we are reserving 50% of the beds in private hospitals for Covid patients. Nodal officers have been named to ensure that all patients receive treatment at the hospitals,” a statement issued by the DC read. The public may call ‘1077’ to get more information on who the nodal officers appointed by the district administration are.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nodal-officers-appointed-to-oversee-reservation-of-beds-at-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/78065136.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: DCs empowered to acquire private hospitals for treatment||JAIPUR: Alarmed over increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the health department on Friday empowered the district collectors to acquire any private hospitals fully or partially for the treatment of patients. Collectors would be able to order for acquiring these hospitals by using special powers of Rajasthan epidemic ordinance, 2020 and will bear the cost of the treatment. Besides, the government will provide disinfectants, surgical masks and other things to the acquired hospitals. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health in his order stated that in order to save more life and save people from Covid-19 there is a need to take help from private hospitals. “We have already acquired some beds at ESI and railway hospitals. Now, with these powers, any district collector in the state would be able to acquire a private hospital partially or fully as per need of a particular district for the dedicated Covid-19 treatment. They will ECRP fund for the payment and that too would be done as per the rates prescribed by the state government already,” said Arora. From Saturday, collectors with the help of respective medical colleges in their districts would decide on acquiring private hospitals. “In Jaipur the situation is getting grim. Therefore, more hospitals would be acquired,” said an official. RUHS help desk for patientsHealth minister Raghu Sharma said that a help desk at RUHS in Jaipur has been started to inform the corona infected patients about the availability of beds in hospitals, ventilators and other related information. Help Desk will be set up soon in other district headquarters in the State. “Help desk is functioning under the supervision of district administration. Officers of ADM level will look at the arrangements here,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/dcs-empowered-to-acquire-pvt-hosps-for-treatment/articleshow/78071710.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: DCs empowered to acquire private hospitals for treatment||JAIPUR: Alarmed over increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the health department on Friday empowered the district collectors to acquire any private hospitals fully or partially for the treatment of patients. Collectors would be able to order for acquiring these hospitals by using special powers of Rajasthan epidemic ordinance, 2020 and will bear the cost of the treatment. Besides, the government will provide disinfectants, surgical masks and other things to the acquired hospitals. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health in his order stated that in order to save more life and save people from Covid-19 there is a need to take help from private hospitals. “We have already acquired some beds at ESI and railway hospitals. Now, with these powers, any district collector in the state would be able to acquire a private hospital partially or fully as per need of a particular district for the dedicated Covid-19 treatment. They will ECRP fund for the payment and that too would be done as per the rates prescribed by the state government already,” said Arora. From Saturday, collectors with the help of respective medical colleges in their districts would decide on acquiring private hospitals. “In Jaipur the situation is getting grim. Therefore, more hospitals would be acquired,” said an official. RUHS help desk for patientsHealth minister Raghu Sharma said that a help desk at RUHS in Jaipur has been started to inform the corona infected patients about the availability of beds in hospitals, ventilators and other related information. Help Desk will be set up soon in other district headquarters in the State. “Help desk is functioning under the supervision of district administration. Officers of ADM level will look at the arrangements here,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dcs-empowered-to-acquire-pvt-hosps-for-treatment/articleshow/78071708.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Transfer order of 21 cops in Dausa cancelled||Jaipur: The transfer order of 21 policemen of Dausa district was cancelled three days after it was issued and according to sources, the necessary permission was not sought for the same which was issued on the same day as when the model code of conduct was imposed. The order was cancelled by IG Jaipur range who stated the transfers were cancelled as they were issued on the same day as the MCC was announced for Panchayat elections. The 21 cops to be transferred included circle in-charges, sub-inspectors etc who were given the transfer order on September 7, the same day as the MCC was imposed. S Sengathir, IGP, Jaipur Range told TOI, “The transfer order was issued after the MCC was already put in place which prohibits any such action. Therefore, I cancelled the order and also because the necessary permissions were not sort before the transfers were announced.” According to sources, this appears to be a rare case when the transfers were announced and then cancelled and a police official posted in Dausa district. “Cancellation of transfers is generally not done as all permissions are usually in place and we take into account all the dates of elections to avoid the present-like scenario.” Sources also claimed that this caused an internal conflict within the police fraternity though the SP Dausa, Manish Agarwal who took over his present appointment just two months back refuted these claims and claimed that he had been quoted out of context by certain sections of the media. He said, “The MCC and transfer order were issued on the same day-just one after the other but there is a protocol in place for which we require certain permissions which are just not applicable to Dausa but to all the districts and I will abide by those though certain media outlets quoted me out of context.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transfer-order-of-21-cops-in-dausa-cancelled/articleshow/78068003.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||S Rly rebuilds two waterway bridges in just nine hours||Coimbatore: In a record time of nine hours, the Southern Railway rebuild two waterway bridges at Karamadai using reinforced cement concrete (RCC) on Thursday, paving the way for Blue Mountain Express (Mettupalayam -Chennai-Mettupalayam) to resume its service from Mettupalayam. To avoid rainwater stagnation near Karamadai railway station and Mariyapuram in Karamadai, the stone slab waterway bridges under the railway tracks were constructed more than 50 years ago.As the bridges were in dilapidated conditions, the railway authorities decided to rebuild the bridges.Due to the pandemic, the Mettupalayam-Coimbatore passenger train service that passes through the bridges has been stopped. However, Blue Mountain Express (Mettupalayam -Chennai-Mettupalayam) is being operated on the route at present. After the Blue Mountain Express reached Mettupalayam from Chennai on Thursday morning, the engineering department of the Southern Railway started the work on rebuilding the waterway bridges near Karamadai railway station and Mariyapuram at 8.30am.“We removed a portion of railway track at the two places and the old stone slab waterway bridges were removed. We re-built the two waterway bridges by using RCC boxes. With the help of railway engineering, signal and telecom, electrical (traction) and operation departments, the work was completed within nine hours,” an official, who didn’t want to be named, said.The waterway bridge located near Karamadai railway station was 20m long and at least 6ft wide. The one at Mariyapuram was 13m long.“Usually, we take at least eight hours to complete the work of one waterway bridge. But this time, we have completed the work of two waterway bridges within nine hours. The work was completed at 5.30pm and the removed portion of the tracks were reconnected before 5.30pm and the Blue Mountain express crossed the waterway bridges around 7.30pm,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/s-rly-rebuilds-two-waterway-bridges-in-just-nine-hours/articleshow/78068004.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Dehradun||Harish Rawat made Cong in-charge for Punjab||Dehradun: Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, who till now was holding charge of Assam for the Congress, has now been made the party in-charge for Punjab. Rawat has been replaced by Jitendra Singh in Assam. Meanwhile, Devender Yadav has been appointed as the new Congress in-charge for Uttarakhand. Yadav replaces Anugrah Narayan Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harish-rawat-made-cong-in-charge-for-punjab/articleshow/78065140.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: DCs empowered to acquire private hospitals for treatment||JAIPUR: Alarmed over increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the health department on Friday empowered the district collectors to acquire any private hospitals fully or partially for the treatment of patients. Collectors would be able to order for acquiring these hospitals by using special powers of Rajasthan epidemic ordinance, 2020 and will bear the cost of the treatment. Besides, the government will provide disinfectants, surgical masks and other things to the acquired hospitals. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health in his order stated that in order to save more life and save people from Covid-19 there is a need to take help from private hospitals. “We have already acquired some beds at ESI and railway hospitals. Now, with these powers, any district collector in the state would be able to acquire a private hospital partially or fully as per need of a particular district for the dedicated Covid-19 treatment. They will ECRP fund for the payment and that too would be done as per the rates prescribed by the state government already,” said Arora. From Saturday, collectors with the help of respective medical colleges in their districts would decide on acquiring private hospitals. “In Jaipur the situation is getting grim. Therefore, more hospitals would be acquired,” said an official. RUHS help desk for patientsHealth minister Raghu Sharma said that a help desk at RUHS in Jaipur has been started to inform the corona infected patients about the availability of beds in hospitals, ventilators and other related information. Help Desk will be set up soon in other district headquarters in the State. “Help desk is functioning under the supervision of district administration. Officers of ADM level will look at the arrangements here,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/dcs-empowered-to-acquire-pvt-hosps-for-treatment/articleshow/78071709.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: DCs empowered to acquire private hospitals for treatment||JAIPUR: Alarmed over increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the health department on Friday empowered the district collectors to acquire any private hospitals fully or partially for the treatment of patients. Collectors would be able to order for acquiring these hospitals by using special powers of Rajasthan epidemic ordinance, 2020 and will bear the cost of the treatment. Besides, the government will provide disinfectants, surgical masks and other things to the acquired hospitals. Akhil Arora, principal secretary, health in his order stated that in order to save more life and save people from Covid-19 there is a need to take help from private hospitals. “We have already acquired some beds at ESI and railway hospitals. Now, with these powers, any district collector in the state would be able to acquire a private hospital partially or fully as per need of a particular district for the dedicated Covid-19 treatment. They will ECRP fund for the payment and that too would be done as per the rates prescribed by the state government already,” said Arora. From Saturday, collectors with the help of respective medical colleges in their districts would decide on acquiring private hospitals. “In Jaipur the situation is getting grim. Therefore, more hospitals would be acquired,” said an official. RUHS help desk for patientsHealth minister Raghu Sharma said that a help desk at RUHS in Jaipur has been started to inform the corona infected patients about the availability of beds in hospitals, ventilators and other related information. Help Desk will be set up soon in other district headquarters in the State. “Help desk is functioning under the supervision of district administration. Officers of ADM level will look at the arrangements here,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dcs-empowered-to-acquire-pvt-hosps-for-treatment/articleshow/78068005.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Murder attempt FIR against suspended IPS officer||LUCKNOW: Suspended IPS officer Mani Lal Patidar and several others were booked for attempt to murder by Mahoba police late on Friday evening. Patidar was Mahoba police chief till Wednesday but was suspended by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on charges of corruption. The FIR was lodged by the brother of the trader Indrakant Tripathi, who was shot at on Tuesday, a day after he released a video in which he accused Patidar of seeking bribe for allowing him to run his business of crusher. Others booked along with Patidar on Friday are a suspended inspector, Devendra Shukla, trader Suresh Soni and some unidentified cops. Tripathi was shot in the neck while he was returning home from Banda road on September 8. He was later taken to district hospital from where doctors referred him to Regency Hospital in Kanpur Nagar. Tripathi is stated to be critical and is on ventilator. On Friday night, after hours of discussion with senior cops and acting on the complaint of Trupathi’s brother, Ravi Kant, the FIR was lodged. Ravi Kant has said in his FIR that his brother was a licence holder for carrying out crushing works in the district. But former SP of Mahoba, Patidar, had been illegally demanding Rs 6 lakh for running vehicles engaged in transportation of stone chips. “When his demand was not met, vehicle owners were harassed through the suspended SHO, Kabrai, Devendra Shukla,” the FIR says. He also stated in the FIR that his partners, Kishore Diwedi and Purushotam Soni, who have proper licences of doing crushing work were asked to appear in person by cops and pay Rs 6 lakh to Pathidar. However, when my brother could not pay the amount, the then SHO, Kabrai, Devendra Shukla instructed him to meet on September 3. “My brother met Patidar and begged before him that he would not be able to pay the money because of losses. But it had no impact on him and he began abusing him and threatened to get him eliminated,” he stated. An FIR has already been registered against Patidar under the charges of Prevention of Corruption Act on Thursday after he was suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/murder-attempt-fir-against-suspended-ips/articleshow/78068712.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Sulur, Thondamuthur blocks turn into Covid-19 hotspots||Coimbatore: Sulur and Thondamuthur blocks are the new Covid-19 hubs in the district and they account for the highest number of active cases and deaths from rural areas, prompting the health department to ramp up fever camps and surveillance of industries there for early detection of positive cases to control the virus spread. Health officials have also identified Covid-19 hotspots within the two blocks to contain local transmission and bring down the numbers. Presently, Sulur block has the highest number of active cases (237), followed by Thondamuthur block (170). The Covid-19 fatalities are also high from these areas. While 15 people have succumbed to the virus in Sulur block, 13 have died in Thondamuthur block so far. Together, they accounted for 41% of Covid-19 deaths reported from rural areas, where toll stands at 68. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “A month ago, Periyanaickenpalayam, Annur and Madukkarai had the highest number total and active cases. The scenario has changed and Annur and Madukkarai are logging cases in single digits.” Now that the borders have opened up, industries and people returning home seem to be the source of spread, he said. Officials said they had identified Covid-19 hotspots within the two blocks to streamline containment measures better. In Sulur block they have identified eight hotspots, including Irugur, Kaniyur and Pattanam. In Thondamuthur block, they have identified 16 hotspots, including Gandhicolony, KG Garden city apartments and Muniappan Koil Street. District collector K Rajamani said, “In Sulur block, the main source of infection seems to be places close to city corporation limits such as Chinniampalayalyam, Irugur and RG Pudur and industries. In Thondamuthur block too people get infected when they come to the city for work and shopping and they further transmit the virus in their locality. We are also watching Periyanaickenpalayam closely.” The district administration has put the south revenue divisional officer incharge of prevention measures in Sulur block. “We have decided to conduct fever camps near the identified hotspots, door-to-door surveillance to identify people with flu-like symptoms and comorbidities, and trace and test contacts of positive cases without fail to control the virus spread,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sulur-thondamuthur-blocks-turn-into-covid-19-hotspots/articleshow/78068037.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chennai||Rs 3.5 crore evasion: I-T case against AR Rahman||CHENNAI: The income tax department has dragged Oscar-winning music composer A R Rahman to court saying he had ‘siphoned of’ Rs 3.5 crore by routing it through A R Rahman Foundation, a charitable trust managed by him. Admitting an appeal filed by the department, a bench of Justice TS Sivagnanam and Justice V Bhavani Subbaroyan of the Madras high court asked the composer to file a response in three weeks. According to T R Senthil Kumar, senior standing counsel for I-T, Rahman had filed his tax return for 2011-12 showing an income of Rs 15.98 crore. The return was processed, and the assessment was completed on March 30, 2014. Thereafter, the assessment was reopened as it was found that he had received Rs 80 lakh as advisory charges from Photon Kaltas Production Pvt Ltd after TDS deduction in the professional receipts which had escaped the income. However, based on the explanation made by Rahman that the amount has been taxed as an anonymous donation received by A R Rahman Foundation, for which Rahman is the managing trustee, the assessment officer closed the assessment. It is a fact that Rahman had entered into a three-year contract with UK-based mobile company Lebara Mobile for composing exclusive ringtones. Lebara has agreed to sponsor Rahman’s UK tour and pay a fee for every download of i-tunes for three years, I-T department said For such services rendered, Rahman has received US $ 7,50,000 (Rs 3.47 crore) from Lebara during the financial year 2010-11. Since the remuneration was paid for Rahman for the services he rendered in his individual capacity as an artist the same must have been considered for taxation under Rahman’s account but the same has been directly transferred to the foundation’s account as donation, the department said. “The income, which is taxable, must be received by Rahman and after due deduction of tax it can be transferred to the trust. But the same cannot be routed through the trust as income to the charitable trust. Donation to trusts must be voluntary and such direct transfer of his income to the trust is not permissible under law,” Senthil Kumar said. Taking note of the same the principal commissioner of income tax set aside the order of the assessment officer and once again reopened the assessment. Aggrieved, Rahman moved an appeal against the order which was allowed by the income tax tribunal. Now, challenging the decision of the tribunal, the department has approached the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-3-5cr-evasion-i-t-case-against-a-r-rahman/articleshow/78068035.cms||Suresh Kumar
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dengue drive in second week; doctors say timely step||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government’s anti-dengue mass awareness campaign “10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute, Har Ravivar Dengue Par Vaar” has entered its second week in the capital. “Tomorrow is the second Sunday of Delhiite’s mega campaign against dengue. At 10 am, we have to check our homes for only 10 minutes and if clean water has accumulated anywhere, we have to replace it. We have to defeat dengue together,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday. Kejriwal had kick-started the campaign on September 6 by inspecting his residence at 10 am for 10 minutes for stagnant clean water. A special helpline has also been launched to help the public if they require assistance with dengue. It can be reached at 011-22300012 and at WhatsApp on 8595920530. Meanwhile, doctors have hailed the campaign. Dr Chhavi Gupta of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital said the awareness campaign is a great initiative to combat the severity of deadly dengue illness, which was uncontrollable in the past few years and the main cause of morbidity and mortality in the city during the post-monsoon season. “The campaign started by the chief minister is commendable. It was launched last year and the dengue cases came down drastically,” said Dr Ritu of Lok Nayak Hospital. “It is the duty of all the citizens to check their homes for water stagnation and maintain cleanliness,” she added. “Delhi is going through a tough phase dealing with the pandemic. If another disease gets added to it, it is going to be difficult for all to manage . The campaign is a timely measure against vector-borne diseases,” said Dr Ashish Goel, medical superintendent of Burari Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dengue-drive-in-2nd-week-doctors-say-timely-step/articleshow/78084158.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: 32% of active cases in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The state capital Jaipur, which had witnessed the first case of Covid-19 in March, has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the state. Till Saturday evening, the number of active cases in Jaipur rose to 5,128 of the total 15,859 in the state. That means out of the total active cases, almost 32% are in Jaipur. All the government and private hospitals are almost fully occupied while the state government is planning to bring more exigency measures. ESI and railway hospitals have been kept on standby mode with 150 and 50 beds, respectively. TOI on Friday spoke to various government and private hospitals to know the availability of oxygen-enabled beds and ICUs. “We have nearly 425 beds occupied out of our total capacity of 600 beds while our ICUs are almost full,” said Sudhanshu Kakkad, principal and controller at the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS). He added that people, especially the family members of the patients, should be away from rumour mongers. “Some days ago people stated that I have been tested positive which I can firmly deny with my negative reports. That means rumour mongers are actually making the life of doctors and paramedical staff miserable. We have adequate beds and ICUs so far,” he added. Meanwhile, when contacted, Jaipuria hospital authorities said that they have 27 oxygen-enabled beds and 10 ICU beds occupied by Covid-19 patients. “We are developing more facilities for the Covid-19 patients and in a day or two we will add more beds and ICUs,” said a doctor on the condition of anonymity. If the hospital sources are to be believed, the number of symptomatic patients is also increasing in Jaipur. “Every third patient of Covid-19 is coming with oxygen requirement. We have to be cautious. In the coming days, we are extending our facilities for Covid-19 patients to other hospitals too,” said a senior officer of the health department Likewise, private hospitals too are running short of beds for Covid-19 patients, especially those who are symptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/32-of-active-covid-cases-in-jaipur/articleshow/78068011.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 12, 2020||India||N Chandrababu Naidu behind land scam in Amaravati: Andhra SIT||HYDERABAD: The special investigation team constituted by the Andhra Pradesh government to look into the alleged Amaravati land scam has said that former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu misused his powers to predetermine the location of the new capital. As per the investigation, this helped his family members. Citing the findings of the cabinet sub-committee, the SIT report said: “It has been established beyond a reasonable doubt that persons at the helm of the affairs in the erstwhile government of AP like the then CM Chandrababu Naidu have committed several offences like criminal breach of trust, misuse of public office and conspiracy.” The cabinet sub-committee, in its findings, said the boundaries of the capital area were manipulated in such a way that land held by persons at the helm of affairs and their families was right adjacent to the capital area and not in the land pooling area for the capital. Both the cabinet sub-committee and SIT alleged that Naidu had indulged in insider trading as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/n-chandrababu-naidu-behind-land-scam-in-amaravati-andhra-sit/articleshow/78069571.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||BU to hold final semester theory exams online||Coimbatore: Bharathiar University vice-chancellor Dr P Kaliraj on Friday said they have decided to conduct the final semester theory examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes offered at all affiliated colleges, university departments and postgraduate centre online from September 21 to 30. The move comes following the directions of the higher education department. The university has created an exclusive online portal for the students to download the question papers and upload answer sheets in PDF format after each exam. The university has also framed modalities of conducting the examinations during pandemic after a detailed deliberation with the principals of affiliated colleges and heads of university departments. A mock test would be conducted on September 16 as a training for the candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-to-hold-final-semester-theory-exams-online/articleshow/78068041.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Six years after woman’s murder, 7 get life term||SIRSA: A court here on Friday sentenced seven members of a family from Darbi village in Sirsa to life imprisonment for killing a woman relative for having a love marriage. Amandeep Kaur was strangled to death by her family members and relatives in 2014. The convicts include her brother Karn Singh, uncles Mukhtiar and Jagtar, cousin Vikas, aunt Balveer Kaur, and distant relative Buta Singh and his wife Rani. Sirsa additional sessions judge Chander Hans also imposed a fine on the convicts while acquitting eight others in the case. While Karn, Vikas, Mukhtiar and Jagtar are from Darbi, Balveer is resident of Ferozepur in Punjab and Buta and Rani are from Jhunir in Mansa district of Punjab. Earlier, a minor was held guilty in the case and two accused were acquitted. Amandeep’s father Ram Singh, who was declared a proclaimed offender, has not been arrested. Her mother Baljinder Kaur, Bimla Devi, Hardeep alias Channa and Prince Kaur have already undergone their sentence for assault in the same case. Ding police station had registered a case of murder on a complaint by Manmeet Singh, a resident of Darbi who married Amandeep in August 2014. Manmeet and Amandeep eloped on August 10, 2014, and got married. After that they went to live with a relative in Tibbi in Punjab. On August 15, 2014, the newlymarried couple met the Sirsa superintendent of police to seek police protection. On getting police protection, Manmeet and Amandeep started living in his house in Darbi. On September 30, 2014, Manmeet and Amandeep were going to his aunt’s house in Bhavdeen village on his motorcycle. Amandeep’s family surrounded them on the way. Manmeet said Amandeep’s wife’s father Ram, brother Karna, Chanan and other relatives attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. They took Amandeep away, he had said in his complaint. On October 2, 2014, the villagers saw the body of a young woman covered in blood in Bharokha village in Sirsa. The villagers informed the police about it. The woman was identified as Amandeep. After that police had registered a case of murder on the complaint of Manmeet Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-years-after-sirsa-womans-murder-over-love-marriage-her-bro-among-7-get-lifer/articleshow/78068038.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt depts owe Rs 120 crore property tax to Karnal MC||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: Various departments of the state and the central governments owe over Rs 120 crore as property tax to the Karnal municipal corporation (MC). The MC officials are struggling to recover the dues. They have sent several notices to various departments, but to no avail. Karnal deputy commissioner-cum-municipal corporation commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav held a meeting with the representatives of various state government departments on Friday, and directed them to deposit the property tax within 15 days. He said around 15 state government departments owe Rs 40 crore as property tax to the MC, while the departments under the central government owe Rs 80 crore. According to the Karnal municipal corporation, HPA Madhuban owes Rs 26.35 crore, cooperative sugar mill Rs 3. 94 crore, UHBVN owes Rs 3.14 crore, PWD (B&R) Rs 2.76 crore, public health department Rs 1.64 crore, irrigation department Rs 1.7 crore, sports department Rs 81.21 lakh, jila parishad Rs 68.79 lakh, HSVP Rs 65.34 lakh, agriculture Rs 20.42 lakh, marketing board Rs 17.99 lakh and cooperative bank owes Rs 2.69 lakh. “The MC generates revenue from property tax, license fee, development charges, shop rent, etc. and gives basic facilities to the city residents. It is the duty of the departments or institutions to pay their taxes on time so that the MC has funds to carry out the development works,” said Yadav. He said action would be taken as per the law, if anyone fails to deposit the property tax within the stipulated time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-depts-owe-rs-120cr-in-property-tax-to-karnal-mc/articleshow/78068040.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Kolkata||Six days after surgery, Anandapur braveheart to go home tomorrow||KOLKATA: Nilanajana Chatterjee — the 47-year-old woman, whose right leg was crushed under the wheels of a car while she was trying to save a woman off EM Bypass last Saturday (September 5) — will be discharged from Ruby General Hospital on Sunday. The woman, a resident of Anandapur, was operated upon to repair her fractured shin bone on Monday and has recovered ‘satisfactorily’, according to hospital sources. Since Thursday, Chatterjee has been walking inside her ward with assistance as part of her rehabilitation programme. “On Friday, too, she took a few steps with the help of a walker. She is feeling no pain, though the injured leg is still not ready to take the weight of her body. It will have to be done gradually and we have drawn up a rehabilitation schedule for her, which will continue after her release on Sunday,” said a hospital official. The surgery fixed her fractured fibula and tibia (shin bone) that had penetrated her skin. Initially, doctors had apprehended an infection but it was prevented. On Wednesday, Chatterjee’s surgical wound was dressed and her recovery was assessed by the surgeons. They observed that her broken bone was healing as expected and she was ready to resume walking. “It will be a slow process but she has been doing well. She is now on a normal diet and has no weakness. Her rehabilitation will continue at home and she should be able to use her injured leg soon,” said a doctor. Her husband Deep Satpati said he was delighted that Chatterjee would be released on Sunday. “She is a strong-willed woman and I am relieved that she will be back home. I am confident that she will be back on her feet very soon,” said Satpati. Meanwhile on Friday, a delegation from the state women’s commission led by chairperson Leena Gangopadhyay met her at the hospital. They interacted with her for about half-an-hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-days-after-surgery-anandapur-braveheart-to-go-home-tomorrow/articleshow/78068039.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Satellite stn tag soon for Alamnagar||Lucknow: To ease traffic congestion from Charbagh, Northern Railway will now develop Alamnagar into a satellite railway station equipped with modern facilities. The station will be developed in phased manner with two additional loop lines and an island platform. The new station would have 21,000 square feet of concourse with inquiry counter, lift, escalator, separate AC waiting rooms for men and women, refreshment room, GRP, RPF post, additional station superintendent office, chief ticket officer office, VVIP lounge, toilet, booking office and passenger reservation service. The station will also have round-the-clock water supply along with sewer line system. The station platform would be 600 metre long so as island platform. The station is expected to be developed by November 2021. Earlier, defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh had got Rs 3,800 crore sanctioned to redevelop Charbagh, Gomtinagar and Alamnagar railway stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/satellite-stn-tag-soon-for-alamnagar/articleshow/78068756.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mysuru||UoM steps up precautionary measures to check Covid-19||Mysuru: A day after three students tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of annual exams, the University of Mysore (UoM) has stepped up precautionary and social distancing measures. Sources in the varsity told TOI that over 2,500 post graduate final year students coming under the varsity limits in Mysuru, Mandya Chamarajanagar and Hassan districts will be writing their exams scheduled to begin from September 21. Other than these, over 30,000 final year degree students in its limits are also appearing for the exam this year. As students are returning from their native places to submit their project reports and taking part in consultative meetings with their teachers by staying in hostels, the varsity is cautious against Covid and made all preparations to conduct exams successfully. Tow rounds of training had been given to principals of all colleges and heads of all 65 PG departments about conducting the exams adhering to all social distancing and standard operating procedures issued by the government and also during student-teacher consultation meeting, submission of lab reports, attending lab, visiting library and hostels in the campus. “Since outbreak of Covid-19, we have stepped frequency of cleaning campus areas and facilities, and kept the the hostels and their surroundings clean by sanitizing regularly and this will continue” said registrar R Shivappa. Temperature screening is also being done for PG students, research scholars and other inmates staying in all the 18 hostels, twice a day. Except exam related work, all non-essential activities have been cancelled to contain the infection. Laboratory sessions have been restricted. The varsity has deputed three doctors to ensure treatment for ailing students in the campus hospital. “If any student, teacher or staff is suffering from respiratory infections and other Covid symptoms, they must inform the varsity authorities immediately. They should be allowed to come back and write exams only after they are cured. There is a special provision in such cases to write exams in other dates set by the varsity. The varsity has kept separate hostels ready in case students or staff need to be isolated,” vice-chancellor G Hemanthkumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-steps-up-precautionary-measures-to-check-covid-19/articleshow/78065168.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||MP fund misused in Dharmapuri: DMK||Dharmapuri MP S Senthil Kumar on Friday said there were discrepancies in MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) funds spent in the district. Talking to reporters in Dharmapuri, he said of the Rs 2.5 crore allotted to him for the year 2019-20, Rs 1 crore was spent without his authorisation. Senthil Kumar said he had sanctioned Rs 1 crore for construction of toilets in Nangavalli and Mecheri areas. But the administrative sanction for the project was cancelled. “However, funds were not returned. When I inquired, I was told that the sum was spent for procuring equipment in government hospital. This was done without my approval,” he said and added that MPLAD fund sanctioned for one project cannot be diverted for another without the MP’s authorisation. The DMK MP said he had visited the government hospital to find out how the MP fund was spent. “I wanted to know if the fund was used and whether any new equipment was bought. I didn’t get any convincing answers and it’s a sign of irregularity.” Dharmapuri collector S Malarvizhi refuted the MP’s charges and said Senthil Kumar had given a letter authorising the administration to spend Rs 1 crore from his fund for Covid-related activities. “The amount spent on purchasing equipment for the government hospital. The fund was handled by district disaster management committee. His charges are politically motivated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mp-fund-misused-in-dharmapuri-dmk/articleshow/78068049.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||State gets over 1,600 cases for third day||Jaipur: The state recorded over 1,600 Covid-19 cases and the highest-ever cases recorded in a day so far. With 1,660 fresh cases, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 99,036 on Saturday. On the other hand, with 15 fresh deaths the total number of deaths in the state has gone up to 1,207. A day after recording 329 positive cases in Jaipur, there was a slight dip in the number on Friday as 321 cases were recorded. Areas including Malviya Nagar, Mansarovar, Sanganer collectively reported 150 cases. Attributing the rise in the cases to the increase in the random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said the state is now aiming at having 75,000 tests per day. “Detection is necessary for containing the epidemic,” said a senior officer of health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar, Ajmer and Bikaner continued to remain the worst affected areas and major contributor to the state’s total tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 283 cases were recorded, Kota (152), Alwar (120), Ajmer (96), Bikaner (92), Sikar (73) and 47 cases came from Nagaur. Of the 15 deaths reported on Friday, two deaths each were reported in Rajsamand, Sikar and Bikaner while one death each was reported in Ajmer, Banswara, Dholpur, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sirohi, Baran and Udaipur Box – Former minister dies of Covid-19 Jaipur: Former minister and Congress leader Dr Hari Singh passed away due to Covid on Friday evening. He was 84. He is survived by two sons and two daughters. Family sources said he was undergoing treatment at a private hospital for Covid. He was an alumnus of SMS medical college. Born on July 6, 1936, at Kairu village in Jhunjhunu district, Singh was a three-time MLA from Congress and once elected to the Lok Sabha (11th Lok Sabha). He was a cabinet minister for a brief period from 1978-79 for Public Health and Water Works. Singh had a brief stint with the BJP. He had joined the BJP before the assembly election in 2014, but returned to the Congress before the 2018 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-gets-over-1600-cases-for-third-day/articleshow/78068046.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Brahman Sabha seeks arrest of rape accused||KARNAL: A large number of people under the banner of Brahman Sabha, Karnal took out a protest march demanding the arrest of accused in a case over alleged gang rape of a woman employee of a local private school. At the protest march led by Surender Barota, district president of Brahman Sabha, the protesters accused the cops of not taking action against the accused. They assembled at Brahman Dharmshala and took out a procession towards the mini-secretariat, where they handed over a memorandum addressed to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. Barota said the woman had filed a complaint on July 6, alleging that she was raped in 2018 by the owner of the school and a government official, following which a case was registered against them. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/brahman-sabha-seeks-arrest-of-gang-rape-accused/articleshow/78068042.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Cases against 7 Sonipat firms for Rs 124-cr tax fraud||Chandigarh: The Sonipat excise and taxation collector’s office has detected a fraud of Rs 123.60 crore by seven firms. The district excise and taxation officer (sales tax) on Friday asked the Sonipat city police station to register cases against the companies. The fraud was detected last month and the department has been able to recover Rs.6.24 crore from the errant firms so far. Since the firms had failed to deposit the remaining Rs 116 crore, the department proceeded against them. All seven firms have their offices in HSIIDC complex of Kundli in Sonipat district and their owners are residents of Sonipat. The police complaint says that in order to avail the benefits of inward and outward trade concessions and incentives, these seven companies carried out the bogus trading through the companies registered by them in the name of their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-against-7-sonipat-firms-for-rs-124-cr-tax-fraud/articleshow/78068051.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Atrocities case: HC grants bail to 5 from Beed||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently granted anticipatory bail to five people, who were booked in a case of abetment of suicide and under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The Sirsala Police in Beed had registered offences against these five under section 306, 504 read with 34 of Indian Penal Code and under Section 3 (1) (r) (s), 3 (2) (v) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 following a complaint by Laxman Bansi Gavali (40) of Fakir Jawla in Dharur taluka of Beed. Laxman had alleged that his father, Bansi, had taken a loan of Rs 3 lakh from one person on 20-09-2010. Another suspect is a witnesses in 2010 deal. Laxman stated that his father had paid Rs 5 lakh but Rahim insisted on Rs 10 lakh. Following this, his father had complained to the Beed SP, and on inquiry, all the accused had promised to return the land. But they didn’t turn up on the given time and instead abused his father on caste. “Because of the fact that the suspect was not executing the document and had insulted his father, he (Bansi) had given up food for about a month, and ultimately, he expired on 16-02-2020.” Apprehending their arrest, the suspects earlier approached the special judge Majalgaon for bail, who rejected. They then approached the high court for anticipatory bail by filing three separate petitions in the same case through lawyer Sudarshan J Salunke. While allowing all the appeals, Justice Vibha Kankanwadi observed “the learned Special Judge has not considered the proper legal aspects involved in the matter and wrongly arrived at the conclusion that the applications filed for pre-arrest bail by all the appellants were barred under Section 18-A of the Atrocities Act. There was absolutely no bar and, therefore, those impugned orders are required to be set aside. Further, the physical custody of appellants is not at all required for investigation taking into consideration contents of FIR. The appeals deserve to be allowed.” Further, court also ordered that in the event of arrest “they be released on PR bond of Rs 30,000 with two sureties of Rs 15,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/atrocities-case-hc-grants-bail-to-5-from-beed/articleshow/78065188.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 12, 2020||Surat||Infection gripping more people in 21-40 age group||Surat: Analysing the Covid-19 data of the past 10 days, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has found young people, in the age brackets of 21 to 40 years, to be the most susceptible in the spread of infection in the Diamond City. “We have analysed the Covid-19 infection patterns in terms of age group for the last 10 days and found that the young people are the most affected in the city. They account for 42.5 percent of total Covid-19 positive people followed by people between 41 to 60 years of age groups,” Banchhanidhi Pani, Surat municipal chief told TOI. Explaining the reasons that may have led to the sudden vulnerability of young people, Pani said, “The young people are somewhat careless while taking precautions as so long they remained less impacted in this pandemic. Again, people of this age group also have to go out of home for work and engage in various economic activities.” Cautioning the young people to be extra cautious while going out or at work, Pani said, “The young should remember that they threaten the older members of their family, and more so members with comorbidity, with virus infection from their carelessness.” SMC has also analysed zone-wise data about age groups of infected people. “Limbayat zone had the highest number of Covid-19 cases (21 to 40 age group) with 50.9 percent, followed by Varachha (A) and Varachha (B) zone as both zones account for 47.7 percent cases,” said an SMC official. Limbayat zone is a textile hub while Varachha (A) and Varachha (B) zone are diamond polishing hubs. Economic activities in all these three zones are returning to normal conditions, the official added. Talking to TOI, Dr Parag Shah, Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatry, SMIMER Hospital, said, “Young people are getting infected as they have to go out to work. However, getting infected depends on how much one is exposed to the virus in a particular environment. There is an increased risk of these young people turning super spreaders too as they return home and most likely bring infections with them and infect the older family members.” Pani further said that in order to contain spread of virus in the city, SMC has started ‘professional’ contact tracing.  “In this, we trace people at the workplace to find out who all were sitting with the infected person, or who they met at their professional work and then isolating them,” he added. Recently, SMC had found that there were more than 700 such families in which more than three members of each family were found to be infected with Covid-19 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/infection-gripping-more-people-in-21-40-age-group/articleshow/78065231.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-min Prajapati arrested again, in 14-day remand||Lucknow: Former UP cabinet minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati, who was granted bail recently in a 2017 rape case, was again arrested by Lucknow police for allegedly striking a deal with the alleged survivor to drop the charges. He was sent in 14-day judicial custody on Friday. The case against him was lodged by the former lawyer of complainant, Dinesh Chandra Tripathi, at the Ghazipur police station of Lucknow on Thursday, under charges of dishonesty, criminal intimidation, forgery for the purpose of cheating and fraudulently using a genuine document. Tripathi alleged the Chitrakoot-based woman who had earlier filed a rape case against the former minister had allegedly taken money, plots and houses from Prajapati to turn herself and her daughters hostile in the case. “She had also got lodged a case of rape against me in connivance with Prajapati at Gautampalli police station on July 7, 2019. She took a plot worth Rs 1.5 crore in Aashiana from Prajapati to get her daughter to turn hostile in the case against Prajapati,” Tripathi had alleged in his FIR to the police. Tripathi claimed that Prajapati had threatened to get him killed once he was released from jail. Lucknow police commissioner, Sujeet Pandey confirmed TOI about Prajapati’s custody. The police also said that the former minister was getting treated at the KGMU hospital from where he was arrested and presented before a local court via video-conferencing. The judge sent him in judicial custody for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-min-prajapati-arrested-again-in-14-day-remand/articleshow/78068759.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Tusker to be tranquilized to treat injured foreleg||Coimbatore: The forest department officials have decided to tranquilize an ailing male elephant in order to treat an injury on its left foreleg. The tusker was noticed limping at Sundapatti beat in Nellithurai reserve forest of Mettupalayam range in March this year. Forest department veterinarian A Sukumar and his team monitored the elephant from a distance to get a clear picture of its injuries. As per the veterinarian’s suggestion, medicines were mixed with fruits and were kept on the animal’s pathway. Camera traps were also set up. The elephant ate the food and went back in the woods.On September 9, D Venkatesh, district forest officer, Dineshkumar, assistant conservator of forest and retired veterinarian Dr N S Manoharan visited Nellithurai to monitor the elephant. They found that the injury had worsened. “Forest veterinarians have suggested tranquilising it. Only then it can be treated. The elephant will be tranquilised for treatment soon,” said DFO Venkatesh.A special team has been formed to monitor and tranquilise the tusker under veterinarian D Sukumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tusker-to-be-tranquilized-to-treat-injured-foreleg/articleshow/78068054.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jaipur||Over 20 cops test positive, PHQ vacated||Jaipur: Panic prevailed at the Rajasthan Police Headquarters (PHQ) when over 20 officers were tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Soon after their reports arrived at the headquarters, the offices were vacated. Also, it was ordered that on Saturday and Sunday, every floor of the PHQ would be sanitized and disinfectants would be sprayed. There has been random sampling at the police headquarters where officers and employees of 20 batches each were tested. “On Friday, we got more than 20 of our men, including officers and other staff members, positive for Covid-19. As a precautionary measure, we have ordered to close the office from afternoon onwards. Also the offices would be closed on Saturday and Sunday when every area would be disinfected,” said Bhupendra Yadav, director general of police (DGP), Rajasthan. Saurabh Srivastav, ADG (Law and order), said, “We have decided that those who are tested positive for Covid-19 should either isolate themselves at home or visit hospital. Only those who are found healthy would be allowed to function at office from Monday onwards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-20-cops-test-positive-phq-vacated/articleshow/78068050.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||PDS rice being smuggled for open market sale seized||HAZARIBAG/GARHWA: In two separate incidents, police seized consignments of rice meant for PDS shops while the latter were being transported for sale in the open market. Hazaribag police on Friday afternoon seized a truck carrying 15 tonnes of rice from the district warehouse of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) in Sindoor to a rice mill in Morangi under Muffassil police station limits. The driver of the truck has been arrested. Hazaribag subdivisional officer Vidya Bhushan Kumar said: “The matter was reported to us by police. The district supply officer has been directed to form a three-member enquiry committee comprising marketing officers of three blocks to probe the incident.” Manoj Kumar Singh, the officer in-charge of Muffassil police station, said the consignment was being slipped out of the FCI warehouse to the rice mill under a tacit agreement between a section of the FCI staff and the mill owners. The mill owners wanted to sell the rice at a higher price in the open market, Singh claimed. In a similar incident, 350 rice bags, which were being ferried illegally, were seized in Tandwa locality of Garhwa on Friday. Garhwa SDO Ziyaul Ansari said, “The police have detained Sudhir Kumar Kesari, the proprietor of RM Traders, for questioning. During interrogation, Kesari confessed that the consignment was purchased from various PDS shops. FIR will be lodged against Kesari and the PDS shop dealers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pds-rice-being-smuggled-for-open-market-sale-seized/articleshow/78068323.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||8 IAS officers get new posts after rejig||Ranchi: The state government on Friday issued orders transferring and posting eight Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers. Ranchi sub-divisional officer Lokesh Mishra has been posted as Ranchi’s additional district magistrate (law and order). Town commissioner of Adityapur Municipal Corporation Sashidhar Mandal has been appointed as special secretary of the scheduled tribe, scheduled caste, minority and backward class welfare department. Several IAS officers awaiting posting have been given assignments in different departments. Basarat Qayyum has been made the joint secretary in the women, child development and social security department. Chandan Kumar Jha has been appointed as Dhanbad ADM (law and order). Karn Satyarthi has been made director of the land acquisition department. Megha Bhardwaj has been appointed as the joint secretary of the planning and finance department, while Vishal Sagar has been posted as the joint secretary of the personnel and administrative reforms department and Himanshu Mohan has been made the deputy director of the Shri Krishna Institute of Public Administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-ias-officers-get-new-posts-after-rejig/articleshow/78068259.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC defers hearing on Lalu’s bail plea in Chaibasa fodder case||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Friday deferred the hearing on the bail plea filed by former Bihar CM and RJD president Lalu Prasad in connection with one of the cases related to the fodder scam for four weeks to October 9 . Lalu was convicted by a special CBI court in Ranchi for his involvement in withdrawal of Rs 33.67 crore from the Chaibasa treasury in undivided Bihar against the actual sanction of Rs 7.1 lakh in 1992-93 when he was the chief minister. He was sentenced to five years of rigorous imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 5 lakh. Lalu’s counsel Prabhat Sinha said he is unwell and is seeking release from custody on the ground that he has completing 50% of the sentence of five years and he will soon complete 30 months in jail. However, CBI counsels opposed the plea and said there are a few days left to reach the 50%-mark. “While hearing the plea, the court pointed out that 26 days are left for Lalu to complete half of his sentence. The next hearing will take place October 9," said Kumar, expressing confidence that the veteran politician might get bail in the October 9 hearing. Lalu, however, will not be freed even if he is granted bail in this case as he has been sentenced to 14 years in jail in the Dumka treasury embezzlement case. The court had earlier rejected his bail petition in connection with the Dumka case. Lalu has been convicted in four fodder scam cases, of which he has been granted bail in two cases. He is presently lodged at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), in the official residence of the hospital director. He was shifted from the paying ward after some of his security and nursing staff tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-defers-hearing-on-lalus-bail-plea-in-chaibasa-fodder-case/articleshow/78066733.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||Dalma sanctuary keen to reopen, awaits govt nod||Jamshedpur: Closed for more than five months, the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) here is keen to resume operations and welcome tourists again and the authorities concerned have already sought approval from the state government in this regard. DWS receives heavy footfall, especially during Durga Puja and the winter season. “We have sanitised all the spots tourists visit and the places where the animals are kept, such as the deer centre. Guesthouses at the sanctuary will be sanitized soon after the government gives its approval for the entry of visitors,” DWS divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar said. Wearing masks and observing social distancing norms have been made mandatory. “Guides who would accompany the tourists to the sanctuary will be given proper training to ensure total compliance of the Covid safety measures within the premises,” said an official on anonymity. The authorities have also fumigated water holes in the sanctuary to reduce chances of human-to-animal transmission. DWS has 36 natural water holes and 56 man-made water bodies and they are the most sought after spots for visitors as animals come here for water. Spread over 192 sq km, the sanctuary has more than 60 elephants, besides wild pigs, barking deer, sloth bear and a several species of birds. Frequent visitor Aditya Pathak is already excited at the prospect of the sanctuary reopening. “I visited Dalma sanctuary in November and I plan to visit this year around the same time as well,” the 28-year-old said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dalma-sanctuary-keen-to-reopen-awaits-govt-nod/articleshow/78066681.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand against Centre’s proposal to change illegal mining definition||RANCHI: The state government has rejected the Centre’s proposed amendments in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 which aims to redefine illegal mining. In a late night tweet, chief minister Hemant Soren posted the response of the state government to the proposals floated by the Union ministry of mines and criticised the Centre for giving the states only a 10-day window to respond to the proposed amendments. “The Union Mines Ministry had given states only 10 days to respond on proposed amendments in Mines & Minerals Act 1957. These reforms could have huge socio- economic impact in Jharkhand. We have responded to @MinesMinIndia, we don't agree to their proposed definition of illegal mining,” Hemant tweeted. Responding to the Centre’s proposal to change Section 21(4) and Section 21(5) of the MMDR Act, the state said the current definition of illegal mining must remain as the matter has been deliberated upon in detail in Supreme Court and a clear verdict was issued in this regard. Jharkhand had moved the Supreme Court in July this year against the Centre’s decision to e-auction coal blocks for commercial mining, stating that it will have massive implications for the environment and the economy. The state’s response was sent to the Centre by the state mines secretary K Srinivasan on September 9. The state rejected the Centre’s proposal to allow miners to excavate 50% more than their specified end use from the captive coal mines. Earlier, the captive miners were allowed to excavate 25% more than their specified end use. The state also rejected the proposal to form a national mineral index and recommended that the existing regime of IBM (Indian Bureau of Mines) average sale price be maintained so that the states not lose revenue on account of royalty or auction premium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/state-against-centres-proposal-to-change-illegal-mining-definition/articleshow/78074736.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand against Centre’s proposal to change illegal mining definition||RANCHI: The state government has rejected the Centre’s proposed amendments in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 which aims to redefine illegal mining. In a late night tweet, chief minister Hemant Soren posted the response of the state government to the proposals floated by the Union ministry of mines and criticised the Centre for giving the states only a 10-day window to respond to the proposed amendments. “The Union Mines Ministry had given states only 10 days to respond on proposed amendments in Mines & Minerals Act 1957. These reforms could have huge socio- economic impact in Jharkhand. We have responded to @MinesMinIndia, we don't agree to their proposed definition of illegal mining,” Hemant tweeted. Responding to the Centre’s proposal to change Section 21(4) and Section 21(5) of the MMDR Act, the state said the current definition of illegal mining must remain as the matter has been deliberated upon in detail in Supreme Court and a clear verdict was issued in this regard. Jharkhand had moved the Supreme Court in July this year against the Centre’s decision to e-auction coal blocks for commercial mining, stating that it will have massive implications for the environment and the economy. The state’s response was sent to the Centre by the state mines secretary K Srinivasan on September 9. The state rejected the Centre’s proposal to allow miners to excavate 50% more than their specified end use from the captive coal mines. Earlier, the captive miners were allowed to excavate 25% more than their specified end use. The state also rejected the proposal to form a national mineral index and recommended that the existing regime of IBM (Indian Bureau of Mines) average sale price be maintained so that the states not lose revenue on account of royalty or auction premium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-against-centres-proposal-to-change-illegal-mining-definition/articleshow/78068289.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||Touts make a killing at Rims by promising prompt services||Ranchi: Under the garb of providing assistance in admission and other medical facilities, several patients at the state-run Rajendra Insitute of Medical Sciences (Rims) are being duped of thousands of rupees by touts. The touts reportedly promise to get the pathological tests done quickly for a fee and arrange for a bed even if the hospital staff refuse them. They even charge money to fix up appointments with the doctors when such services are free of cost. They even charge the patients for arranging for medicines and blood bottles. Two of such instances came to light on Friday when patients Manju Devi and Dharam Mahato claimed that a man named Ajay took cash and other valuables from them under the pretext of helping them get treatment at the state’s only superspecialty hospital. Recalling the ordeal, Manju’s husband Gopal Pandit said, “My wife is a cancer patient and I had come to the hospital on August 18 to get her treated at the oncology department. But after several attempts of getting her treated failed, I was waiting near the central emergency one day when a man approached me and said he can help me in arranging the necessary treatment for my wife. He also assured me of getting the pathological tests done in exchange for Rs 500. Accordingly, once the preliminary tests were done, we returned home on August 28. When we returned to Rims on September 3, he said that I have to pay him Rs 7,500 as doctor’s fee and for the tests that my wife underwent during our last visit. He also asked for Rs 2,500 to arrange for blood and other medicines.” Dharam Mahato, a 70-year-old man who came to Rims to consult a doctor for his eye disease, was allegedly duped of Rs 2,500 by the tout who promised to get him the right doctor’s appointment in a jiffy. “I had been visiting the hospital for over a month but was unable to get hold of the right doctors. The tout met me near the OPD complex and took Rs 2,500 in three instalments under the pretext of arranging a consultation with the right doctor,” Mahato said. The tout had even got the patient’s samples tested for biopsy at a private lab and had charged him an exorbitant amount, he added. When asked, a senior professor at the hospital on condition of anonymity said, “A nexus between touts and hospital staff exists here. There are people who trick the patients into paying them for getting their medicines from the private clinics when they are already available at the hospital. The sole reason behind this menace is the lack of communication and support to the outside patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/touts-make-a-killing-at-rims-by-promising-prompt-services/articleshow/78066781.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||Sita pens open letter to Shibu, bristles at ‘internal conspiracy’||Ranchi/Dumka: After JMM’s Jama MLA Sita Murmu (Soren) penned an open letter to party chief Shibu Soren and accused a senior party functionary of conspiring against her, though the party dubbed it as an “internal matter” and refrained from issuing a statement, BJP cashed in on the feud and said, “it seems all is not right within the party”. Sita, wife of Guruji’s late elder son Durga, posted on Twitter an open letter addressed to Shibu late on Thursday night in which she accused JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey of expelling party workers who met her at a meeting in Chatra a few days ago. Recalling her recent visit to Chatra to attend a meeting called by families displaced by Central Coalfields Limited’s Amrapali open cast coal project, Sita wrote, “Under Pandey’s instructions, JMM’s Chatra district president Pankaj Kumar Prajapati had issued a diktat asking party workers not to meet me. After this, all those who meet me were charged with conspiracy and expelled.” The three-time Jama legislator also accused Pandey of usurping JMM’s headquarters by registering the property in his name and claimed that a few within the party are working to make the outfit their pocket organization. “The party is created by Guruji and my husband with thier blood, sweat and hard work, but a few people are working to make it their pocket organization. As a central committee member myself, I urge the party and Guruji to take cognizance of the matter,” she wrote. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “It is an internal matter of the party and will be resolved soon.” Over the past few weeks, Sita has been a critic of the Hemant Soren government’s stand on different issues. From raising concerns over poor road conditions in Santhal Pargana to rallying behind JPSC aspirants, Sita has raised eyebrows with her posturing out of the party lines on multiple occasions. Cashing in on the internal feud, BJP’s state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “A senior legislator like her is raising so many issues, but the government is not paying heed. It seems that all is not well within the JMM.” Vijayshree and Rajshree, Sita’s daughters, expressed their angst on social media. “I am pained to see that no action has been taken so far after the letter was written by my mother, who is a senior MLA of JMM. Does this silence have another meaning?” Rajshree wrote on Twitter on Friday. When contacted on Friday, Pandey issued a measured statement on Sita’s letter. “She has labelled a few allegations against me in a letter to the party chief. Though her letter is doing the rounds on social media, it has not arrived at the party’s headquarters (in Bariatu) yet. Since the president is outside the state on medical grounds, I have explained my point to the party’s working president (Hemant Soren). He will take a call on the matter after going through all the aspects,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sita-pens-open-letter-to-shibu-bristles-at-internal-conspiracy/articleshow/78066666.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 12, 2020||Ranchi||Education min requests CM to withdraw cases against para-teachers||Ranchi: Education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Friday said that he has requested chief minister Hemant Soren to withdraw FIRs that were registered against para-teachers in connection with their agitation over various job-related demands in the last five years. Mahto said the proposal would be sent to the home department and legal opinion would be sought before a decision is made. “But I feel that they should be pardoned,” Mahto added. It may be stated here that para teachers held several agitations during the term of the erstwhile BJP government in the state. Around 250 para-teachers were booked during an aggressive agitation launched in Morhabadi ground in Ranchi in November 2018. The minister has also asked his officials to prepare a proposal for extending the validity of the Jharkhand Teacher’s Eligibility Test (JTET) certificate by two more years. The minister said that due to the Covid outbreak , many teachers who have qualified JTET have not got jobs. Parimal Kumar, who heads an association of para-teachers, however, pointed out a legal hitch in the process, saying that the JTET teachers have already been given the maximum validity period of seven years as per the guidelines of the National Council for Teacher’s Education. He said that if the government really wants to benefit them, it should relax the age criteria in jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/education-min-requests-cm-to-withdraw-cases-against-para-teachers/articleshow/78068277.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Rainy Monday likely to bring relief from heat in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After a brief lull, rain may resume in the capital. The weatherman said people would get relief from hot and humid weather from Monday. Though Delhi will witness partly cloudy sky over the weekend, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light rain from Monday. The weather is forecast to be pleasant from Wednesday as both maximum and minimum temperature will decrease. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said, "Light rain and thundershowers are expected on Wednesday and Thursday." Friday was a hot day as maximum temperature stood at 37.8 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal. The minimum temperature was 26 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal. The humidity levels oscillating between 90% and 44% in the past 24 hours. TOI had earlier reported that monsoon is likely to have an extended run in Delhi this year as it is expected to stay till first week of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rainy-monday-likely-to-bring-relief-from-heat-in-delhi/articleshow/78069588.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut not a leader, no need to make it a national issue: BJP||MUMBAI: Leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday blamed the Shiv Sena for making the Kangana Ranaut affair a national issue. "Daily the cases are rising in Maharashtra, 40% of deaths on account of Covid-19 are in Maharashtra. All I would say to the government is that if it would employ even 50% of the energy it is utilising in fighting Kangana to instead fight corona, it will be able to save lives," he said. He said the BJP had not raised Ranaut's issues. "Where was the need to say she shouldn't come to Mumbai? There was no need to make it a national issue, she's not a national leader," he said. Fadnavis reiterated Bandra MLA Ashish Shelar's statement that the BJP did not support Ranaut's PoK comment. On September 9, Ranaut had tweeted: "I am never wrong, and my enemies prove it again and again, this why my Mumbai is POK now - death of democracy." On Friday, she asked Congress president Sonia Gandhi to uphold the principles of the Constitution. She tweeted: "Sonia Gandhiji, being a woman, are you not anguished by the treatment I am given by your government in Maharashtra. Can you not request the government to uphold the constitution." Another tweet was on the difference between CM Uddhav Thackeray's Sena and the one created by the founding father: "Great Bala Saheb Thakeray one of my most favourite icons, his biggest fear was some day Shiv Sena will do Gutbandhan and become congress @INCIndia I want to know what is his conscious feeling today looking at the condition of his party?" Interacting with the media in Delhi, Pawar said the BMC was an independent organisation. "State government has absolutely no role in the process. BMC acts if it is found that an illegal structure has come up. Before taking action, BMC must have verified the facts," he said. Backing Ranaut, BJP LS m,ember Pragya Thakur alleged that police commissioner Parambir Singh had "committed atrocities" on her during her time in custody. She said Ranaut was being victimsed by the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-ranaut-not-a-leader-no-need-to-make-it-a-national-issue-bjp/articleshow/78076794.cms||---
September 12, 2020||India||Border row: Amid ‘total breakdown of trust’, Generals to meet soon||NEW DELHI: India and China will hold their sixth round of top-level military talks within the next few days in a bid to defuse the tinderbox-like operational situation in eastern Ladakh, which has seen casualties and shots being fired for the first time in 45 years. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) may not have made any “aggressive or provocative” moves for the last couple of days but there is “a complete breakdown of trust” between the two armies, with thousands of rival soldiers, tanks and howitzers amassed within shooting distance of each other in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area as well as other stretches of the frontier in eastern Ladakh. “It remains to be seen if diplomatic consensus translates into ground realities. Talks between military commanders will work only if there are clear-cut political directions from the top to the PLA to disengage and refrain from its strategy to push the Line of Actual Control (LAC) westwards,” said a senior official. The military situation along the 3,488-km long LAC from eastern Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh was also reviewed by defence minister Rajnath Singh in a two-hour meeting with the chief of defence staff and three Service chiefs on Friday. The rival corps commanders, 14 Corps commander Lt-General Harinder Singh and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin, have not met since August 2, though communication channels have been kept open at the brigadier and colonel levels on a daily basis. “The exact date and modalities for the corps commander-level meeting are being finalized. We will have to wait and watch whether the PLA is open to troop disengagement from the friction points,” said another official. “The PLA, after all, had earlier reneged on its promise to withdraw from `Finger-4’ (mountainous spur) on the north bank of Pangong Tso. Restoration of the status quo as it existed in April is nowhere on the horizon,” said another official. A lot will depend on what exact directions Chinese President Xi Jinping gives to the top PLA hierarchy, including Western Theatre Command (WTC) chief General Zhao Zongqi, who was also in charge during the 73-day Doklam face-off in 2017, and WTC ground forces commander Lt-General Xu Qiling. “The PLA’s multiple and coordinated incursions into Indian territory in April-May, the amassing of huge forces along the LAC and the ongoing military confrontation with aggressive behaviour, after all, is all being driven from the top in China,” said the official. The Indian Army has learnt its lesson by the PLA’s steadfast refusal till now to withdraw eastwards from the 8-km stretch it occupied and fortified on the north bank of Pangong Tso from `Finger-4’ to `Finger-8’. The LAC runs north to south at Finger-8. The PLA, incidentally, on the morning of August 29 had conveyed through the hotline to the Indian forces that both sides should not undertake night patrolling and mountain manoeuvres. “But the PLA did exactly that towards the evening,” said an officer. Indian soldiers then swiftly rushed to seize previously-unoccupied tactical heights on the ridge line stretching from Thakung on the southern bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) by August 30. Simultaneously, as earlier reported by TOI, Indian soldiers also occupied heights overlooking the PLA deployments on the ridgeline over `Finger-4’ on the north bank of Pangong Tso. Outmanoeuvered in the race to grab the heights, the PLA has been smarting ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-total-breakdown-of-trust-gens-to-meet-soon/articleshow/78069599.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ajay Maken moves SC, seeks stay on its order||NEW DELHI: Congress member Ajay Maken on Friday approached the Supreme Court seeking its direction to stay removal of 48,000 jhuggis along the railway tracks in the capital as ordered by the apex court on August 31. The apex court had directed clearing of encroachments along the railway tracks within three months and ordered that no court should stay the process. Alleging that the apex court passed the order without hearing the affected parties, Maken pleaded the court that removal of jhuggis should not be done till all the people living there are rehabilitated and sought direction to the Delhi government to frame a rehabilitation plan for them. "The authorities have already initiated the process f identification and removal of jhuggis and have 'issued demolition notices' in various slums in Delhi. Further, while doing so they have circumvented the procedures established by law with respect to rehabilitation of the slum dwellers prior to eviction/ demolition of their jhuggis and ignoring the procedure enshrined in the Delhi Slum & JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy," Maken said in his petition. He said large-scale demolition of slums is likely to affect lakhs of people and render them homeless amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. "The homeless persons will be forced to travel from place to place in search of shelter and livelihood during the current Covid-19 crisis," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ajay-maken-moves-sc-seeks-stay-on-its-order/articleshow/78069629.cms||---
September 12, 2020||Nagpur||Heritage panel nod to rly station’s redevelopment||NAGPUR: The Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC), under the aegis of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), cleared the redevelopment proposal of Nagpur railway station. The proposal was approved with the condition that existing main building structure will not be damaged. Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC) is developing 600 stations in the country. These redeveloped hubs will be called ‘Railopolis’, as it will attract huge investment and business opportunities. In the request for qualification (RFQ), six parties have evinced interest to redevelop Nagpur station as world class at a cost of Rs 465 crore. IRSDC is a special purpose company incorporated under the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), Ircon International Limited (IRCON), and Rail India Technical and Economic Services Limited (RITES). IRSDC’s joint general manager PS Uttarwar said, “In order to de-risk the project, we do processes to obtain approvals. As part of the same, we submitted a detailed proposal to NMC and heritage impact plan to Heritage Conservation Committee consisting of town planning officials, architects, engineers and environmentalists. We are glad that the panel ayed the proposal.” HCC member Tapan Chakrabarty said, “The approval has been granted subject to the condition that main station building, which has historical significance and is a Grade-II heritage structure, will not be damaged. The building is made up of Kanhan yellow sandstone in classical block style.” ISRDC architect Utkarsh Chaudhary said, “We will not damage the building but will clean it up. The plan is to de-clutter heritage building by relocating the surrounding buildings, enhance beauty and grandeur of the heritage building. Also it is proposed to introduce lift for universal accessibility and modernize without disturbing the heritage.” However, the HCC has said ‘no’ to develop a shade for passenger movement in front of the station building. Rest of the proposal was approved as it is. The ISRDC had applied for clearance in March but due to Covid-19, meeting was held last month and the approval came on September 7. Uttarwar said IRSDC has been designated as nodal agency for redevelopment of all railway stations across the Indian Railways. Union government has given powers to IRSDC for approving its plan under Section 11 of the Railways Act 1989. IRSDC shall consult urban local bodies and other statutory authorities while approving its plan so that the development is harmonious to its surroundings. The presentation for Nagpur station was made by French architect firm ENIA Design Private Limited and IRSDC by video conferencing. To a question, Uttarwar added, “Heritage Grade II buildings present regional and local importance, along with special architectural, aesthetic merit, its cultural and historical significance, workmanship, ornamentation, climate responsive architectural. Our heritage plan is prepared considering all these aspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/heritage-panel-nod-to-rly-stations-redevpt/articleshow/78066988.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 12, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: Army holding firm on Pangong heights despite PLA poke & prod||NEW DELHI: In the days following the Indian Army’s surprise move in taking control of key heights in the Pangong Tso area and ahead of the S Jaishankar-Wang Yi meeting, China repeatedly poked and prodded along the border in a bid to test the Indian response. The big deployments in the Chushul area meant to intimidate, and pin-pointed thrusts that attempted to dislodge freshly acquired Indian positions, failed to deter India from holding onto its gains even as it counter-mobilised to signal its resolve. Read AlsoReady to take conciliatory steps, must pull back troops, gear from LAC: ChinaAfter two hours of tough negotiations in Moscow late on Thursday, India and China came to a five-point understanding to dial down tensions. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi's comments in Moscow on Friday offered some hope. He said, "We are ready to take conciliatory steps... The most important thingSources in the government said the probing along and land grabs cannot be ruled out, but India has made its preparedness for proactive action clear. Read AlsoLAC face-off: Jaishankar set bottomline amid ‘heated’ talks with ChinaTop sources said the Indian mantra on the LAC would be "verifying" Chinese disengagement promises. In recent weeks, Chinese troops have repeatedly gone back on their commitments. Wang Yi was quoted as saying that India and China had reached a "consensus" and were willing to "meet each otherIt was pointed out that in the past, it would have taken several days to track the five Arunachal Pradesh youth who went “missing” on the Chinese side. Their disappeavarious points of the border was intense but the Chinese found the Indian forces in a high state of readiness. Read AlsoBorder row: Amid ‘total breakdown of trust’, Generals to meet soonNEW DELHI: India and China will hold their sixth round of top-level military talks within the next few days in a bid to defuse the tinderbox-like operational situation in eastern Ladakh, which has seen casualties and shots being fired for the first time in 45 years. The People’s Liberation ArmyThey were swift in warning PLA troops against advances on Indian positions which were detected far quicker that the Chinese anticipated. More thrusts rance was not seen as happenstance and Indian administration and Army officials were able to track the youth and contact the Chinese authorities. Similarly, Indian forces returned some 13 yak and some calves that had “strayed” across after detecting their presence without delay. The main irritant for China, however, was the Indian action at Pangong where troops turned tables on PLA by the audacious act of ascending steep hills in the dark to control the heights. The manoeuvre, along with repositioning troops on top of some of the spurs on the north bank, gave Indian forces control to the “gate” of the particular valley. Watch India-China stand-off: Army firm on Pangong heights despite PLA poke & prod||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/repeated-chinese-probes-hit-indian-wall/articleshow/78069632.cms||---
