September 13, 2020||India||LAC row: All eyes on India-China commanders’ meeting||NEW DELHI: All eyes are on the next meeting of Indian and Chinese military commanders with the five-point agreement for defusing border tensions arrived at in Moscow expected to bring about a degree of immediate disengagement even if a wider de-escalation takes more time. The crucial test of the joint statement that external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi hammered out is in PLA pulling back from the Line of Actual Control. A verifiable disengagement process can ease tensions along the LAC and reduce the possibility of further flare-ups and this is seen as a good outcome. LAC stand-off: Complete coverage A lack of tangible progress, however, will increase the prospects of conflict as troops are placed in positions precariously close to each other with tempers and suspicions running high. It is felt that it will only be a matter of time before a more serious clash breaks out, given the unpredictable situation on the ground. Here, the Indian government has now made its position plain enough. The comments of senior government sources and the ‘on record’ statements of the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat have made India’s red lines clear, underlining the Indian army is “not under-prepared anywhere” and that military options are on the table in dealing with the border situation. The toughening of the Indian position has come about in the wake of pro-active manoeuvres by Indian troops over August 29-30 when they took control of difficult heights along the south bank of the Panging Tso (lake) while also re-positioning troops on the spurs on the north bank. The move has given India an advantage and brought troops in really close proximity with one another. The focus on the unfolding situation is tinged with some hope that matters will not take a turn for the worse, given that Wang Yi is a senior leader and also state councillor. His comments the day after the meeting with Jaishankar also point to a desire to scale down tensions. At the same time, given the sustained Chinese aggression in the past few months, facts on the ground need to change. Watch LAC row: All eyes on India-China commanders’ meeting after 5-pt disengagement agreement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-eyes-on-india-china-commanders-meeting/articleshow/78084086.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||Covid-19: Masks can slow spread & help build immunity, says journal||NEW DELHI: Before a vaccine for smallpox was discovered, people used to take recourse to variolation, a process in which those who didn’t yet have the disease were exposed to material from the scabs of smallpox patients. This caused a mild infection, but protected them from contracting the full disease. Now some scientists hypothesise that using masking in the Covid era could achieve similar results. In a commentary in New England Journal of Medicine, Monica Gandhi and George W Rutherford of University of California in San Francisco said face masks could work like variolation to generate immunity. and slow the spread of Covid infection. Mask may provide vaccine-like effect: DoctorThis possibility is consistent, according to experts, with a long-standing theory of viral pathogenesis, which holds that the severity of the disease is proportionate to the viral inoculum (infecting amount of the virus) received. Gandhi and Rutherford inferred that if the viral inoculum matters in determining the severity of Covid infection, an additional hypothesised reason for wearing facial masks would be to reduce the viral inoculum to which the wearer was exposed and the subsequent clinical impact of the disease. “Since masks filter out some virus-containing droplets (with filtering capacity determined by mask type), masking might reduce the inoculum that an exposed person inhales,” the pair wrote in NEJM. An experiment conducted on hamsters supported this theory and showed with simulated masking that the animals were less likely to get infected, or were either asymptomatic or had milder symptoms than unmasked hamsters. “The hopes for vaccines are pinned not just on infection prevention: most vaccine trials include a secondary outcome of decreasing severity of illness, since increasing the proportion of cases in which disease is mild or asymptomatic would be a public health victory. Universal masking seems to reduce the rate of new infections; we hypothesise that by reducing the rate of new viral infections, it would also decrease the proportion of infected people who remain asymptomatic,” Gandhi and Rutherford wrote. Read AlsoIndia added 1 million Covid cases, 13,000 deaths in 12 daysWith 95,249 fresh cases reported on Saturday, India’s case count so far in September is 10,65,796, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. By contrast, India had recorded over 19.8 lakh cases in August, the highest by any country for any month.They referred to an outbreak on a closed Argentinian cruise ship where passengers were provided with surgical masks and staff with N95 masks. The rate of asymptomatic infection was 81% on testing compared with 20% in earlier cruise ship outbreaks without universal masking. Covid-19: Complete coverageDr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said this paper explained how 29% of Delhi were antibody-positive but have never had infection. “Mask may allow a very miniscule amount of virus to enter and provide a vaccine-like effect, leading to antibody formation without true infection,” said Sarin. Live updates: Coronavirus outbreakSarin added that this made the use of masks a priority while permitting people to move around freely so that getting a small inoculum could act like vaccination. Gandhi and Rutherford did say in their research that adoption of population-wide masking was one reason why some countries fared better in terms of rates of severe Covid-related illnesses. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news While face masks were immediately advised in India for protection against Covid in March, recent data have indicated that facial masks could also reduce the severity of the disease. Watch Masks could possibly help build immunity: Study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/masks-can-help-build-immunity-journal/articleshow/78084230.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 13, 2020||India||Kerala records 2,885 new Covid-19 cases, 15 fatalities||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 was confirmed in 2,885 persons in Kerala on Saturday even as 1,944 patients under treatment for the same have recovered from the disease, said Health Minister KK Shailaja. Of those diagnosed today, 2,640 were cases of local transmission and the source of infection of 287 was not traceable. Forty-two are returnees from abroad and 137 from other states. Fifty-five healthcare workers were also infected by Coronavirus. Fifteen recent deaths were confirmed on Saturday due to COVID-19. The district-wise figures for those who tested positive yesterday are Thiruvananthapuram 566, Malappuram 310, Kozhikode 286, Kollam 265, Kannur 207, Ernakulam 188, Palakkad 184, Thrissur 172, Kottayam 166, Alappuzha 163, Kasargod 150, Pathanamthitta 88, Idukki 86 and Wayanad 54. Till now, 75,848 people have been cured of Covid in the state and at present, 28,802 patients are undergoing treatment in different hospitals. A total of 2,03,300 persons are under observation in various districts of the state, 1,81,123 under home or institutional quarantine and 22,177 in hospitals. 2,576 people were admitted to the hospitals today. In the last 24 hours, 43,954 samples were tested. So far, a total of 20,99,549 samples have been sent for testing, including 1,88,549 samples from high exposure groups as part of Sentinel Surveillance. Nineteen new places were demarcated as hotspots today while 10 were exempted. There are 603 hotspots in Kerala now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-records-2885-new-covid-19-cases-15-fatalities/articleshow/78084256.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||Judges can’t vent like their critics: CJI Bobde, NV Ramana||NEW DELHI: The country’s two top judges — Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and next in line Justice N V Ramana — on Saturday said judges are often soft targets of vituperative criticism in social media as they are trained to exercise restraint and do not have recourse to unbridled free speech like their critics. Speaking at the release of Justice R Banumathi’s book, CJI Bobde said constitutional limitations on free speech restrains judges, as it should others, from speaking whatever they feel. But Justice Ramana, who will succeed Bobde as CJI next year, did the plain speaking — “As judges are self-restrained from speaking out in their own defence, they are now being construed as soft targets for criticism.” Ramana said the proliferation and popularity of social media has further complicated the issue as “judges are becoming victims of juicy gossip and slanderous social-media posts. I believe, judgeship in the present day requires sacrifices unparalleled in any other profession, and the same is required to be made as the country’s future is dependent on strong, independent judges.” This is the second time in recent weeks that the CJI has expressed his misgivings over judges being targeted. Speaking in court he had noted that allegations often surface when judges are being considered for elevation. The case before the court dealt with a district judge from Madhya Pradesh facing allegations of sexual harassment that dragged on. Justice Banumathi, who retired recently from the SC after a 32-year-long career that spanned from trial courts to the top court, narrated her experience as a judge in the book ‘Judiciary, Judges and the Administration of Justice’ in four parts — Judiciary as a collective institution, insights about being a judge, measures taken by the Centre for the implementation of e-courts, and shift from traditional methods of case management. Ramana said the public has a misconception about a judge’s life, that it is one of luxury lived in ivory towers. “The reality is quite different and it is difficult for others to comprehend. Best judges of the same are the family members, who are usually torn between restraints and relationships. Judges have to balance their social life in order to be independent. It is completely upon the judge to maintain such self-imposed restrictions.” Bobde said, “A judge is called upon to play a whole range of roles including that of arbiter, mediator, counsellor, sociologist, etc; and in the midst of all this adjudicate disputes presented to him in a manner cognisant of constitutional aspirations and social realities.” The CJI said, “The judicial mind has to take into account several barriers and divisions existing in society, which are reflected in the cases that come to Court. While the judicial mind must acknowledge the existence of these social divisions and barriers, it cannot be swayed by these prejudices and add its own prejudice to the issue.” Bobde said that to command public respect, the judges should maintain dignified conduct and aloofness. “Judicial service is not merely an employment nor the judges are employees of the government. They are the holders of public trust and responsibility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/restrained-judges-are-now-soft-targets-cji-nv-ramana/articleshow/78084306.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 13, 2020||India||Prashant Bhushan seeks rules for appeal in SC in original contempt cases||NEW DELHI: Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who was recently convicted for contempt of court by the Supreme Court, has moved the apex court for framing of rules and guidelines for allowing filing of intra-court appeal against conviction by the SC in original criminal contempt cases. Bhushan alleged that the right of appeal is an absolute right for a convict but it is not available in those cases in which contempt proceedings are initiated and decided in the SC. He submitted that convicts should be allowed to file appeal against the SC order in the apex court itself in an intra-court appeal and it should be heard by a different and larger bench. “Contempt proceedings are one in which the injured party (Supreme Court) acts as the prosecutor, witness and judge, thereby raising fear of inherent bias,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prashant-bhushan-seeks-rules-for-appeal-in-sc-in-original-contempt-cases/articleshow/78084336.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||Government to woo poll-bound Bihar with PSU projects||NEW DELHI: The Centre appears to be riding piggyback on PSU (public sector units) schemes to project its development plank ahead of state polls in Bihar. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate two projects of IndianOil and one of Hindustan Petroleum on Sunday. Power minister R K Singh inaugurated a slew of community-focused projects of power major NTPC on Saturday. The Prime Minister will unveil two LPG bottling plants at Banka and Harsidih in East Champaran as well as a 193km LPG pipeline to augment LPG supply to Bihar from Durgapur in West Bengal. CM Nitish Kumar and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi will be present at the virtual event. IndianOil’s Banka LPG bottling plant will serve consumers in Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar in Bihar along with Godda, Deoghar, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur in Jharkhand. Hindustan Petroleum’s Harsidih plant will serve East Champaran, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj and Sitamarhi districts. The plants are expected to generate direct and indirect employment opportunities in Bihar, a government statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-to-woo-poll-bound-bihar-with-psu-projects/articleshow/78084354.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||India added 1 million Covid cases, 13,000 deaths in 12 days||NEW DELHI: India has recorded more than 1 million Covid-19 infections in the first 12 days of September amid an unprecedented surge of the pandemic in the country. The country has also reported 13,082 deaths during this period, the highest toll from the virus recorded in any country so far this month. Covid-19: Complete coverageWith 95,249 fresh cases reported on Saturday, India’s case count so far in September is 10,65,796, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. By contrast, India had recorded over 19.8 lakh cases in August, the highest by any country for any month. If current trends continue, India will have recorded more cases than the August tally by September 24. Live updates: Coronavirus outbreakThe country’s death toll in September is also the world’s highest so far, with both the US and Brazil having recorded around 10,000 fatalities each this month. On Saturday, 1,115 deaths were reported in the country, the toll staying above 1,000 for the sixth straight day. The day’s fresh cases dropped marginally from Friday’s record high of nearly 98,000, with many of the worst-hit states reporting a slight dip. However, nine states recorded their highest single-day jump in infections — Delhi (4,321 new cases), Chhattisgarh (3,964), Haryana (2,783), Madhya Pradesh (2,347), J&K (1,698), Rajasthan (1,669), Gujarat (1,365), Uttarakhand (1,115) and Goa (740). More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh became the fifth state in the country to record more than 3 lakh Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra added 22,084 new Covid-19 cases with 391 deaths on Saturday. Watch India records 1 million Covid cases, 13,000 deaths in first 12 days of September||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-added-1-million-cases-13000-deaths-in-12-days/articleshow/78084372.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||Disappointment grips G23 a day after Cong's organisational rejig||NEW DELHI: A day after Congress carried out an organisational reshuffle, there was a sense of disappointment in the ranks of the G23 “letter writers” even as the party said the rejig was designed to activate the party functioning in key states and to create a new leadership. But the point on which the two opposing groups agree is that the rejig bears the imprint of Rahul Gandhi and his confidants have got a political leg-up. Dissenters feel the effort is essentially to reinforce Rahul Gandhi’s grip over the party through functionaries seen as his appointees. Suspended party spokesman Sanjay Jha appeared to speak for the dissidents when he tweeted “last night, the deck chairs on the Titanic were rearranged”. Some G23 leaders are learnt to have met in the capital and discussed the reshuffle on Saturday. Ghulam Nabi Azad was quoted by reports as saying it was good decisions were being taken but he will be happy only when district and block level polls were held and grassroots workers were recognised. In a cryptic remark, AICC spokesman Manish Tewari, who signed the letter, said “Success is not permanent and failure is not fatal. It is the courage to continue that counts.” Lawyer-MP Kapil Sibal said “nomination” has become the culture and “election” is not in the agenda of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disappointment-grips-g23-a-day-after-congs-organisational-rejig/articleshow/78084389.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Netas lobby for tickets to kin as polls approach||PATNA: Election, they say, is all about family business. And the upcoming state assembly election is no exception. With the polls round the corner and seat-sharing exercise of political parties in full swing, senior politicians have started lobbying to ensure tickets for their sons, daughters and close relatives. The old guards of both ruling and opposition parties can be spotted doing rounds of party offices and meeting leaders who will matter in allotment of tickets. Sources said a senior Congress leader, who had earlier served as the Speaker of the state assembly, is lobbying for ticket for his son from an ally of the ruling NDA in the state. He wants his son to contest election from a constituency falling under Bhagalpur division. Similarly, a former Union minister and RJD leader is working hard to ensure ticket for her son from Shahabad region. An MLA from Gaya district wants his Delhi-based dentist son to be fielded as candidate of the Grand Alliance from Gaya area. Likewise, an RJD stalwart wants a ticket for his second son from Shahabad region. Another senior Congress leader from Mithilanchal is seeking a ticket for his son. A BJP legislator from Patna wants his son to replace him in the ensuing election. An LJP MP is wants her young daughter to be fielded from one of the constituencies in Muzaffarpur district. “It’s our traditional seat and the party should retain it in the coming election also,” the MP said, requesting anonymity. Another leader, who earlier served as CM, said he wanted his second son to contest election from one of the constituencies in Magadh region. His elder son is already a lawmaker. A former MP has been assured ticket for his wife, who will contest from a constituency in Vaishali district as RJD candidate. The list of netas seeking tickets for their sons, daughters and close relatives is long. Such faces are in all parties, including BJP, JD(U), RJD, LJP, Congress and RLSP. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said CM Nitish Kumar, who is also the national president of the party, never promoted ‘pariwarwad (dynasty)’. “A few exceptions may be there, but overall there is no ‘pariwarwad’ in JD(U),” he said. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said it would be wrong to blame the RJD only for the mess. “Tell me, which party in the state is not giving tickets to close relatives of its leaders? I strongly refute the allegation levelled against Lalu-Rabri family,” he said. A political analyst and former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar, said the concept of dynastic rule has been prevalent in Indian politics for long. “It is, in fact, synonymous with Indian politics,” he added. In 2015 assembly polls, over a dozen relatives of senior politicians, including MPs and MLAs, had contested election from different political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/netas-lobby-for-tickets-to-kin-as-polls-approach/articleshow/78083264.cms||Ramashankar
September 13, 2020||Rajkot||Rain hits parts of Saurashtra||Rajkot: Heavy rains lashed parts of Saurashtra and Kutch regions after a brief dry spell on Saturday. Kalyanpur taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka recorded 136mm or rain till 8pm on Saturday. Bhuj, Anjar, Rapar talukas of Kutch also reported medium to heavy rainfall. The state has received around 124% of average annual rainfall this season so far, according to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), Gandhingar. The India Meteorological Department's Ahmedabad centre has said between Monday and Wednesday, parts of Saurashtra and south Gujarat regions are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall, as well as light to moderate rainfall in many parts of the district over the next five days. A few villages of Kalyanpur and many roads in Bhuj and Gandhidham town of Kutch were left waterlogged for several hours due to heavy downpour. Bhuj and Anjar talukas of Kutch district received 89mm and 55 mm rainfall respectively. With this, Gujarat has so far receive 1,027.19 mm rain, which is 123.61% of average annual rainfall, it said. Kutch district received 257.58% of annual average rainfall of 412 mm, followed by Saurashtra with 166.41%, north Gujarat 107.85% and south Gujarat 105.21%, the SEOC said. However, east central Gujarat has got just 90.63% of average annual rainfall. SOEC data showed that out of 1027.19 mm rainfall the state has received so far during the current season, 644.51 mm was received in August alone. A majority of the 251 talukas in the state have received over 500 mm rainfall, with 102 of them getting over 1,000 mm, while 18 talukas have seen rainfall between 251- 500mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rain-hits-parts-of-saurashtra/articleshow/78082032.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Mutation help desk after refusal plaints||Kolkata: The chairman of KMC board of administrators, Firhad Hakim, on Saturday assured that from now on the KMC website will feature a special help desk for mutation-related issues. The civic body’s assessment department officials will be asked to explain the reason why mutation certificate is not granted to an applicant and post it on the website. According to an assessment department official, Hakim’s move was prompted by regular calls from citizens complaining against refusal by a section of civic officials. Last week, a south Kolkata resident called him to complain about a KMC official who did not show reasons for not issuing a mutation certificate for the complainant’s flat for more than a year. But, according to an assessment department official, often citizens buy flats without knowing the character of the land on which the building is constructed. “In several areas, buildings are constructed by filling up water bodies. In such cases, we can’t issue mutation certificates,” said an official. However, Hakim has cautioned a section of civic officials against not taking care of citizens’ grievances. “Any negligence on part of civic officials will be dealt with accordingly,” said a senior KMC official in general administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mutation-help-desk-after-refusal-plaints/articleshow/78082438.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Patna boy is state topper in JEE Main||PATNA: Patna boy Shubh Kumar has emerged as the state topper in Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main, the results of which were announced by the National Testing Agency on Friday. He scored 99.99 percentile and secured AIR 57. In girls’ category, Akriti Pandey has topped the exam in the state with 99.95 percentile. The examination for admissions to premier engineering institutes like IITs and NITs was held from September 1 to 6. Around 65,000 candidates had appeared for JEE in the state. Shubh, a student of Radiant International School in Patna, had secured 98% in Class XII board exam this year. The boy said he cracked the prestigious competitive exam in first go. “I dedicated 12 hours a day for self-study. I took coaching classes for two years, which helped me score well in Class XII as well as JEE Main. The engineering preparations cover almost 90% of the board syllabus,” he said. Shubh had scored 97% in Class X board exam. Born to Sushil Kumar Suman (businessman and JD(U) leader) and Reena Kumari (homemaker), Shubh wants to pursue BTech in computer science and engineering (CSE) from IIT-Delhi or IIT-Mumbai. “Further, I want to do research in the field of computer science,” he said. He added, “During the lockdown, I totally focused on self-study, physical exercise and sports, which helped me concentrate on my studies. Now, I have to focus on JEE (Advance).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-boy-is-state-topper-in-jee-main/articleshow/78081883.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 13, 2020||Patna||Special trains to Delhi, Mumbai run to their capacity from Bihar||PATNA: The occupancy rate of special trains originating from different places under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) has gone up considerably. They are running at full capacity to New Delhi, Mumbai, Howrah, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Secunderabad and Pune. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the occupancy of the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Rajdhani special (02309), which has 1,134 berths, is almost 107%. Similarly, the Rajgir-New Delhi Shramjeevi Express special (02391) and the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Sampoorna Kranti special (02393) are running with an occupancy rate of 179% and 135%, respectively. “The occupancy rate of all Delhi-bound special trains from Patna and other places was hardly 45% in June and July,” the CPRO told this newspaper. Altogether 2,673 passengers travelled to Howrah on Thursday by the Patna-Howrah Janshatabdi special (02024), which has 2,029 seats. Its occupancy rate has gone up from 55% in July to 132% now. “The occupancy of the Saharsa-New Delhi special (02553) is 166% and that of the Darbhanga-New Delhi special (02565) is 155% at present. Similarly, the Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar special (02557), which has 1,571 berths, had an occupancy rate of 143% on Friday,” Kumar said and added that the occupancy rate of the Raxaul-Anand Vihar special (05273), Danapur-Pune special (02150) and Muzaffarpur-Ahmedabad special (09084) was 138%, 174% and 171%, respectively. The Danapur-Secunderabad special (02792) and the Danapur-Bengaluru special (02296) are running with an occupancy rate of 174% and 189% while the Patliputra-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special (02142) and the Patna-Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai special (03201) have recorded an occupancy rate of 170% and 171%, respectively. The occupancy of the Darbhanga-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special (01062) is 187% and that of the Patna-Shalimar special (02214) is 147%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/special-trains-to-delhi-mumbai-run-to-their-capacity-from-state/articleshow/78081898.cms||Kumod Verma
September 13, 2020||Patna||Patna airport terminal building by March 2023: Minister||PATNA: Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday said the new terminal building at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport would be ready by March 2023 to meet rising traffic growth. Reviewing the ongoing work at Patna airport, the minister said the upcoming terminal building would be equipped with 52 check-in counters, in-line baggage handling system, five conveyers for arriving passengers and five aerobridges. “It will be a four-star Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA)-rated and an energy-efficient building,” he said. The minister expressed satisfaction with the ongoing work at Patna airport on the new terminal building and other allied structures, including multi-level car parking, air traffic control-cum-technical building and fire station. He also inspected the extended and modified area of the existing terminal building on the eastern side of the airport. Puri paid floral tribute to the bust statue of Jaya Prakash Narayan on the airport premises and also visited Patna Sahib Gurdwara. Patna airport director Bhupesh CH Negi briefed the minister about the ongoing work on new terminal building and the modification of the existing one. He said, “As an interim measure, the existing terminal building of Patna airport has been extended and modified to decongest and enhance passenger experience,” he said. Meanwhile, Airports Authority India (AAI)-Patna officials said the minister has hinted at increasing the number of flights at Patna airport as about 60% pre-Covid domestic flights may resume operations by Diwali festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-terminal-building-of-patna-airport-to-be-ready-by-march-23-minister/articleshow/78083202.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Special trains to Trichy, Indore overbooked||KOLKATA: The two long-distance special trains announced from Howrah — among 86 for the whole country — have been overbooked. While all classes of the first train to Indore on Monday have been fully booked, there are 250 names on the wait list for sleeper class in the first Howrah-Tiruchirappalli Special on Thursday. No confirmed tickets are available for the AC coaches either. “People want to get back to their jobs. Some may also be returning home after remaining stuck for over five months. The trains in the eastern sector are a success. The Howrah-Indore Special is a tri-weekly train. It is overbooked for Monday, Thursday and Saturday. Tickets are only available for September 21 or later. This is the case for all the special trains announced under Eastern Railway (ER),” a senior official said. The Howrah-Tiruchirappalli Special is a South Eastern Railway (SER) train and has been overbooked nearly six days before departure. This is a bi-weekly train and officials believe there will continue to be a rush even if its frequency is increased. The ministry of railways has indicated that more long-distance trains will be run in sectors where there is demand. “We have also found that the daily Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar Terminus Special is fully booked for the next week while the Deoghar-Agartala Weekly Special is fully booked for the first two weeks. Only a few berths are available for the next four weeks. The Madhupur-Anand Vihar Terminus Weekly Special is also overbooked for the first three trips. We would like to run more trains to clear the rush after discussions with the states,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/special-trains-to-trichy-indore-overbooked/articleshow/78082433.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 13, 2020||Allahabad||Ex-MP Atiq Ahmed’s property demolished in Allahabad||PRAYAGRAJ: Continuing the crackdown against assets owned by former MP Atiq Ahmed, a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), district administration and police razed an illegal structure owned by the jailed don in Civil Lines on Saturday. On Saturday morning, PDA officials led by zonal officer Sat Shukla and officer on special duty (enforcement) Alok Pandey arrived at the site and supervised the drive which went on for several hours. The team backed by heavy police force led by CO (Civil Lines) and an SDM-rank official. A multi-storey building was proposed to be built on the land. The area has now been sealed. “The unfinished structure was spread over an area of around 600 square meter for which the map was submitted, but it was rejected by PDA. Later, notices were issued by the department, but they were of no use,” said Pandey. The property is estimated to be worth several crores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ex-mp-atiqs-property-demolished/articleshow/78081487.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: With elections undecided, CPM cannot afford to renounce K T Jaleel||Kozhikode: CPM is unlikely to disown minister K T Jaleel though the opposition may intensify agitation demanding his resignation after he appeared before enforcement directorate (ED) for questioning on Friday in the gold smuggling case. Jaleel enjoys a special relationship with CM Pinarayi Vijayan which helped him find a place in the cabinet. He was selected though there were senior leaders like P T A Rahim, who had rebelled against IUML’s leadership. But, unlike Rahim, Jaleel lacks organizational back up. He rose among the ranks in LDF even while Indian National League, which supported the front for years, stood outside for a long time. After he exited IUML, Jaleel became a weapon for the CPM to take on IUML. He moved closer to Vijayan amid factional feuds in CPM. It is believed that the famous ‘sea and bucket’ metaphor in Pinarayi’s speech against V S Achuthanandan was Jaleel’s contribution. He remained the vital link between CPM and the Muslim community as the party made efforts to make inroads into the community. The link was strengthened after he became the minister for Haj and Waqf. Jaleel enjoys a good rapport with Sunni factions in Kerala, especially Kanthapuram group. He was the moving force behind the unity talks between the warring Sunni factions. In Jaleel, the EK faction found a link with the LDF government. Traditionally, the group was dependent on IUML for negotiations with the government. But things were not in favour of IUML after Syed Muhammad Jifri Muthukoya Thangal became the president of Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema, the body of Sunni scholars. To the dismay of IUML, EK faction leaders started direct dealings with LDF government with the minister’s help. There was a feeling that EK faction leaders were getting cosy to the CPM. Sensing the danger of getting side-lined, IUML tried to torpedo the unity talks of the Sunnis. CPM cannot afford to lose a leader like Jaleel, who can influence at least some section of the Sunnis at a time when IUML has struck a deal with Jamaat-e-Islami in view of the ensuing elections. Jaleel will be the ideal person for CPM to exploit the disenchantment a section of the EK faction has with IUML and it may reflect in elections as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/with-elections-undecided-cpm-cannot-afford-to-renounce-jaleel/articleshow/78081796.cms||Prashanth M P
September 13, 2020||Patna||ECR to run three trains for NEET candidates tomorrow||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to run three special trains on Monday to clear the rush of candidates, who will return to their native places after writing the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on Sunday. These will originate from Danapur and travel to Bhagalpur, Saharsa and Katihar. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Danapur-Bhagalpur special (03278) will leave Danapur at 6.30pm on Monday and reach Bhagalpur at 11pm. It will stop at Patna, Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Mokama, Lakshisarai, Kiul, Jamalpur and Sultanganj. Similarly, the Danapur-Saharsa special (03276) will leave at 6.45pm and reach Saharsa at 11.55pm. It will halt at Patna, Khusrupur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Begusarai, Sahebpur Kamal, Khagaria, Mansi and Simri-Bakhtiarpur. “The Danapur-Katihar special (03274) will depart at 7pm and reach its destination at 2.30am while stopping at Patna, Bakhtiarpur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Begusarai, Sahebpur Kamal, Khagaria, Mansi, Birpur and Naugachia,” the CPRO told this newspaper on Saturday. Besides, the railways has started running NEET special trains between Darbhanga and Danapur as well as Sahebganj and Patna from September 12 to 14. The Darbhanga-Danapur special (05577/05578), which runs on the Muzaffarpur-Hajipur-Sonepur-Patliputra Junction route, leaves at 5.30am and reaches Danapur at 9.55am. On its return journey, it departs at 6.10pm and reaches Darbhanga at 11.30pm the same day. The Sahebganj-Patna Junction special (03413/03414) leaves at 9.45pm and reaches Patna at 4.45am. On its return journey, it leaves Patna at 8.55pm and reaches Sahebganj at 4.05am. Train’s run extended: The railways has extended the run of the Muzaffarpur-Sonepur special (03312/03270) up to Patliputra Junction till Tuesday to help NEET examinees reach their centres or return home conveniently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-run-three-trains-for-neet-candidates-tomorrow/articleshow/78081910.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara boy scores a 100 second time in JEE-Main||Vadodara: City boy Nisarg Chadha has made Vadodara and Gujarat proud by scoring 100 percentile in Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) and bagging All India Rank (AIR)-2 in the engineering entrance exam conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). This is for the second time that Nisarg, a student of Navrachana School, Sama has received NTA score 100 in JEE-Main. A total of 24 students from across the country have bagged NTA score 100. “Scoring good marks and rank was always my wish but getting such good results is like a dream come true. All my teachers guided me, helped solve my doubts and always encouraged and motivated me. My principal always trusted my efficiency, my parents always supported me in every way. They have all helped me get this result today. Thank you will be too small, a word, to say,” said Nisarg, who has started preparing for JEE (Advanced) and is planning to pursue research in physics. “Nisarg was a bright kid right from childhood but a complete nurturing makes him what he is today,” said Nisarg’s mother Dr Amola Chadha, who along with her husband urologist Dr Amit Chadha thanked the school family for moulding him. During the ongoing Covid-19 induced pandemic, Nisarg’s parents took extra care ensuring that the 17-year-old keeps focus on his studies. “We could not help in his studies but tried helping him in our small little ways. During the pandemic, we did not go out as we don’t want to take the risk of getting exposed to infection. The entire focus is on JEE (Advanced),” said Dr Amola. “Nisarg’s achievement is a matter of great pride and joy for us. He has excelled not only in academics but in sports and co-curricular activities as well,” said principal Suprabha Menon. “He is a role model for younger students,” said Ushashri Maddali, “really proud to be his class teacher and math teacher.” Nisarg has been a KVPY scholar and has received the budding mathematician of the year award at Infinity 2019 organized by the Aditya Birla Public School, Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-boy-scores-a-100-second-time-in-jee-main/articleshow/78081688.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Dreaded Maoist zonal commander surrenders in Gaya||GAYA: Nawal Bhuiyan, a zonal commander of the dreaded CPI (Maoist), on Friday severed his nearly two-decade-old ties with the Maoist outfit as he surrendered at a function organized by the CRPF in Gaya on Friday. The cases pending against the surrendered Maoist include, blowing up of a government middle school at Sondaha village under Banke Bazar police station earlier this year and participation in an encounter a few years back in which a CRPF constable was gunned down by the rebels. Bhuiyan has since been forwarded to Gaya Central jail. He did not surrender the weapon allotted to him by the banned organisation. According to Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra, the Maoist leader’s conduct inside as well as outside the jail will be observed during the next three years. “The rehabilitation package as per the government scheme will be given to the Maoist only after satisfactory completion of the probation period,” said the SSP. “Skill development training will also be given to the ex-Maoist once he gets bail in the cases pending against him,” the SSP added. The zonal commander, as per official records, is accused in 9 cases registered in different police stations of Sherghati subdivision of Gaya district and another 38 cases registered against him in the neighbouring Aurangabad district. Asked about his weapon, the SSP said Bhuiyan told cops that he slipped out on some alibi leaving behind the weapon at his hideout to avoid suspicion by fellow members of the armed squad. The SSP said altogether five high-ranking Maoists have surrendered in the last three months. He expected more such surrenders as the Maoist outfit’s supply chain stands broken and it now finds it difficult to provide even the bare necessities to its squad members. At the function held at the CRPF premises on jail road, Magadh Range IG Rakesh Rathi urged the Naxals to give up arms and join the mainstream. The IG promised all help in the rehabilitation of the misguided men and women. Those present at the surrender function included CRPF DIG Sanjay Kumar, Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra, Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika and CRPF commandant Nishit Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dreaded-maoist-zonal-commander-surrenders-in-gaya/articleshow/78082555.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Surat||Modi’s 70th birthday to be a green affair with 70k trees planted in Surat||Surat: About 42,000 trees have been added to the existing tree cover in the city in the last 10 days. Thanks to the deputy mayor of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), NGOs and CREDAI Surat for taking up mass tree plantation drive under the ‘Greenolution’ as part of the 70th birthday celebration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.About seven NGOs in the city, working for the conservation of environment, animals, birds and social welfare have supported the massive tree plantation drive in the city. The tree saplings are planted in the open plots of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), near the water head tanks, drainage pumping stations, common open plots (COP) of the residential societies, Canal Road etc. “This tree plantation drive is different. It is not just planting a sapling in an open plot, click pictures and leave the sapling on its own mercy. We are plating the trees with the help of the NGOs who will be taking care of the trees for three years till they are grown-up,” said deputy mayor, Nirav Shah. According to Shah, the trees planted on the open plots of the SMC will be taken care by the CREDAI Surat. The members of the CREDAI, who have their projects near the SMC’s open plots will nurture the plants by watering them twice a week and check for their well-being. “We are also distributing ayurvedic plants including tulsi, pudina, aloe vera etc. for planting in the houses. Till now, we have planted 42,000 trees and that the target of 70,000 will be achieved on the eve of PM Modi’s birthday on September 16,” said Shah. “We have committed to plant 2,000 trees under Greenolution theme of the deputy mayor. We are planting 150 trees at the historic Gandhi Baug in Bhimrad village where Mahatma Gandhi had lifted a pinch of salt during the Dandi March, on Sunday,” said Snehal Patel, president of Nature Club Surat (NCS). “We have taken the oath of nurturing all the 2,000 native tree species for the coming three years. We will be spending from our own pockets to nurture the trees in proper way,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/modis-70th-birthday-to-be-a-green-affair-with-70k-trees-planted-in-surat/articleshow/78081916.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Rohtas cop arrested for obscene talk with woman||PATNA: Incharge of Dharampura police outpost under the Nokha police station area in Rohtas district, Kameshwar Narayan Yadav (54), was arrested on Saturday after call detail records of his alleged obscene conversation with a 26-year-old woman went viral on the social media. Police said Yadav, a sub-inspector rank officer, was detained on Friday after being summoned to Sanjhauli police station. He was formally arrested on Saturday. SHO of Sanjhauli police station Dharmendra Kumar said Yadav was arrested after an FIR was registered against him with Sanjhauli police station on the basis of the woman’s statement. The SHO said the woman was an accused in a scuffle case. “Yadav was the SHO of Sanjhauli police station when the scuffle case against some people, including the woman, was registered three months back. Since then, the woman was in touch with Yadav and she probably wanted the removal of her name from the FIR. Though Yadav was later posted as incharge of Dharampura outpost, he remained in touch with the woman,” he said. The SHO said the woman have told police that the telephonic conversation which has gone viral is around two-month-old. “Yadav will be forwarded to jail after Covid-19 test,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rohtas-cop-arrested-for-obscene-talk-with-woman/articleshow/78082618.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 13, 2020||Kanpur||Online sex racket busted, nine girls rescued||Kanpur: An inter-state online sex racket was busted after the city police raided a place in Naubasta police area on Saturday. Nine girls, hailing from Assam, Delhi and Faizabad, besides the city were rescued, while 11 persons including brokers and customers were arrested. The gang was zeroed in by the Naubasta police and city police's Cyber Cell on the basis of a link posted on Twitter account recently. "The gang had posted mobile phone numbers in the link to take calls from customers, SSP Preetinder Singh said. "We have arrested one Ashish Kumar, a resident of Naubasta. On the basis of inputs provided by him, we then arrested one Raju alias Iran. They informed investigators that the girls hailing from outside the state are being supplied to customers by a broker Kalpana Gupta," he said. A decoy customer, he said, contacted the number displayed on the link. He was asked to come to a spot in the city, after which the police team, led by Naubasta police officials, raided the place on Saturday. "Twenty-one mobile phones, two motorcycles and two scooty vehicles were seized from brokers and customers. A case was registered at Naubasta police station under Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act and efforts are on to nab others involved," he added. Investigating officers said the racket has been operating for the past few years and during this time, the accused are believed to have forced scores of girls into the flesh trade. "The two girls rescued by us are from Delhi, one from Assam, one from Faizabad and the rest from city. The racket was being run across India. We are obtaining details so that their information can be shared with the authorities in other cities," a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/online-sex-racket-busted-nine-girls-rescued/articleshow/78082118.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Poll panel tough on tainted netas||PATNA: The Election Commission (EC) has issued fresh guidelines for the publicity of criminal records by contesting candidates in the assembly polls due to be held in October-November this year. The new guidelines will come into effect for the first time in the upcoming assembly election. Additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) Baijunath Prasad Singh said the contestants as well as the authorities concerned would be informed about the fresh guidelines of the Election Commission at an appropriate time. The motive behind the exercise is to create awareness among electors about tainted candidates in the fray, he added. The ACEO added, “Though I am yet to receive the copy of the revised guidelines of the commission, I have come to know about them through newspapers only. Once it reaches my office, I will act accordingly. Some changes have been put in place in the existing guidelines regarding candidates having criminal antecedents.” Sources said now the candidates would have to make three rounds of publicity of their criminal records in newspapers and TV channels. The first publicity has to be done within four days of the last date of withdrawal of nomination papers, second within fifth and eighth day of last date of withdrawal and the last from ninth day of campaign, which means two days before the polling date. The announcement of the detailed timeline is expected to be more stringent from current rules, which make it mandatory for contesting candidates to publicise their criminal antecedents in television and newspapers at least thrice during electioneering. The cost of such publicity is to be borne by candidates and political parties, a source in EC said. Sources said that there were 3450 contestants in the fray in the 2015 assembly election in the state. Of them, 1038 contestants or around 30%, had criminal records and 796 were facing serious charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poll-panel-tough-on-tainted-netas/articleshow/78083133.cms||Ramashankar
September 13, 2020||Patna||Eight BSP netas join JD(U)||PATNA: Eight Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leaders from Saran region on Saturday joined the ruling JD(U) in presence of three ministers of Nitish Kumar government along with their supporters. The joining programme was held at the JD(U) state office here where state’s planning and development minister Maheshwar Hazari, transport minister Santosh Nirala and the SC/ST welfare minister Ramesh Rishidev welcomed the BSP leaders in the JD(U) and provided them membership of the party. The BSP leaders who joined the JD(U) were its state vice-president Rajesh Tyagi, state secretaries Anant Kumar Gond, Amarendra Narayan Shrivastava and Raj Kumar Ram, former district president of Saran and Up-pramukh of Baniyapur block Sanjay Kumar Ram, Sonepur Vidhan Sabha constituency president and secretary Shravan Kumar and Pramod Kumar, respectively, and the Dighwara block unit president Dinesh Kumar Bhakta. JD(U) state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya said, “With its eight leaders joining the JD(U), the BSP has virtually lost its several active leaders in the Saran region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eight-bsp-netas-join-jdu/articleshow/78083156.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University to release first cutoff in mid-October||NEW DELHI: The first cutoff for admissions to Delhi University is likely to come out on October 12. Initially the university had thought of starting the admission process from the first week of October, but have now decided to wait for the CBSE to come out with results of improvement exams. The varsity has also initiated the option for applicants to edit their forms from September 12 till October 5. During a meeting between principals and DU administration, the principals have been informed that the university is keen on starting the admission process from October 12. “The administration asked us to prepare for the admission process as it will be completely online this year,” a principal, who wished to remain anonymous, said. Speaking to TOI, dean of admissions Shobha Bagai did not confirm the dates but said that “DU will begin the admissions from the second week of October. We are waiting for the CBSE to come out with its results.” However, some principals are unhappy with further delay. “They could have started the session in July when they were already conducting the admission online. This further delay is not correct as it will eventually put pressure on teachers to finish off the syllabus in time,” another principal of a south campus college said. The varsity has also announced that for those aspirants who want to edit their submitted registered forms for undergraduate admission can do so from their dashboard and use their email address and password to access the forms. The editing option is just a one-time facility for applicants. Once an applicant submits the form or closes the edit window, no more editing will be allowed. “Applicants must ensure that they have all the updated certificates with them before they start editing the form. The applicants can only modify the registered email ID/mobile number/gender/ category in personal section and entrance/ ECA/ sports sections,” a DU official said. Bagai added that “as of now DU has allowed editing in the registered forms only for undergraduate applicants. Since the exams of final year undergraduate and postgraduate will get over only in September and their results are yet to be declared, the edit window for PG MPhil/ PhD will be opened later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-to-release-first-cutoff-in-mid-october/articleshow/78084185.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Polls to drive rise of Covid cases in October-November, say experts||PATNA: Upcoming elections, festivals and more economic activities as the lockdown restrictions are eased may further add to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar if proper precautions are not taken, say, health experts, who expect cases to rise substantially, especially by the end of October. The data shared by the health department shows Bihar registered 1,700 cases daily on an average so far this month. This is nearly a thousand less than the number of cases reported daily in August when the average per day figure was around 2,800. Asked about the projected figure by the end of September and October, AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “By the end of September, the figure will remain same, however, by the end of October it may go up to 2,500 cases on an average every day.” He added that after unlock and with more relaxations, people do not seem to care much about preventive methods. Former president of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (Bihar chapter), Dr Arun Shah agreed that the figures may increase in October. Citing the increasing trend across the country, especially in rural areas, he said, “If cases continue to grow in the rural areas, then the condition may deteriorate even for Bihar. At such places, people do not have adequate health facilities.” He pointed out the huge number of AES fatalities reported the previous year in Bihar. “In 2019, there were many deaths due to AES and the reason was the non-involvement of government machinery, especially health workers who were in the election process. Most of them were busy conducting the election, which led to so many deaths. So this has to be kept in the mind that testing and other health facilities are not interrupted because of the election,” said Dr Arun. However, Covid-19 nodal officer at JLNMCH, Dr HS Sharma had a different view. Dr Sharma said he was not expecting any increase in the number of cases now, as the peak has been crossed. “It is very difficult to say now, but one thing is clear that those who had to follow the preventive rules were following in the lockdown and those who were careless continued with that attitude even during restriction. Hence, I do not expect much rise in the cases.” However, he added that a second surge, if it happens, will be problematic for Bihar. He is hopeful that the condition may improve after three months when herd immunity is likely to be achieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/polls-to-drive-rise-of-covid-cases-in-oct-nov-experts/articleshow/78081847.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘759 domestic violence cases registered in 3 months’||PATNA: Nearly 759 domestic violence cases were registered in the state from April to June, stated a report released by the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) in Patna on Friday. According to experts, domestic abuse is often witnessed in low-income rural households, but women living in urban areas are no exception. The Bihar State Women Commission (BSWC) has registered more than 1,000 such complaints since May. “With the closure of offices and schools amid the lockdown, many couples are going through difficulties in their relationships, which escalate to verbal abuse and physical violence. We have, therefore, reopened our office and are in the process of disposing of the registered cases,” BSWC chairman Dilmani Mishra told this newspaper on Saturday. 23-year-old Phulwarisharif resident, Sunita (name changed), who is a housemaid, got married to an auto driver in September last year, but moved back to her parents’ house in June. She rued, “Due to financial crunch during the lockdown, my husband was so frustrated that he began hurling abuses and assaulting me physically.” A victim of verbal abuse, Bhavna Singh (name changed), claimed that she was subjected to mistreatment by her husband and in-laws on several occasions. “The lockdown took a toll on my health because my family expected me to cook, clean and look after them in every possible way. When I did not fulfil their demands, they passed nasty comments,” said Bhavna, who wants to move to her brother’s place for a while. Sandeep Ojha, state head of an NGO based in Patliputra Colony, pointed out that women suffered the most — emotionally and physically — amid any crisis. “The Covid crisis has led to a lot of tension in many households due to job losses, bankruptcy and family disputes. As a result, many men are venting out their frustration on the women in the family,” he said and added that the pandemic had highlighted the importance of uplifting women at the grass-roots level. Sandeep’s NGO is working with nearly 4,500 elected panchayat-level women representatives of 14 districts in Bihar. They conduct cluster meetings at the block level and spread awareness about the menace of domestic violence. Besides, the Women Development Corporation runs 38 helplines in different districts in close coordination with the district magistrates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/759-domestic-violence-cases-registered-in-3-months/articleshow/78081951.cms||Arunima Lal
September 13, 2020||Patna||BJP president meets Bihar CM ahead of NDA seat-sharing talks next week||PATNA: BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda called on CM Nitish Kumar at the latter’s official residence at 1 Anney Marg, here on Saturday. Both leaders discussed various issues ahead of the seat-sharing talks the NDA allies for the coming assembly election in Bihar. The meeting lasted for more than half an hour. BJP sources said at the meeting “certain political issues” were discussed ahead of the finalization of seat-sharing formula between the NDA’s three allies—BJP, JD(U) and the Chirag Paswan-led LJP. “The seat-sharing formula for NDA partners will most probably be finalized after September 14 when the Union home minister Amit Shah and Chirag Paswan are expected to meet in Delhi,” a senior BJP leader told TOI on Saturday. At the meeting, Nadda was accompanied by his party’s national general secretary and Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, state president Sanjay Jaiswal and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi. Whereas Nitish Kumar was accompanied by JD(U)’s former state president and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh. Sushil Modi, who was also at the meeting, told TOI, “As Nadda Ji has arrived in Bihar, he paid a courtesy visit to meet the CM.” Modi also said the meeting between Nadda and Nitish was nowhere related to the seat-sharing talks. “Do you think Nadda Ji needs to arrive in Patna to hold seat-sharing talks?” he asked. Assembly elections in the state are due between October and November. The schedule for assembly polls is likely to be announced by the end of this month or the first week of October. The Election Commission has already indicated that it would like to conclude the election process before the end of the term of the present assembly on November 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nadda-meets-nitish-ahead-of-nda-seat-sharing-talks-next-week/articleshow/78083591.cms||Madan Kumar
September 13, 2020||Chennai||Gutka row: 17 DMK MLAs move court over fresh privilege notices||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin and 17 other MLAs have moved the Madras high court challenging fresh breach of privilege notices issued to them by the privilege committee of Tamil Nadu assembly for bringing ‘banned’ gukta packets into the House. On August 25, the first bench comprising Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy set aside the earlier notices dated August 28, 2017, on the ground that they suffered fundamental error in assuming that the notification banning gutka products issued in the state also impinged on the conduct of the legislators. The court, however, left it open to the privilege committee to decide if it wants to initiate fresh proceedings on the issue. Subsequently, on September 7, the committee issued fresh notices to the 18 MLAs including Stalin. According to the petitioners, the fresh notice has been issued to take a decision on three issues displaying of gutkha packets in the House without the permission of the speaker, disturbance caused to assembly proceedings, setting a bad precedent, and causing disorderand bringing disrepute to the proceedings of the assembly. The committee claimed that the notices have been issued in view of the reference made by the speaker dated July 19, 2017 in connection with the issue. But the reference, which was published in the assembly minutes only speaks about the act of “bringing and displaying prohibited items within the legislative assembly”, the petitioners said. Other issues outlined in the notice are nowhere found in the reference, they added. This apart, timing for issuance of fresh notice seeking explanation by September 14 is not innocuous or coincidental, as assembly sessions are scheduled to convene from September 14, the MLAs alleged. “The mala fides are writ large on the face of the notice as its primary objective is to prevent the petitioners and other legislators belonging to the principal opposition party from attending the upcoming assembly session,” they asserted. The legislators further contended that the fresh notice also arises out of the same reference made by the speaker dated July 19 in which the speaker had arrived at a predetermined conclusion with regard to the question of privilege and therefore, the present notice also suffers from the same foundational error. The pleas which have been filed in the registry of the high court are likely to be brought to the notice of the Chief Justice AP Sahi on September 14 by senior advocate R Shanmugasundaram seeking an urgent hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gutka-row-17-dmk-mlas-move-court-over-fresh-privilege-notices/articleshow/78083502.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid recovery rate touches 90%, tally 1.56 lakh||PATNA: Altogether 1,421 Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,56,866, while the toll went up to 808 with the state health department reporting 11 more deaths. Data shared by the health department shows 1,700 people recovered in the past 24 hours and the recovery rate of Bihar has touched almost 90%. With a total 1,41,158 recoveries, active cases now stand at 14,898. Of 11 deaths on Saturday, one was from Patna, three from Madhubani, followed by two deaths in Araria and one death each from Darbhanga, Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Saharsa, Samastipur and Supaul. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths, including two from the state capital. One was a 65-year-old man from South Mandari and another was a 68-year-old man from Anand Path under Anisabad police station. The third deceased was a 57-year-old man from Govindpur village under Bidupur police station. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal in charge, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 10 patients were discharged and 13 new patients were admitted on Saturday. The NMCH reported the lone death of a 65-year-old man from Narpatganj in Araria. While five patients were discharged from the hospital, two were admitted on Saturday. Of the total 1,421 cases reported on Saturday, 205 were from Patna, taking the tally to 23,817. However, with 21,729 recoveries and 184 deaths, active cases stand at 1,904. Covid-19 cases reported from other districts are Muzaffarpur (67), Araria (62), Purnia (60), Madhubani (53), Katihar (51) and East Champaran (50). Rest of the districts registered less than 50 cases. A total of 1,05,930 samples were tested in 24 hours and so far more than 47 lakh samples have been tested in the state. Health department secretary Lokesh Kumar said the state was testing five to six times more than the recommendation given by the World Health Organization, which has advised for 140 tests per million of the population per day. Sharing information on containment zones in the state, Lokesh said there were a total 3,214 such zones with 9.94 lakh households. Rural areas had 2,383 containment zones and urban areas 832. He further said that an effective awareness campaign was being undertaken in such zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-covid-recovery-rate-touches-90-tally-1-56l/articleshow/78081860.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 13, 2020||Patna||Raghuvansh critical, put on ventilator||PATNA: The 74-year-old RJD founder member, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who is undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Delhi was put on ventilator early on Saturday after his health deteriorated. Raghuvansh had been admitted to the hospital more than a month ago for post-Covid complications and later he had developed pneumonia. On Monday night, he was moved to the ICU after developing a persistent cough. “His condition has become very serious today. His oxygen saturation has also dropped,” said an AIIMS doctor over the phone, requesting anonymity. Asked whether Raghuvansh was in a condition to write letters on September 10, while being in ICU, the doctor said, “I cannot tell exactly what his health condition was on September 10, but today it is very serious.” While the doctor at AIIMS-Delhi said the former parliamentarian was seriously ill on Saturday, the mystery around who is uploading his handwritten letters on his social media account remains unresolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvansh-critical-put-on-ventilator/articleshow/78083559.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Firhad visits Rawdon Sq, hints at parks reopening||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) may reopen parks across the city from next week, KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim hinted on Saturday. A final decision will be taken on Monday. Though several parks are already open to morning walkers, this move could mean opening parks for longer hours both in the morning as well as evening. Hakim on Saturday visited Rawdon Square with senior KMC officials and Bonani Kakkar of NGO Public. The park that has been shut for 33 years is currently being spruced up for reopening. Work is on to clean it up, lay a murram path and plant trees. The opening of Rawdon Square, and some of the other parks, will, however, have to be preceded by clearing uprooted trees and debris left behind by Amphan, waterlogging caused by excessive rain this year and normal seasonal demands of infectious disease prevention. Rawdon Square, a three-acre park on Rawdon Street, was shut by the Left Front government when its plans to build an entertainment complex were opposed by Congress with Mamata Banerjee, then a firebrand Youth Congress leader, refusing to let a public park be converted for any other purpose. In June 2017, egged on by Kolkata Police, the PWD agreed to reopen the park but for exclusive use as a parking lot for a school. This was when Public rushed to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and obtained a stay order. Even prior to this, the NGO had attempted to have the park reopened by sending petitions to the KMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/firhad-visits-rawdon-sq-hints-at-parks-reopening/articleshow/78082456.cms||Saikat Ray
September 13, 2020||Hubballi||Army soldier’s house in Belagavi village torched by relatives||Belagavi: Caught in the middle of a property tussle, the house of an Indian Army soldier in Kine village in Belagavi was torched by his distant relatives. Although the incident occurred on August 31, it came to light only recently after the soldier shared the details on a social media post. Police have so far arrested three people in connection with the case. Bharatesh Chaugale, the soldier who has lost his house, is currently on duty in Assam, while his sister, who works in the Border Security Force is in Kolkata. Both siblings are now with their parents, and are quite afraid. The two of them had come home to Kine village to spend the holidays with their parents. On August 31 night, distant relatives of Chaugale’s identified as Mahesh Dukre, Namadev Dukre and Pintu Dukre first assaulted Bharatesh’s father at a bus stop. When Chaugale’s sister and mother rushed to the bus stop to stop the assailants, they were also attacked. Chaugale subsequently had all three of them admitted to a private hospital so they could receive treatment for their wounds. The trio of miscreants allegedly entered Chaugale’s house when the family was at the hospital, and set it ablaze with all the belongings inside, including a two-wheeler. The horrific incident was narrated by Chaugale on a video that subsequently went viral on social media, and Belagavi rural police subsequently booked a case. Sources said that Chaugale had lent a sum of Rs 3 lakh to one of the three people now arrested, and when he asked for the money, they grew angry, and proceeded to torch the house. Belagavi city police commissioner K Tyagarajan said that the trio who had been arrested had lodged a complaint accusing Chaugale of assaulting them. “After watching Chaugale’s video, I directed Belagavi rural police to register a case, and an investigation will be undertaken,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/army-soldiers-house-in-belagavi-village-torched-by-relatives/articleshow/78081792.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Cong: Nitish govt, Centre neglected migrant workers||PATNA: Former Union minister and Congress leader Kumari Shailja on Saturday hit out at the central and state governments for the troubles the migrant workers from Bihar had faced during lockdown. While addressing the Congress’s virtual meet for Madhepura and Saharsa, she asked the people of Bihar to change the government in the state. Shailja said the pains the migrant workers had gone through could never be forgotten. “In those difficult times, the Modi government at the Centre and the Nitish government in Bihar had meted out step-motherly treatment to migrant workers,” she added. Congress’s national spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the state government has miserably failed to address the issue of unemployment. “Youths are very angry and will uproot this government. People have also seen how Nitish had quarantined himself in the time of need,” he added. The Congress leaders also hailed party high command for giving bigger responsibilities to former parliamentarian Tariq Anwar and former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar. Anwar has been made the party’s national general secretary and Meira a permanent invitee of the Congress Working Committee. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said, “Both the leaders are from Bihar and I am sure they will immensely contribute in strengthening the party at the national level and in the upcoming assembly election.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-nitish-govt-centre-neglected-migrant-workers/articleshow/78082638.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Easing of restrictions leads to spike in Covid cases||PATNA: With phase-wise easing of curbs since June, the number of coronavirus cases has recorded a sharp increase in the state. From 3,807 on May 31 to 1,56,866 on September 12, the state recorded a massive 4,120% rise in number of Covid cases in three-and-a-half months. Patna DM Kumar Ravi attributed the increase in number of cases to people not taking precautionary measures like wearing masks at public places and following social distancing norms. “Even though the government has allowed civic activities to resume, people should not forget that we are still in the middle of a pandemic. People should avoid unnecessary public gatherings and take preventive measures to protect themselves and others from the virus,” the DM said. He added while the overall cumulative count of positive cases has increased since May, there has been a decline in cases recorded per day since mid-August. “After recording a peak of 4,520 active cases on August 9, the number of active cases in the district has come down to 1,891,” he said. President of state unit of Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Dr Arun Shah, said massive rise in Covid-19 cases during the unlock phase is a national trend. “Covid-19 cases in the country are approaching 1 lakh per day. The number of tests has also touched 1 million per day in the country. As more and more people are being tested, the cases are bound to increase. The testing capacity in Bihar has also increased manifold in the last few months. The number of samples tested per day has increased from around 40,000 in August to more than 1 lakh in September. This is one of the major reasons for rise in positive cases in the state,” he added. Dr Shah, however, added the rising number of cases in rural areas was a big concern. “It is well established that close to 20% of cases require proper monitoring and early intervention to reduce mortality. There is a possibility that in the coming months, the fatality rate may rise,” he said. While the reopening of the economy has increased the risk of infection for all sections of the society, the elderly are most vulnerable. Government data on Covid-19 suggests that mortality rate has been higher among elderly people. “Senior citizens are at a higher risk of developing severe illness from Covid-19 because of potential underlying comorbidities, such as hypertension, cardiac problems, bronchitis and asthma. Hence, even though civic activities have resumed, elderly should not venture out in public places unless it is necessary,” said former President of state chapter of Indian Medical Association Dr Rajeev Ranjan Prasad. With the government also allowing partial reopening of schools for students of classes 9 to 12 on a voluntary basis under Unlock 4.0, parents in the city are a worried lot. “I cannot risk the lives of my children. I am not sending them to school before a vaccine comes out, come what may,” said Shiv Narayan, a resident of Patel Nagar in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/easing-of-restrictions-leads-to-spike-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78081833.cms||Arunima Lal
September 13, 2020||Patna||Self-reliant Bihar key to root out unemployment: J P Nadda||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Saturday launched the party’s ‘Atmnirbhar Bihar’ campaign, besides flagging off ‘raths’ fitted with digital devices for various districts to collect suggestions from people to be used as road map to develop the state over the next five years. Nadda said PM Narendra Modi has given a call for ‘Atmnirbhar Bharat’ and Bihar government would take the lead to make ‘Atmnirbhar Bihar’ by using the state’s inherent strengths, like its variety of agriculture and horticultural resources, as well as human resources to create the state’s wealth. He said the party’s leaders would propagate the idea among the people using the digital platforms and town hall meetings, while the party workers would reach out to 2 crore families in the state by using the digital media. Nadda said the NDA partners – BJP, JD(U) and LJP – would go to the polls under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar. “The people of Bihar have made an identity for themselves as hardworking people outside the state, but now they will also use their skill, hard work and dedication to develop their own state taking the message from the PM,” Nadda said. He was addressing a meeting of intellectuals representing various fields of activities and select party workers at a function held at the party’s state headquarters before leaving for Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur. State BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Nityanand Rai were also present. Nadda also released the party’s theme song ‘Jan jan ki pukar, atmnirbhar Bihar’ and the toll-free number 6357171717, as well as a website – www.atmnirbharbihar.com – to be used by people to submit their suggestions. Speaking on the occasion, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said development would remain the top priority of the NDA government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/self-reliant-bihar-key-to-root-out-unemployment-nadda/articleshow/78083503.cms||Abhay Singh
September 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s sixth letter posted on Facebook attacks Lalu Prasad family||PATNA: In yet another hand-written letter posted on a social media account of RJD veteran Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Saturday, he made a veiled attack on Lalu Prasad and his family, accusing them of practising dynasty politics. He also claimed that the party has deviated from the ideals on which it was founded. This letter is also dated September 10 like his previous five letters, including the first one, in which he parted ways with the RJD chief, and those addressed to CM Nitish Kumar. Attacking the Lalu family, the letter written in Hindi stated, “Photos of five members of one family have replaced Gandhi, BR Ambedkar, Jai Prakash, Lohiya and Karpoori Thakur.” He also complained that his suggestions for strengthening the party were not even read. Though a source in AIIMS-Delhi confirmed that Raghuvansh was put on ventilator early on Saturday, the letter was uploaded in his Facebook account the same day. “Based on ideology and for the sake of Mahatma Gandhi, Babu Jaiprakash, Dr Lohiya, Baba Saheb and Jannayak Karpoori Thakur, lakhs of people had suffered, but they did not deter. However, now, socialism has been replaced by feudalism, caste-politics, dynasty politics, familism and communalism, which are dangerous. Socialism emerged against these evils. And now photos of the five great men have been replaced by the photo of five members of the same family,” Raghuvansh said hinting at the Lalu family. Raghuvansh said there was a time when we used to give speeches that ‘a queen does not give birth to the king’ in a democracy. “But what is happening now?” he questioned, which political experts feel pointed towards Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav's projection as the CM face. Without naming any political party, he talked about the “sale of party tickets” and at the end complained about how people holding "bigger responsibilities" were demoted. He even said he had written letters on how to strengthen RJD’s organizational structure, but those suggestions were ignored. This was the sixth letter uploaded on the former parliamentarian’s social media account, and it is not clear who is uploading the letters on his behalf. RJD leaders avoided commenting on this fresh letter and several of them did not receive the phone calls made by TOI. A senior RJD leader, however, said the content of this letter reflects his wrath and added, “I think the matter has become worse now.” Another party leader said, senior members were keeping a tab on Raghuvansh’s health, but they were not in a position to meet him as he was in a critical condition. “We at present are worried about his health and our national president has made it clear that both of them will sit and sort out any issues. Also, this is just a letter and Raghuvansh Babu has not spoken anything yet, so we will not comment unless he speaks on his own,” said RJD state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvanshs-sixth-letter-posted-on-fb-attacks-lalu-family/articleshow/78083236.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 13, 2020||---||Waiting for BJP’s offer; will meet Amit Shah soon: Chirag Paswan||LJP national president Chirag Paswan in a conversation with TOI’s Piyush Tripathi made it clear that no seat-sharing talks have been held between his party and either JD(U) or BJP. He revealed that he is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in a few days to discuss all issues related to Bihar assembly election. On his attacks on CM Nitish Kumar’s government, he said, it’s never personal, he only raises people’s issues. Excerpts: BJP national president J P Nadda said in Patna on Friday that BJP, JD(U) and LJP will fight the assembly election together. Nadda also met Nitish on Saturday morning. Your take? I don’t have anything to comment on what BJP is saying on fighting the elections together or their meeting with Nitish. I can only say anything after I know what is their offer for LJP. As of now, there have been no talks in this regard. Have seat-sharing arrangements in the NDA been disused with LJP?Neither BJP nor JD(U) has held any seat-sharing talks with LJP. I had a telephonic conversation with senior BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday and he said he would meet me in a few days to discuss important issues. What is your current stand on JD (U) and Nitish Kumar?I have no issues with Nitish Ji, nor have I ever made any personal remarks against him. Whenever I have said anything on Bihar or related to the state government, it has always been related to people’s issues and as a party representing the masses, we have to bring such issues to the attention of the government. My comments could have been taken positively as well. Your party members appealed to you at the state parliamentary board meeting held earlier this week to field candidates on 143 seats, including a few seats being contested by JD (U). Later JD (U) said it was never in alliance with LJP. Where do things stand now?Deliberations held at a parliamentary board meeting are internal affairs of the party. Our party has shortlisted 94 candidates for Bihar elections and if fewer seats are allocated to us, then there will definitely have some issues and I am also answerable to my party men. Nevertheless, I would wait for BJP’s offer and any decision taken by the national parliamentary board of the party will be announced accordingly. As a young politician, you have every right to express your views as a modern and educated politician. But don’t you think allies should follow coalition dharma and you could have discussed your grievances internally in the NDA? Did you ever discuss issues with your primary partner BJP? I have always discussed issues with BJP. However, lately, there has been no communication with Nitish Ji. He never took my phone calls, nor replied to my letters nor given time to me for a one-to-one meeting. In such a scenario, I was left with no choice but to express the issues related to people’s interest in public. And as far as coalition dharma is concerned, then wasn’t it applicable when Nitish Ji vehemently opposed Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) introduced by the NDA government as well as the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and even got a resolution passed against it in the Bihar Legislative Assembly? What is your stand on the induction of former Bihar CM and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi in the NDA? I have huge respect for Manjhi Ji, he is like a family member to us. He does say a few things critical to me, but I guess our seniors have the right to be strict at times. Your father Ram Vilas Paswan in a tweet on Friday extended full support to you. Given that this will be the first assembly election for LJP under your leadership, what is your aspiration for the party?It is always great to have the support of one’s father. He keeps telling me I took the right decisions for the party in 2014 and 2019 general elections. I want LJP to work for Bihar and issues concerning people of the state. I want our ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document to be incorporated in the common minimum programme of the NDA. However, if the CM is adamant on superimposing his programmes on the entire NDA then there will be issues. One final question, your father has been at the Centre for years now. What is your preference- Centre or state?The state; I see myself in Bihar in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/waiting-for-bjps-offer-will-meet-shah-soon-chirag/articleshow/78101623.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Waiting for BJP’s offer; will meet Amit Shah soon: Chirag Paswan||LJP national president Chirag Paswan in a conversation with TOI’s Piyush Tripathi made it clear that no seat-sharing talks have been held between his party and either JD(U) or BJP. He revealed that he is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in a few days to discuss all issues related to Bihar assembly election. On his attacks on CM Nitish Kumar’s government, he said, it’s never personal, he only raises people’s issues. Excerpts: BJP national president J P Nadda said in Patna on Friday that BJP, JD(U) and LJP will fight the assembly election together. Nadda also met Nitish on Saturday morning. Your take? I don’t have anything to comment on what BJP is saying on fighting the elections together or their meeting with Nitish. I can only say anything after I know what is their offer for LJP. As of now, there have been no talks in this regard. Have seat-sharing arrangements in the NDA been disused with LJP?Neither BJP nor JD(U) has held any seat-sharing talks with LJP. I had a telephonic conversation with senior BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday and he said he would meet me in a few days to discuss important issues. What is your current stand on JD (U) and Nitish Kumar?I have no issues with Nitish Ji, nor have I ever made any personal remarks against him. Whenever I have said anything on Bihar or related to the state government, it has always been related to people’s issues and as a party representing the masses, we have to bring such issues to the attention of the government. My comments could have been taken positively as well. Your party members appealed to you at the state parliamentary board meeting held earlier this week to field candidates on 143 seats, including a few seats being contested by JD (U). Later JD (U) said it was never in alliance with LJP. Where do things stand now?Deliberations held at a parliamentary board meeting are internal affairs of the party. Our party has shortlisted 94 candidates for Bihar elections and if fewer seats are allocated to us, then there will definitely have some issues and I am also answerable to my party men. Nevertheless, I would wait for BJP’s offer and any decision taken by the national parliamentary board of the party will be announced accordingly. As a young politician, you have every right to express your views as a modern and educated politician. But don’t you think allies should follow coalition dharma and you could have discussed your grievances internally in the NDA? Did you ever discuss issues with your primary partner BJP? I have always discussed issues with BJP. However, lately, there has been no communication with Nitish Ji. He never took my phone calls, nor replied to my letters nor given time to me for a one-to-one meeting. In such a scenario, I was left with no choice but to express the issues related to people’s interest in public. And as far as coalition dharma is concerned, then wasn’t it applicable when Nitish Ji vehemently opposed Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) introduced by the NDA government as well as the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and even got a resolution passed against it in the Bihar Legislative Assembly? What is your stand on the induction of former Bihar CM and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi in the NDA? I have huge respect for Manjhi Ji, he is like a family member to us. He does say a few things critical to me, but I guess our seniors have the right to be strict at times. Your father Ram Vilas Paswan in a tweet on Friday extended full support to you. Given that this will be the first assembly election for LJP under your leadership, what is your aspiration for the party?It is always great to have the support of one’s father. He keeps telling me I took the right decisions for the party in 2014 and 2019 general elections. I want LJP to work for Bihar and issues concerning people of the state. I want our ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document to be incorporated in the common minimum programme of the NDA. However, if the CM is adamant on superimposing his programmes on the entire NDA then there will be issues. One final question, your father has been at the Centre for years now. What is your preference- Centre or state?The state; I see myself in Bihar in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/waiting-for-bjps-offer-will-meet-shah-soon-chirag/articleshow/78083338.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Theatres prepare to return to stage; Kolkata gears up for first live show in five months||KOLKATA: On September 21, live performance will make a comeback, in an open-air arena, so the city theatre enthusiasts can start the move back from virtual to real. After the central government allowed entertainment and social functions in a restricted manner from September 21, under the Unlock 4 guidelines, Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC) threw its amphitheatre and grounds open for performing artists. Kolkata-based cultural groups will put up shows at EZCC to commemorate the first day of public performance after the lockdown. Over the past five months, performing arts had gone digital, entertaining people sitting in the safety of their homes. “We have been trying to keep up performers’ morale by connecting them with online platforms. But that can never substitute a live performance. When the guidelines from the central government came, we grabbed the opportunity at the earliest. This is where artists start again,” said Gouri Basu, director of EZCC. While there had been a few shootings with a very few people at the amphitheatre during the lockdown, none of the spaces was used for live performances. Theatre group Purba Paschim will stage a full-length drama titled ‘Jwarasur Badh’ at EZCC on September 21. A rendition of ‘Mangalkabya’, put in the context of pandemic, the play is structured keeping social distancing in mind. “We have followed an opera form and structured it in a way that performers will be able to maintain sufficient distance from each other. Staging a play in an open-air arena is different from closed theatre halls, but we kept every factor in mind when we started working on it in June. Initial rehearsals were conducted on online platforms and we stressed on voice training and physical movement to make it more engrossing for an open air performance,” said Saumitra Mitra, director of the play. Starting from Covid insurance for each person involved in the play to arranging sanitized transportation and ordering dresses or masks for the performers, Purba Paschim took care of every aspect to prevent any possible infection. “While going virtual was a compromise in terms of magnitude of the performances, it kept artists’ confidence alive to some extent. But they missed the grandeur of light, sound and live performance. On September 21, we will try to incorporate every form of performing arts — music, dance and theatre,” said Dinesh Poddar, a light designer. Poddar and his wife Luna’s group Prerna Center for Performing Arts will also put up a performance. “We approached EZCC for the venue on September 21 and they agreed. They have given us a guideline that needs to be maintained throughout the performance,” said Niladri Sekhar Banerjee, director of the theatre group Jigir. His group will present a solo act, ‘Tata Thoi Thoi’. Cultural groups feel that though the performances on September 21 might not have more than 100 viewers, they will be good for the artists. Open-air spaces will ensure social distancing and will significantly lessen chances of infection. There will also be volunteers to ensure none enters without a mask. A large LED screen is being put up outside the amphitheatre as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/theatres-prepare-to-return-to-stage-city-gears-up-for-first-live-show-in-five-months/articleshow/78082486.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Developers to get 50% extra FSI for low-rent housing||GANDHINAGAR: To promote its affordable rental housing policy, the state government has decided to grant an additional floor space index (FSI) of 50% to developers who construct affordable rental housing complexes (ARHCs). Builders will get an additional 10% FSI for utility amenities. Moreover, developers will be exempt from paying income tax and GST for projects constructed as ARHCs. Such projects will get priority lending from banks and other financial institutions at cheaper interest and the state government will sanction the projects through a single-window system within a month. The government will also provide basic facilities such as roads, drainage, and water without any charge to ARHC projects. The state’s affordable rental housing policy is a corollary to the Union government’s similar scheme. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs had released operational guidelines for the scheme in July this year. Workers, students, labourers, those working in the service industry, or any person who is eligible to get housing under EWS (economically weaker section) or LIG (low-income group) schemes can avail benefits of the policy. Visitors on a short trip can also take advantage of the policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/developers-to-get-50-extra-fsi-for-low-rent-housing/articleshow/78082529.cms||Kapil Dave
September 13, 2020||Goa||Goa sees 740 new cases, 10 deaths in one day, toll now 286||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 count rose to 5,323 on Saturday after 740 persons tested positive for the virus, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began. The death toll, too, rose to 286 after 10 persons died, five of whose deaths were within 24 hours of admission. The past five days have seen over 3,000 new cases, and health minister Vishwajit Rane recently said that the state may touch 1,000 cases a day shortly. Areas that are witnessing a sharper spike are Sankhali, Bicholim, Pernem, Valpoi, Panaji, and Porvorim in North Goa, and Margao, Vasco and Ponda in South Goa. The health centres in Sankhali and Porvorim have over 300 active cases each, while Ponda is inching towards the 400-mark. Cases reported from the commercial town of Margao range between 400 and 450. In Panaji, 20 new cases were detected, taking its total to 286. Rane has repeatedly stated that the government is doing its best to contain the mortality rate, but it hasn’t achieved the desired result as the rise in infections has been unstoppable so far. Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said they have deployed the ophthalmology and ENT wards for treating Covid-19 patients. “We have transferred patients to the new wards,” he said. All ten of Saturday’s deaths — three women and seven men — aged between 28 and 85, died at GMC. The 28-year-old woman who suffered from Down Syndrome was admitted to GMC at 3.27am on Friday with respiratory failure, the bulletin stated. A 42-year-old woman from Naroa, Tiswadi, who was taken to hospital on Saturday, was detected with Covid pneumonia, and died within an hour of hospitalisation. Except one patient, all of Saturday’s deaths had comorbid conditions, and died within two-three days of hospitalisation. An 84-year-old man from Porvorim who did not have any co-morbidity died within an hour after he was rushed to hospital with respiratory failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-740-new-cases-10-deaths-in-one-day/articleshow/78083527.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||CPM state secretariat backs Kerala higher education minister K T Jaleel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM state secretariat, which decided to accept chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s argument that there is nothing ‘morally’ wrong in higher education minister K T Jaleel appearing before enforcement directorate for cooperating with officials in an ongoing enquiry, ruled out Jaleel’s resignation. The protest launched by UDF and BJP seeking Jaleel’s resignation is politically motivated and it once again proved that Congress in Kerala is acting as BJP’s B-team, the secretariat said in a statement. CPM asked Congress high command, which had alleged that BJP was using agencies like ED for settling political scores, to clarify whether KPCC is still a part of it. CPM – which found no fault with the probe by national agenciesin the gold smuggling case till Thursday – levelled serious suspicions about the ED probe on Friday. “It is extraordinary that ED director himself told the media that the investigation team sought information from Jaleel. It is relevant to note that there is an allegation that ED is being politically-misused nationally,” the secretariat said. Vijayan and CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had said multiple times that the probe in the gold smuggling case was progressing in the right direction. “It is suspicious that there is no further action after interrogation of Sangh Parivar-affiliated channel’s coordinating editor and frequent changes in the customs probe team. Delay in bringing key accused Faisal Fareed from UAE to state has also raised suspicion among the people,” alleged CPM. “It is mysterious that three agencies aren’t questioning those who had sent diplomatic baggage and received it,” the statement said. The secretariat alleged that political moves by UDF–BJP alliance were for protecting the real culprits. CPM also alleged that UDF’s protest against Jaleel is to cover up the financial fraud case registered against IUML MLA M C Kamaruddin. The online politburo meeting didn’t discuss the issue in detail; sources said PB was preoccupied with national issues. It is learnt that leaders from Kerala reported the recent political developments including ED’s interrogation of Jaleel. They told PB that protests in Kerala by Congress and BJP are election stunts. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury told reporters in Delhi that Kerala government had already welcomed an inquiry and announced that the guilty won’t be protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-state-secretariat-backs-min/articleshow/78081816.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra flip-flop on higher education admission process under Maratha quota||PUNE: The Maharashtra government issued a notification on Friday asking the higher education institutes to undo the entire admission process because of the Supreme Court’s interim order on Maratha quota, only to retract it a day after. Based on the first notification of the state government, Dhanraj Mane, the director of higher education, issued a letter on September 11 to all vice-chancellors, principals and joint directors. HIs letter was based on the notification issued by the state government to the directors of higher education, technical education, art education as well as vice-chancellors, mentioning that all higher educational institutes in the state had been asked to roll back admissions given under the Maratha reservation quota, as per the Supreme Court’s interim order on September 9. The fresh notification issued late on Saturday said the previous notification stood cancelled. “The important notification in this subject will be issued by the government in due course,” it said. Purportedly quoting the interim order of the Supreme Court, the first notification stated, “Admission to educational institutes for the academic year 2020-21 shall be made without reference to reservations provided in the (SEBC) Act. We make it clear that the admissions made to postgraduate medical courses shall not be altered.” The state notification further stated that the department of law and justice had given the following suggestion based on the order: “In case Maratha reservation is already applied for the admission for the academic year 2020-21, then the colleges/educational institutes will have to undo the process and provide admissions for the academic year 2020-21 as if the SEBC Act is not in force. There is no restraint for the continuation of the admission process, but it must be without applying the provisions of SEBC Act, that is Maratha reservation.” However, through its interim order, the Supreme Court had made it clear that the status of those who availed of the benefits of reservation would not be affected. Calls and messages to Mane went unanswered. Uday Samant, the minister of higher and technical education, too, remained unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-flip-flop-on-higher-education-admission-process-under-quota/articleshow/78083553.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 13, 2020||Allahabad||Gaganyaan will boost India’s tech power: K Sivan||Prayagraj: “Gaganyaan will boost the science and technology capability of the country,” said K Sivan, Secretary, Department of Space/Chairman, Space Commission & Indian Space Research Organization while addressing the students at 15th e-convocation of Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT-A), Allahabad on Saturday. As many as 403 students were awarded various degrees at the 15th convocation of IIIT-A which was held online. Besides this, the institute awarded 23 medals to meritorious students at the convocation. Ten research scholars were also conferred with their PhD degrees. Speaking as the chief guest of the convocation, Sivan said starting a space programme in a country like India in the 1960s was one big idea but Vikram Sarabhai foresaw the potential of space technology in transforming India. When the whole world was using space for military domination, Sarabhai thought that for a country like India with its immense size and diversity, the space technology platform is the only suitable platform for fast-track development. And the results are here for all of us to see. “Each moment in our lives is connected with space technology in some manner. Today when we embark on expanding the scope of India’s space program, we are actually realising the vision of Sarabhai. Various reforms like allowing private sector, start-ups as well as academia to undertake space missions thereby bringing in innovation, technical diversity and human resource development have immense potential to improve the bottom line of space industry in India,” he said. Despite the progress made over the last 50 years, we still have unresolved issues of reducing poverty and hunger, providing good health and sanitation services, adequate supply of clean drinking water and providing quality education. I urge students to work towards solving these problems. Don’t think that these problems will be solved by somebody else”, he said. Prof P Nagabhushan, director of the institute said success is not a destination, it is the journey and one achieves success because of commitment and hard work. Vaibhav Srivastava was awarded with the Chairman’s Gold Medal for the year-2020 for his outstanding marks. Vaibhav Srivastava, Shivam Fialok and Simran Gill were awarded Gold, Silver and Bronze Medal respectively for B.Tech (IT). In B.Tech (ECE), Shravya Pandey got Gold, Srishti Agrawal-Silver and Gauranshi Nili–Bronze medals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gaganyaan-will-boost-indias-tech-power-k-sivan/articleshow/78081513.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Agnivesh was against blind faith||Thrissur: Clad in saffron attire, Swami Agnivesh who passed away in Delhi on Friday, was a committed fighter against all forms of superstition, blind faith and idolatry. “Blind faith and superstition are the biggest dangers of any religion. India cannot progress, if it continues to remain rooted in blind faith. Faith has to be based on the spirit of enquiry and scientific principle,” Agnivesh had said in a free-wheeling conversation with TOI. He was in Thrissur for a programme ‘Swabhiman Sangamam’ on December 4, 2018, organized in the backdrop of controversies triggered by the Supreme Court order permitting women of all ages to enter Sabarimala temple. According to him, conviction in scientific thinking was deeply ingrained in Indian philosophy right from ancient ages. “Our philosophers would say that faith must be based on truth. Vedas used to say, Nethi, Nethi (not this, not this); there was no finality, each individual had to find his or her own truth. Buddha exhorted ‘Be the lamp to yourself’. Ideas are important, not idols; idolatry is the biggest stumbling block of any religion or ideology.” He was a strong advocate of the possibilities of multiple expressions of truth. “There is no final word on truth, we all keep exploring. Not one religion or ideology is the final word. Religious freedom must also include not just the right to choose a religion, but the freedom not to have any religion,” he said. Agnivesh was vehemently opposed to superstitions of Sangh Parivar leaders, and their intolerance. He was well aware that he was attacking them on their home turf by invoking scriptures and Vedas. Predictably, he had earned the wrath of religious fanatics more than many others. Interestingly, he was critical of conservative Marxists for their dogmatism. “Marx spoke of scientific materialism and socialism. During Marx’s period, Newtonian physics was the dominant scientific thought. Atoms were considered primary element of nature. Subsequently, in Einstein era, it became clear that matter and energy are interchangeable. This upheld the concept of multiple truths.” “But some Marxists are stuck with old dogmas. They still have leniency towards Lenin’s body buried in a mausoleum at the Kremlin. They have to change and evolve newer forms of thinking and interventions,” Agnivesh had said. He was quick to to add that he still had hopes in the Indian Left. They have commitment to justice, than many others, are less casteist and less influenced by religious bigotry, less corrupt, he opined. However, he suggested that the Left must be more connected to Indian thought, and leverage on the liberating potentials of Indian symbols and thoughts. Agnivesh said revolution must be a permanent, continuous and perennial process, and the spirit of inquiry and reform must be integral to our thinking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/agnivesh-was-against-blind-faith/articleshow/78081832.cms||T Ramavarman
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Consumer sues maker of RO system for Covid exposure risk||Ahmedabad: A consumer has sued a leading water purifier company and a local service centre after his RO machine broke down during the lockdown period and they didn’t send men for repairs. He has sought compensation of Rs 1 lakh from the company because he had to put his family members at risk of contracting Covid-19 when different people entered his house daily carrying packaged water. Mukesh Gupta has filed a complaint against the company seeking the amount that he had to spend to purchase a new water purifier and for the annual maintenance contract. He has sought Rs 75,000 compensation for the harassment as the purifying machine went dead at a time of the year, when he could not get a new machine because of the strict lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic in May.Gupta has complained before the Ahmedabad District Consumer Court Commission that he had purchased the purifier in 2017 by paying Rs 18,000. In July 2019, he paid Rs 2,500 towards annual maintenance. As the purifier stopped working, he registered a complaint but the company asked him to wait for a week.While waiting for the technician, Gupta started purchasing packaged water and people used to come to his house to deliver the bottles. When Gupta did not get any service for his water purifier, he purchased a new one. But he approached the consumer court complaining that it was deficiency in service on part of the company and sought compensation for the same.However, Gupta also demanded Rs 1 lakh from the water purifier manufacturing company and its city-based service centre for harm faced by him, his two kids and wife because many people entered their house to deliver water bottles and their entry in the house exposed the family to Covid-19 risk.The consumer court has issued notice and posted further hearing on November 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/consumer-sues-maker-of-ro-system-for-covid-exposure-risk/articleshow/78082540.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Shripad discharged after 30 days||Panaji: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik was on Saturday discharged after 30 days in hospital. Naik was admitted to a private hospital on August 12 after testing positive for Covid-19. “I’m really fine and much better than when I was brought here,” Naik said while leaving hospital. “I need to rest for a few more days, after which I’ll be able to resume work. I thank you for all your wishes.” A week after his admission last month, his condition had turned critical, and a team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) was rushed twice to Goa. Naik also received convalescent plasma therapy (CPT). He was shifted out of the Covid ward two weeks ago, and was kept in hospital for rehabilitative treatment, said Dr Shekhar Salkar, chief of clinical services, at Manipal hospital, where Naik received treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripad-discharged-after-30-days/articleshow/78083550.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chennai||PM Kisan applicants in Tamil Nadu to undergo double scrutiny||CHENNAI: The state government is all set to introduce double scrutiny of PM Kisan Scheme applications to prevent ineligible people benefiting from the Union government sponsored scheme. In the unfolding scam involving Rs 110 crore, more than five lakh ineligible beneficiaries have been identified so far in Tamil Nadu. The CB-CID, which is probing the case, has arrested 22 people till Saturday. All those arrested are either internet café owners or temporary data-entry operators, who were dismissed from the agriculture department after the scam broke out. No government official has been arrested so far, though 34 of them are facing departmental action for dereliction of duty. As the first step, the government has done away with the district-level validation of applications by agriculture department officials that was in vogue till now. Hereafter, a joint team of officials from the agriculture and revenue departments will carry out field inspection and submit a report to the district collector concerned, who will forward it to the state nodal officer director of agriculture. “In the final validation, we will crosscheck the claims of the applicants with details available with the government in Tamil Nilam (data bank of land records), Aadhar and ration card.” A senior official in agriculture department said the proposal, prepared in consultation with the Union agriculture ministry officials, would be sent to the state government in the next two days, seeking its nod. Once the government’s approval is obtained, the new standard operating procedure would be put in place, he said. The new SOP will continue with farmers’ self-registration process. “Though the scrutiny will be rigid, we will ensure that not even a single eligible farmer is omitted,” said the official. Under the scheme, the Centre gives Rs 6,000 per year as assistance to small and marginal farmer families who own up to two hectares of land. The agriculture department, for the time being, has put 3,000-odd applications filed since August, on hold. They would be taken up for scrutiny once the new SOP is put in place, said the official. Meanwhile, new applicants can continue to do self-registration on PM Kisan portal, said the official. So far, Kallakurichi district, where more than 2 lakh ineligible beneficiaries were identified, has recovered Rs 10 crore that was swindled by the fraudsters. Villupuram district has recovered Rs 6.5 cr, Cuddalore Rs 5 cr, Tiruvannamalai Rs 3.96 cr and Dharmapuri district Rs 2.35 cr. Salem district, from where the CM hails, has recovered Rs 1.5 crore. Eligible beneficiaries would continue to get the dole under the scheme and there would not be any hiccups in their getting the December instalment, said the official. “We will retrieve the siphoned off money completely. Action against the officials in agriculture department would be taken after the CB CID probe is over. There is no point in suspending people aimlessly. If they are involved, they will be arrested,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pm-kisan-applicants-in-state-to-undergo-double-scrutiny/articleshow/78083549.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Michael Lobo asks CM to deferreopening of schools||PANAJI: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo on Saturday opposed the state government’s plans to partially reopen educational institutions and urged the chief minister Pramod Sawant and to defer it till the Covid-19 positive cases decrease in the state. Sawant on Friday had said that the government plans to partially reopen educational institutions for Classes IX, X, XI, XII and the final year graduation level in consultation with parent-teachers’ associations and headmasters’ associations. Speaking to TOI, Lobo said that right now the Covid situation is bad and cases will rise further. “If children go to school then chances are that those with weak immunity may contract the virus. First, going to higher secondary schools by buses is going to be the biggest risk. I have requested the chief minister to delay opening of schools and colleges,” he said. Lobo said the scheduled date of September 21 for opening the educational institutions will have to be extended. “We should cancel the holiday of Diwali and plan reopening of schools somewhere in November, provided Covid cases decline to five per day,” he said. “All children may not have a good immune system. If they contract the virus and succumb to it, then there will be a war-like situation in Goa,” he said. He also said that online education is the only solution till Covid cases decline. “I received a lot of messages from parents and sarpanchas across the state requesting to not resume the schools,” Lobo said, adding, “let us desist from doing something which will be irreparable. Today we don’t see even a single student getting affected as they are at home.” Lobo said the moment we bring children to schools, state have to transport them by buses. “Social distancing in schools are not possible at all as they have to use common washrooms. For us, saving precious life is more important,” Lobo said. He said that there are no beds available at Goa Medical college and hospital for Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-asks-cm-to-deferreopening-of-schools/articleshow/78083580.cms||Murari Shetye
September 13, 2020||Ghaziabad||Covid-19: Noida beyond 10,000 mark, Ghaziabad records a jump||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: In the highest single-day spike in cases, Ghaziabad on Saturday registered 303 new cases. Earlier, the district had recorded the highest number of cases on September 9 with 232 cases. On the same day, Noida crossed the 10,000-cases mark by registering a total 10,006 Covid cases. Earlier, on Friday, Ghaziabad had breached the 10,000-cases mark and on Saturday, the district’s tally stood at 10,522. Presently, Ghaziabad has 1,829 active cases and in the past 24 hours 116 people have been discharged from hospital. The district’s toll stands at 73. The health department and the administration have attributed relaxations given during Unlock 4.O to the sudden spike in cases. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that cases across the country are on the rise due to activities being allowed during Unlock 4.0. “On our part, we urge residents not to lower their guard and maintain all precautions. We also plan to enforce Covid protocols in a more stringent manner to reduce the number of cases,” he said. Meanwhile, a sudden spike in Covid cases was also witnessed in neighbouring Noida in September. The district recorded 198 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 10,006. Of the total cases, 1,990 are active. In a silver lining, the case fatality rate remains in check with 48 deaths taking place so far. On analysing the overall trend, it was noticed that 2,261 individuals contracted the virus this month in Noida, Greater Noida and outskirts of the city. Since 22% of the total cases have been reported over the past 12 days, Covid-19 response teams in the city are focusing on increasing the number of beds for critical patients. Chief medical officer Deepak Kumar Ohri said that a meeting with Indian Medical Association and other private doctors will be held in the coming week. “We will need more doctors at our Covid facilities as the number of cases are going up. Vacancies were floated but nobody has joined so far. Hence, we will seek participation from private hospitals as well,” he said. So far, the district saw the highest single-day increase in cases on September 10 when 251 people were found Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/with-303-cases-ghaziabad-records-its-highest-single-day-surge/articleshow/78084784.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Noida||Covid-19: Noida beyond 10,000 mark, Ghaziabad records a jump||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: In the highest single-day spike in cases, Ghaziabad on Saturday registered 303 new cases. Earlier, the district had recorded the highest number of cases on September 9 with 232 cases. On the same day, Noida crossed the 10,000-cases mark by registering a total 10,006 Covid cases. Earlier, on Friday, Ghaziabad had breached the 10,000-cases mark and on Saturday, the district’s tally stood at 10,522. Presently, Ghaziabad has 1,829 active cases and in the past 24 hours 116 people have been discharged from hospital. The district’s toll stands at 73. The health department and the administration have attributed relaxations given during Unlock 4.O to the sudden spike in cases. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that cases across the country are on the rise due to activities being allowed during Unlock 4.0. “On our part, we urge residents not to lower their guard and maintain all precautions. We also plan to enforce Covid protocols in a more stringent manner to reduce the number of cases,” he said. Meanwhile, a sudden spike in Covid cases was also witnessed in neighbouring Noida in September. The district recorded 198 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 10,006. Of the total cases, 1,990 are active. In a silver lining, the case fatality rate remains in check with 48 deaths taking place so far. On analysing the overall trend, it was noticed that 2,261 individuals contracted the virus this month in Noida, Greater Noida and outskirts of the city. Since 22% of the total cases have been reported over the past 12 days, Covid-19 response teams in the city are focusing on increasing the number of beds for critical patients. Chief medical officer Deepak Kumar Ohri said that a meeting with Indian Medical Association and other private doctors will be held in the coming week. “We will need more doctors at our Covid facilities as the number of cases are going up. Vacancies were floated but nobody has joined so far. Hence, we will seek participation from private hospitals as well,” he said. So far, the district saw the highest single-day increase in cases on September 10 when 251 people were found Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-303-cases-ghaziabad-records-its-highest-single-day-surge/articleshow/78083350.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chennai||Move your body, master your mind||CHENNAI: Does dance always have to be a way of rejoicing? This is a question Mahima (name changed) has asked herself many times in the past — at a gathering, at home with her favourite song playing, or on her bathroom floor, fighting a panic attack. The 21-year-old has lived with anxiety disorder for about four years, but equally powerful has been her longing to move her body — "Exercise, stretch, run, do anything that could shake up the inertia, helplessness and fear, gripping me all the time," she says. Participants at an earlier CMTAI session; an online dance and movement therapy session by CMTAIGraduating at the time of a pandemic, as the Chennai student prepared herself for a year of extreme mental turmoil, she came across a link that took her to dance movement therapy (DMT) — which has changed the course of her life. DMT, a form of psychotherapy that uses physical movement along with verbal therapy to bring about emotional, social, cognitive, and physical integration, has become popular among diverse sections of the population post the pandemic, including children with special needs, caregivers, students and young professionals. It trains you to identify stress, anxiety or emotional pain in the body and release it through improvised movement and dance, and has become liberating at a time when there is pressure to stay indoors, coupled with lack of social interaction and the over arching uncertainty. "DMT believes in the idea that your mental and physical health are complementary," says Devika Mehta co-founder, treasurer and PR member of Indian Association of Dance Movement Therapy (IADMT). "Most times, emotional conflict has a physical symptom, like a pain in the back or chest, or shorter breaths when you are faced with an anxiety trigger. What we work with is psychosomatic pain — one that doesn’t have a medical reason. We go from the body to the mind — start with the physical symptoms, identify the emotions in the body that cause it and then reflect on them." Over the past few months, Mahima has gone from staying up for seven hours straight at night to calmly journaling her career options and decided to pursue an MBA. "Moving your body isn’t about joy or sorrow, it’s a right," she says. This is an idea that dance educator and co-founder of Creative Movement Therapy Association of India (CMTAI), Tripura Kashyap, has been advocating since she pioneered work in the field in the 1990s. "Movement for movement’s sake," is something that forms the base of her self-care programmes. "In our virtual programmes with children and adolescents with special needs, we had 15 of them registering with their parents. Over the course of 12 sessions, these routines transformed the interpersonal relationship between parents and their children, as they involved a lot of mirroring, shadowing, moving with props and having fun," says Tripura. "It also increased aspects such as eye contact, body coordination and self-awareness among the children." Practitioners observe that children with special needs have taken to it strongly, also because the lockdown has cut out their chance to engage in speech and everyday skills that they used to do in school, and as a result, end up with pent up energy at home. The lockdown had pushed Simran K, a Delhi-based research fellow into 17-hour days, working from home, caring for elderly in-laws and a young child. But over the past five weeks, her morning DMT sessions have become the routine around which the rest of her day is built. "I never understood caregivers’ trauma until the pandemic hit. My therapy sessions have allowed me to become self-reliant, identifying that the throbbing headache and neck pain have emotional triggers, that I can release through a high energy physical routine and talk about it with my therapist after cooling down," she says. Preetha Ramasubramanian, founding member and president of IADMT, says the feeling of helplessness is the biggest challenge faced by all sections of people during these months. "DMT helps you cope with everyday stressors. It is about tapping into the body’s wisdom, understanding what it is saying, and building the resources from within to cope with and overcome the challenge," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/move-your-body-master-your-mind/articleshow/78082543.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Flights to Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad & Hyderabad to start from next week||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand is all set to resume air services to four major cities – Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Kolkata — from next week. All four flights would be operated by private airlines. As per the schedule announced on Saturday, the air service to Mumbai would resume from September 14. The flight from Mumbai would arrive at Jolly Grant Airport of Dehradun at 9:50 am on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays and depart at 10:30 am. On Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, the flight would arrive at Dehradun at 6:10 am and depart at 6:50 am. The air service from Ahmedabad would start from September 15 and the flight would arrive at Dehradun at 11:30 am and depart at 12 noon each Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. From September 15, the flight service from Kolkata would arrive at 2 am and depart at 3 am on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. For Hyderabad, the air connectivity would resume from September 16. The fight would arrive at 12:15 pm and depart at 13:05 pm on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Sundays. “With the start of air services to these four major cities, the total number of flight services operating from Dehradun would become 15. When the flight services from Dehradun resumed on May 25 this year, the number of passengers was very limited as only six to seven flights were operating but now we are expecting that the number of passengers would double as flight services will increase,” DK Gautam, director of Jolly Grant Airport said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/flights-to-mumbai-kolkata-ahmedabad-hyderabad-to-start-from-next-week/articleshow/78081059.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Light to moderate rainfall likely in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In a forecast on Saturday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) mentioned light to moderate rainfall for Ahmedabad city. The forecast mentioned possibility of state-wide rainfall with likely heavy rainfall in Devbhoomi Dwarka, Amreli, Bhavnagar, Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Aravalli, Mahisagar, Dahod, Dang, Tapi, Navsari, Valsad, Surendranagar, Junagadh, Gir-Somnath and Kutch. The minimum and maximum temperatures for the city got slightly reduced at 25.1°C and 34.4°C. The figures were 26.2°C and 36.2°C respectively on September 10. The city on Saturday recorded rainfall in some areas. IMD website mentioned that a cyclonic circulation persisted over east-central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast. Due to the system, several parts of Saurashtra’s coastal districts and South Gujarat are likely to get the second spell of rainfall for next four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/light-to-moderate-rainfall-likely-in-city/articleshow/78082546.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Women forest officers better at snake rescue and release||Kochi: The state forest department has trained 23 women beat forest officers (BFOs) in rescue and rehabilitation of snakes. And if the results of the training programme are any indication, women may be better suited to save our slithery friends. Of the 539 who attended the recent programme 318 were declared eligible for snake handling. While 23 of the 33 women, or 69%, cleared the hurdle, only 295 of the 506 men (58%) were successful. “Many of them were handling a snake for the first time and were not confident, but the training really changed them,” says Mohammed Anwar, assistant conservator of forests and nodal officer for the state-level training programme. The staff underwent training in various aspects of snake handling and rescue including understanding the reptile’s biology, behavior and habitat. “People often catch snakes and transport them in jars or sacks which dims their chance of survival. We have been trained to capture snakes in a way that won’t harm them in any way,” says Roshni, a BFO with Paruthipally range who underwent the training. While Roshni was lucky enough to have handled snakes before, for most of the other trainees it was their first time. “The training really made us confident and I am looking for more opportunities,” Roshni said. The forest department is now gearing up to train the public in snake handling next month. The two-day sessions will be held in all districts and those who complete the training will become eligible to being certified as snake handlers. A mobile application, called Sarpa, has also been readied which provides information on hospitals with anti-venom treatment. The details of certified handlers will also be provided for the public to contact in case of emergencies. Forest officials said the initiatives aim to reduce man-animal conflict. “In the last three years 334 people died from snakebite in the state while around 1,860 survived,” said Anwar. Calls for snake rescue are another headache faced by the department. It is also seeking to weed out illegal snake handlers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/women-forest-officers-better-at-snake-rescue-and-release/articleshow/78081837.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Surfing schools all set to reopen on coast||Mangaluru: Most of the surfing schools in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada (DK) are all set to resume activities, based on the guidelines of the authorities. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha has allowed surfing schools to operate. Dakshina Kannada DC K V Rajendra has sought a ground report from field officers before permitting surfing schools to resume operations. Meanwhile, the DK district administration is keen on setting up a surfing school near the Tannirbhavi Beach. There are around 10 surfing schools in DK and Udupi, of which the Surfing Federation of India (SFI) recognises about four of them. Most surfing schools are flooded with enquiries with a high demand for weekend bookings. Rammohan Paranjape, one of India’s early surfing pioneers, vice-president SFI and member, Mantra Surf School, Mulky, told TOI that most of the schools are hoping to resume activities at the earliest. Guests for stay at Mantra may be welcome after September 15. “There is a huge demand for day activities from the locals, that includes kayaking, stand-up paddling and surfing. There is a strong demand from domestic travellers, especially from Bengaluru, Mumbai and other cities. Many are asking for long-term stay of seven to 10 days. We are quite surprised at the demand,” he said. Meanwhile, the SFI will discuss the necessary protocols to be followed and plan events for the coming days. Mantra surf school is planning a beach clean up programme on September 20, Rammohan said. India’s top female stand-up paddler (SUP) Tanvi Jagadish, co-founder, Kadal Centre for SUP, surfing and yoga in Udupi said, “It feels great to re-open the school. Weekends are going to be a full house. Extra precautions are taken in the wake of the pandemic. Kayaking is the new addition to the centre. Visitors from other states will have to provide a Covid-19 negative certificate,” she said. Surfing helps build immunity, Surfing is an ideal sport to not only beat stress but also build immunity, said coach Partha Varanashi who surfs in Mangaluru. “Surfing is not undertaken in crowded places. A good workout, exposure to sunlight and healthy food help build a good immune system. Seawater is healing, and it is for this reason we train international swimmers in sea swimming. Surfing is one of the best sports that will help build immunity,” said Partha. Two schools Mangalore Surf Club and Waves Surf School operate from Tannirbhavi Beach. Based on the directions of the district administration, operations will soon resume.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/surfing-schools-all-set-to-reopen-on-coast/articleshow/78081843.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Call to stop quarrying around Piranmalai||Madurai: Members of the Parambu Malai Pathukappu Iyakkam staged a demonstration in Madurai on Saturday, demanding that the patta given for 1,000 acres near the ancient Parambumalai be cancelled. They also wanted it to be protected, and halt the quarrying activity taking place there. Madurai district coordinator of the movement, R Kumaran said the hillock, now known as Piranmalai, has been mentioned in the Sangam era literature. It is believed that it belonged to the chieftain Pari, who was known for his generosity and that a festival is still conducted here in his memory by the Kundrakudi mutt. There are stone inscriptions belonging to the Chola period, and also temples pertaining to that period on this hillock. It is home to a Murugan temple and a Muslim shrine and a place where both communities participate in festivals together for religious harmony. The Marudhupandiar brothers, who fought against the British are said to have taken refuge here. There is also an ancient cannon on top of it and this is a spot worthy of becoming a major tourist attraction in Sivaganga district. Hence, the patta for the lands surrounding this hill which was given to a single private party in 2016 and the government’s sanction for quarrying activities around this hill on this patta land should be immediately stopped, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-stop-quarrying-around-piranmalai/articleshow/78083588.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||NCB searches 2 places in South Goa, 1 apprehended||PANAJI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) searched two different places in South Goa on Saturday and apprehended one person who had supplied drugs to Anuj Keshwani, who was previously arrested by NCB in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. An NCB officer said that that the raid was conducted early on Saturday morning at two houses in Curtorim. “The apprehended person supplied LSD to Keshwani,” he said. Recently, the NCB registered a case to probe the drug dealing and consumption-related allegations involving Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others. The case had been registered on the basis of some documents, WhatsApp chat screenshots and a requisition letter sent to NCB by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncb-searches-2-places-in-s-goa-1-apprehended/articleshow/78083589.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Undeterred by action, people flout mask rule||Pune: As many as 31,409 people have been acted against for flouting the mask rule since September 2 and yet, the city continues to record low compliance to the safety measure put in place to curb the spread of coronavirus in the city. Several citizens stated the police was acting mostly against the motorists. “I have noticed frequent action against drivers and other vehicle occupants who had stepped out without masks. However, I hardly see any action against those roaming around the streets in groups without wearing a mask or standing outside eateries and cafés, freely eating, consuming beverages or even smoking,” city-based professional Sonali Jadhav said. A city-based restaurateur mirrored the complaint, stating the police needed to intensify action against those on the streets without masks to ensure increased compliance. “My establishment is at Balewadi and I have seen hundreds of people on the roads without wearing a mask. The crowd gives the impression of everything being fine, and that the city was free of the pandemic,” restaurateur Shruti Shete said. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said the threat of the pandemic was still very much real, and people should continue to take safety measures, such as wearing masks while stepping out, social distancing and sanitizing regularly. “We intensified the action against violators in areas with low adherence to the mask rule. Our efforts were to sensitise people on the importance of the masks and improve compliance,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/undeterred-by-action-people-flout-mask-rule/articleshow/78082549.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 13, 2020||Pune||Tempo with O2 cylinders stolen||Pune: A parked tempo loaded with 12 oxygen and seven acetylene cylinders, meant for private Covid-19 hospitals, was stolen from Mhalunge village near Chakan on Saturday. The vehicle owner registered an FIR with the Chakan police. According to the complaint, he had parked the vehicle near his home at Mhalunge on Friday night. He found the vehicle missing when he woke up the next morning. “There is a high demand for oxygen cylinders because of the pandemic. We have asked hospitals in and around Chakan to alert us if any person approaches them with an offer to sell oxygen cylinders,” said Balaji Sontakke from the Chakan police. According to the police, the tempo owner collects oxygen cylinders from private firms in the Chakan MIDC area and delivers them to hospitals daily. The theft occurred between 2am and 8am on Saturday. “This is the first time we have registered such a case,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tempo-with-o2-cylinders-stolen/articleshow/78082552.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man hinders corona testing, booked||AHMEDABAD: Kagdapith police booked a man named Saurabh Chopra was booked by Kagdapith police on Friday for hindering Covid-19 testing by AMC officials near Sumul Business Park 2. Police lodged an offence under Section 186 of the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 against the accused and are searching for him. According to complaint lodged by Dr Tejas Shah, 41, deputy health officer for the South Zone of the AMC, on Thursday at about 9.30am his team went to Kankaria Sumul Business Park 2 for public testing of Covid-19. “At about 11am, a man asked them why they were doing Covid-19 testing in front of his shop. He was later identified as Saurabh Chopra. When we told him that they were from the AMC and were performing public testing, he got more agitated and told us to leave. To avoid trouble, the team returned to the South Zone office informed the authorities about what had happened,” said a Kagdapith police official. Inspector M S Singh said they are recording statements of the team members and other shopkeepers from the area. “We are still searching for the accused,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-hinders-corona-testing-booked/articleshow/78082551.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Covid hashtags at henna ceremonies||CHENNAI: llustrations of a bride and groom with masks, Covid-19 motifs, and intricate floral designs around the word ‘Corona’ are a few Covid-themed designs that have become popular among city mehendi artists during the pandemic. Meena Murali, for instance, tied the knot in July by hosting a small ceremony at her home in Thoraipakkam, but decided that since the pandemic played a huge role in her wedding plans — she had to postpone it to July and cut her guest down to 30 — she would incorporate it into her special day. "I wanted my mehendi to convey my wedding story," says the 25-year-old IT professional. Meena’s mehendi artist Keerthana Gandhi came up with a Covid-themed design after a few hours of brainstorming. Murali fashioned a design with the illustrations of her and her groom with masks and hand sanitisers. The design also had the words, #coronakalyanam, which turned out to be a hit at the event. Keerthana says she finds using trending themes with texts reduces the time it takes to complete intricate designs. Drawing elaborate motifs would take hours and doing so during the pandemic is not a safe option, she says. "I just need 10 seconds to fill a 2 to 3-inch space, when I use these themes, as opposed to about 15 minutes with detailed designs," she says. Clients these days prefer cleaner and more meaningful designs over large floral motifs, say mehendi artists. "When we introduce themes such as covid-19, with catchy phrases like ‘quarantine couple’ or ‘corona kalyanam’, they are drawn to it," she says. Kancheepuram-based mehendi artist Nathiya Purushothaman says brides do not want to compromise on the intricacy and detailing of the designs. Nathiya’s most popular Covid-related design was a groom proposing with a mask, instead of a ring. "This design received a lot of attention. The wedding guests loved the novelty of it," she says. Having planned a grand celebration with multiple ceremonies such as a mehendi night and an engagement party, S Kavitha’s wedding held in August was reduced to a Zoom call. "As most of our photoshoots were cancelled, we had to focus on smaller elements. Mehendi took centre stage," she says. Suchithra Ravi, Kavitha’s neighbour and a mehendi artist, drew minimalistic henna designs for the bride and her sister. "The theme of the season is clearly floral illustrations drawn around the word ‘corona’ on the palm," says Suchithra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-hashtags-at-henna-ceremonies/articleshow/78082558.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Other students too improve their scores||Vadodara: While city boy Nisarg Chadha has bagged NTA score 100, there are other students in the city who too have improved their score in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main) conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Maulinraj Parmar has bagged All India Rank (AIR) 171 with 99.989 percentile. A student of Shreyas School, Parmar, had bagged 99.98 percentile in Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GUJCET). “He had received 99.93 percentile in class 12 science conducted by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board. Also, he has twice cleared Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY) based on which he has received call for admission from Indian Institute of Science (IISC), Bangalore,” said his father Pankaj. Another student Utsav Mehta bagged AIR 457. “There are nearly 650 selections from the city this year. There were many students who did not appear during the second round of JEE Mains,” said S R Mishra, director of IIT Ashram, Vadodara, adding “we have a total of 327 selections from our centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/other-students-too-improve-their-scores/articleshow/78081703.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Former PT functionary murdered, relatives protest||Virudhunagar: An unidentified gang murdered former Virudhunagar district secretary of Puthiya Tamilagam, K Rajalingam, 50, near Rajapalayam on Saturday morning. Rajalingam was one of the accused in the murder of Thangavel that took place five months ago. Following Thangavel’s murder, Rajalingam was stripped of his post. According to police, Rajalingam was in his farmland at Mudhukudi when the gang of men surrounded him. They attacked him with weapons and fled from the spot. Villagers rushed Rajalingam to a nearby hospital where he was given first aid. He was referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai. However, Rajalingam died on way to the hospital Following the murder, his relatives and supporters staged a road blockade for two hours on the Madurai-Tenkasi Road demanding the arrest of the murderers. Virudhunagar district superintendent of police P Perumal assured the protesters that action would be taken against the gang. Perumal said police personnel had been deployed in nine places for security. “It might be a revenge murder,” he said. A search is on for the accused, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/former-pt-functionary-murdered-relatives-protest/articleshow/78083592.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Flood warning for people living near Varaganathi||Theni: The Theni district administration on Saturday issued a flood warning to people living on the banks of the Varaganathi in Periyakulam, Melmangalam, Jeyamangalam and Kullapuram, as the Sothuparai dam in their vicinity was fast filling up. District collector Pallavi M Baldev issued the warning stating that water would be released within the full capacity of the inflow, once it touches the 125ft mark which is expected to happen latest by Sunday morning. Recent rains in Theni district resulted in the inflow to the dam going up. On August 12, the water level in the dam was 79.4 feet. It gradually increased and touched the 121.2 feet on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/flood-warning-for-people-living-near-varaganathi/articleshow/78083590.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot markets self-impose partial lockdown from September 14||RAJKOT: Owing to the rising Covid-19 cases, the financial capital of Saurashtra region Rajkot city, will be under self-imposed partial lockdown for a week starting September 14 as most of the wholesale markets in the city have decided to work only for half-day. Gujarat’s largest gold ornaments manufacturing hub, Soni Bazar in the city, closed down for a week starting Saturday because of rising cases of coronavirus among gold traders and workers. Traders of Rajkot’s largest wholesale and retail grocery market Danapith decided to work for half-day starting September 14 for the next eight days. The traders of other markets like those on Lakhajiraj road and Para Bazar are also likely to join them. Bipin Kesariya, president of Danapith Traders’ Association said, “There is a surge of Covid-19 cases in the city. Many of our traders have also been infected by the virus. Traders raised concern about the spread during our meeting on Saturday and within 10 minutes it was decided to close shops at 3pm from Monday.” The markets will open at 8am and will close by 3pm for next week. After one week the traders will further course of action. Over 200 shops in Danapith supply goods to traders in Rajkot and Morbi districts. Over a dozen people from Danapith had tested positive in the last week, of which two have died. Traders feel that the government and the district administration have failed to contain the pandemic and now they have left no choice but to close the shops in order to reduce the contact. The wholesale markets of ready-made garments and shoes on Lakhajiraj road and Para Bazar also plan to follow traders of Danapith. Mahesh Mehta president of Lakhajiraj Road Traders Association said, “Customers visit Danapith market in the morning, while most of our customers come in the evening. So we are planning to shut the shops in the morning and fix our timings from 2pm to 8pm for a week.” Nearly 150 people are getting infected every day in Rajkot since beginning of September and nearly 25 to 30 people have succumbed during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-markets-self-impose-partial-lockdown-from-sep-14/articleshow/78082065.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Gangsters Act slapped on Mukhtar Ansari’s wife, her brothers||VARANASI: Already in the line of fire since past four months, jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari suffered another jolt when Ghazipur police booked his wife Afsha Ansari, her brothers Sharjil Raja and Anwar Shehjad under Gangsters Act for grabbing land that had been seized and attached by administration, embezzlement and other criminal activities. SP Ghazipur O P Singh said on Saturday, “Police have filed chargesheets against Mukhtar’s wife and her brothers in the cases of illegal trespass and embezzlement registered in 2019. They have been booked under Gangsters Act in regard to the same cases. Further action under Gangsters Act has been initiated as per due process.” “Afsha and her brothers are running an organised gang. They had captured land that had already been confiscated and attached on the order of district magistrate in Chhawni Line area under Kotwali police station area. They had also grabbed another confiscated land in Baveri area under Kotwali police station. Sharjil and Anwar had furnished fake documents to grab government contracts. Separate FIR had been lodged in these three cases,” the SP informed. Another case of embezzlement and other criminal activities had been registered against Afsha at Saidpur police station in 2016, he added. They have been booked under Gangsters Act due to their organised criminal activities, said Singh. Earlier, on September 9, Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had ordered cancellation of the arms licence of Meraz Ahmed alias Bhai Meraz, a core member of Mukhtar gang. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said Meraz hails from Karimuddinpur area in Ghazipur, but was living in Ashok Vihar area under Jaitpura police station. “He did not disclose the criminal cases lodged against him and procured the arms licence using fake documents. Over a dozen criminal cases are lodged against Meraz in Varanasi and Rae Bareli. He had come to limelight after sensational killing of four persons at Maldahiya in 2002. After investigation, police registered a case under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 470 and 471 of IPC against him and sent a report to DM,” Bhushan added. Ansari’s gang is facing action since May-end. Police targeted his aids involved in extortion, grabbing contracts in government departments, and ended their monopoly in fish and meat trade. Land of government and individuals grabbed by Mukhtar’s family members and henchmen was also freed. As per police records, the action has caused loss of over Rs 115 crore to Mukhtar gang in east UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gangsters-act-slapped-onansaris-wife-her-brothers/articleshow/78082036.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Surat||Doc who risked life needs lung transplant||Surat: Dr Sanket Mehta, 37, an anaesthesiologist who got infected while intubating an elderly Covid-19 patient has been shifted to the MGM hospital in Chennai on Saturday for advanced treatment and lung transplantation. This brave corona warrior who risked his life while intubated high oxygen flow in an elderly Covid-19 positive patient at the BAPS hospital, has been since on ventilator for 25 days now and also extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) treatment for the past 22 days. Finally, Dr Mehta’s family and doctors close to him decided to shift him to Chennai for advanced ECMO treatment and lung transplantation. The Surat Anaesthetists Association (SAA) has made an appeal for donations to help Dr Mehta in his battle against the deadly coronavirus. Dr Mehta is said to become the first Covid-19 positive doctor in the city at least if not in the state to have remained on ECMO treatment for the longest period of 22 days and are saluting his indomitable spirit. Dr Hiral Shah, vice-president of SAA said, “Advanced ECMO and lung transplantation is a very costly affair. We have appealed the doctors and general public to donate whatever they can to save his life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doc-who-risked-life-needs-lung-transplant/articleshow/78081939.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Farmers, citizens to put green back in Guirim coconut trees||PANAJI: Using a ‘new rooting’ technique, farmers and citizens are teaming up to revive coconut trees along the Guirim stretch by using organic manure — a mix of sixteen bacteria among other agents. On Sunday, these citizens will dig up the soil around the stems of the trees and use organic manure to help the trees get fresh roots. Lined along the highway at the Guirim underpass, starting from St Anthony ward to Monte de Guirim, the line of coconut trees is on the verge of dying after, construction debris was dumped around the stems, choking off their roots and intake of soil nutrients. “The palms of these trees have completely dried up. About 20 trees among them are in need of immediate revival, and will be rejuvenated using the technique of new rooting,” said Avertino Miranda, who is spearheading the initiative under Goa green brigade. In April last year, heritage activist Prajal Sakhardande had rallied citizens to protest the cutting of around 20 coconut trees along the stretch to facilitate the expansion of the highway. Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte had then stated that the existing coconut trees would be protected and efforts would be made to replant the trees during the monsoon. Citizens said that even the saplings they have planted are not taken care of by the local civic body, and wilted away after a few months. “They have not only failed to maintain the new trees but also cut nearly fifty existing trees,” Miranda said. There are thirty five trees, for which approximately 300kgs of manure will be applied for their revival. The manure is being provided by St Cruz-based community farmer Nestor Rangel. The manure is a mixture of vermicompost, rock phosphate, lime, muriate of potash, micronutrients and a mix of 16 good bacteria which will help the plant absorb minerals from the soil. “The ph of the soil must be between 6 and 6.5 to ensure that the plant grows. If the soil is too acidic or too alkaline, the trees do not easily grow,” Rangel said. Soil ph refers to the measure of acidity and alkalinity in soils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-citizens-to-put-green-back-in-guirim-coconut-trees/articleshow/78083594.cms||Nida Sayed
September 13, 2020||Chennai||ED seizes Rs 89-cr worth assets of DMK MP S Jagathrakshakan for forex violation||CHENNAI: The Enforcement Directorate on Saturday issued an order seizing properties worth more than Rs 89 crore of DMK’s Lok Sabha MP S Jagathrakshakan for alleged violations of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) . The anti-money laundering agency has accused Jagathrakshakan and his son Sundeep Aanand of subscribing to 90 lakh shares in 2017 of a Singapore company called Silver Park International Pte Ltd, at Singapore dollar 1/share without obtaining the approval of Reserve Bank of India. “Further, these unauthorised acquired shares were transferred by Jagathrakshakan to his family members in contravention of FEMA rules,” the agency claimed. The FEMA rules provide that if any foreign exchange, foreign security or any immovable property, situated outside India, is suspected to have been held in contravention of section 4 of FEMA, the Enforcement Directorate is empowered to seize value equivalent, situated within India, of such foreign exchange, foreign security or immovable property. Accordingly, immovable properties in the form of agricultural lands, plots, houses etc in Tamil Nadu and movable properties in the form of balances in bank accounts and shares totalling to Rs 89.19 crore held by S Jagathrakshakan and his family members are seized by the directorate. A four-time MP, Jagathrakshakan was a member of the Manmohan Singh cabinet during the UPA-II government and held important portfolios of I&B, renewable energy and commerce & industry. He was first elected to the 8th Lok Sabha in 1985 and was AIADMK’s parliamentary party leader. “The ED has issued seizure order under FEMA seizing properties held by S Jagathrakshakan, Member of Parliament, and his family members to the tune of Rs 89.19 crores, equivalent to the value of the illegally acquired, held and transferred foreign security in a Singapore-based company,” the agency said in a press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ed-seizes-rs-89-cr-worth-assets-of-dmk-mp-for-forex-violation/articleshow/78083623.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Bartenders in Pune take skills online to stay relevant||PUNE: The pandemic has forced bars to shut and bartenders have been practically out of work for over six months, forcing them to look for alternative ways to stay busy. Some bartenders have decided take their skills online. “I make short format videos of easy DIY cocktails with ingredients you can find at home. These videos are posted on the bar’s social media handles. Through my personal social media accounts, I am also sharing new recipes, tips and videos so I can maintain a rapport with my customers. Being a bartender is not just about making tasty beverages but also about building a community with the customers,” said bartender Romi Shekhar. However, she pointed out that the effort yields little to no money. “I have been taking online workshops for cocktail mixing, which helps me pay the bills, but income earned through this method is unpredictable,” Shekhar said. “Business has been completely shut for bars since March and we haven’t opened for service yet. There are at least 1,000 bartenders in the city, who are struggling to make ends meet. A number of bars in Koregaon Park and Baner have closed down for good, leaving bartenders with no jobs. Some liquor companies have started campaigns to raise money for the bartending community but that is far from a permanent solution to this issue,” said bartender and consulting mixologist Ritiesh Arora. To earn a living, many bartenders have taken up jobs at business-process outsourcing units and other sectors but it has been difficult to find companies hiring in this economic climate. Some have shifted into the kitchen or taken up other responsibilities of the bar. “I’m still making mocktails that are offered for delivery. I am also helping with the inventory and stock management since I had some relevant experience before I took up bartending. I know of many bartenders, who have lost their jobs after three-four months of lockdown, some are still employed but without any pay for the last few months. It is a difficult time because there are not many freelancing opportunities as well. By doing just 2-3 events, earning on an average Rs10,000-12,000, per gig, you can earn almost equal to a month’s salary. But events and weddings have been scaled down and people don’t want to spend money on hiring a bartender,” said Romi Shergill, a bartender. “It is important to keep practising, coming up with innovative recipes and updating our skills to suit the post-pandemic requirements. I have hope bars will reopen by the end of the year or perhaps by 2021 but there will be a whole new set of rules and regulations to be followed. It is important that we keep challenging ourselves and become better. I have been working on a set of cocktail recipes to boost immunity with herbs and natural antibiotics that are usually used to make traditional kadhas at home,” said mixologist Bijoy Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bartenders-take-skills-online-to-stay-relevant/articleshow/78082556.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Three NEET aspirants hang to death on eve of exam||MADURAI/SALEM: Three students who were preparing for the national-eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) in Tamil Nadu ended their lives on the eve of the exam on Saturday. Jothi Sri Durga, 19, of Madurai, M Aadithya, 20, of Dharmapuri and M Mothilal, 21 of Namakkal were all found hanging inside their home. Jothi Sri Durga, daughter of a sub-inspector of police and an agricultural officer, had completed plus two last year and written NEET but failed to make it. She had joined a coaching centre and stepped up preparations for this year’s exam. Her mother had taken leave to assist her in the preparations. In a suicide note left behind, Sri Durga said it will be disappointing for her family members if she did not get a seat for medicine this time too. “You have a lot of expectation on me. In case I do not secure a medical seat, all your hard work will go in vain. I am sorry. I am tired,” she wrote in the five-page note. She also said she had left a video recording on her phone for her father and urged him to take good care of her brother Sridhar, who is now in class X. Her father Murugasundaram, who is attached to the 6th battalion police, told newsmen that she had secured good marks in the model exams at the coaching centre. They noticed nothing unusual when she spoke to them before going to sleep. He came to know about the incident, when he woke up in the middle of the night. M Aadithya, 20, of Sevathan Gounder street at Illakiyampatty in Dharmapuri was the son of Manivannan and Jayachitra. They returned from Salem around 6 pm and found the main door of the house closed. When they peeped through the window gaps, they found Aadithya hanging from the ceiling using Jayachitra’s sari. Aadithya was appearing for NEET for the second time. Jayachitra told mediapersons that her son usually secured full marks in the model NEET exams at the coaching centre. M Mothilal of Idaiyanparappu in Tiruchengodu town was the son of Murugesan who owned an electrical shop in the town. “He was found hanging at his room from the ceiling using his mother’s sari,” said Ashok Kumar, DSP, Tiruchengode division. He added that his parents noticed this around 8.15 pm. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, opposition leader M K Stalin, PMK leader S Ramadoss and leaders of other political parties have condoled the death of Sri Durga. Expressing anguish over students resorting to the extreme step, the chief minister said in in his official twitter handle, “There are innumerable ways to succeed in life when the students develop determination and perseverance”. Stalin said the death of the girl has once again exposed NEET’s ugly face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-neet-aspirants-hang-to-death-on-eve-of-exam/articleshow/78083595.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Three NEET aspirants hang to death on eve of exam||MADURAI/SALEM: Three students who were preparing for the national-eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) in Tamil Nadu ended their lives on the eve of the exam on Saturday. Jothi Sri Durga, 19, of Madurai, M Aadithya, 20, of Dharmapuri and M Mothilal, 21 of Namakkal were all found hanging inside their home. Jothi Sri Durga, daughter of a sub-inspector of police and an agricultural officer, had completed plus two last year and written NEET but failed to make it. She had joined a coaching centre and stepped up preparations for this year’s exam. Her mother had taken leave to assist her in the preparations. In a suicide note left behind, Sri Durga said it will be disappointing for her family members if she did not get a seat for medicine this time too. “You have a lot of expectation on me. In case I do not secure a medical seat, all your hard work will go in vain. I am sorry. I am tired,” she wrote in the five-page note. She also said she had left a video recording on her phone for her father and urged him to take good care of her brother Sridhar, who is now in class X. Her father Murugasundaram, who is attached to the 6th battalion police, told newsmen that she had secured good marks in the model exams at the coaching centre. They noticed nothing unusual when she spoke to them before going to sleep. He came to know about the incident, when he woke up in the middle of the night. M Aadithya, 20, of Sevathan Gounder street at Illakiyampatty in Dharmapuri was the son of Manivannan and Jayachitra. They returned from Salem around 6 pm and found the main door of the house closed. When they peeped through the window gaps, they found Aadithya hanging from the ceiling using Jayachitra’s sari. Aadithya was appearing for NEET for the second time. Jayachitra told mediapersons that her son usually secured full marks in the model NEET exams at the coaching centre. M Mothilal of Idaiyanparappu in Tiruchengodu town was the son of Murugesan who owned an electrical shop in the town. “He was found hanging at his room from the ceiling using his mother’s sari,” said Ashok Kumar, DSP, Tiruchengode division. He added that his parents noticed this around 8.15 pm. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, opposition leader M K Stalin, PMK leader S Ramadoss and leaders of other political parties have condoled the death of Sri Durga. Expressing anguish over students resorting to the extreme step, the chief minister said in in his official twitter handle, “There are innumerable ways to succeed in life when the students develop determination and perseverance”. Stalin said the death of the girl has once again exposed NEET’s ugly face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/three-neet-aspirants-hang-to-death-on-eve-of-exam/articleshow/78085092.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Two nabbed for accepting matka bets in Goa||PANAJI: The crime branch has arrested two persons for accepting matka bets, in two separate raids in South Goa. Gambling articles and cash amounting to over Rs 37,000 have been seized. In the first raid, conducted near the old Margao railway station, an accused was caught red-handed while accepting matka bets, and Rs 15,900 and gambling articles were seized. The second raid at Chapoli, in Canacona, resulted in Rs 22,000 being seized. Both the accused have been arrested and FIRs under section 11(2)(a) of the Public Gambling Act have been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-nabbed-for-accepting-matka-bets/articleshow/78083593.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Allahabad||HC directs Govt to frame norms for holding meets of local bodies||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed the state government to consider framing of guidelines within three weeks, while keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic, regarding holding of statutory meetings of local bodies, including those for considering ‘no-confidence motions’. The court directed that a copy of this decision be sent to the chief secretary of the state for its necessary compliance. Dismissing a writ petition filed by Tripti Rani of Bijnor, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Piyush Agrawal observed, “During the Covid-19 pandemic, everybody has to act with utmost caution so that the spread of infection may be curtailed as much as possible.” The petitioner, Tripti Rani, is the Pramukh of the Kotwali Kshetra Panchayat, Bijnor. A no-confidence motion was moved against her in accordance with the procedure laid down in Uttar Pradesh Kshetra Panchayat and Zila Panchayat Act, 1961. Hence, the district magistrate, Bijnor issued a notice dated August 21, 2020, convening a meeting for consideration of the motion of no-confidence on September 15, 2020. The petitioner challenged the notice dated August 21 on the ground that since there are about 185 members in the Kotwali Kshetra Panchayat, district Bijnor, they exceeded the number of persons permitted under the guidelines for phased re-opening (unlock-4) issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India on August 29, 2020. It was further submitted that in view of the aforesaid guidelines, the proposed meeting for consideration of no- confidence motion cannot be convened on September 15, 2020 since it would be in violation of the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Rejecting the pleas of the petitioner, the court observed, “In a democratic set up where right to govern depends on the will of the people, the person who has lost the majority cannot be permitted to hold office. If a representative no longer enjoys the confidence of the people, elected representatives have a right to remove him and he cannot be permitted to remain in power even for a second and has to be immediately replaced by a newly elected representative.” Therefore, considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the court directed the District Magistrate, Bijnor to ensure all the protocols applicable for social and physical distancing are adhered to while holding the meeting for consideration of the motion of no confidence. Further, the court directed that the seating arrangements be made in such a manner so that it may adhere to the prescribed norms. Further, the DM may also explore the possibility of seating the members of the Kotwali Kshetra Panchayat in two or three separate rooms, a big hall or in open space. The Authority concerned may also explore the possibility of holding a virtual session, with the help of modern technological tools, the court added. In addition to it, the court directed that the District Magistrate or his representative, who would be present on the spot, will be the best person to understand the ground reality for holding the proposed no-confidence motion in the best possible manner. “We hope and trust that he would ensure that all the protocols, as prescribed under the guidelines and norms issued by the state and Central governments and the observations made in this judgment would be followed,” the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-directs-govt-to-frame-norms-for-holding-meets-of-local-bodies/articleshow/78081533.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hubballi||BEOs not appointed to 49 new taluks in state||Hubballi: It has been two years since as many as 49 new taluks were carved out in Karnataka, but sadly, the state government is yet to appoint a dedicated block education officer (BEO) to these administrative units, much to the chagrin of the stakeholders in the sector. Teachers in these newly-formed taluks have raised concerns about the lack of a BEO affecting academic activities such as the distribution of textbooks, conducting of examinations among others. On the other hand, parents are forced to travel to the nearest BEO office, which, unfortunately is not too near. President of the Karnataka Government Rural Primary School Teachers’ Association, Hubballi Ashok Sajjan said that the oversight of the education department in nominating BEOs to the new taluks, and setting up an office had had a particularly adverse impact on schools in the villages. “We have submitted a memorandum seeking rectification of this oversight multiple times but we have received no response,” Sajjan told TOI. Mallikarjun Uppin, also a teacher, said that the new taluks had not been mentioned in the order issued on Teachers’ Day for the selection of the best teacher in the district. “It almost seems as though the department of public instruction is unaware of the new taluks,” Uppin said. In Ganjendragad in Gadag district, the headquarters of a newly-formed taluk, a teacher said that most of these new administrative units now had fully functioning panchayats, members to which had already been elected. “This is an indication that the state government, regardless of which party is in power, is only interested in elected bodies and not others. Consequently, we are forced to go all the way to Ron seeking resolution to administrative issues,” he said. Hanumant, a youngster in Karatagi in Koppal district, who is looking for employment, said that they still had to visit the BEO office in Ron taluk for documents such as study certificates. Although an office has been established for the BEO in Maski taluk in Raichur district, the role itself has been handed to the Sindhanur and Lingasugur officials, each of whom shoulder the additional responsibilities three days a week. “Administration is bound to suffer in such a scenario,” said a teacher. Repeated attempts to contact primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar via phone calls and messages yielded no result since he was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/beos-not-appointed-to-49-new-taluks-in-state/articleshow/78081873.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Parks restrict entry for kids||Madurai: Although parks in the city have opened up, very few people are turning up to utilise the facility. The city has around 60 parks including the Eco Park, corporation building premises and Rajaji park. Most of the parks are open to the public in the evening from 4.30pm to 8pm. “The crowds are low and people bringing their children to play is almost nil,” said a corporation official. People entering the parks are screened at the entrance for body temperature and asked to sanitize their hands before entering. Some of the operators of playing equipment like merry-go-round and giant wheel at the Rajaji park said that they were not getting even ten people for rides per day and are not able to even meet electricity bills. Walkers Club president A A G Rajkumar and secretary P Ponraj said that they open their park only for walkers from 5am to 10am and is closed in the evening. “We only walk in one direction and the gym area and children’s park on the southern side is closed,” said Rajkumar. Walkers however say that children come to the skating ring inside the park with or without their parents, many of them below the age of 10, and is a cause of concern. “We get rude retorts when we try to advise them,” they said, adding that it would be good if the corporation monitored the same. This park has appointed a person to ensure that the people follow norms and wear masks. In Duraisamy Nagar, which has one of the best parks in residential areas in the city, the cleaning process of the premises is underway. Former president of residents association M Pushparajan said they were going to open the park only for two hours per day for walking, while children would be restricted and would have to come with their parents. “As of now, parents are not showing much interest in sending their children,” he added. S Kavitha, a mother, said that she has wants to take her children to the nearest park after their online classes but is scared to do so now. “I am afraid that the parks may be crowded,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/parks-restrict-entry-for-kids/articleshow/78083626.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Ban on digging of roads to be on till mid-Oct||PANAJI: The ban on digging and cutting of roads, imposed just ahead of the monsoon, will remain in force till mid-October, said North Goa collector R Menaka. The restriction, however, will not be applicable to public utility services or for the execution of urgent repair works of electricity or telecommunication cables and pipelines. According to the order, which has been issued under Section 144, the ban will remain in force for 60 days from the date of the order. The order was issued by the North Goa collector on August 17 this year and was notified on September 11. Preventive measures to ban all digging is a decision taken every year to prevent road accidents and ensure that the condition of roads does not deteriorate during the monsoon. The ban prohibits individuals, private agencies and government departments from digging or cutting public roads without prior written permission from the North Goa collector. While the electricity department, BSNL and PWD can dig up or cut roads for urgent repairs, the damaged portion of the road is required to be repaired within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-on-digging-of-roads-to-be-on-till-mid-oct/articleshow/78083622.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kanpur||One shelter home girl found, other still missing||Kanpur: Three days after two minor girls escaped from the government shelter home in Swarup Nagar, one was recovered by the police from Kisni area of Manipuri district on Saturday. The police has brought the girl to Kanpur and based on the inputs provided by her, further launched searches to recover the other absconding inmate. The two minor girl inmates of the shelter home had managed to escape on Wednesday morning. This is the second such incident in the past few months. Earlier, two girl inmates of the same shelter home, who had tested positive for Covid-19 along with 55 others and were lodged at a quarantine facility at KDA Greens in Panki, had gone missing on June 26, 2020 but were later traced. The girls had alleged that they had escaped following torture at hands of other inmates. Inspector, Swarup Nagar, Ashwini Pandey said that the recovered girl told the investigators that she had reached her boyfriend’s house in Mainpuri. She further said that she had married him and also expressed her wish of staying with her in-laws. Pandey said both the girls escaped after climbing sewage pipe and thereafter, jumping on the other side of the boundary wall of the shelter home. From here they reached Jhakarkati bus station and took a bus heading towards Agra. While the girl said she de-boarded the bus at Etawah and reached Mainpuri, the other inmate continued to travel upto Agra from where she belongs. An FIR against three staff of shelter home, besides four women homeguards had already been lodged at Swarup Nagar police station. The Inspector further said that an FIR following a complaint by shelter home superintendent Urmila Gupta against three staff of shelter home and four women homeguards had been lodged. Meanwhile, district magistrate and DIG visited government shelter home on Saturday. An inquiry has already been set up to probe the matter. The probe is being done by city magistrate (V). DM Alok Tiwari during his visit warned District Probationary Officer (DPO) Abhay Kumar over the issue. He also ordered DPO to conduct inspection of the shelter home every week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-shelter-home-girl-found-other-still-missing/articleshow/78082138.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
September 13, 2020||Varanasi||1 killed, 3 feared drown in river||Varanasi: One boy was killed while three others were feared drowned in river Sone while bathing near Kudari village under the limits of Jugail police station in Sonbhadra district on Saturday morning. All the boys, who aged around 14, belonged to Lam Sarayi village of Gadhwa area in Singrauli district of Madhya Pradesh. Police are continuing search operation with the help of local divers for three missing boys SP Sonbhadra Ashish Srivastava said that Kudari village of Sonbhadra district is located along river Sone while Lam Sarayi village, which falls in MP, is on the opposite bank. Four adolescent boys including Anand of Lam Sarayi village had come to Kudari, where they started bathing in river Sone. While bathing they slipped in deep water, said police adding, on hearing their cries people in nearby area ran towards the incident site. However, before they could start efforts to rescue operation the boys went inside the water. Srivastava said that Jugail cops engaged local divers, who after succeeded in searching the body of Anand. Despite continuing the search drive till late evening other missing boys could not be searched, said Srivastava adding, the search operation will continue on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/1-killed-3-feared-drown-in-river/articleshow/78082055.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Coding becomes child’s play as young minds create array of apps||PANAJI: While most would have expected children to binge-watch TV or play mobile games to get through the Covid-induced lockdown, several had, in fact, used the extra time to hone their coding skills through online courses. Today, these pre-teen techies flaunt an array of apps and games that they’ve created all by themselves. Ananya Naik, 10, was about five-years-old when she began attending coding classes, but her interest only piqued during the lockdown after she realised that courses were available online. This Manovikas School student has developed two gaming apps: Corona Dodge –– an entertaining way to make children aware of outdoor hygiene during Covid-19 –– and Kill Corona Quiz, which tests children’s knowledge on outdoor hygiene. “There are hardly any girls in India who can code. I keep trying to get other girls to join me since very few are interested,” she said. Nine-year-old Vedant Abhyankar is one of the youngest to have built a hand-washing app and ‘Lockdown Game,’ in which the important message of wearing masks is conveyed in a fun way. “I just want to build apps that can change the world.” he said. It was the ban on Chinese apps that spurred Swayam Kakodkar, 12, to create indigenous technologies. “I learnt to make an MIT app and am also learning Python coding language,” the Manovikas School student said. Although he was upset about a robotics competition being cancelled due to the pandemic, Kakodkar is happy that the PUBG gaming app has been banned. He intends to build a similar interface after he gains expertise in coding. Shounak Hede, a 11-year-old student of Sharada Mandir School, attributes his interest in coding to motivation from his engineer father. “I am impressed by his knowledge and problem-solving abilities,” said Hede, who has developed a few gaming apps, links of which he shares with his friends to download and play. “I would initially only play games online, but now I can create them by myself,” he said. In app development courses, students learn the basics of coding apps and games for smartphones. They are trained in writing code besides developing and designing their very own apps. “During the lockdown, I learnt AppInventor, which helps me build mobile apps. Artificial Intelligence helps me code mobile apps that can perform smart tasks and other coding skills. Some of my apps have been uploaded to Google Play,” said 11-year-old Sai Pranav, a student of Sharada Mandir School, who dreams of studying in MIT some day. Venkatesh Dempo, 10, also a student of Sharada Mandir School, went a step further and started his own YouTube channel to showcase his apps while also teaching the skill to other children. “My friends often share their feedback with me and accordingly I make changes in the apps to enhance their features. I will soon launch my apps on Google Play,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coding-becomes-childs-play-as-young-minds-create-array-of-apps/articleshow/78083620.cms||Nida Sayed
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||FIR lodged against private pathology for violating Covid-19 norms||Dehradun: An FIR has been filed against a private pathology lab in Astley Hall, for violating Covid-19 norms. In the FIR filed under sections 188 and 51 of the Indian Penal Code, the complainant claimed that the pathology lab, the first private facility to start Covid-19 tests in the state capital, has violated security and social distancing protocols set by the government. “A case has been filed for neglecting safety standards regarding coronavirus testing. As per the complainant, the path lab owners didn’t follow the guidelines even after repeated instructions,” added SHO of Nehru police station, Rakesh Gosain. Meanwhile, the district administration also ordered deployment of police force outside containment zones to ensure that no person, from houses with Covid-19 positive cases, come out. The decision was taken after a few people complained of some residents, put under isolation, roaming outside in market areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fir-lodged-against-private-pathology-for-violating-covid-19-norms/articleshow/78081100.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 13, 2020||Ajmer||Covid cases breach 1 lakh mark in Rajasthan, casualty count at 1,221||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 caseload in Rajasthan breached the 1 lakh mark on Saturday, 182 days after the first case was detected on March 3. With 1,669 new infections, the cumulative count stood at 1,00,705. On the brighter side, there were just 16,582 active cases, proving that the recovery rate is very healthy. Initially, for the first 45 days, the bulk of the cases were reported from Jaipur, but from the third week of April, several districts started reporting infections. As of now, most of the Covid dedicated hospitals across the state are almost full with patients. Considering the sharp increase in cases, the state government has empowered collectors to start acquiring private hospitals for corona treatment. In the last 24 hours, 14 people have lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,221. Jaipur, which had recorded 321 positive cases on Friday, saw yet another spike with 335 new infections being reported on Saturday. Areas which reported maximum cases include Jagapura (64), Malviya Nagar (49), Durgapura (39) and Mansarover (36). Almost all Covid care centres such as RUHS, Jaipuria Hospital and private hospitals are almost full. Attributing the spike in cases to increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said the state was now aiming at having 75,000 tests per day. “Detection is necessary for containing the pandemic,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar, Ajmer and Bikaner continued to remain the worst-hit areas and the major contributor to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 280 cases were recorded on Saturday. There were 152 cases in Kota, Alwar (109), Ajmer (101), Bikaner (56), Sikar (56) and Nagaur (47). Of the 14 deaths, two were reported in Jaipur while one each was reported from Ajmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Churu , Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Sikar and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-cases-breach-1l-mark-in-raj-casualty-count-at-1221/articleshow/78085040.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Covid cases breach 1 lakh mark in Rajasthan, casualty count at 1,221||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 caseload in Rajasthan breached the 1 lakh mark on Saturday, 182 days after the first case was detected on March 3. With 1,669 new infections, the cumulative count stood at 1,00,705. On the brighter side, there were just 16,582 active cases, proving that the recovery rate is very healthy. Initially, for the first 45 days, the bulk of the cases were reported from Jaipur, but from the third week of April, several districts started reporting infections. As of now, most of the Covid dedicated hospitals across the state are almost full with patients. Considering the sharp increase in cases, the state government has empowered collectors to start acquiring private hospitals for corona treatment. In the last 24 hours, 14 people have lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,221. Jaipur, which had recorded 321 positive cases on Friday, saw yet another spike with 335 new infections being reported on Saturday. Areas which reported maximum cases include Jagapura (64), Malviya Nagar (49), Durgapura (39) and Mansarover (36). Almost all Covid care centres such as RUHS, Jaipuria Hospital and private hospitals are almost full. Attributing the spike in cases to increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said the state was now aiming at having 75,000 tests per day. “Detection is necessary for containing the pandemic,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar, Ajmer and Bikaner continued to remain the worst-hit areas and the major contributor to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 280 cases were recorded on Saturday. There were 152 cases in Kota, Alwar (109), Ajmer (101), Bikaner (56), Sikar (56) and Nagaur (47). Of the 14 deaths, two were reported in Jaipur while one each was reported from Ajmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Churu , Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Sikar and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-breach-1l-mark-in-raj-casualty-count-at-1221/articleshow/78083629.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid cases breach 1 lakh mark in Rajasthan, casualty count at 1,221||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 caseload in Rajasthan breached the 1 lakh mark on Saturday, 182 days after the first case was detected on March 3. With 1,669 new infections, the cumulative count stood at 1,00,705. On the brighter side, there were just 16,582 active cases, proving that the recovery rate is very healthy. Initially, for the first 45 days, the bulk of the cases were reported from Jaipur, but from the third week of April, several districts started reporting infections. As of now, most of the Covid dedicated hospitals across the state are almost full with patients. Considering the sharp increase in cases, the state government has empowered collectors to start acquiring private hospitals for corona treatment. In the last 24 hours, 14 people have lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,221. Jaipur, which had recorded 321 positive cases on Friday, saw yet another spike with 335 new infections being reported on Saturday. Areas which reported maximum cases include Jagapura (64), Malviya Nagar (49), Durgapura (39) and Mansarover (36). Almost all Covid care centres such as RUHS, Jaipuria Hospital and private hospitals are almost full. Attributing the spike in cases to increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said the state was now aiming at having 75,000 tests per day. “Detection is necessary for containing the pandemic,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar, Ajmer and Bikaner continued to remain the worst-hit areas and the major contributor to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 280 cases were recorded on Saturday. There were 152 cases in Kota, Alwar (109), Ajmer (101), Bikaner (56), Sikar (56) and Nagaur (47). Of the 14 deaths, two were reported in Jaipur while one each was reported from Ajmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Churu , Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Sikar and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-cases-breach-1l-mark-in-raj-casualty-count-at-1221/articleshow/78085038.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Udaipur||Covid cases breach 1 lakh mark in Rajasthan, casualty count at 1,221||JAIPUR: The Covid-19 caseload in Rajasthan breached the 1 lakh mark on Saturday, 182 days after the first case was detected on March 3. With 1,669 new infections, the cumulative count stood at 1,00,705. On the brighter side, there were just 16,582 active cases, proving that the recovery rate is very healthy. Initially, for the first 45 days, the bulk of the cases were reported from Jaipur, but from the third week of April, several districts started reporting infections. As of now, most of the Covid dedicated hospitals across the state are almost full with patients. Considering the sharp increase in cases, the state government has empowered collectors to start acquiring private hospitals for corona treatment. In the last 24 hours, 14 people have lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,221. Jaipur, which had recorded 321 positive cases on Friday, saw yet another spike with 335 new infections being reported on Saturday. Areas which reported maximum cases include Jagapura (64), Malviya Nagar (49), Durgapura (39) and Mansarover (36). Almost all Covid care centres such as RUHS, Jaipuria Hospital and private hospitals are almost full. Attributing the spike in cases to increase in random sampling and testing, senior officers of the health department said the state was now aiming at having 75,000 tests per day. “Detection is necessary for containing the pandemic,” said a senior officer of the health department. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Alwar, Ajmer and Bikaner continued to remain the worst-hit areas and the major contributor to the state’s tally. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 280 cases were recorded on Saturday. There were 152 cases in Kota, Alwar (109), Ajmer (101), Bikaner (56), Sikar (56) and Nagaur (47). Of the 14 deaths, two were reported in Jaipur while one each was reported from Ajmer, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Churu , Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Pratapgarh, Sikar and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-cases-breach-1l-mark-in-raj-casualty-count-at-1221/articleshow/78085037.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||ML for early seat-sharing talks in GA||PATNA: The CPI(ML) on Friday urged the RJD and other partners of the Grand Alliance (GA) to go for early completion of the seat-sharing exercise to present an effective opposition to the NDA in the assembly elections. “In no situation, the seat-sharing exercise should be allowed to linger unnecessarily. The need is to adopt a rational approach in seat sharing and also see the urgency of the situation,” senior CPI(ML) functionary Dhirendra Kumar Jha said. Jha, who heads the party’s three-member committee to conduct the seat-sharing talks with GA partners, said the CPI(ML) held talks with the RJD on Thursday to remove confusions. Jha said after the RJD, only the CPI(ML) and two other Left parties – CPI and CPM – had been at the forefront of the agitation against the NDA government in the state on various issues. Besides, the three Left parties have the strongest reliable base after the RJD in the state, he said. “These aspects should be given importance in seat distribution among the NDA partners,” Jha said, adding the GA partners have to adopt “accommodative and rational approach” in seat distribution with complete understanding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ml-for-early-seat-sharing-talks-in-ga/articleshow/78065368.cms||Abhay Singh
September 13, 2020||Madurai||SSI dies of Covid-19 complications||Madurai: A 57-year-old special-sub inspector of police attached to the Thachanallur police station in Tirunelveli district died of Covid-19 complications on Saturday. The SSI from Karaiyiruppu, Murugan, was suffering from fever and other symptoms of Covid-19 for 10 days and got himself admitted to the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. Though his test result came back negative, Murugan continued to have symptoms of Covid-19. A CT scan revealed that his lungs were infected. His health condition started deteriorating on Friday and he died on Saturday. He is the second police officer from Tiruneveli district to have died due to Covid-19 infection. Sadhu Chidambaram, inspector of police attached with the armed reserve unit of Tirunelveli city died in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ssi-dies-of-covid-19-complications/articleshow/78083627.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Colombian gets 10 years in jail for smuggling cocaine||CHENNAI: A city court has sentenced a Colombian national to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for smuggling 2.35kg of cocaine into the country. Edwin Enrique, 32, a resident of the Colombian capital Bogota was charged under sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials arrested him on his arrival in Chennai from Dubai, on June 22, 2015. NCB officials arranged for a Spanish translator and after investigation, found 2.35kg of cocaine powder concealed in permanent marker pens he was carrying. Enrique was arrested and his family and the Colombian embassy were alerted about the arrest. The NCB also submitted witness statements and forensic proof. In response, counsel for the accused argued that no proof was submitted to prove that Enqriue’s mother tongue was Spanish and that his statements in the language could not be used by prosecution. Additional district judge V Thenmozhe rejected this line of defence as an afterthought as 99% of population in Colombia spoke Spanish, it is the country’s official language and their national anthem is in Spanish. The court, however, held Enrique guilty. He pleaded for a lesser punishment saying he had four children back home in Colombia and that he had already spent five years in jail here. Considering the evidence and the plea, the court for NDPS cases in Chennai sentenced Enrique to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-colombian-gets-10-years-in-jail-for-smuggling-cocaine/articleshow/78081922.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Rain intensity dips; showers to continue in coastal dists||Mangaluru: With the intensity of rain reducing since Friday afternoon, there was respite for residents of Jappinamogaru from water-logging. On Friday, about 50 families left that area and many of them were provided shelter at Maratha Bhavan, while some rushed to their relatives’ houses. But it was a wet day with intermittent showers all through the day. Mayor Diwakar said with rain intensity reducing — albeit with occasional heavy showers — the area was free from water-logging and inundation. “People have started returning to their houses since Friday night. There are no reports of any damage to property on Saturday,” he said. Fire personnel said that there were no calls for rescue and relief on Saturday. Chief fire officer B Tippeswamy said they were ready to tackle emergencies, but there were none fortunately. The reduced intensity of rain could be gauged from the fact that Mangaluru taluk received only one-third of the rain it received on Friday. It was 210mm on Friday, and 75mm on Saturday (in 24 hours till 8.30am). Bantwal and Belthangady taluks received 75mm and 65mm rain, respectively. Forecasting widespread moderate-to-heavy rain with isolated very heavy rain over Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, KSNMDC has warned fishermen not to venture into the sea. Builder served notice MCC commissioner Akshy Sridhar has served a notice to the builder of the property at Derebail, where a part of the retaining wall and tie beams collapsed on Friday. In the notice, the civic body chief has sought an explanation in 24 hours as to why the building should not be declared as unfit for human habitation. The occupancy certificate (OC) of the building has been suspended till further notice. The commissioner recalled that when the building licence was issued, the builder had given an indemnity bond stating that he would be responsible for the building safety. Since the above condition has been violated, the commissioner invoked Karnataka Municipalities Act 443(4) to suspend the OC. On Saturday, former MLC Ivan D’ Souza, along with the NDRF team, visited the site to assess the situation and the safety of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rain-intensity-dips-showers-to-continue-in-coastal-dists/articleshow/78081907.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Auto giant takes eco-friendly rail route to ferry nearly 350 tractors||NAGPUR: The Mahindra group has opted for the rail route, replacing the traditional road way, to make deliveries of around 350 tractors to different parts of the country with an aim to reduce carbon footprints by adopting the eco-friendly transportation facility. Central railways (CR) earned around Rs 25 lakh within 10 days, sending two rakes of tractors on behalf of their client, the Mahindra logistics, from their newly acquired Ajni goods shed which earlier served as the transportation hub of Concor’s operation. Opting for the rail route, the automobile group also managed to cut down on it time of delivery and cost considerably apart from higher security quotient. The CR, under the supervision of divisional railway manager (DRM) Somesh Kumar Shrivastava, had taken over Concor’s premises after they had wrapped their operations in August. The premises are now being utilized for developing business potential and capacities of the CR under senior divisional commercial manager Krishnath Patil. Asst commercial manager (stocks) SG Rao, also a public relations officer, said he had approached Mahindra group as a part of the CR’s business development initiatives offering the services of railways as means of transportation relatively cheaper, quicker, cleaner and greener. “On August 31, the first rake was sent to Phillour in Punjab which was followed by the latest one on September 10 to Fathua in Bihar. In two rakes, almost 350 tractors were sent,” he said. Rao added the CR had earned Rs12.78 lakhs in their latest delivery assignment. “The automobile group too made a saving of around 15% using rail route which is also much safer than road transportation with lesser chances of delays,” he said. Rao said the Mahindra group earlier used the road transport for deliveries but their logistics wing headed by chief manager NK Sinha was keen for switching to rail route which is comparatively more eco-friendly and greener as an option. “We are convincing business groups and establishments to shift to railways as a more greener, cheaper, quicker and safer option. The response is encouraging,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/auto-giant-takes-eco-friendly-rail-route-to-ferry-nearly-350-tractors/articleshow/78083632.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 13, 2020||Chennai||'Judges victims of juicy social media gossip'||CHENNAI: Freedom of speech of judges is curtailed by the same laws that uphold the freedom for others who use it to criticise the judiciary and judges, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde said on Saturday at a virtual book release function. Expressing a similar view, Justice N V Ramana, judge, Supreme Court, said: “Judges are self-restrained in speaking out in their own defence. Today, they have become soft targets of criticism. Judges have become the victims of juicy gossip in social media.” There seems to be a misunderstanding that judges lead a luxurious life in ivory towers. This is far from true since judges have to be careful to balance their social lives to be independent, Justice Ramana said. Releasing the book ‘Judiciary, Judges and the Administration of Justice’, authored by Justice R Banumathi, former judge of the Supreme Court, Chief Justice Bobde said, “While the judicial mind has to remember the social divisions and barriers, it cannot be swayed by these and cannot add upon it its own prejudices.” All judges, from the district judiciary to the apex court, do the same job of delivering justice. And it’s not an easy job, he added. “Judges are called upon to do things that others avoid. To make decisions,” he said. Asserting that the pandemic is going to present the judiciary with huge pendency of cases, Chief Justice Bobde said: “I don’t see a way out. We have to work a way through it. When the pandemic goes away we are going to face a flood of cases. We have to put our minds together to deal with it.” Stressing on the issue of mental health, CJI said, “there is an uncomfortable prediction about many people wanting to commit suicide due to the pandemic and I sincerely hope it doesn’t happen. This pandemic has brought about two things – indifference and unnecessary aggression.” It is high time we devote some energy for mental health, CJI said, adding that the apex court will soon launch an initiative for restoration of mental health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/judges-victims-of-juicy-social-media-gossip/articleshow/78082575.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Pay contractors so that we get our dues: Suppliers to NMC||NAGPUR: Material suppliers to contractors engaged in civic works have approached the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) requesting it to clear outstanding bills of their clients which in turn will enable them to get their dues. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation Contractors’ Welfare Association too has urged the NMC to clear payments immediately since a majority of the contractors were not in a position to complete unfinished works forget about taking up new works in the city. The association submitted a memorandum to standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke explaining their difficulties. TOI learnt that the civic body has not paid bills of contractors since September 2019 and the outstanding amount due from the NMC is about Rs400 crore for various works taken up by several contractors. “Contractors have been doing the rounds of NMC for payments,” association members told TOI. “If no efforts were made to clear our dues, the contractors will launch an agitation soon,” association president Vijay Nayudu told TOI. “Bill are pending since very long whereas the office-bearers and engineers are pursuing the contractors to complete the unfinished works,” Nayudu stated in the memorandum. He further said that contractors managed to complete their work by borrowing money and material from suppliers with the hope that dues would be cleared, but that did not happen. “The last payment NMC released was a meagre amount against the pending dues of around Rs500 crore. It did not serve any purpose. Now, the situation is such that neither the supplier is lending us materials nor we are able to borrow from the market to complete the pending works,” said a contractor. All this has frustrated the contractors so much that many are suffering from depression which may led to untoward incident as creditors have started pressing for their dues. Even Ultratech Concrete (the ready-mix concrete division of Ultratech Cement Ltd) has approached the NMC seeking its support by releasing the outstanding payment towards contractors. In a letter to municipal commissioner, the firm pointed out that it had supplied cement to most of the NMC contractors for concrete road project by assessing their credibility in the market. However, for almost a year now, the outstanding dues of approximately Rs46.10 lakh have not been released to the firm by the contractors citing non-disbursement of funds by the NMC, the company pointed out. As a result, the firm has restricted cement supplies for concretization of roads. This has led to slower progress of many ongoing cement roads across the city. Sources also pointed out that bills got certified from the NMC’s public works department, but are pending with accounts and finance department. Admitting that bills were pending for long, Zalke assured that the corporation was making efforts to clear them. “We are aware of the situation and are in touch with our contractors. In view of the Covid-19 crisis, we are arranging funds to clear pending bills of contractors as soon as possible,” said Zalke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-contractors-so-that-we-get-our-dues-suppliers-to-nmc/articleshow/78083636.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Trains to run faster on six stretches||CHENNAI: Southern Railway use of the lockdown period to carry out track work will show results as trains can now touch more than 100kmph on the Chennai-Gudur, Pattabhiram-Thiruninravur, Arakkonam-Renigunta, Minjur-Ponneri and a few other stretches. But terminal/station capacity needs to be increased to introduce more trains on these routes. Removing speed restrictions on the tracks will allow railways to accommodate more trains on a route. The limitations on tracks, presence of level crossings are some of the reasons for imposing speed restrictions for trains to minimise accidents. However, efforts were being taken to ensure these could be cleared, but high train traffic used to slow down efforts. The shutdown period when trains were suspended since April was used to finish the pending work. Since tracks have been readied, when services resume in a full-fledged manner, trains will be able to maintain a uniform speed of 100kmph out of Chennai for most part of the route. A significant difference in speed will be seen at Minjur-Ponneri stretch where the speed limit of 30kmph has been increased to 105kmph, which means that trains to the north especially the ones to Kolkata will not have to slow down at Minjur. Similarly, the speed restriction of 60kmph on Pattabhiram-Thiruninravur stretch has been removed and trains will be allowed to touch 105kmph. In the Chennai-Gudur stretch, which is used by Chennai-Delhi Rajdhani Express, the speed has been increased from 105kmph to 110kmph. In addition to this the zone has completed deep screening, ultrasonic testing and ballast collection of tracks so that snags can be rectified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-improved-trains-to-run-faster-on-six-stretches/articleshow/78082579.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Barrel burst sets back army’s advanced howitzer programme||NAGPUR/PUNE: Development of the advanced towed artillery gun systems (ATAGS) suffered a setback after barrel of one of the pieces undergoing trials burst during test fires at Pokhran firing range in Rajasthan on Saturday. The system which is of 155x52 mm calibre has been designed by Pune’s Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE), a laboratory of DRDO. The guns have been made by Bharat Forge and Tata Power’s Special Equipment Division (SED). The barrel in both the guns has been made by Bharat Forge. It is learnt one of shells burst within the barrel, damaging the gun. This is expected to throw back the whole process. A similar incident happened thrice with Dhanush— the 155x45 calibre gun made by ordnance factories on the lines of the Swedish Bofors— and also in one of the M-777 guns that were brought from US. An officer of project director’s level in the ARDE contacted by TOI refused to comment saying the matter could not be discussed in public forum. A spokesperson of Bharat Forge said none of the guns made by the company had been damaged in any of the incidents. Tata Group also declined to comment on the report. Sources familiar with the matter, however, said, it’s a development process where multiple players are working together. They are committed to finding the cause and building the gun. A senior DRDO scientist, who is aware of the development, said, “The incident took place when the last round was fired. Before carrying out any trial, the gun is thoroughly checked. In this case too it must have been done. This was not the first trial. It has performed remarkably well in high altitude trial in Sikkim. The gun has met all parameters so far during previous trials. If there is any minor defect, it can be addressed easily.” It is also being argued that faulty ammunition may have led to the incident. The ammunition has been supplied by the ordnance factories. Another DRDO scientist requesting anonymity said, “This is not the first time such an incident has happened with any gun. It would be difficult to pinpoint the exact cause until the thorough investigation is done.” DRDO will form an expert committee which would examine quality of ammunition, condition of barrel, and aspects like deviation in handling of the barrel during trial. Sub-standard ammunition has often caused problems during trials, the source said. ATAGS is an advanced version of the Dhanush howitzers. The 155x52 calibre ATAGS has a higher range. The same ATAGS had achieved a record range of 48 km during trials in 2017. Leaders in ordnance factories unions have said, like Dhanush, even the ATAGS should be put to tough scrutiny. “Why an issue is created only if an ordnance factory product suffers a setback,” asked Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/barrel-burst-sets-back-armys-advanced-howitzer-programme/articleshow/78115375.cms||Shishir Arya
September 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada, Udupi add 570 new cases, record 7 deaths||MANGALURU/ UDUPI: The number of new Covid-19 cases continued to mount in the coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada with 570 cases being reported on Saturday. Dakshina Kannada added 401 cases, while Udupi added 169 cases. The fresh surge pushed DK’s overall tally of positive cases 41 short of the 17,000-mark, while Udupi found itself 88 short of the 14,000-mark. In Dakshina Kannada, ILI contributed 52% (210) of the total cases, while primary contacts (97) and SARI (18 cases) made up for 24% and 4% of cases, respectively. Health authorities are probing the source of infection in 76 cases. Symptomatic cases (245) were more than asymptomatic cases (156). Mangaluru taluk reported 227 cases. Five Covid-related deaths, including three from Mangaluru taluk and one each from Sullia and from outside DK, took the toll to 439. DK has tested 1.18 lakh samples, of which 1.01 lakh have tested negative, the DC said. Two casualties in Udupi, both women aged 70 and 89, took the toll in the district to 130. Source of infection in 58 of the new cases was not known as many patients were primary contacts, 46 had ILI, five were reported in-patients with domestic travel history and one each had SARI detected in an international traveller. Majority (93) of the cases were asymptomatic. Udupi taluk accounted for 95 (56%) of the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-udupi-add-570-new-cases-record-7-deaths/articleshow/78081932.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Boy living under Lalbaug bridge goes missing||Vadodara: A nine-year-old grandson of a labourer went missing from under Lalbaug bridge on September 10. The next day the labourer lodged an abduction complaint with Navapura police station after the family could not find the boy. Police said that the boy went missing when his grandparents had gone to his aunt’s home in Manjalpur. Since the boy’s father had died two years ago and his mother had remarried, the boy stayed with his grandparents. On the afternoon of September 10, when the grandparents returned and did not find the boy they asked their other son, who was supposed to take care of the kid. But he too did not know. Instead, he said that the boy must have gone to his aunt’s home behind them. Believing that the boy must have gone to aunt’s house, they did not search for him. Next morning, the grandparents contacted the aunt. But the boy was not there either. After searching him, the family approached police on Friday evening. “The boy used to roam around in the area for begging and return home in the evening. Our teams are searching for him and we have also distributed posters with a sketch of his,” said inspector S V Chaudhary of Navapura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/boy-living-under-lalbaug-bridge-goes-missing/articleshow/78081722.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Rajkot||Liquor party raided in Mithapur; eight caught drunk||Rajkot: A liquor party was raided in Tata Township of Mithapur in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Friday night. Eight Bacchus lovers were caught in an inebriated state. “We had received a tip-off that Karshanbha Halthal had organized a liquor party at his flat in old housing quarters of Mithapur. Acting on this information, we raided the flat and caught the tipplers,” said an official from Mithapur marine police station.The police seized three bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), a car and seven cellphones from the accused. Apart from Halthal, the police detained Dinesh Parmar, Bhavin Jatania, Paresh Vala, Nilesh Parmar, Akshay Goswami, Hitesh Zala and Sagar Samani and booked them under the Prohibition Act.“At present, we have detained the accused. We will be formally arresting them once they undergo Covid-19 test,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/liquor-party-raided-in-mithapur-eight-caught-drunk/articleshow/78082088.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Central team visits flood-hit Chanda villages||CHANDRAPUR: A central government team inspected the flood-hit villages of Bramhapuri tehsil on Friday and Saturday, and interacted with the farmers to learn their woes. Officials said as many as 70 villages in Bramhapuri and Saoli tehsils have suffered damage, and thousands of hectares of crops have been lost to the floods. The team inspected Kinhi and Gangaliwadi villages on Friday, while Ladaj and Belgaon villages were inspected on Saturday. Officials told the visiting team that 25 houses were completely destroyed, while 75 other suffered partial damage in Kinhi. 60 houses were completely destroyed and 25 other were partially damaged in Ladaj, and 16 houses were destroyed and 47 other partially damaged in Belgaon village. The visiting team directed the officials to clean the silt and sand washed over the agricultural fields during the flood with the help of NDRF and SDRF teams. Official sources informed that more than 30,000 cumecs of water was released for three days from Gosikhurd dam, leading to tremendous flood situation in Bramhapuri and Saoli tehsil. While 5917 people were evacuated from different flood hit villages, there was more than 10 feet of water over many roads in two tehsils. The visiting team also inspected the destroyed agriculture fields and interacted with the farmers to access the losses. Villagers also informed about the massive losses of cattle during the flood. The team also visited B-3 canal of Gosekhurd dam, which has sustained colossal damage in 180 meter stretch near Kinhi-Jungaon villages leading to massive loss to the crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-team-visits-flood-hit-chanda-villages/articleshow/78083697.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Cops told to dig deep into gutka trade web||Madurai: Though police have been taking steps to curb the sale of gutka and other banned tobacco products, the issue could not be addressed effectively as the shopkeepers who were arrested earlier in this connection still sell them illegally. In order to curb the sale, police officials have been instructed to do in-depth inquiry into each case and find out the source, wholesalers or the distributors. Police sources said that they have started inquiry on tracing the sources. Although it is difficult to trace them in all the cases, it is rewarding in a few cases, they said. A team from the Alanganallur police station seized 30 gunny bags of banned tobacco items meant for distribution on Friday and arrested two people. They were identified as P Sankar, 35, from Chengam Taluk of Tiruvannamalai and P Suresh, 27, from Kottampatti in Salem district. A vehicle used to transport the banned contraband has also been seized. The seized products are worth Rs 5.30 lakh. A police officer in Madurai district said that instructions have been given to all the police stations to go beyond the shopkeepers. Apart from tobacco items, inspectors have been asked to conduct inquiry to find the sources in cases such as ganja and lottery sales. Deputy inspector general of police (Madurai range) S Rajendran said that distributors and smugglers of narcotic substances and gutka would continue their business if action is taken only against shopkeepers. Such in-depth inquiries instructed into ganja peddling and lottery sales are yielding good results. Recently, they seized 8kg ganja after tracing the distributors to the neighbouring Theni district, following the seizure 2kg of ganja in Madurai district, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-told-to-dig-deep-into-gutka-trade-web/articleshow/78083663.cms||V Devanathan
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Docs successfully treat Covid patient with rare lung collapse||Madurai: A 55-year-old Covid-19 patient, who suffered a rare complication of the disease called pneumothorax or collapsed lungs was successfully treated by doctors at a hospital in Madurai. The patient has made full recovery and subsequently been discharged after 53 days.Devadoss Hospitals said in a statement that the patient reported with breathlessness and tested positive for Covid-19. CT scan of the lungs revealed more than 50% lung involvement. He was subsequently treated for Covid-19 and was on non-invasive ventilation until his condition improved. After the patient tested negative for Covid and was shifted out of ICU, he was kept in ward with minimal oxygen support. Suddenly, on the 26th day, he suffered breathlessness again.“Thankfully, he was still admitted in hospital and so we could act quickly. On examination, it was found that his damaged lungs gave way like a balloon and air leaked into the chest cavity, a condition called pneumothorax. This can happen in people involved in chest injuries or sometimes in smokers with lung damage. But, such a complication has rarely been reported in patients with Covid-19 pneumonitis even globally,” said Dr Sathish Devadoss, medical director of the hospital. Treatment for pneumothorax was given by inserting tubes into his chest. With the lungs already damaged, he required ventilator support for two weeks by which time a tracheostomy (an opening in throat for direct ventilation of lungs) was also done. The team of doctors headed by Dr R Sudhir, medical superintendent and the Covid-19 care nursing team successfully ensured recovery of the patient after 53 days.A senior pulmonologist said that though pneumothorax is known to be caused by any traumatic injury, pathogenic infections like tuberculosis or even cancer, such an occurrence in Covid-19 patients is a rarity. He said that in some cases, it is possible for any type of ventilation to cause pneumothorax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/docs-successfully-treat-covid-patient-with-rare-lung-collapse/articleshow/78083665.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mysuru||Four held with ganja worth Rs 1 lakh||Chamarajanagar/ Hassan: Sleuths of the Chamarajanagar district cybercrime, economic offences and narcotics (CEN) wing on Saturday arrested four individuals on charges of smuggling marijuana or ganja. The four men – Venkategowda from Mysuru, Syed Ruman and Mohammad Altaf from Galipura in Chamarajanagar town and Govindaraj from Hanur taluk – were caught red-handed with marijuana worth Rs 1 lakh near the Doddarayapete Cross. The four men were reportedly en route to Mysuru with the cache of ganja, which they allegedly bought from a seller in Hanur. Acting on a lead, CEN sleuths were able to nab them with the drugs. A case has been booked against the four, all of whom have been remanded to judicial custody. Labourer held for growing cannabis A 55-year-old man, working on daily wages at the Research Institute on Organic Farming (RIOF) in Madenur in Hassan taluk was arrested on Saturday for cultivating cannabis at the centre. The labourer, a native of Holenarasipura, was staying with his family at a facility on the RIOF premises. He had allegedly been growing cannabis, used for the preparation of ganja, behind the accommodation facility he had been provided. Cops recovered 4kg ganja from the labourer. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old man was arrested by Hassan police for allegedly selling ganja in packets. Police recovered 120g of ganja from the youngster, while two of his associates are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-held-with-ganja-worth-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/78081974.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Three cheers: Hope rises as footfall shoots up in bars, eateries||New Delhi: After a lull and almost zero business in the past few months, September has shown promise to restaurateurs, hoteliers and malls. The first weekend after permission to serve alcohol was granted by the government enthused many patrons and owners to post “weekend vibe” videos. Despite the reduced seating arrangements, strict guidelines, rising Covid cases and Shradh, diners still graced various outlets across the city. Rather than throwback images and videos, one actually saw live visuals and posts on social media of people attending Sunday brunches. JW Marriott showcased mixologist Ian Sedwell shaking his famous cocktails, while Leela Palace in Gurgaon live streamed busy brunch scenes at Spectra. Even Shangri-La’s Eros saw increased activity at its outlet. Akshay Anand of Ophelia and Dinesh Arora of Unplugged Courtyard also posted videos of people enjoying their visits. Restaurateur Minakshi Singh of Cocktail and Dreams, Speakeasy and Sidecar was enthused to see couples and people in small groups walk into her bars. She felt the numbers would go higher if they were not ordered to shut again due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Jasjit Singh saw a change in turnout at his outlets PCO and Greenr. Saniya Puniyani of Como Pizzeria said while August was all about home deliveries, this month saw more people dine in at Baking Bad and Bangin’ Burgers. Ashish Kapur was happy that sales at his Kimono Club, Whisky Samba and Wine Company outlets were slowly picking up. For once, Bukhara at ITC had more reservations than available seats. Benita Sharma, area manager, north luxury hotels and GM, ITC Maurya, said that weekends had been “really good” and expected the trend to get stronger. Malls also saw footfall go up compared with the previous weekend. Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Retail Malls, said Promenade mall saw almost 19,000 visitors over the weekend, which was 45% of pre-Covid days. Luxury malls Emporio and Chanakya reached 65% of their earlier footfall. Bector expects the number to be much higher next weekend as Shradh would be over by then. While outlets like Viet:Nom and Social have started serving alcohol at CyberHub, others are in the process of applying for licences as they need to pay a hefty fee to restart in Haryana. Yogeshwar Sharma, CEO and director at Select Citywalk, said, “Dine-in outlets draw more consumers. As we all get used to the new normal, people are willing to step out to spaces they trust. We have noticed a good turnout over the weekend and one can only presume that this will increase over the next few weeks. Currently, it is too early to predict consumer sentiment, but we are optimistic over the developments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-cheers-hope-rises-as-footfall-shoots-up-in-bars-eateries/articleshow/78096156.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Madurai||Contradictory Covid-19 test results in Madurai leave patients worried||Madurai: Contradicting Covid-19 test results in government and private labs continue to leave several patients perplexed in Madurai creating uncertainty about their condition. Corporation officials are meanwhile ensuring isolation and treatment of all those testing positive according to the results of the swab samples taken by them.“We are seeing discrepancies in around 5% of cases, wherein Covid-19 test results are contradictory. But this is not uncommon as several patients have complained to have tested positive in government lab but negative in private lab and vice versa,” said a health official. Recently, a 60-year-old woman from Madurai West city area had her swab samples taken for testing at both a government and a private facility the same day. While the result by private lab showed negative, she tested positive according to the result given by government officials.However, officials of both government and the private lab where she was tested denied there was anything wrong on their part. “One of the main reasons for the discrepancies is that private labs and hospitals are found to give results based on clinical symptoms and diagnosis of the patients as well. We also find more asymptomatic patients testing positive in our tests but negative in private labs since they are more prone to dismissing the case when patient is not symptomatic,” said the health official.A senior lab technician at a Covid-19 testing lab said the discrepancies could mainly be due to any difference in sample collection and storage. “When throat or nasal swab samples are taken, the swab should be taken properly. There are possibilities of some not inserting deep enough to get the material properly onto the swab. Any contamination or improper storage can also reflect in the results. Test by itself does not differ in any way,” he said. Sources at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), where Covid-19 testing is done for samples taken by district health officials, said that sometimes, samples have to be stored in cold storage for up to two days as they are processed in batches. On the other hand, a senior official from a private diagnostic lab in Madurai denied allegations of any manipulation of test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/contradictory-covid-19-test-results-in-madurai-leave-patients-worried/articleshow/78083707.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 13, 2020||Madurai||South TN crosses 1 lakh cases, central region 40,000; deaths total 1,740 and 596||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state crossed one lakh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, though the region continues to see a steady decline in the number of new Covid-19 daily. With 716 fresh cases and seven deaths, the tally has climbed to 1,00,345, including 6,564 active cases and 1,740 deaths. For the third day, the fresh cases are hovering around 700 in south TN. Meanwhile, the tally crossed the 40,000-mark in the central region with the eight districts recording 675 cases on Saturday. It took just a couple of weeks for the cases to add 10,000 more cases to the tally in the central region. On August 29, the region touched 30,666 cases. The next week, the region reported 5,000 more cases taking the tally to 35,416. On Saturday, the tally climbed to 40,188, which include 5,067 active cases. Madurai district with 15,238 cases contributed to the highest share of cases in the region with more than 15%. Out of the 10 southern districts, six districts -- Madurai, Kanyakumari, Theni, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar -- have so far have recorded more than 10,000 cases. However, except for Tirunelveli (1100), all other districts have less than 1,000 active cases at present. Sivaganga continues to report the least number of total cases (4,475) and active cases (221) in the region. However, the district has the highest death rate (2.54%) in the region. With 1,740 deaths so far, the overall death rate in south TN is 1.73%. On Saturday, more than 100 Covid-19 cases were reported from Kanyakumari (109) and Tirunelveli (108). All other districts had less than 100 new cases, with Sivaganga (50), Virudhunagar (39) and Ramanathapuram (23) reporting 50 cases or less. Madurai reported 78 fresh cases. The district is testing around 2,500 samples per day and the positivity rate is around 3-4%. The seven deaths on Saturday were from Tenkasi (3), Dindigul (1), Theni (1), Tuticorin (1) and Tirunelveli (1). The steady reporting of cases in Nagappattinam, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Trichy pushed the tally to add 10,000 more cases in a short period. The district administrations and the public health departments attributed this to the increased sample testing. In the recent weeks, the region witnessed minimum 600-plus cases most of the days and 700-plus in some days. Going by the bulletin, Nagappattinam, Tiruvarur and Thanjavur made a major contribution to the tally by recording 153, 147 and 145 cases. The region recorded only two deaths one each from Trichy and Nagappattinam. Trichy witnessed a sharp decline in the daily fresh cases, 140 on Friday to 79 on Saturday. The district remained on top with 8,753 cases with Thanjavur following with 8,192 cases. Pudukottai has the third highest number of positive cases (7,293).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-crosses-1-lakh-cases-central-region-40000-deaths-total-1740-and-596/articleshow/78083708.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Traditional dispute settlement keeps crime low in Gadchiroli||NAGPUR: The ‘Polwa’ system of holding weekly meeting at the ghotul or tribal community hall in Gadchiroli seems to have resulted in least number of offences under Indian Penal Code (IPC) being registered here. Despite Maoist presence, this remote district had the lowest crime rate in Maharashtra, as per State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) data of 2018. Gadchiroli had the least number of only 1,052 IPC offences registered. It was followed by Sindhudurg with 1,304 offences and another tribal district Nandurbar with 1,681. These data of IPC crimes are mostly considered separately from the crimes committed by the Maoists that are registered under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). As per the crime rate calculations (crime per one lakh population), Gadchiroli district had the lowest 17.84 which is lowest in the state. In comparison, Nagpur city’s crime rate was 138.67 and Nagpur rural’s 71.32. Aniket Amte, administrator of Lok Biradari Prakalp at Hemalkasa in Bhamragarh taluka of south Gadchiroli, said the tribals have a unique way of settling their disputes at the village-level meeting where the ‘panch’ or senior villagers listen to the grievances and give their decisions. “The tribals summon meetings to discuss their disputes and other issues and try to settle it among themselves rather than go to police,” said Amte. “They levy fines like giving some rice and such other things as per the gravity. In rare cases they may also boycott the wrongdoer. Some disputes are referred to us and we try to settle it for them,” said Amte who has a close experience of the tribal life and society. “The tribals find it much more comfortable to settle the issues within their cultural ambit rather than take to the police and court,” he said. SP Shailesh Balkawade said the geographical vastness, minimum urbanization and cultural aspects propel the tribals to settle issues among themselves rather than walk for many kilometres to reach a police station. “Minor scuffles and disputes are settled within the village. Generally, there are fewer land disputes and fights arising from them,” he said. The data shows there had been considerably less number of IPC crimes in Gadchiroli over the last few years. After a spurt of 3,959 IPC crimes in 2013, there were 875 in 2014, 1,499 in 2015, 1,419 in 2016 and 1,276 in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traditional-dispute-settlement-keeps-crime-low-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/78083718.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Madurai||14 teachers in Madurai honoured with state awards||Madurai: Fourteen teachers from Madurai district were awarded the ‘Dr Radhakrishnan State Award 2020’ on the occasion of Teacher’s Day, at an event organised on Saturday. Meanwhile, two teachers were also given the Tamil Nadu teachers platform (TNTP) state-level achievement award for their contribution in producing e-content. Minister for co-operation, Sellur K Raju and minister for revenue and disaster management, R B Udayakumar honoured the 14 awardees by handing them certificates, silver medals and Rs 10,000 cash prize each. The two teachers from Madurai, K Saravanan, headmaster, Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School and M Muthu Selvam, teacher from MLWA Higher Secondary School, were awarded the TNTP award for top 10 leading e-content producers for the academic year 2019-2020. TNTP is a state government portal, which provides curated standards-aligned e-learning and teaching, practice resources, videos, interactives, simulations, online courses, and training modules etc. The function was held at Sethupathi Higher Secondary School. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay, corporation commissioner S Visakan and Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-teachers-in-madurai-honoured-with-state-awards/articleshow/78083710.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleges PPE kit scam in all UP districts||LUCKNOW: Congress national general secretary and in charge of UP, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday said that Covid-19 PPE kits scam has taken place in every district of UP. In a twitter post, she stated that at a time when the Coronavirus disaster had upset life across the country and the livelihood of millions of people was in danger, the officers of the state government siphoned off crores of rupees. She also wondered whether the state government was interested in saving the wrong-doers. In another tweet, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote, “In the schemes meant for the general public at the time of the disaster, the BJP government, which cuts allowances, is running a gallop in the scam. The result is that the Corona kit scam is being done in almost every district of UP. The UP Congress has demonstrated and warned the government to stop saving scammers”. Meanwhile, Congress workers staged a demonstration outside the Vidhan Sabha to express anger against the alleged scam. Led by district Congress committee chief Mukesh Singh Chauhan, some of the protestors wore PPE kits to draw public attention. The police on duty chased the congressmen and took the protestors into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgv-alleges-ppe-kit-scam-in-all-up-dists/articleshow/78083715.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Man assaults neighbour on nCov rumour||Vadodara: A 49-year-old man living in Patthargate area was assaulted for asking a person from his neighbourhood to maintain distance from him as the latter likely had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. According to the complainant Vijay Kharwa, he was stopped by the accused Sudhir Kharwa on Madan Zampa Road on Friday morning. Sudhir asked why Vijay was maintaining distance from him. Sudhir also confronted him on a rumour in which Vijay allegedly asked people not to meet Sudhir as he had met a Covid-19 patient living in Kahar Mohalla in Navapura. When Vijay was trying to leave from the spot without wanting to indulge in any conversation with him, Sudhir took up an iron rod and hit him on his head due to which Vijay started bleeding profusely. Sudhir again tried to hit him, but Vijay ducked and the rod hit him on his left hand. As a crowd gathered there, Sudhir escaped leaving the iron rod behind. Vijay was taken to a hospital for treatment and later he registered a complaint against Sudhir at Navapura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-assaults-neighbour-on-ncov-rumour/articleshow/78081738.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Patna||Flights from Darbhanga by first week of November: Minister||PATNA/DARBHANGA: Commercial flights to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru would begin operating at the Darbhanga airport from the first week of November, announced civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday after reviewing the ongoing construction work which is in its final stage. “Flight operations will begin at the Darbhanga airport before Chhath Puja under the Regional Connectivity Scheme and bookings from September-end. This will be a boon for 22 districts of north Bihar,” Puri told mediapersons at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport in Patna. Expressing satisfaction over the pace of the ongoing construction work at the Darbhanga airport, the minister said, “The arrival and departure halls, check-in facility and conveyor belt have already been installed. The remaining work will be completed before October-end.” Puri also inspected the re-carpeting work of the airstrip and the terminal approach road at Darbhanga. He pointed out that the Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Hawai chappal se hawai jahaz tak’ continued to transform lives. Flight calibration by SpiceJet also took place while the Union minister was at the Darbhanga airport. Civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola, Airports Authority of India chairman Arvind Singh and Darbhanga and Madhubani MPs Gopaljee Thakur and Ashok Kumar Yadav were also present on the occasion. Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM informed Puri that chief minister Nitish Kumar, during his visit, had directed the officials concerned to get the height of the airport’s boundary walls increased due to security reasons. He had laid the foundation for the civil enclave at Darbhanga on December 24, 2018. A prefabricated terminal building, which can accommodate 200 passengers, six check-in counters and two aprons are being constructed at the Darbhanga airport by utilizing funds to the tune of Rs 92 crore. A parking space for 30 vehicles has also been built near the building. Darbhanga will be Bihar’s third airport operating commercial flights after Patna and Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-air-services-from-darbhanga-from-november/articleshow/78082006.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Technology vs tradition: Priests in Haridwar divided on conducting online ‘pind daan’ rituals||HARIDWAR: As people across the country perform ‘pind daan’ to honour their ancestors during Pitri Paksha (a period in the Hindu lunar calendar when homage is paid to ancestors) — which is being observed from September 1 to 17 this year — a ‘technology versus tradition debate’ has been kindled in Haridwar where priests are divided on whether performing the after-death ritual online is valid and “in accordance with tradition.” While Ganga Sabha, the apex body of priests in Haridwar, has taken exception, saying holy scriptures don’t allow for the ritual to be conducted online and “it won’t be accepted by the departed souls”, some priests are willing to adapt to changing times. Speaking to TOI, Ganga Sabha general secretary Tanmaya Vashishtha said, “Our scriptures stipulate that a priest has to physically perform the annual ritual of ‘pinddaan’, ‘shraadh’ and ‘tarpan’ on behalf of a person in the specified period. So, how can this be done online?” In a similar vein, Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha alleged that “online pind daan is nothing but a deception”, adding that priests who are doing it are “simply performing rituals out of greed for money.” “Performing such traditional acts online rob the rituals of their sanctity, degrade our profession and insult a holy place. If a priest has to perform the rituals for another person, proper authorisation (varan sankalp) by the said person is needed and for that, either the priest goes to the person or the person meets the priest. Otherwise, the ritual is ineffective. I have advised all those performing pind daan online to desist from corrupting the tradition,” Jha said. An official at Gayatri Tirth Shantikunj in Haridwar, which is offering online pind daan though said that using technology to conduct a ritual was acceptable to them. “We see no harm in paying respects to one’s ancestors through this medium especially since many people cannot be physically present in Haridwar due to the pandemic,” said the official who did not wish to be named. Vipul Sharma, a priest who performed online pind daan for around half a dozen devotees from Jammu and Kashmir this month, told TOI that he adopted the online mode since “my clients wanted to get the rituals done during this period only but could not be physically present.” “None of them had any problems doing it online and so we went ahead through this medium,” he added. Sonia Mehta from Delhi, who got the rituals done online for her mother, saw nothing wrong in it either. “It felt like I was doing it the traditional way on the Ganga banks,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/technology-vs-tradition-priests-in-haridwar-divided-on-conducting-online-pind-daan-rituals/articleshow/78081197.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: Coastal districts report 530 fresh cases, five fatalities||MANGALURU/UDUPI: There are no signs of the Covid-19 graph sliding downwards in the coastal districts, and certainly not anytime soon. On Sunday, the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi cumulatively reported 530 fresh cases - Dakshina Kannada accounting for 404, and Udupi 126. The surge on Sunday pushed Dakshina Kannada’s overall tally to 17,363 while Udupi tipped over the 14,000 mark to settle at 14,038. The number of active cases are 3,934 and 1,732 in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi respectively. In all, 191 cases of influenza like illness (ILI) contributed to 48% of total cases reported in Dakshina Kannada, while primary contacts (101) made up 25% of the cases. The district administration is yet to identify the source of infection among 81 new patients, 20 people with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) were confirmed infected. Symptomatic patients at 241 accounted for around 60% of total cases. Mangaluru taluk added 212 new cases, Bantwal 60, Puttur 46, Sullia 27, Belthangady 39 and other districts 20. On the other hand, the health department authorities discharged 174 patients including 108 from hospital and 66 from home care. The total number of those discharged in the district has now risen to 12897. The district recorded three Covid-19 fatalities - one from Bantwal and two patients from outside Dakshina Kannada, its death toll now 442. The number of samples tested as on date is 1.21 lakh out of which 1.03 lakh are negative, deputy commissioner KV Rajendra said. Udupi registered two Covid-19 fatalities - two females aged 70 and 89 succumbed to the infection, the district’s overall death toll owing to Covid-19 is now 130. Source of infection in 58 of the new cases was not known, as many patients were primary contacts, 46 had ILI, five were reported in patients with domestic travel history, while one had SARI and the other patient had travelled from to a foreign country. Majority (93) of the cases were asymptomatic. Udupi taluk accounted for 95 (56%) of the cases. In Udupi, 46 of the cases reported were categorised as ILI, source of infection in 33 cases is being probed, 30 are primary contacts, 11 had SARI and six cases were detected in domestic travellers. In all, 69 patients were symptomatic. Udupi taluk reported 53 cases, Kundapura 47, Karkala 20 and six are from outside Udupi. In all, 154 patients were discharged taking total number of those discharged to 12176. No deaths were reported in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-19-coastal-districts-report-530-fresh-cases-five-fatalities/articleshow/78094967.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Rajkot||Peddler held with heroin worth Rs 3 lakh||Rajkot: The Special Operation Group (SOG) of Rajkot police seized heroin worth Rs 3 lakh from Jetpur and arrested one person on Saturday. The accused Mehboob alias Meblo Parmar, used to consume the drug and also sold it to others. Based on specific information, the SOG raided Parmar's house in Jetpur and found him possession of 3.080 milligram of heroin worth Rs 3 lakh. SOG police inspector Ajaysinh Gohi said “Parmar used to procure the contraband from drug peddlers in Jangleshwar area of Rajkot. While he himself was addicted to heroin, he used to sell the drugs to others for earning money. He has sold drugs to about 15 other people.” According to sources, the drug peddlers and addicts meet near a mosque in Jangleswhar for consumption and distribution of drugs. Cops also found number syringes used by addicts from Parmar’s house. Further investigation in the case was handed over to Patanvav police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/peddler-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-3-lakh/articleshow/78082142.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Surat||Surat: Abducted 14-year-old Bangladesh girl forced into sex trade, rescued||SURAT: City police crime branch’s anti-human trafficking unit rescued a 14-year-old minor Bangladeshi girl from a spa and massage parlour in Althan area on Saturday and busted a well-oiled flourishing sex racket. Kidnapped a year ago from her country, the minor was earlier sold off to various persons in multiple times including Kolkata, Bangalore and Mumbai before being sold in the city where she was forced into prostitution. Police arrested three persons and booked another three for their alleged involvement in the prostitution racket. Cops are now attempting to trace the people who had sold her in the different cities. Another 19-year-old girl of Punjab too was rescued from the same spa at Infinity Biz Hub on Althan Bhimrad Road, who too said she was allegedly brought to the city on promises of getting a job in an airline company. Police arrested Ankit Mansukh Kathiriya, Vijay Nagji Padhra and Vishal Sanjay Vankhede for allegedly forcing these young girls into immoral activities and booked them for rape, sexual assault, exploitation, forcing minor into prostitution and others under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Besides implicating the accused under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act offences, they were also booked under the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act. Preliminary police investigation revealed that the girl went missing from her home in Khulna in Bangladesh on March 2, 2019 after she was lured by a friend Mohsin on promises of money and work. Five months later, on July 19, the girl first called up her mother and revealed her ordeal. She informed her about being forced into prostitution and that she was in Bangalore. The mother then lodged a complaint of kidnapping against Mohsin and his parents in Khan Jahan Ali police station in Bangladesh in July. Police could trace the girl’s location to Bangalore and Mumbai, but were unable to rescue her then. “Based on a specific input from a central agency we traced the girl in the city. We rescued her and she will be united with her family after completing the procedure,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner. “The duo had entered India probably on forged identity papers. She was sexually assaulted for a few days in Kolkata then sold off to one Milan in Bangalore. After keeping her there for a few days she was sold to one Neetu in Mumbai,” said police, adding that she was further sold off to one Shabbir, who finally brought her to the city. After being rescued the girl is kept in a children home and police have started a procedure to reunite her with her parents. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/abducted-14-year-old-bangladesh-girl-forced-into-sex-trade-rescued/articleshow/78081960.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||2,441 infected in Punjab, 76 succumb; case tally hits 77k||Chandigarh: As many as 2,441 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 76 deaths were reported in Punjab on Saturday. So far, 77,057 people have been tested positive in the state, while the death count stands at 2,288. A total of nine districts recorded cases in three figures. The state’s fatality rate stood at 2.96%. When this report was filed, 82 people were in critical condition and on ventilator support, while 521 patients were on oxygen support. Of the new deaths, 14 are from Ludhiana, 11 from Amritsar, 10 from Jalandhar and seven from Gurdaspur. Five deaths each were reported in Hoshiarpur and Moga, four each in Barnala and Kapurthala, three in Fatehgarh Sahib, two each in Sangrur and Bathinda, and one each in Tarn Taran, Moga and Muktsar. Of the new cases, the highest were reported in Mohali, 331. It was followed by 313 new csaes in Jalandhar, 268 in Patiala, and 267 in Ludhiana. As many as 137 people were tested positive in Bathinda, 118 in Gurdaspur, 110 in Hoshiarpur and 100 in Pathankot. Test reports of 72 people in Muktsar came out positive, 64 each in Faridkot and Fazilka, 47 in Ferozepur, 42 in Ropar, 40 in Mansa, 39 each in Moga, Kapurthala and Nawanshahr, 37 in Tarn Taran, 24 in Fatehgarh Sahib, and 21 in Sangrur. A total of 2,077 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 55,385. Of these, 830 were sent home in Jalandhar, 238 in Amritsar, 199 in Ludhiana, 165 in Gurdaspur, 116 in Patiala, 104 in Bathinda, 78 in Hoshiarpur, 61 Tarn Taran, in 60 in Fazilka,45 in Mohali, 41 in Barnala, 37 in Faridkot, 20 in Sangrur, 19 in Muktsar, 17 in each in Mansa and Nawanshahr, nine in Pathankot, and eight in Ropar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2441-infected-in-punjab-76-succumb-case-tally-hits-77k/articleshow/78082640.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Gangster Kalia on run nabbed in Kol||Lucknow: History-sheeter Surendra Kalia, who had allegedly staged an attack on himself in Lucknow to get police gunner and had escaped to evade arrest, was found hiding in Kolkata, West Bengal. Kalia, carrying a bounty of Rs 50,000, was arrested from a hotel in Jadavpur police station area on August 31. Kolkata Police chanced upon Kalia while conducting a drive to enforce lockdown. He was living in the hotel under the false identity of Surendra Kumar, said Kolkata Police officials. Joint commissioner of police, crime, Kolkata, Murli Dhar told TOI they recovered an improvised 9mm pistol from Surendra’s possession and booked him under the Arms Act. We informed UP Police on finding he is from Uttar Pradesh, he said. Lucknow Police will bring him from Kolkata on transit remand. DCP, central, Somen Barma told TOI, “A team has been sent to seek remand of Surendra Kalia from Kolkata. Kalia carries a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. He also ran extortion racket and took railway contracts.” Kalia has over 20 criminal cases against him. He had allegedly staged an attack on himself on July 14 near a hospital in Alambagh and his private gunner Ramroop Yadav had suffered injuries. Kalia lodged a police complaint alleging an attempt on his life at the behest of jailed mafia don-turned politician Dhananjay Singh. Lucknow Police lodged an FIR but the ballistic report exposed Kalia’s lies testifying that 13 rounds were fired on his vehicle from two weapons, but shells of only one were found from the spot. Kalia was an associate of mafia don Abhay Singh. His aide Ashish Pandey was killed in a shootout over railway contract by henchmen of Narendra Pahadi in Lucknow in March 2016. Kalia has also been named in similar shootings in Charbagh and Hussainganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gangster-kalia-on-run-nabbed-in-kol/articleshow/78083726.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Voodoo twist to teacher’s murder, six persons held||LUCKNOW: A 68-year-old retired teacher, Kamlesh Mishra, was murdered inside a temple, metres away from a cremation ground at Maholi area of Sitapur late Friday. Family members told police Kamlesh left home around 7pm and when he didn’t return till midnight, they went to look for him and found him lying in a pool of blood inside the temple. Preliminary investigation revealed multiple angles to the crime. A case of murder was lodged against unidentified persons at Maholi police station on a complaint by the victim’s son, Rishabh Mishra. Six people from the village have been detained. IG, Lucknow Range, Laxmi Singh, who is monitoring the case and quizzing suspects told TOI that crucial evidence has been unearthed and the case could be cracked in 24 hours. Another senior officer privy to the probe disclosed the murder could be a fallout of an old feud or a nocturnal habit of the teacher, which turned fatal. Villagers told police Mishra was hooked to voodoo and would spent hours after sundown practising dark rituals. “Kamlesh had built a temple 500m off his house in Sonaran Tola near a cremation ghat. The place is scarcely populated and forested,” said superintendent of police, Sitapur, R P Singh. “On Friday, his family members reached the temple when he did not return and found multiple wounds on his body caused by a sharp-edged weapon,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/voodoo-twist-to-teachers-murder-six-persons-held/articleshow/78083734.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Rajkot||Criminal escapes on bike from civil hospital||Rajkot: A historysheeter lodged in Rajkot Central Jail gave police the slip from Rajkot Civil Hospital on Friday. The police said the accused, Ramesh Makwana, was shifted to the civil hospital after he suffered reaction from overdose of medicines that he had taken in the jail. Makwana faces cases of robbery and land scam in Padadhari and Rajkot. “While he was being taken to a police van on foot after being released from the hospital on Friday evening, Makwana sought permission for answering natures call. Hence, we took him to the urinal,” said an official from Pradyumannagar police station. “It was then that his nephew arrived on a two-wheeler and said he would drive Makwana to the van as Makwana was unable to walk,” the official said. Once Makwana sat on the two-wheeler, his nephew accelerated the vehicle and both of them vanished from the spot. The police have launched a manhunt for both Makwana and his nephew whose identity could not be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/criminal-escapes-on-bike-from-civil-hospital/articleshow/78082149.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||342 NEET candidates will have to travel longer||Nashik: The last-minute change in exam centres will force 342 students to travel longer distances to attend their National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET, undergraduate) that is being conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). The students who wish to pursue undergraduate medical and dental courses in government or private medical and dental colleges in India, will have to take the examination that will be conducted by NTA on September 13. The change in centres for students of two talukas will force them to travel longer distances on exam day. In Satana taluka, 102 students will have to travel 90 km to reach their exam centre which has been shifted to KK Wagh college, Nashik. It takes more than 1.5 hours to cover this distance. In Igatpuri, 240 students will have to travel 45 km to reach Devlali to write the exam at Kendriya Vidyalaya, South Devlali, Nashik. According to the sources, the students have been informed about the change through telephonic messages and they have also been asked to download the new hall tickets for their venues. As many as 16,000 students are likely to appear for the exam to be conducted across 44 centres at the taluka level. To ensure that all students can appear for examination to be conducted from 2pm till 5pm, the students will be allowed to enter their centres in batches from 11am so that the registration process can be carried out by adhering to Covid safety norms. Students are required to have a 3-ply mask, hand gloves, a transparent water bottle, a transparent hand sanitizer bottle, admit card and identification card only while entering the centre. FOR GFX SAFETY MEASURES 12 students will be allowed in one examination hall and at a time 20 students will be allowed to wait outside the centres ensuring safe distances for screening of documents and health As they wait outside, a batch of five students will undergo the screening in the registration room, with five more waiting to enter after those already going through the process leave Any student found to have body temperature higher than 37.4 degrees Celsius will be kept in a separate isolation room for 20-25 minutes allowing a cool off period If the temperature persists, the student can appear the examination in a separate room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/342-neet-candidates-will-have-to-travel-longer/articleshow/78082655.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Uday Samant in city on Monday, officials want online meet||NAGPUR: Even as Maharashtra higher education minister Uday Samant would be visiting Nagpur University on Monday, its officials have privately expressed apprehension on the tour due to the record Covid-19 cases in the city. A few NU officials had recovered from the deadly virus and one of them had also succumbed. The exam section had also stopped work for about a week after a couple of officials tested positive. The minister couldn’t be contacted. As per a circulated plan, Samant would be arriving in the city in the morning, possibly with top officials from the ministry. He would meet interact with vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhary, registrar Neeraj Khaty and Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable, and other officials. While holding of the final year examinations is the main agenda, other administrative issues will also be discussed. The meeting would be held at NU’s new administrative complex near VC’s bungalow from 11am. Samant would also be conducting review meeting of Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University with its VC Shrinivasa Varkhedi who also holds additional charge of Gondwana University. Top officials from both universities are expected to be present in large numbers at the Jamnalal Bajaj administrative complex. Samant will then move to Amravati University for another review meeting with VC Murlidhar Chandekar and other officials. NU officials TOI spoke to said the minister could have adopted the online mode for the meeting rather than come to Nagpur. Samant had earlier conducted online meetings with VCs of all 13 traditional universities. Even a recent meeting where the decision to conduct exams was taken in the presence of chancellor BS Koshyari was held online with all VCs. “He is putting not only his own life at risk, but also of officials from three universities. Since, he will be there, his staff would accompany him. Besides, them, the class-III and class-IV staff would be there to serve them. It was absolutely unnecessary at this time of pandemic, as the virus is highly contagious and can affect several persons at a time. Imagine if exam section officials gets infected, the important final year exams would be in jeopardy,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-min-in-city-on-mon-officials-want-online-meet/articleshow/78083735.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 13, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 30 tests a day in March to 32,000 now, Haryana builds capacity||CHANDIGARH: From conducting only 30 tests in a day for Covid-19 in March to nearly 32,000 tests in a single day on Friday, Haryana has come a long way in its fight against the coronavirus infection. Friday’s figures include both RT-PCR and rapid tests conducted by state-run and private laboratories in the state. The state gathered 31,974 samples in a single day, which was a record. While 29,514 tests were conducted by the government laboratories, private laboratories tested 2,460. As far as collection of sampling from districts is concerned, 3,188 samples were collected in Gurugram, 2,745 in Faridabad, 2,698 in Panchkula and 2,553 in Hisar. Overall, the state had recorded 14,31,602 tests till Friday evening. Of these, 13,12,155 tests were done by the government and 1,19,447 by private laboratories. The highest numbers of 2,02,947 samples were taken from Gurugram district, followed by around 1.57 lakh from Faridabad, around 1 lakh from Sonipat and around 90,000 from Rohtak district. State’s additional chief secretary for health Rajeev Arora said the testing facilities were developed during the pandemic period only and their endeavour was to increase it further. He said around 70% testing is RT-PCR and around 30% is rapid testing. He, however, added that symptomatic cases were being referred for RT-PCR and asymptomatic for rapid testing. Arora said those found negative in rapid testing but still had some kind of symptoms of the infection were referred for RT-PCR testing but not every person found negative in rapid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/30-tests-a-day-in-march-to-32k-now-haryana-builds-capacity/articleshow/78085441.cms||Ajay Sura
September 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 30 tests a day in March to 32,000 now, Haryana builds capacity||CHANDIGARH: From conducting only 30 tests in a day for Covid-19 in March to nearly 32,000 tests in a single day on Friday, Haryana has come a long way in its fight against the coronavirus infection. Friday’s figures include both RT-PCR and rapid tests conducted by state-run and private laboratories in the state. The state gathered 31,974 samples in a single day, which was a record. While 29,514 tests were conducted by the government laboratories, private laboratories tested 2,460. As far as collection of sampling from districts is concerned, 3,188 samples were collected in Gurugram, 2,745 in Faridabad, 2,698 in Panchkula and 2,553 in Hisar. Overall, the state had recorded 14,31,602 tests till Friday evening. Of these, 13,12,155 tests were done by the government and 1,19,447 by private laboratories. The highest numbers of 2,02,947 samples were taken from Gurugram district, followed by around 1.57 lakh from Faridabad, around 1 lakh from Sonipat and around 90,000 from Rohtak district. State’s additional chief secretary for health Rajeev Arora said the testing facilities were developed during the pandemic period only and their endeavour was to increase it further. He said around 70% testing is RT-PCR and around 30% is rapid testing. He, however, added that symptomatic cases were being referred for RT-PCR and asymptomatic for rapid testing. Arora said those found negative in rapid testing but still had some kind of symptoms of the infection were referred for RT-PCR testing but not every person found negative in rapid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/30-tests-a-day-in-march-to-32k-now-haryana-builds-capacity/articleshow/78085440.cms||Ajay Sura
September 13, 2020||Surat||20 girls rescued from shrimp units, Satyarthi applauds cops||SURAT: Nobel award winner Kailash Satyarthi applauded Gujarat and Jharkhand police for rescuing 20 minor girls from shrimp processing unit in Makhinga village of Surat district. The girls, who were sent back to Jharkhand on Wednesday, were rescued earlier this week by local police following information by Jharkhand police and Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA). In a tweet on Friday, Satyarthi wrote, “Bravo Gujarat Police and Jharkhand Police! Your timely action saved the lives of 20 girls who were trafficked to Gujarat. BBA India will continue to work with you to end child trafficking in your State, and I have complete faith that you will do it.” Earlier this month, BBA alerted Palsana police that a minor girl is being employed in Mindhola Foods. Police checked at the unit and found that 30 girls and women from Jharkhand were brought there in August. They were under quarantine for 15 days. Unit officials checked their age and found that five girls were under age and refused to employ them. “They booked their return tickets,” said Palsana police officials. One of the rejected girls told her father about the matter and her father filed a complaint on September 3, in Angada police station of Jharkhand against a woman, Manju Kumari Charku Bediya, 20, who acted as a labour contractor, and had brought the girl to Surat. She was booked for exploitation and unlawful compulsory labour. Police sent the minor girls to children home and informed Jharkhand police. Accused Bediya was also arrested by police. After arriving in Surat, Jharkhand police questioned the accused and examined documents of other women of which Aadhaar cards of a few were doubtful. Jharkhand police found 14 girls to be minors but possessed forged Aadhaar cards .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/20-girls-rescued-from-shrimp-units-satyarthi-applauds-cops/articleshow/78081978.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 30 tests a day in March to 32,000 now, Haryana builds capacity||CHANDIGARH: From conducting only 30 tests in a day for Covid-19 in March to nearly 32,000 tests in a single day on Friday, Haryana has come a long way in its fight against the coronavirus infection. Friday’s figures include both RT-PCR and rapid tests conducted by state-run and private laboratories in the state. The state gathered 31,974 samples in a single day, which was a record. While 29,514 tests were conducted by the government laboratories, private laboratories tested 2,460. As far as collection of sampling from districts is concerned, 3,188 samples were collected in Gurugram, 2,745 in Faridabad, 2,698 in Panchkula and 2,553 in Hisar. Overall, the state had recorded 14,31,602 tests till Friday evening. Of these, 13,12,155 tests were done by the government and 1,19,447 by private laboratories. The highest numbers of 2,02,947 samples were taken from Gurugram district, followed by around 1.57 lakh from Faridabad, around 1 lakh from Sonipat and around 90,000 from Rohtak district. State’s additional chief secretary for health Rajeev Arora said the testing facilities were developed during the pandemic period only and their endeavour was to increase it further. He said around 70% testing is RT-PCR and around 30% is rapid testing. He, however, added that symptomatic cases were being referred for RT-PCR and asymptomatic for rapid testing. Arora said those found negative in rapid testing but still had some kind of symptoms of the infection were referred for RT-PCR testing but not every person found negative in rapid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/30-tests-a-day-in-march-to-32k-now-haryana-builds-capacity/articleshow/78082657.cms||Ajay Sura
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Old letters reveal man’s 30-year-long extra-marital affair in Vadodara||VADODARA: Old letters found after decades bring back the memories of a lifetime and is often cherished by all. But, in Vadodara, a 60-year-old woman, thought of ending her life after she recently discovered several old letters dating back to many years. It turns out that the letters were addressed to her husband by his paramour. A few weeks back while cleaning a cupboard, the woman found an envelope hidden at the bottom shelf. The envelope contained love letters written over several years. The woman’s mental health worsened on knowing that her husband was having an extra-marital affair for the last 30 years with a woman living in the same neighbourhood. It reached to a point where the woman once became unconscious and started thinking about committing suicide. However, she gathered courage and contacted 181 Abhayam helpline to vent out her resentment and seek help to rescue her from suicidal thoughts. The helpline officials said that one team counselled her on call and another team met her in person to counsel her retired husband too. “The woman told our counsellors that in her four decades of marriage, neither she nor her children had an iota of doubt that her husband had a relationship outside the marriage because he cared a lot for them,” said the helpline coordinator, Chandrakant Makwana. When the 62-year-old man, too, was confronted by the counsellors, he admitted of having an affair with the woman for the last 30 years. “He said that it was his mistake and has promised to end the relationship with the woman and be with his family,” Makwana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/old-letters-reveal-mans-30-yr-long-extra-marital-affair/articleshow/78081754.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Video to be evidence against sacked IPS officer Mani Lal Patidar||LUCKNOW: A day after an attempt-to-murder FIR was lodged against suspended IPS officer, Mani Lal Patidar, and seven other cops, a video clip of the victim who suffered bullet injuries and is currently hospitalised in Kanpur, is being verified by forensic experts before using it as evidence against accused. On Saturday, superintendent of police, Mahoba, Arun Srivastava, said, the victim is sticking to his statement, which is in consonance with what he’s heard saying in the video and the footage will be preserved as evidence. The video which went viral on September 8, shows the victim, Indrakant Tripathi, a businessman, saying if he’s killed in a road accident, the IPS officer and his subordinates should be held responsible. In another video, Tripathi accused the IPS officer and his subordinates of indulging in extortion and corruption. Two FIRs registered against the suspended IPS officer will be probed separately by local police, said Mahoba SP. The first case of extortion and corruption was lodged by Nitesh Pandey, director of a private firm engaged in crushing. The second FIR charged the IPS officer with attempt to murder, corruption, criminal conspiracy and was lodged at Kabrai police station of Mahoba district by the victim’s brother, Ravi Kant. Srivastava said If names of more policemen surface, they too would be suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/video-to-be-evidence-against-sacked-ips/articleshow/78083754.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Highest spike of 2,783 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh: With 11 out of 22 districts reporting more than 100 cases on Saturday, including Gurgaon which reported a record 326 new patients, Haryana on Saturday witnessed the highest spike of 2,783 new patients in single day. Also, there were 24 new deaths, which took the toll to 956. The total number of cases rose to 91,115. The state’s positivity rate and death rate have gone up to 6.26% and 1.06%, respectively. Though there were 2,188 recoveries, recovery rate fell to 77.61%. With a total of 70,713 recoveries so far, there are 19,446 active patients — with 322 of them critical patients, of whom 280 are on oxygen support and rest 34 are on ventilator. Gurgaon reported two deaths too. With 2,167 active patients, Gurgaon total has gone up to 14,924 patients and 145 deaths. Faridabad reported second highest 278 new patients and three deaths. Here, the total has gone to 15,562 with 188 deaths. There were 272 new cases in Karnal, 213 in Hisar, 197 in Ambala, 178 new cases each in Panipat and Panchkula, 174 in Jind, 173 in Kurukshetra, 165 in Sonipat, 131 in Sirsa, 77 in Rohtak, 68 in Rewari, 61 in Yamuanangar, 56 in Jhajjar, 55 in Mahindergarh ,48 in Fatehabad, 40 in Pawal, 39 in Kaithal, 30 in Bhiwani, 16 in Nuh, and eight in Charkhi Dadri. Among new deaths, five new deaths in Karnal, three in Ambala, two each in Sirsa, Hisar and Yamuanangar, and one each in Panchkula, Rohtak, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Kurukshetra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highest-spike-of-2783-new-cases-in-haryana/articleshow/78082708.cms||Manvir Saini
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE Main: With no books and study material, many fail to better Jan scores||HYDERABAD: Though he scored 93 percentile in the Joint Entrance Examination Main, held in January, T Ganesh wanted to better this performance in round two. But with the lockdown leaving him with no access to his books or online classes, the city boy had to settle for a lower score—85 percentile—in the September examination. “Just when I was supposed to go back to the hostel in Vijayawada to prepare for competitive exams, the lockdown was implemented. It left me without my books,” said the 18-year-old resident of Gandhi Nagar, Hyderabad. Although his college created an app to help with preparation, it was not much of use, he added. Ganesh said that he was determined to improve his percentile in JEE Main April—later postponed to September—as he did not do well in the January exam due to ill-health. “I had 104 degrees fever even on the day of the exam. So I pinned my hopes on the second exam. Unfortunately, it was postponed twice and with no books, I lost all hope,” Ganesh said and added that he’ll now put all his efforts into excelling in JEE (Advanced). Like Ganesh, many students have failed to better January score. “I brought only a few books from hostel assuming colleges would reopen in a month,” said M Dileep, who secured 97.564 percentile January. In September, his score dropped to 89.99. “Once I went back to my village—Govardhanagiri in Warangal—I got busy helping my parents with farming. I did not have enough time to thoroughly revise the syllabus,” he added. According to faculty members working with top colleges, except for the first 1,000 top scorers, the gap of six months due to the pandemic, did not help many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-main-with-no-books-and-study-material-many-fail-to-better-jan-scores/articleshow/78082674.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Nodal officer to regulate oxygen supply in Nashik||Nashik: The district collector has appointed FDA joint commissioner Madhuri Pawar as a nodal officer for ensuring oxygen supply, saying that the requirement for the same is expected to increase . “Presently, there is no oxygen shortage for the Covid-19 patients being treated in various health facilities across the district. However, the demand for oxygen is likely to rise,” said the collector, Suraj Mandhare. “Although the ratio of patients requiring oxygen in the district has reduced from 16% to 11%, but the number is on the rise. We are preparing to meet the future needs. Hence, the need for nodal officer,” he said. The collector said that currently, 1,150 patients are on oxygen in the district. The number is likely to increase to 1,500 by the third week of September and 2,400 by the first week of October. “According to our calculation, 10 metric ton more oxygen will be required. The nodal officer will have the rights to divert the oxygen being supplied to industries to medical facilities,” said Mandhare. The officer has been given the rights to assess the demand for oxygen and consult industries for streamlining its supply and take action as well as and where required. large number of companies has agreed to provide oxygen on the condition that tankers are made available for transportation. The administration is tying up with the tankers for the movement of oxygen A patient may require five to 40 litres of oxygen per minute, which means each 47-litre liquid (compressed) oxygen cylinder can provide 6,580 litres to one person for seven hours. Presently, Nashik gets 4.3 tons of oxygen and its requirement by October first week is expected to reach to 10 tons. “The industries have already promised three tons for the district beyond the current supplies. This means that the district is in safe zone, but the administration is looking for more supplies,” added Mandhare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nodal-officer-to-regulate-oxygen-supply-in-nashik/articleshow/78082690.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||55,800 from Telangana to write NEET today||HYDERABAD: As many as 55,800 candidates from the state are all set to appear for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) Under Graduate 2020 in 112 centers in Telangana on Sunday. According to the new guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, students will have to report at examination centres at 11 am, though the exam will begin only at 2 pm. Students and parents said that the early reporting time won’t be an issue as they are used to reporting earlier for examinations. “It is good that the exam is being conducted. Students are already under tremendous pressure and once they give their NEET exam, they can move forward,” said Ch Ramana Murthy, whose son Varun will be appearing for the exam at a center in Vikarabad. Parents said that this is better than the academic year getting shortened. “If the exams get further delayed, chances are that year will be shortened. So, the best thing to do is take precautions and appear for the exam,” said Srikanth K, father of Ananya, who will also be writing the exam. Many, however, said that the state should have made transportation arrangements as many centers are on the outskirts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/55800-from-state-to-write-neet-today/articleshow/78082688.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Fewer students attempting JEE Main in September warps score||PUNE: Students, who received their JEE Main scorecards on Friday night, said they fared better in the September examination as compared to the January exam yet they got a lower percentile score due to comparatively fewer students appearing for the exam this month. Coaching experts said the National Testing Agency (NTA) should have normalized the total number of students appearing for the exam in September to correct the alleged flaw. Saniya Patwardhan is one of many such students dealing with the problem. “When the answer keys were given, I realized that I had scored about 161 marks in the January examination and my percentile score was 99.058. But after preparing for more than six months since then, when I checked the answer key of the September exam, I realized I would score about 204 marks. Normally, I would have got over 99.5 percentile but because there were fewer students attempting the September exam, my percentile score was just 98.7. This means my ranking would be based on my January marks and the six months of rigorous hard work was of no use despite scoring over 40 additional marks,” said Patwardhan. “The ‘per slot’ number of students appearing in January was around 1lakh and in September, it was around 65,000. This means the base for percentile calculation in September was 35% lower than in January. The NTA could have easily corrected the flaw by adding the absentee students to the percentile calculation for September. This would have lent a semblance of normalization between January and September scores. Unfortunately, the agency has not done so,” said Durgesh Mangeshkar, director of IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra. Director of Bakliwal Tutorials Vaibhav Bakliwal echoed the sentiments. “Most of our students scored better in the September exam as compared to the January examination, yet got a lesser percentile score and rank due to comparatively fewer students appearing for the September exam,” he said. Lalit Kumar from Prime Academy said, “If a students ranked 5th in the first JEE Main among a group of 100, then s/he would get 95 percentile. In the second exam, 50 students didn’t turn up, but of these 49 are poor performers and just one was a top student. For the same performance, the student will get 4th rank in the group of 50 and the percentile drops from 95 to 92. Secondly, the comparison gives us very erratic reports.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-cry-foul-over-jee-main-result/articleshow/78083757.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Chhagan Bhujbal quarantines self at his residence in Mumbai||NASHIK: Minister of food and civil supplies Chhagan Bhujbal, who is also the guardian minister of Nashik district, has quarantined himself after a staff at his Mumbai office tested positive for Covid-19. Few employees and officials at the ministry of state food and civil supplies’ office exhibited some symptoms of Covid-19, following which all the employees were tested for the viral infection. After six employees and officers at the office confirmed positive for the contagion, Bhujbal decided to quarantine himself as a preventive measure at his residence in Mumbai. “I got myself tested for Covid-19 just before the beginning of the assembly and have tested negative. Since, some of the employees and officers in my department have tested positive now, I have excused myself till the quarantine period is over,” said Bhujbal. The department of food and civil supplies has decided to keep the office closed for a week. “The safety of citizens is of prime importance. Hence, all the protocols in the Covid-19 health advisory will be followed in totality,” said Bhujbal. He has also appealed to people to follow social distancing norms, wear masks, use hand sanitizers and monitor their health in order to keep Covid-19 at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bhujbal-quarantines-self-at-his-residence-in-mum/articleshow/78082682.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda may hit Covid peak by September end: Wadettiwar||CHANDRAPUR: Highlighting the alarming rate of increase of Covid-19 cases in the district, Chandrapur guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar warned that the tally of cases was likely to reach 20,000 by the end of September. In a statement issued on social media, the state minister for disaster management said the district was likely to hit its peak of Covid-19 cases by the end of this month end, fearing there could be around 8,000 untested positive patients by then. He instructed the health authorities to be very vigilant and improve the health facilities for patients. Wadettiwar directed them to build 100-bed Covid hospitals — 50-bed ICU and 50 oxygen-equipped beds — in Bhadrawati, Warora, Rajura, Bramhapuri and Ballarpur towns. He said the district administration had already been directed to start a 100-bed Covid hospital at Women’s Hospital in city, and ordered to build a 1000-bed temporary Covid hospital to ensure there is no shortage of beds for Covid patients. He admitted that there was a shortage of doctors and paramedics to handle Covid cases and said the administration would recruit 20 physicians through outsourcing. He added that state government had provided Rs41 crore to handle Covid cases and Rs8 crore was allocated by the disaster management ministry. Apart from that, 33% and 25% grants from the district development and mineral development funds, respectively, was reserved for the pandemic. In a meeting with officials, Wadettiwar warned of stringent action against the doctors who refuse their services for Covid-19, under the Disaster Management Act. He said two oxygen generation plants were being raised in Chandrapur to ensure no Covid patient faces shortage of oxygen. Five small scale plants would be built at different tehsil headquarters, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-may-hit-covid-peak-by-sept-end-wadettiwar/articleshow/78083755.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal reports 2 more deaths, 445 test positive||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded two more Covid-19 deaths, both in Una, taking the death toll in the state to 71, while 445 new cases detected during the day took the case tally to 9,229. In all, 123 patients recovered. By the day’s end, the hill state had 3,194 active cases, 5,947 had been cured, and 15 patients had migrated out of state. A 30-year-old male and a 59-year-old woman in Una succumbed to the disease. Both tested positive for the virus after death. The district also registered 58 new patients, including four journalists, a BJP leader and a health worker, taking the district’s count of cases to 803, of which 316 are active. Mandi also saw a spike in cases registering 91 new patients, including Rohanda block medical officer and one Ayurveda doctor. The district’s total now stands at 763 cases, of which 369 are active. Other fresh cases included 87 from Kangra district, 61 from Solan, 48 from Sirmour, 43 from Shimla, 35 from Bilaspur, nine from Chamba, six from Hamirpur, five from Kinnaur and two from Kullu. On the other hand, 43 recoveries were reported from Sirmour district, 27 from Solan, 14 each from Una and Chamba, 12 from Kangra, seven from Kullu, three from Shimla, and one each from Hamirpur, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. So far, Solan has recorded maximum 2,072 cases in the state, of which 706 are active. Kangra has had 1,433 cases, of which 571 are active, while Sirmour saw 1,195 cases, of which 286 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-reports-2-more-deaths-445-test-positive/articleshow/78082720.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||30% private hospitals beds for Covid patients: DGM||YAVATMAL: Yavatmal guardian minister Sanjay Rathod instructed private hospitals in the district to reserve at least 30 per cent of their beds for Covid-19 patients. The minister directed Government Medical College (GMC) authorities to set up a 250-bed Covid-19 centre in the newly constructed super speciality hospital in GMC premises which, according to Rathod, would be made operational by Tuesday or Wednesday. He was addressing the review meeting of the ever growing surge in the Covid-19 patients in the district. Earlier the administration has arranged 250 beds in the new boys hostel in the GMC premises. Currently, there are 500 oxygen cylinders to cater the oxygen need of the patients. But due to the increase in Covid-19 patients, the minister has ordered to procure 1000 cylinders. Similarly, he has instructed to set up 100 oxygen points in the surgical wards to meet the need there. He has asked the authorities to examine the feasibility of setting up a separate oxygen plant in the GMC premises to cater its daily needs. The minister has directed the dean to coordinate the doctors of all the departments and allot the Covid-19 ward duties to them irrespective of their faculties. He has promised to take necessary steps to fill up the vacancies of doctors, nurses, ward boys and other posts very soon. The minister visited the Covid-19 wards after wearing the PPE kit. He has interacted with the patients and took stock of the facilities made available to the patients. Later he has expressed his satisfaction over the food, water, Medicines, cleanliness etc in the wards and the hospital. The minister has expressed his concern over the ever growing Covid-19 cases and the public taking it casually. He has ordered the administration to enhance Rs200 to Rs500 as fine for not using masks in public places and instructed the concerned to implement it scrupulously without fail. Rathod was accompanied by the district collector M Devender Singh, SP M Rajkumar, dean Dr RP Singh, civil surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Warey and district health officer Dr Balasaheb Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/30-pvt-hosp-beds-for-covid-patients-dgm/articleshow/78083762.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Nashik dist reports 1,569 cases in a day||Nashik: Nashik district reported 1,569 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of patients to 52,329. At present, there are 10,415 active cases with 40,864 people discharged from various Covid care facilities after recovery. A total of 1,050 people have succumbed to the infection in the district so far with the addition of 15 people on Saturday. Malegaon reports 72 cases Malegaon registered 72 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the textile town surged to XXX. Of the total number of patients, 2,358 have been cured till date and 124 have succumbed to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nashik-dist-reports-1569-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/78082719.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Will move court if order on capping treatment charges not withdrawn: IMA||Nashik: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nashik chapter, is planning to challenge the recent notification of the state government on capping charges of treatment at private hospitals in court. Officer-bearers of IMA’s Nashik chapter said that though the state government has assured an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to the families of the doctors, till date, no family of a doctor who has died of Covid 19 has been provided the insurance amount. The office-bearers said that in the recent notification issued on August 31, the government has put financial restrictions on the private hospitals without any scientific or financial base to it. The government has also increased the rate of biomedical waste disposal. An attempt was being made to corner the private hospitals by increasing the rates of oxygen, medicine and even PPE kits. President of IMA’s Nashik chapter Sameer Chandratre said, “We are fighting this issue at the state-level. The recent notification should be immediately withdrawn or else we will launch a massive agitation.” On Friday, a copy of the registration of Maharashtra Medical Council was burnt in front of the office of Nashik IMA at Shalimar as a mark of protest. IMA president Chandratre, secretary Sudarshan Ahire, treasurer Pravin Sonawane, president of IMA’s Nashik Road chapter Mayur Sarode and others were present. “As a mark of protest, we publicly burned a copy of the registration of Maharashtra Medical Council. If the notification is not withdrawn with immediate effect, we will move the court,” said Chandratre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/will-move-court-if-order-on-capping-treatment-charges-not-withdrawn-ima/articleshow/78082724.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||200 farmers booked over Covid curbs||Bathinda: As farm organisation BKU Ekta Sidhupur is continuing with its protest outside Bathinda district administrative complex for the past 10 days, the district police have booked senior leaders of the organisation, along with 200 unidentified activists. The case has been filed for violating Covid-19 norms like not maintaining social distancing and not wearing masks, and unlawful assembly. The farm organisation activists are on protest since September 2, demanding withdrawal of agri ordinances, taking back cases registered in the last season for burning paddy stubble, government job to son of the activist Jagseer Singh of village Kotda Koda in Bathinda who had died at protest at Jaito town of district Faridkot on December 7, 2019. The case has been registered against organisation state secretary Kaka Singh, Bathinda district president Baldev Singh Sandoha, district vice-president Resham Singh Yatri, block president Talwandi Sabo Yodha Singh apart from 200 activistsThe case was filed at Bathinda Civil Lines police station on the complaint of head constable Iqbal Singh for disobedience and under the Disaster Management Act. Farm organisation district vice-president Resham Singh Yatri said, “We are not worried about the registration of case and will continue the protest. We are here for the fulfilment of the demands and will not sit back till the demands are met.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/200-farmers-booked-over-covid-curbs/articleshow/78082730.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Legislators told to do Covid tests again||HYDERABAD: Assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and legislative council chairman G Sukhender Reddy directed all the MLAs, MLCs, assembly staff, police and reporters on assembly duties to get themselves tested for coronavirus before the assembly resumes on Monday. The legislative secretariat had made Covid-19 test report mandatory for all to attend sessions. All the legislators and MLCs along with mediapersons and police underwent tests.  “The tests were conducted a week ago and many ministers and MLAs went to their respective assembly constituencies and districts during this two-day break (Saturday and Sunday). To avoid any problem, the legislators, assembly staff, police and media have been asked to undergo tests again,” official sources said. Meanwhile, finance minister T Harish Rao who had tested positive for coronavirus before the assembly sessions, got himself tested on Saturday and it wsa negative for the infection. Officials said he would attend the sessions in the next three to four days. The legislative secretariat had made Covid-19 test report mandatory for all to attend sessions. All the legislators and MLCs along with mediapersons and police underwent tests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/legislators-told-to-do-covid-tests-again/articleshow/78082722.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Traffic on highway rises after e-pass suspension||Pune: The traffic volume on some major national highways connecting the city to other destinations has increased significantly after the e-pass system was scrapped on September 1, as per official data. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has estimated that the number of vehicles plying on the Pune-Satara highway (which connects Pune to Goa and Bengaluru) is already at 70% of pre-Covid levels. An NHAI official said an average 31,000 vehicles per day drove on this highway in July. This increased to an average of nearly 41,000 per day in August and further to approximately 52,000 per day in the first week of September. “The maximum load — over 85% — in September has been that of private cars as per data on vehicular movement through two toll plazas on this route, at Khed-Shivapur and Anewadi. More than 44,000 plus private cars drive through these plazas per day now,” an NHAI official said. Other highways — Pune-Vijayawada and Pune-Nashik — have witnessed similar trends. The Pune-Vijayawada highway (NH-65), which starts from Pune, passes through Solapur and ends in Machilipatnam in Andhra Pradesh, witnessed 1.9 lakh vehicles during the last week of August. This went up to approximately more than 2 lakh vehicles in the first week of September, as per NHAI estimates. This data was collected from two toll plazas on the stretch — Patas and Indapur. Another highway, connecting Pune to Nashik, known as the Khed-Sinnar highway, starts from Rajgurunagar in Pune, passes through Ahmednagar district and ends in Sinnar in Nashik. The vehicle load per day on an average on this highway went up from 10,000 in August to almost 15,000 in September. “These three are the major highways connecting Pune to various parts. Pune-Vijayawada and Pune-Satara highways not only connect Pune to other towns in Maharashtra and outside, but also connect Mumbai to Solapur and Satara,” an official said. Another NHAI official said the maximum load on the Pune-Satara stretch comprised private cars. “There has been a reduction in commercial vehicles after constant lockdowns in places like Kolhapur and Satara,” he said. This apparently unrestrained movement of vehicles has sparked concerns among health experts, who said increased travel to various locations for leisure purposes could spell trouble during the pandemic. “A surge in unhindered interstate and inter-district travel could increase the other states’ exposure to Covid-19. The key to arresting the spread is staying at home and stepping out only when necessary. People also tend to travel to their farmhouses for leisure purposes despite the Covid-19 outbreak. Farmhouses are in remote, rural locations. Thus, this can put at risk locals who do not have access to top medical facilities,” Padma Iyer, a former IMA president and a surgeon, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-on-highway-rises-after-e-pass-suspension/articleshow/78083764.cms||Neha Madaan
September 13, 2020||Pune||City toppers set sight on JEE Advanced||Pune: For Vedang Asgaonkar (18), a birthday gift arrived six days earlier when the JEE Main results were declared. He ranked 52nd in the all-India list. Asgaonkar had, in fact, given the September examination a miss due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He had scored 99.99 percentile in the exam held in January. However, Asgaonkar has had no time to celebrate, said his mother Kalyani Asgaonkar. “He is preparing for JEE Advanced now. Since he had already scored well in the Main exam, we did not see the necessity of giving the exam once again in September, especially with the Covid-19 situation,” she said. Asgaonkar was a student of DAV Public School, Aundh. “Primarily, my aim had been to get a good score in JEE Advanced and since I had already qualified JEE Main in January itself, I was focused on JEE Advanced. It worked very well as I was in a very positive state of mind throughout my exam. I am trying my best to make my parents and teachers proud of my score in JEE Advanced,” said Kishore Rajendran after scoring 99.94 percentile in JEE Main. Chirag Falor, who hails from Pune, has scored an all-India rank of 12 in JEE Main after scoring 100 percentile (296/300) overall and has topped Delhi NCT. “NTA has raised the cut-off for JEE Main 2020 for unreserved category while for every other category, JEE Main cut-off has been lowered in comparison to 2019. In general, it is again expected that the cut-off for JEE Advanced should remain around 35-40% to get a rank under 10,000. In fact, to get into the top IITs, with a rank under 5,500, the cut-off would be around 55-60%,” said Arun Jain, academic head of Allen Career Institute, Pune. Aziz Shameem secured the 62nd rank and feels that he has bettered his score thanks to the extra time he had to prepare due to the delayed examinations. His dream is to get into IIT Mumbai in the Computer Science department and, for that, he has been preparing 16 hours a day, said his father. “My mantra for preparing for examination are discipline, planning and loads of practice. We need to focus on speed and accuracy. We should not get distracted by results during preparations,” said Aziz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-toppers-set-sight-on-jee-advanced/articleshow/78083761.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH junior doctors call off protest||HYDERABAD: The junior doctors at the OGH called off their strike on Saturday after the hospital’s superintendent gave them assurance that their demands will be addressed within a week. The doctors have been complaining that they are facing difficulty to perform surgeries due to the lack of facilities after the closure of the old block by the authorities. “General surgery and orthopedic departments have been provided with just one operation theatre and post-operative ward,” said Dr T Vaibhav, a junior doctor. “We called off the strike after the superintendent gave assurance to resolve the issue by September 19. If the issue is still left unaddressed; we will be going on an indefinite strike,” he added. A letter signed by superintendent reads: “The following arrangements have been made temporarily to perform elective surgeries until operation theatre facilities are made in GHMC shelter home.” Arrangements listed in the letter state that neuro-surgery operation theatre will provide one major operation theatre room for elective orthopedics cases. Plastic surgery OT will give three operation tables for elective general surgery cases, general surgery post-operative ward in Quli Qutb Shah Department of cardiology ward will have female cardiology ward in addition to present post-operative ward in male cardiology ward, making a bed strength of 50 beds. Around 150 doctors who were on strike during the last four days wanted authorities to reopen the old Quli Qutb Shah block of the hospital building or set up a temporary facility for surgery at the earliest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-junior-docs-call-off-protest/articleshow/78082703.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bareilly||PAC jawan, newlywed wife shot at by woman’s family for marrying against their wishes; both critical||Bareilly: A constable of the Uttar Pradesh Provincial Armed Constabulary (UP-PAC) posted in Bareilly and his wife — both maternal cousins, who tied the nuptial knot recently against the wishes of the woman’s family — were allegedly shot at by her family members at their residence in Saidnagar village in UP’s Rampur late on Friday night. Prashant Kumar, 21, and Kamini Gautam, 19, are battling for their lives at a private hospital in Moradabad. Rampur additional superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh told TOI, “The woman’s family members, residents of Kashipur in Uttarakhand, barged into the couple’s house late on Friday night and opened fire at them. The husband-wife duo was rushed to the district hospital, but given their critical condition, doctors referred them to a higher medical facility in Moradabad.” Rampur’s Tanda police station SHO Madhav Singh Bisht said the couple told them that they got married earlier this month (September), even as the woman’s family was unhappy and didn’t approve their relationship. “Woman’s father Vinod Kumar Gautam, her brother and an uncle barged into their house and opened fire at them and fled the scene. Locals rushed them to the hospital,” said the SHO. “An FIR was registered against three people, including the woman’s father and brother, under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused are absconding,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pac-jawan-newlywed-wife-shot-at-by-womans-family-for-marrying-against-their-wishes-both-critical/articleshow/78080635.cms||Maria Khan
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Man held for spreading rumours||Patiala: Ropar police have arrested one Jasvir Singh, a resident of Chamkaur Sahib, for spreading baseless rumours related to Covid-19. The police said that the case was registered for disobedience, act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, spreading rumours and under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 at Chamkaur Sahib police station. While appealing the masses to disengage themselves from such rumour-mongering, the police said that there had been many complaints regarding the false information being spread in the society against the medical fraternity and efforts against Covid-19. The police said there were inputs that various social media influencers were being contacted to entice them to spread such rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-held-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/78082750.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Sent to quarantine despite -ve RT-PCR test report, claim flyers||HYDERABAD: Weeks after Telangana revised its quarantine norms, confusion still prevails at the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA). Several international flyers claim they are being forced to undergo institutional quarantine despite producing a negative RT-PCR test report as prescribed in the latest government order. Some even alleged that they had to bribe officials manning the arrivals to walk out of the facility. “My uncle and aunt recently returned to Hyderabad from Chicago. Both of them had taken their test, as per norms, and uploaded the results for exemption from institutional quarantine. Yet, at RGIA, officials refused to let them go claiming that they might have contracted the virus en route to India,” said Vish Atla, speaking to STOI from New Jersey. “When my uncle refused to give in, the officers said they’d withhold their passports if they didn’t pay Rs 2,000. The elderly couple was forced to oblige,” he added. Another passenger travelling to Hyderabad from the US—who had also taken the test as per the rules—claimed he had to cough up the last $6 in his wallet to get past officials. “It has happened to me and many other passengers. Despite Covid-19 negative report, I was sent to institutional quarantine and made to pay Rs 8,0000 for it. What’s worse, during quarantine they didn’t even conduct any test,” said Srinivas Uppuluri, who recently returned from Dubai. Officials, however, refute these charges. “We are strictly following norms. Passengers who aren’t being exempted from institutional quarantine are either those who have taken their RT-PCR test several days/weeks ahead of travel or are producing rapid antigen test results—neither which are acceptable,” said a senior official of the state protocol department. The official maintained that there were no complaints against officers for accepting bribe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sent-to-quarantine-despite-ve-rt-pcr-test-report-claim-flyers/articleshow/78082740.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Flow of critical patients from rural areas adds to NMC woes||Nashik: The steady flow of serious patients coming to the city for treatment from the rural parts of Nashik and adjoining districts is putting pressure on the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to make beds available to critical Covid-19 patients of the city. The civic officials overseeing Covid-19 management in Nashik city said there is a dire need for the district health authorities to boost infrastructure to treat critical patients in the rural areas as that would ease the pressure on the 2 NMC-managed hospitals and the private facilities in the city. Although the 40 ICU and 38 ventilator beds at the Nashik civil hospital are reserved for critical patients from rural areas, they are falling short as the number of such patients is increasing. “On average, we are getting 100 patients from rural areas and neighbouring districts. Many of them are in serious condition. Had there been more ICU and ventilator beds in rural areas, such patients would not have come to the city for treatment,” said the NMC officials. According to civic authorities, ethically, the NMC cannot stop any patient from taking admission in a hospital. “But there have been several instances where patients from rural Nashik and neighbouring districts, while getting admitted to city hospitals, give addresses of their relatives who stay in the city to show that they are local residents,” said an official. Of the 337 ICU and 118 ventilator beds currently available to NMC, only around 50 ICU beds and 20 ventilator beds are vacant. District health authorities said ICU and ventilator facilities are available at Malegaon, which caters to the needs of critical patients of about three neighbouring talukas. And there is a similar facility at a private hospital at Igatpuri. “We are planning to set up ICU and ventilator beds at Chandwad and Sinnar. This would help in reducing the load of Nashik city. It is in a nascent stage since the availability of doctors to treat critical patients is a huge problem,” added health authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/flow-of-critical-patients-from-rural-areas-adds-to-nmc-woes/articleshow/78082752.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 13, 2020||Pune||Flooding fears grip Katraj residents after heavy downpour, PMC says water management system in place||Pune: The heavy spell of rain in the Katraj area on Friday night triggered anxiety among the residents living near the Katraj lake and along the Ambil Odha, which had faced massive flooding last monsoon.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), however, said the water management system was in place at the Katraj lake to control the flow of water.Both lakes in the Katraj area were full because of two days of rain. On Friday, the downpour started in the evening and continued till night, leading to waterlogging on the busy Katraj-Kondhwa Road, Katraj Chowk and the adjacent areas. Local corporator Vasant More said water gushed on the Katraj-Kondhwa Road and in some localities like Shelar-Mala towards the Katraj hill because of obstructions, which were cleared later. “The water came on the road because of a choked drainage line near the Katraj crematorium. We have cleared the choked drain. Two earth moving machines were deployed to clear the blockage, but there was heavy flow of rain water. On the other side of the lake, rainwater gushed into localities such as Shelar-Mala because of obstacles in the water streams. A child was caught in the water current, but was rescued by his father and taken to a hospital for treatment. Most blockages were removed in the night and in the morning. We have told residents to remain alert,” More said. Civic authorities said there was no flooding in any localities and residential complexes in Dhankawdi, Sahakarnagar and Bibvewadi from where the Ambil Odha flows. However, the administration was ready with a transit camp to shift people, if required. A senior official said, “The administration has installed siphons at both the Katraj lakes to clear the water and maintain low water-level. Both siphons are working since Friday. The system will prevent sudden flooding to some extent”.A resident Ramesh Ghule said last year, the area around the lake and along the nullah was damaged because of the floods. Residents do not want it to repeat. While the administration has cleared the water channel, the work including repairs of walls, clearing of old debris and encroachment was yet to be completed, Ghule said. Mihir Shinde, who resides in a society along Ambil Odha, said residents of the society vacated the basement as a precautionary step by removing their vehicles. Nilesh Deshmukh, head of Sahakarnagar-Dhankawadi civic ward, said, “Two locations have been identified for transit camps to shift people from vulnerable locations such as Tangewala colony, in case of emergency and flooding.” Ganesh Sosune, the head of disaster management cell, said the local authorities had been told to remain alert and increase inspection in vulnerable areas.GRAPHICOn Friday, the rain started in the evening and continued till night, which led to waterlogging on Katraj-Kondhwa Road, Katraj Chowk and the adjacent areasResidents living near Katraj lake and Ambil Odha were anxious the area would be flooded like last year’s monsoonPMC authorities said there was no flooding in any localities and residential complexes in Dhankawadi, Sahakarnagar and Bibvewadi from where the Ambil Odha flowsThe administration was ready with transit camps to shift residents“The water came on the road because of a choked drainage line near the Katraj crematorium. We cleared the choked drain. Two earth moving machines were deployed to clear the blockage, but there was heavy flow of rain water... Most blockages were removed in the night and in the morning. We have told residents to remain alert” — Vasant More, local corporator||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flooding-fears-grip-katraj-residents-after-heavy-downpour-pmc-says-water-management-system-in-place/articleshow/78083768.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Water discharge from Khadakwasla resumes after 70mm rain in catchment||Pune: Water discharge from Khadakwasla dam into the Mutha river resumed on Saturday after its catchment areas recorded 70mm rainfall in the 24-hour period till Saturday morning. The rainfall in the Khadakwasla catchments was the highest among the four dams — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar — supplying water to Pune during the period. Besides Khadakwasla, water was also released from Panshet and Varasgaon dams to the power houses at the respective reservoir sites after the water levels went up, following intense showers in the catchments. The collective stock in the four dams increased to 29 TMC (99.66%) on Saturday evening. The maximum storage capacity of the four dams is 29.15 TMC. Only Temghar dam was yet to reach to its full capacity. On Saturday evening, the water stock in Temghar reached 97.3%. An official from the state irrigation department said, “Water release from Khadakwasla was started late at night on Friday and it was increased to 1,712 cusec on Saturday morning. The water release continued all through the day at the same rate. Water release will go up if the catchments continue to receive intense rains as there is hardly any space left to accommodate more water,” the official said. The state irrigation department has released over 10 TMC water from the four dams in the Khadakwasla circle, so far. Water was discharged from nine dams out of the 26 in the Bhima basin after their catchments reported good rainfall. While most dams had stock at full capacity or near to it, water storage in only two dams was still below the 50% mark. GRAPHIC DAM WATCH Reservoir—Stock—Storage Khadakwasla—1.97 TMC — 100% Panshet — 10.65 TMC — 100% Varasgaon — 12.82 TMC — 100% Temghar — 3.6 TMC — 97.3% . Total: 29.05 TMC — 99.66% The state irrigation department has released over 10 TMC water from the four dams in the Khadakwasla circle, so far||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-discharge-from-khadakwasla-resumes-after-70mm-rain-in-catchment/articleshow/78083769.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Over 1,600 parks to get Aarogya Vatikas with medicinal plants||Lucknow: Over 1,600 parks in the city will soon have a special health corner, an ‘Aarogya Vatika’, where herbs and plants with high medicinal value and the ones that help in boosting immunity will take care of people’s health. This will be made possible under the ‘Aarogyam’ campaign of ‘Navbharat Times’. The campaign is a step towards creating awareness about health benefits of plants available in our surroundings. One such ‘Aarogya Vatika’ was set up at a park in Viraj Khand in Gomtinagar on Friday with the plantation of over 50 plants of high medicinal value. The event was inaugurated by mayor Sanyukta Bhatia. Resident editor of Navbharat Times, Lucknow, Sudhir Mishra explained health benefits of various medicinal plants like tulsi, giloi, ashwagandha and others. It was also announced that Lucknow Municipal Corporation will provide space for Aarogyam Vatika in 1,657 parks in the city. NBT will set up the gardens, provide assistance and will even publish the efforts made by people to set up such parks in their localities. Those who want to set up ‘Arogya Vatika’ or are setting up one in their area may send in email to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-1600-parks-to-get-aarogya-vatikas-with-medicinal-plants/articleshow/78074725.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||2 pvt hosps in Sinnar are now DCHC||Nashik: Provision for more beds, especially those equipped with oxygen facility, has been arranged for in Sinnar where two more private hospitals have been designated as dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC). Around 20 beds in each of the two private DCHC have been reserved for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, of which 10 beds are equipped with oxygen facility. According to a senior officer of health from Sinnar taluka, the region is witnessing a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 patients. Sinnar has a huge marketplace which serves the purpose not only of the entire taluka but also of the villages in the neighbouring talukas. The taluka headquarter also has a large numbers of industries, due to which there is movement of people in both directions that is leading to the further spread of the infection. Currently, there are 321 active cases in Sinnar taluka, of which around 100 patients are in home-isolation. As many as 40 patients require oxygen support. There are around 60 patients who require aggresive health management, the condition of 20 such patients is serious. The taluka so far has registered 50 Covid-related fatalities. “Many patients have to be shifted to Nashik city for treatment as the two Covid care centres (CCC) and the one DCHC in Sinnar taluka are filled to capacity,” said the officer. Now that the two DCHCs have been made operational at the private hospitals, patients seeking treatment in these facilities have to bear the expenses as per the charges fixed by the state government. “As far as the rural health department is concerned, if patients want our services, we will refer them to the civil hospital, the Adgaon Medical College and Hospital or the SMBT Medical College in Igatpuri taluka,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-pvt-hosps-in-sinnar-are-now-dchc/articleshow/78082756.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Admin calls on services of pvt docs, PG pupils||Aurangabad: The district administration has requisitioned for the services of 204 private medical practitioners, intensivists and postgraduate students at different health facilities treating Covid-19 patients. District collector Sunil Chavan, who is also the chairman of the district disaster management authority, issued the requisition order late on Friday evening. The doctors have been urged to join the work at designated places on temporary basis and they should do so immediately to avoid action under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. They have also been warned that they could lose their licence if they failed to follow the order. The administration has specified that these doctors would be paid Rs 1.25 lakh per month. They would have to work for 15 days at a stretch followed by seven days of isolation per month. The PG students would get their remuneration as per the prevailing norms. The district collector ordered that all the PG students should start their work the day after their examinations end. They would work under the dean of the Government Medical College and Hospital in Aurangabad, which currently bears the burden of treating critical patients. They have also been warned of action and cancellation of Maharashtra Medical Council approval. “The administration had sought a list of Indian Medical Association members here. After consultation with senior doctors, the district administration has selected those who can extend their services,” said Santosh Ranjalkar, the IMA, Aurangabad president. When asked whether the doctors, who have good practice, would really join the service, Ranjalkar said: “Since the district collector has issued the requisition order, they have to comply. Anyway, it’s always good to extend service to the people in the time of pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/admin-calls-on-services-of-pvt-docs-pg-pupils/articleshow/78081307.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Meerut||BJP MLA says spurious liquor caused deaths in Baghpat and Meerut||MEERUT: Yogesh Dhama, BJP MLA from Baghpat, visited Chandrawal village on Saturday following the deaths of six locals caused by consuming spurious liquor. Notably, six in Baghpat and three in Meerut's Jani area have died allegedly after consuming such liquor. "It is clear that all these deaths have occurred due to spurious liquor. Six people died all of a sudden [in Baghpat] and most of them were in their 30s and 40s. And these deaths did not take place due to liquor, but the poisonous substance mixed in it," MLA Dhama said. A team of local administration in its report had earlier concluded that the deceased had a history of liquor consumption. They, however, remained in denial over spurious liquor being sold in the area and the cause of their deaths. "People consume liquor for 10 to 15 years. They don't die overnight. Initially, their health deteriorates and the organ starts failing and it takes time. But, when people die within five, six or 24 hours, it is clear something poisonous was mixed in the alcohol," Dhama added. Local police in Baghpat claimed the postmortem of the one of the deceased remained inconclusive. "Cause of death could not be ascertained in the report. Viscera samples have been preserved. There was no trace of poisonous substance," Manish Kumar Mishra, Baghpat ASP, said. In fact, four of the deceased men were hurriedly cremated without any prior knowledge of the police, while the autopsy report of one is still awaited. The police have also upped the ante on sale and production of illicit liquor in the district. "We have arrested 35 people in the crackdown in the past two days. Over 600 litres of raw materials used in the manufacture of illicit liquor have also been seized," ASP Mishra said. Meanwhile, Bareilly police have slapped Gangsters Act against 57 repeat offenders who were earlier booked for selling such liquor on multiple occasions. The police were already running a campaign in the district on the instructions of their SSP Shailesh Pandey since August 16. And, on Friday, Pandey sought a list of the repeat offenders to book them under the stringent Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-admins-denial-bjp-mla-says-spuriousliquor-caused-deaths-in-baghpat-and-meerut/articleshow/78081299.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Ready reckoner rates lower only in Peth areas; higher elsewhere||Pune: Only 100 zones in the main city areas — or Peth areas — have seen a decrease in ready reckoner rates, which were revised by the state government on Friday. The rest — including rural areas recently merged in Pune municipal limits — saw a 5-10% hike. The rates went up by 3.91% on an average across Pune district — the highest in the state. The rates were last revised in April 2017. On an average, the ready reckoner rates increased by 1.56% in the municipal corporation areas. The impact of this average rise is reflected in areas such Koregaon Park, Prabhat Road, Kothrud and Baner, which already have high rates. Meanwhile, 90-100 zones covering all the Peth areas, where there is no scope of construction activity with limited space and low property transactions, reflected a reduction of 10%. State inspector-general of registration and stamps Omprakash Deshmukh said the rates were revised in a bid to assign a realistic value to areas. “For the past three years, several areas with no transactions were stuck with high rates and needed reduction,” he told TOI Vijay Shende, assistant director, town planning (valuation), Pune, said this was the first time they were able to reduce land rates by 5-10%. “We increased the land rates in Pune Metropolitian Region, especially in areas where town-planning schemes were announced, as there were a high number of transactions. Further, the rates increased in the villages that were merged in PMC limits recently, as they are still developing,” he said. Developers, meanwhile, said the new rates have nullified the impact of the recent concession in stamp duty and demanded a rollback. Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said multiple requests to the government to not increase rates in key city areas fell on deaf ears. “RR rates were already high in the district and the new rates will doubly impact the sector,” Kataria said, adding, “Construction costs increased by 8-10%, which increases premiums. Under the new rates, prices will increase by 5-9$% in most places in Pune.”' Credai has also said the system of deciding the rates was not scientific. “The assessment of transactions was done from January to March. These rates are not reflective of the present situation,” Kataria added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ready-reckoner-rates-lower-only-in-peth-areas-higher-elsewhere/articleshow/78083773.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 13, 2020||Pune||Rates’ revision confuses developers in state||Pune: The revised ready reckoner rates have left developers scratching their heads. “The increase in ready reckoner rates ... will create a negative impact on homebuyers, as it has nullified the impact of concession given in the stamp duty rates,” Suhas Merchant, president of Credai-Pune Metro, said. The state government recently reduced stamp duty (including cess) to 3% till December this year. Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants, said, “In Maharashtra, the stamp duty and registration charges are paid on the higher of the two values — market value or RR rate. But if buyers purchase property below RR rates, they would have to bear an additional tax burden.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rates-revision-confuses-developers-in-state/articleshow/78083775.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Guard, who torched self, succumbs||Hyderabad: A 57-year-old security guard, who had set himself on fire near the busy Ravindra Bharati chowrasta in full public view a few days ago, succumbed to his burns on Saturday. Narlakanti Nagulu, a resident of Keesara, sustained severe burn injuries on his chest and back after he doused himself with petrol and torched himself on Thursday. He died while undergoing treatment in Osmania General Hospital. Nagulu resorted to the extreme step as he was distraught over lack of employment and financial problems. Shouting slogans like ‘Jai KCR’ and ‘Jai Telangana’ on that day, Nagulu said he nursed hopes of finding a better job after the formation of Telangana state but in vain. A few minutes later, he set himself on fire much to the shock of passers-by.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guard-who-torched-self-succumbs/articleshow/78082761.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 2,270 cases; slight dip in GHMC, RR||HYDERABAD: With a slight dip in the number of cases in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits and neighbouring Rangareddy district, Telangana recorded 2,278 new Covid-19 infections and 10 fatalities on Friday, taking the overall toll to 950 and the cumulative positive cases to 1,54,880. While the active Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 32,005, the number of new cases in GHMC came down from 338 on Thursday to 331 on Friday. Similarly, Rangareddy district logged 184 cases on Friday compared to 216 cases the previous day. So far, 1,21,925 lakh patients had recovered from the coronavirus infection in the state. On Friday, the recovery rate in the state was 78.7% compared to 77.75% national average. However, it is still behind the recovery rate of many states. The authorities have once again reiterated that the number of patients in the 20-50 years age category, which is the ‘susceptible category’, is on the rise, hence people were requested not to go out. “People are advised not to go out unless absolutely necessary. In case going out is unavoidable, they shall ensure all safety measures such as using of face masks, frequent hand wash, use of sanitiser, safe physical distance etc,” an official release said . Authorities further informed that 65.24 % of Covid-19 patients fall in the 20-50 age category. The data, released by the director of medical health, also states that the case fatality rate, a measure of the number patients succumbing to the virus when compared to the total number of infected patients, continued to stay below 1% after dipping slightly on Wednesday. Altogether, 62,234 samples were tested across the state on Friday, taking the total number of samples tested to 20.7 lakh. The number of samples tested per million population stood at 55,989.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-2270-cases-slight-dip-in-ghmc-rr/articleshow/78082758.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Goa’s best rank at JEE much lower than recent years||PANAJI: Siddhant Govekar’s all India rank of 1,105 at the JEE (Main) Paper-1 emerged as the best in the state. JEE (Main) Paper-1 results were declared late on Friday evening. The student of Cujira-based Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School has now qualified to answer the JEE (Advanced), to be held later this month. He is now a step closer to bagging a seat at an IIT of his choice. But Govekar will be answering the NEET on Sunday and said his main focus is getting into AIIMS. “I am focused on the NEET exam for now. I want to join AIIMS. Other than NEET, I will also be answering the exam for BITS and the JEE (Advanced) as well,” said Govekar, a resident of Mandrem. His father Uday is a physics lecturer, while mother Rajashri works as an assistant manager in a pharmaceutical company. Gaurav Awasthi (1,839), Aditya Kamat (5,959), Rubiya Shaikh (10,018), Kalyan Salkar (11,333), Kavish Priolkar (12,262), Diya Chodankar (14,471), Antash Mishra (14,934), Anish Dhaimodkar (17,399) and Mandar Joshi (18,996) are some of the other students, who bagged all India ranks within the first 20,000. “Altogether, 47 have qualified from our institute to answer JEE (Advance),” said director of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School Vyankatesh Prabhudesai. However, the best rank for Goa at JEE (Main) this year was much lower than those attained by students in recent years from the state. Last year, Jaiprakash Gurav had managed an all India rank of 166. At the all India level, 24 students across the country managed to score 100% . However, none from Goa have attained 100% this year. The JEE Paper-1 is for admission to BTech and BE programmes in IITs, NITs and centrally-funded technical institutions (CFTIs). JEE(Advanced) is scheduled to be held on September 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-best-rank-at-jee-much-lower-than-recent-years/articleshow/78083776.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bareilly||Undertrial Covid +ve patient dies after ‘falling off hospital window’||Bareilly: An undertrial Covid-19 positive patient died after "falling" from the first floor of a Budaun hospital on Friday. The deceased was a resident of Raja Ki Sikri village in Faizganj Behta area and was arrested by police for allegedly raping a woman on September 7. Police suspect the man may have killed himself or fallen in a bid to escape from the premises. His family, however, said he had been thrown off the window and pressed murder charges against staff and the local police. On Saturday, Budaun district magistrate (DM) Kumar Prashant said that the deceased had locked himself inside the hospital's washroom and tried to escape through the window using a bedsheet. "Since the bedsheet was short, he fell on the ground suffering head injuries and later succumbed during treatment," he added.The 52-year-old man tested Covid-19 positive during a routine medical test and was kept at the L1 facility. But, his health worsened and he was shifted to a government medical college on Thursday.His family alleged that he was framed in a fake case and the opposite party has used their influence to "kill him". They also claimed that they were informed about his death much later. Dismissing the family's allegations, the DM said, “The deceased was undergoing treatment for a head injury for nearly five hours. He died due to a cardiac arrest. The autopsy report has also confirmed cardiac arrest as the cause of his death.”Notably, four Covid patients had "killed themselves" over the past month in Bareilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/undertrial-covid-ve-patient-dies-after-falling-off-hospital-window/articleshow/78080648.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Asset protection cell to come up in HMDA||Hyderabad: An asset protection cell will be set up in Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) on the lines of one in GHMC to take action against unauthorised structures coming up in the buffer zone of Outer Ring Road (ORR). Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao instructed the officials to make arrangements for creation of the cell while reviewing activities of HMDA on Saturday. He instructed the officials to initiate stern action against the unauthorised structures in the buffer zone of ORR. He also asked them to seek support of respective district collectors of Hyderabad Metropolitan Region (HMR) like Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and Sangareddy in pulling down illegal structures. KTR said that HMDA officials should be ready to the adopt to the new changes in the wake of TS-bPASS. “Focus should be on planning, visioning and designing and plans should be made accordingly,” the minister said. On the works being taken up on ORR, he asked the HMDA officials to lay emphasis on setting up wayside amenities. He complimented the officials for the greenery and beautification works being executed on ORR. The minister also enquired about the progress in construction of skywalks at Mehdipatnam and Uppal, besides the measures being taken by HMDA in protecting the lakes. He also asked the officials to submit the details on the development of lakes and beautification of Tank Bund in HMDA limits. Municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar and senior officials of HMDA were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asset-protection-cell-to-come-up-in-hmda/articleshow/78082768.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Major organisers decide against garbas||Vadodara: Major garba organisers in the city have decided against holding the nine-day revelry in the city this year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the state government was looking to give relaxations during Navratri, the organisers have dropped the event keeping in mind safety of the revellers. The biggest garba globally, United Way Garba, will also not be held this year. Organisers of the Vadodara Navratri Festival (VNF) and other garbas have also taken similar decisions. Chairperson of the resource development committee of the United Way of Baroda, Hemant Shah, said that the board of the organization had taken a decision against holding the event. “Physical distancing is not possible as a massive gathering takes place at our venue. Participants can not only infect themselves, but also carry the infection home and infect their families,” he said. Mayank Patel from VNF said that given the extraordinary situation, it was not inclined to hold the garba. “We can stitch together the event in days, but will avoid it this time in the interest of the city. We will install an idol of Mataji at the venue, pray there and give offerings,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/major-organisers-decide-against-garbas/articleshow/78081772.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 16L seized; two held||Rajkot: A truck ferrying 2,676 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 15.65 lakh was seized and two bootleggers were arrested near Khirsara village of Lodhika on the outskirts of Rajkot on Friday night. Those arrested were identified as Iqbal Dhara and Yusuf Dalvani. “The seizure and arrests were effected on the basis of a tip-off. The bootleggers had created a secret cabin beneath the barrels filled with oil. They had hidden the IMFL bottles in this cabin,” said an official from Rajkot rural crime branch. During their interrogation, the arrested duo said that they had brought the liquor cache from Haryana and that it was meant to be delivered to Rajkot-based bootlegger Ashok Sindhav. Following this revelation, the police have launched a manhunt for Sindhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-16l-seized-two-held/articleshow/78082163.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Erratic power supply affects work from home in Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: Erratic electricity supply has been affecting those working from home in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits for the past few months. “The state electricity utility only wants money, but does not want to provide any service. They do not like it when they are questioned about infrastructure upkeep,” a Pimple Saudagar resident commented on a local WhatsApp group. For Arvind Krishnan, work-from-home is nearly impossible with frequent disruptions in power supply. “I hail from Mumbai, which receives three times the rain compared to Pune, but there is power cut here even when there is slightest drizzle,” said Krishnan. Many complained on social media forums that they are unable to receive office calls over the web even when there is inverter backup as internet connections drop when there is a switchover from main supply to inverter. “Cables have snapped in some areas owing to road digging work. We fix them as soon as we receive complaints. In some areas like Pimple Saudagar and Pimple Gurav, a lot of digging is taking place for smart city work and cables have been cut accidentally,” said Shivaji Waiphalkar, executive engineer, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company ltd. A civic official said that the power utility can explain why there is disruption in power supply despite low load. “We have not been given any maps. So, sometimes while carrying out digging work, gas lines, waterlines and electricity cables get cut,” said a contractor engaged in smart city project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/erratic-power-supply-affects-work-from-home-in-pcmc/articleshow/78083777.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Two-year-old girl among 4 killed, 6 hurt as bus collides with auto||AMBALA: Three women, including a two-year-old girl, and a man from Uttar Pradesh (UP) died while six got injured in an accident between a bus and auto-rickshaw on the national highway (NH) 44, in Baldev Nagar police station area of Ambala district at about 3.30am on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Sabri (23), her sister-in-law Nasreen (22), her daughter Insa (2) of Faijganj Benta village in Budaun district of UP and Ram Avtar Singh (32) of Khajriya Brahman village in Bareilly district of UP. The six injured include Sabri’s husband Israr (25) and their daughter Gulfasa (4) and Ram Avtar’s wife Kavita (25), their sons Pranshu (5) and Himanshu (3) and autorickshaw driver Hari Om of Patina village in Budaun district of UP, who is a neighbour of the complainant. The victims live in Adarsh Nagar in Kharar town of Mohali district in Punjab, the police said. According to the police, nine members of two UP-based families were travelling in an auto-rickshaw to Ambala from Kharar, Mohali when their vehicle collided with a bus on NH 44, near the Oberoi petrol pump in the Baldev Nagar area. On the complaint of Sabri’s husband Israr, the police registered a case against unknown bus driver under Section 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Baldev Nagar police station on Saturday. Israr told the police, “The bus driver fled from the spot. The passerby rescued us and rushed to the civil hospital, Ambala City in an ambulance. My wife Sabri, sister Nasreen, daughter Insa and Ram Avtar died in the ambulance, on the way to the hospital.” “Gulfasa received a fracture in her leg, while Ram Avtar’s wife Kavita and their sons Pranshu and Himanshu were referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh and are in critical condition,” said Israr. Baldev Nagar station house officer, inspector Satya Narain said, “We are investigating the case and efforts are being done to identify the bus involved in the accident. Those injured are so far reported to be out of danger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-from-up-die-6-injured-in-bus-auto-rickshaw-accident-in-ambala/articleshow/78082772.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||ADGP praises Nashik jail officials||Nashik: Additional director general of police and IG (prisons) Sunil Ramanand praised officials of the Nashik Road central prison during his visit to the jail on Friday. “The ADGP took stock of the situation inside the jail premises regarding Covid-19 and expressed satisfaction over the handling of the situation and ensuring that there was no positive case inside the premises,” said superintendent of Nashik Road central prison Pramod Wagh. Wagh said that the ADGP instructed the jail officials to follow all the guidelines issued by the government so that there were no cases of infection inside the premises and if any positive case was found, the concerned person should be immediately treated. The jail authorities have set up a separate facility outside the jail for keeping those who have been remanded in judicial custody. After all the necessary health check-up, the concerned person is allowed inside the jail premises. Wagh said that a few undertrials who were kept in the facility outside the jail had tested positive for the contagion. However, they were provided with immediate treatment. Currently there are 2,500 inmates lodged inside the Nashik Road prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/adgp-praises-nashik-jail-officials/articleshow/78082762.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Source of pollution still mystery, says PCB||HYDERABAD: A day after an almost 20km-stretch of the city was enveloped by a shroud of smog and foul smell, authorities said the source of the pollution was still a mystery. An investigation was on, even as some residents complained of foul smell again on Saturday. Stating that the spread of pollutants over such a large area was “unprecedented”, an official from the TSPCB said, “Generally, we get complaints of foul smell from industries nearby, but this time it was accompanied by smog which has not happened before. The extent of spread of the pollutants was also much larger.” They were not ruling out a combination of factors including garbage burning and release of industrial gasses. On Saturday, residents of areas from Bachupally up till Kukatpally continued to complain of a foul smell. Bhaskar Reddy, a resident of Kukatpally, said: “I closed all the doors to my apartment and my children have been indoors since yesterday as we were getting a chemical smell.” Srinivas K, an engineer and resident of Bachupally, said: “The officials have zeroed-in on a few industrial units, but are not officially declaring them as the errant ones. There needs to be more transparency on the part of the pollution watchdog.” TSPCB officials, for their part, denied having been able to trace the source. A team was on ground collecting air samples on Saturday, which would be brought back to the lab and tested. “We are ruling out industrial areas one at a time. On Friday, by the time complaints came, the pollutants had cleared in several areas, making it impossible to pin-point the errant units,” said an official, adding that unlike with other type of pollutants, smell cannot be detected by machines, making it harder to trace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/source-of-pollution-still-mystery-pcb/articleshow/78082767.cms||Uttara Varma
September 13, 2020||Pune||Burning candle sets house on fire, one injured||Pune: A burning candle set a house on fire at Raviwar Peth on Friday night, but its owner escaped with minor injuries on his hands. The incident occurred on the top floor of a three-storied building around 9.45pm. The property owner, Yunus Shaikh (40), was rushed to the Sassoon hospital in an autorickshaw by local residents. The other residents of the building left the premises. The central fire brigade control room received a telephone call that a house had caught fire in an old wada. It was raining heavily at the time of the incident. Fire brigade officer Prakash Gore said a fire tender rushed to the spot, but could not reach the building since it was located in an internal lane. Gore said, “We later removed two domestic gas cylinders from the house and opened tin-shed rooms for the passage of thick black fumes. We then sprayed water on the property and doused the fire within 30 minutes.” The fire officer said, “There was no electricity in the building since 4.30pm. The residents, including Shaikh, had lit candles and oil lamps. An inquiry revealed that the burning candle accidentally fell on the garments and Shaikh’s house was on fire within minutes.” The incident did not cause harm to the neighbouring properties, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burning-candle-sets-house-on-fire-one-injured/articleshow/78083795.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nashik||2 killed in hit-and-run on highways||Nashik: Two people were killed in separate hit-and-run incidents reported in Ghoti and near Wavi in on Friday. According to Wavi police, an unidentified woman was killed after being knocked down by an unidentified vehicle on the road between Sinnar and Sangamner near Nandur Shingote. The Wavi police said that the accident took place at around 1 am on Friday. The unidentified motorists fled the spot soon after the incident. An investigation is under way. In another incident, a 40-year-old autorickshaw driver was killed in a road accident on the Mumbai-Agra highway. The deceased has been identified as Ajay Kumar Naval Kishore Patel, a resident of Bhayandar, Thane district. The Ghoti police said that the accident took place near Mundegaon at around 5 pm. The autorickshaw driver was heading towards Mumbai side on the highway along with three passengers when his vehicle was hit by an unidentified car from behind. Patel suffered serious injuries in the accident and succumbed to the same while the passengers seated behind escaped with grievous injuries. Polie said that they are on the lookout for the car driver who fled the scene without informing anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-highways/articleshow/78082794.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural SP felicitates plasma donors||Aurangabad: To encourage policemen who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma, superintendent of Aurangabad rural police Mokshada Patil has started felicitating the donors and awarding them with appreciation certificates. “The policemen who have recovered from the contagion are already being felicitated. Now, the ones who are donating plasma are being felicitated along with their family members,” said Patil. So far, 110 policemen from Aurangabad rural police have tested positive for Covid-19. Of them, 71 have recovered and one has succumbed. Currently, there are 38 are active cases.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-rural-sp-felicitates-plasma-donors/articleshow/78081324.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Adulterated ghee worth Rs 7 lakh seized||Pune: The crime branch of the city police on Saturday raided two manufacturing units at Vadgaonsheri and Chandannagar, and recovered adulterated ghee worth Rs7 lakh.Senior inspector Rajendra Mohite, the in-charge of the anti-extortion cell, said, “We raided the two manufacturing units in the presence of the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) officials following a tip-off and recovered the adulterated ghee, weighing 750 litres.”He said, “Investigations have revealed that two brothers from Rajasthan were running the business of illegally manufacturing ghee at the units for two years.”Mohite said, “The siblings were supplying ghee to milk dairies, grocery stores and local customers. They were taken into custody after they failed to produce FDA licence, authorising them to manufacture and sell ghee.” He said, “We have transferred the duo’s custody to the FDA for taking action.” FDA inspector Archana Patil, who was present at the spot during the raid, was not available for comments because. Her cellphone was switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/adulterated-ghee-worth-rs-7-lakh-seized/articleshow/78083785.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bareilly||Statues of Buddha & Ambedkar found damaged in Kheri village||Bareilly: The situation in a village in Hyderabad area of Lakhimpur Kheri district became tense after locals on Saturday morning found statues of Lord Buddha and BR Ambedkar at a park damaged. Indrani Devi, the caretaker of the park, said the hooligans who damaged the statues also thrashed her when she tried to stop them. Locals informed police and administrative officials about the incident and demanded strict action against the accused. Police suspected the incident to be an antecedent to the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh and registered an FIR under relevant sections. Hyderabad police station SHO Suneet Kumar told TOI, “The caretaker was thrashed by two hooligans who caused minor damages to the statues. We have registered an FIR under sections 295 (damage or defilement of a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of a class of person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult) of the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The caretaker sustained minor injuries and was sent for a medical examination. The accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/statues-of-buddha-ambedkar-found-damaged-in-kheri-village/articleshow/78080656.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police seize 30kg silver, nab 4||Aurangabad: Jalna police intercepted a car at Nagewadi toll plaza and found that it was carrying 27 blocks of pure silver, weighing around 30kg, to Nanded. The cops then nabbed four people from Aurangabad, including the driver, for allegedly trying to smuggle the precious metal. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya said, “Preliminary probe indicates that the suspects have been in this illegal practice for quite sometime.” Taking cognizance of the preliminary findings, police have decided to bring the case to the notice of other agencies including income tax and GST. Jalna police have asked the police stations with key routes and highways in their jurisdictions to remain more vigilant. An officer with the Jalna police’s anti-terrorism cell said that Jalna has a long history of hawala-related transactions. -Mohammed Akhef||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-seize-30kg-silver-nab-4/articleshow/78081319.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Morni drive ends with woman’s death||Panchkula: A woman was killed and two men injured after their car rolled down a gorge in Morni on Saturday. The victim was identified as Neha, a resident of Tika village in Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. The injured are Mandeep Singh (29) and Kamal Garg (29). Both are under treatment at General Hospital, Sector 6. Police have booked Kamal on charges of causing death due to rash and negligent driving. Mandeep, a resident of Sector 63, Chandigarh, said Kamal called him around 12.30 am and asked him to get ready as he was coming to pick him up. Mandeep said Kamal came in his taxi bearing registration number PB-01-B-3613 around 1.15 am. A girl was sitting next to him in the car and he introduced her to him as Neha, Mandeep said. They drove to Sector 17 opposite bus stand, where they ate noodles and snacks. They drove around the city. Later, they decided to go to Morni. When they were just 2 km away from Mandna, near Morni, at 7.15 am, Kamal lost control over the car while negotiating a turn and hit a road side railing. The car then fell down 50 meters down the hill. Passersby pulled the three out of the car. Mandeep said the other two were unconscious. He told police that Kamal was driving very fast and rash. Police said that following the statement of Mandeep, police booked Kamal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/morni-drive-ends-with-womans-death/articleshow/78082795.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Yogi removes DMs of 8 districts, 7 of them put on waiting list||LUCKNOW: Reportedly upset over the working of the administration in their respective districts, Chief Minister Yogi Adiyanath on Friday night replaced eight district magistrates, putting seven of them on waiting list. The districts getting new DMs are Meerut, Etawah, Sitapur, Lalitpur, Sultanpur, Ghazipur, Mau and Sant Kabir Nagar. "The seven district magistrates who have been replaced, not counting Ravish Gupta who has been given posting, have been put on waiting. The Chief Minister has been getting reports about each district and was not happy with how things were functioning in these districts," a senior official said. K Balaji, managing director of Purvanchal Power Distribution Corporation, Varanasi, has been shifted as the new district magistrate of Sant Kabir Nagar. Managing director, Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation, Shruti Singh will take over as the new district magistrate of Meerut. Special secretary and staff officer (chief secretary) Vishal Bhardwaj has been given the charge of Etawah district while special secretary, Namami Gange, A Dinesh Kumar will be the new district magistrate of Sitapur. Vice-chairman, Meerut Development Authority, Rajesh Pandey has been shifted as Ghazipur district magistrate while Ravish Gupta, who was the district magistrate of Sant Kabir Nagar, has been given the charge of Lalitpur. Vice-chairperson of the Bareilly Development Authority Divya Mittal will take over as district magistrate of Mau while secretary, Lucknow Development Authority (LDA), Mangla Prasad Singh has been appointed the new DM of Sultanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-removes-dms-of-8-dists-7-of-them-put-on-waiting-list/articleshow/78083797.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Land for e-ways by Sept 20, CM told||Lucknow: The land for Purvanchal Expressway and Gorakhpur-Azamgarh Link Expressway in three districts of Azamgarh, Mau and Ballia is set to be acquired by September 20. This information was shared by UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi during a review of the Azamgarh division by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday. The CM asked Azamgarh commissioner Vijay Vishwas Pant to expedite the process of land acquisition and said the spread of Covid-19 should be controlled as it could hamper the construction work. During the meeting, the CM reviewed projects worth over Rs 10 crore and other developmental works in Azamgarh division comprising Azamgarh, Ballia and Mau districts. Officials informed the CM that there are 12 ongoing projects worth over Rs 50 crore in the division. In Azamgarh district, there are 11 projects worth between Rs 10 crore to Rs 50 crore. Yogi directed the additional chief secretary (PWD) to deploy efficient engineers for road construction work in Mau and said that agencies should be ranked on the basis of their capacity and quality of work and should be awarded work on the basis of their ranking. While pointing out that Ballia is an arsenic-affected zone, the CM asked officials to make a proposal for water supply to the area under the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/land-for-e-ways-by-sept-20-cm-told/articleshow/78083803.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||HMWS&SB to tap solar power in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Over 56 service reservoirs which supply potable water to the city and surrounding areas will run on solar power. The proposal received from the Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation (TSREDCO) to set up a rooftop solar power system on the reservoirs being maintained by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is now in the final stages. TSREDCO is the state government’s nodal agency in implementing solar power projects. Senior HMWS&SB officials say that the utilisation of solar power is a boon for the fund-starved Water Board. According to a TSREDCO report submitted to the Water Board, the nodal agency is planning to develop a 31.12 megawatt rooftop solar power project. “The company has invited tender bids for 31.12 MW of grid-connected rooftop solar PV projects, which will be done on BOOT basis,” sources in TSREDCO told STOI. The sources added that a couple of meetings have been convened with the water board, which has expressed its willingness to undertake the project. TV Sridhar, HMWS&SB’s officer on special duty said, “The water board is ready to implement the project for our reservoirs. A decision regarding this will be taken soon.” At present, the Water Board is generating Rs 70 crore of monthly power bills for the water supply network. Once the solar power project is implemented, this expense will be saved. The saving can be spent for other water and sewerage network maintenance, a senior water board official said. As on today, the water board has to pay nearly Rs 1,000 crore power dues to the TSSPDCL. “Despite facing a financial crunch, the board is partly paying the power bills,” a water board official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmwssb-to-tap-solar-power/articleshow/78082811.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: FTII acting audition goes online||PUNE: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) has moved the audition process of admission to its postgraduate diploma course online, with measures in place to avoid malpractices. The results of the joint entrance examination to the FTII and the Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute (SRFTI) were declared on August 31. The merit list of the acting course for the new academic year was declared earlier in the week. The acting auditions are meant to whittle down the merit list to the final selection. The auditions are expected to take place in the first week of October. The auditions, which generally take place on the FTII campus, involve faculty and experts from the world of film, television, and theatre. It is divided into various sections, including a one-take monologue, and interview. “For the monologue section, we send across the script to the candidate, which they have to record as a single shot and send it across to us,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, the FTII director. “Every candidate will be placed on a long-shot on their webcams while the audition is on. It will be fairly easy for our interview panellists to catch any prompted answers. This is a learning curve for us as well, but we hope to do well with the process, so that the admissions go forward,” Kainthola added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-acting-audition-goes-online/articleshow/78083801.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
September 13, 2020||Nashik||Man ends life in Nashik civil hospital’s loo||NASHIK: A 26-year-old man from Musalgaon, Sinnar, who had been admitted to the Nashik civil hospital for a stomach ailment, ended his life by hanging himself in the toilet of the hospital. The patient has been identified as Sachin Sonawane. Hemant Somavanshi, the senior PI of the Sarkarwada police station, confirmed the incident. Sonawane was admitted to the hospital on Friday for a stomach-related problem. He was addicted to alcohol. On Saturday, he went to the toilet in the men’s ward at 7 am and ended his life using a long cloth called “uparna” in Marathi, said the Sarkarwada police. His body was found by another patient. Police have not yet ascertained why he took the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-ends-life-in-nashik-civil-hospitals-loo/articleshow/78082803.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||'Khaunte was part of cabinet, why was he silent'?||PANAJI: BJP on Saturday condemned Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte’s allegations of corruption against CM Pramod Sawant on the Mopa International Airport. The party said that Khaunte was part of the cabinet when the decision was taken, and was silent then. Spokesperson Dattaprasad Naik said that the director of civil aviation is the member secretary, Mopa airport development authority (MADA), as per the MADA Act, which was approved at the cabinet meeting on July 27, 2018. “Khaunte was part of this cabinet meeting decision,” Naik said. “If he had any issues or suggestions with regards to the appointment of the director of civil aviation as member secretary, he could have raised them then. Why was he a silent spectator?” Reacting to Khaunte’s allegations that rules under the MADA Act haven’t been framed, Naik said that this was done and approved in a cabinet meeting on December 20, 2018, and notified in the gazette on January 3, 2019. “Khaunte was a part of this cabinet meeting too, and did not raise any objection or suggestion,” Naik said. The spokesperson also said Khaunte was misguiding Goans by levying false charges of corruption on the CM pertaining to construction licenses. Stating that the airport is coming up on government land on PPP basis, he said, “GMR has already spent approximately Rs 450 crore for earth work, construction of an ATC tower, terminal building, etc.” “I can assure you that no close aide of Sawant has got any of these contracts or sub-contracts,” Naik said, further questioning how certain persons are beneficiaries of contracts directly or indirectly, and which Bardez politician has links with them. Naik said that GMR has given a bank guarantee of Rs 62 crore, and therefore this cannot be compared to any other construction activity, which comes under the ambit of TCP, PDA or panchayats. There are disputes raised by GMR on the rate of construction license fees, which is pending before MADA, he said. Naik further told reporters that an undertaking has been given by GMR to MADA to abide by the ruling with regards to the payment of construction license fees. The construction license has been granted to avoid any further delay to this “most prestigious and important project” in Goa. “We have come to know that certain works and favours in Porvorim were demanded of GMR by an elected politician,” Naik said. “Therefore, these issues can be related as pressure tactics for extortion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khaunte-was-part-of-cabinet-why-was-he-silent-bjp-slams-porvorim-mla-on-mopa/articleshow/78083802.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Six fuel stations to come up in Marathwada at MSRTC sites||AURANGABAD: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to set up 30 fuel outlets across the state with the help of a private oil company with six of them slated to come up in Marathwada, including one on the outskirts of Aurangabad city. Shekta near Aurangabad on the Dhule-Solapur national highway, Jalna and Georai, Ambajogai, Dharu and Kaij (all Beed district) are among MSRTC-owned sites in the region where the outlets are slated to come up. As per an MoU signed between the state transportation and the private oil company, these outlets are scheduled to sell petrol and diesel. They will also establish Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) or Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) fuelling facilities at these identified sites as per feasibility and availability. As per the MoU, the MSRTC will operate these outlets for 20 years. MSRTC Aurangabad divisional controller Arun Siya on Saturday said that the state transportation owns nearly five-acre land at Shekta. “The existing facility has a bus-stand and a large unused open space. The site falls on busy Dhule-Solapur national highway and is expected to witness good sale of fuel once the outlet opens up,” he said. Siya said that the private oil company concerned is expected to visit the site sometime next week for surveying the land and completing other formalities. Shrirang Barge, general secretary of the Maharashtra ST Employees’ Union, said that the MSRTC must come out of deepening losses during the current pandemic as it is lifeline to lakhs of commuters from Maharashtra.  “The state transportation was already in financial crisis and the outbreak of Covid-19 has been causing unprecedented loss of revenue to the company. It is good that the state government has been witnessing alternate source of revenues to give some economic boost. We hope that the initiative of setting up fuel outlets materialises soon and made to work in a profitable manner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-fuel-stations-to-come-up-in-marathwada-at-msrtc-sites/articleshow/78082814.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 13, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Class X student of private school booked for sending‘obscene messages’ to teacher during online class||BAREILLY: A Class X student of a private school in Uttar Pradesh was booked on Saturday for allegedly sending "obscene messages" to his teacher during an online class. The student's father was booked, too, for "threatening the teacher" over the phone. In her police complaint, the 30-year-old Social Sciences teacher of the CBSE-affiliated school in Moradabad alleged that two inappropriate messages were sent while taking an online session through Google Meet. And the messages were also read by several other students, she said. The online session was necessitated due to the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak. "I approached the student’s family. However, his father, instead of scolding his child, refused to listen. He even misbehaved and threatened me,” she said in her complaint. The police later lodged an FIR against the father-son duo. Circle officer Kuldeep Singh said that a case has been registered against the two. A report has been sent to the cyber cell and a detailed probe has been ordered. Civil Lines SHO Nawal Marwah told TOI, “An FIR has been registered against the student under IPC sections 504 [intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace] and 67A [punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc] while his father has been booked under section 506 [punishment for criminal intimidation] of the IPC.” Other details on the student’s family are still being collected, Marwah added. Sources said that the school is aware of the "internal matter", and yet to take any action against the student. When TOI tried to contact the school authorities, they were unavailable for any official comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/class-x-student-of-pvt-school-booked-for-sendingobscene-messages-to-teacher-during-online-class/articleshow/78080672.cms||Maria Khan
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Desecration of idol triggers crowd fury in Malihabad, cops rush to calm tempers||An idol installed in a temple was found lying damaged at a nearby trisection in Rahimabad area of Malihabad on Saturday morning, further escalating the tension sparked by the death of a Dalit youth under suspicious circumstances on Friday night. Babu Lal, the priest of the temple at Rahimabad, found an idol missing from the temple and later found it lying broken at a trisection nearby. He informed the villagers about the incident following which a large crowd of people assembled at the spot and demanded action against the miscreants. Circle Officer, Malihabad, Syed Naimul Hasan said police force was dispatched to the spot immediately. “We have registered a case for defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class against Wasir and 12 other persons. Probe is still on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/desecration-of-idol-triggers-crowd-fury-in-malihabad-cops-rush-to-calm-tempers/articleshow/78083807.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Beware of conmen seeking KYC details||PANAJI: Goa police has issued an advisory cautioning citizens against the latest cyber fraud that involves updating mobile Know-Your-Customer (KYC) details. The modus operandi of the online fraudster, police said, is that they impersonate as mobile company representative. The conman calls or sends a message informing the mobile subscriber that his/her services will be blocked if KYC is not updated urgently with Aadhar card. The customer is directed to update KYC details, and for online updation, the fraudster instructs the user to download a remote access application from Playstore. The application is used to control the mobile phone from a different location without having actual possession of the device. Once installed, the fraudster gets access to the customer’s phone. The user is told to pay a nominal fee of Rs 1 or Rs 2 towards KYC updation charges through online transaction. During the process of online payment, credentials such as card details, OTP, etc, are collected by the fraudster through the remote access application or social engineering. The credentials are then used for online transactions, where money is syphoned out from victim’s bank account. Social media accounts can also be compromised through such remote access applications. “The general public are advised never to respond to such calls and SMS. Never share any details with the caller, and don’t download any remote access application on the instruction of such callers. If faced with any issue related to your SIM card, visit the customer care centre or mini store, or call the genuine customer care after cross checking that it is the genuine customer care contact of the service provider,” police said. The public are also cautioned against searching for customer care numbers on popular search engines as fraudsters have flooded their numbers citing them as actual contact numbers of mobile service providers. “If you call on the fake number seeking help, the fraudster instead can siphon off money. Report such calls and messages to the nearest police station or cyber crime police station, Ribandar, or at www.cybercrime.gov.in,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/beware-of-conmen-seeking-kyc-details/articleshow/78083825.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Irked with salary delays, ZP teachers demand online reforms||Aurangabad: The repeated delays in the release of monthly salaries of the zilla parishad (ZP) teachers in Aurangabad district have prompted them to seek the introduction of online reforms to streamline these processes. Rajesh Hiwale, the spokesperson of the Association of Primary ZP Teachers of Aurangabad, said the education department must introduce online measures such as cash management product (CMP) for the the salary release process. “The existing offline process is riddled with many procedural delays, which, in turn, delay the release of monthly salaries of the teachers. The salary bills move from one government department to another manually for necessary approvals. This is all very time consuming. These issues can be resolved if the CMP is introduced,” he said. A ZP teacher, preferring anonymity, said they are also government servants and must get the salaries on time. “The salary for July was paid by August 25, while we are still awaiting salary payments for August. Such arbitrary release of salaries has been the norm in the education field,” he said. Hiwale said the Jalna ZP has opted for online reforms for teachers, which has ensured timely release of monthly salaries. In the past, TPI had carried multiple reports highlighting how the monthly salaries of ZP teachers in Aurangabad district are credited in an arbitrary manner, posing difficulties in finance management, including payments of EMIs towards home or vehicle loans. ZP education officer (primary) for Aurangabad S P Jayaswal could not be reached for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/irked-with-salary-delays-zp-teachers-demand-online-reforms/articleshow/78082820.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Malihabad mobsters’ arms licences to be cancelled, admin to press NSA||LUCKNOW: A day after an unruly mob clashed with policemen and fired gunshots following the alleged murder of a Dalit man in Dilawar Nagar village of Malihabad on Saturday, Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash ordered cancellation of gun licences of the miscreants and said the National Security Act (NSA) would be slapped against the accused after identification. According to police, a man, Ram Vilas Rawat (30), was allegedly killed by group of men after which villagers attempted to block the Hardoi road by putting the body on the road. Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the mob which led to a clash. "The arms licences of villagers involved in the clash with police will be revoked after identification of the accused people. A deputy superintendent of police rank officer is probing the alleged murder as well as the violence," DM Abhishek Prakash told TOI. Cops at the site of clash in Dilawar Nagar in MahilabadMeanwhile, the DM met the family of the deceased man. "I met the family members and assured them speedy probe and trial in the case. The stringent National Security Act (NSA) will be imposed against the accused men. A compensation of Rs 5 lakh has been deposited into the victim’s family account. A house under the PM Awas Gramin Yojana will also be provided to the family. The victim’s wife will be provided widow pension and his father will be given old age pension," he added. According to villagers, Rawat was watering a field using a hosepipe which he had laid on the road. During this, Gulam Ali, Mustquim, Shanu, Guddu and Muquir— all of the same village — passed by on their bikes over the pipe. When Rawat objected to this, Ali and his aides got so furious that they thrashed Rawat and injured him severely. When Rawat’s family members got to know, they rushed him to a CHC where he was declared dead. Later, a case of causing death due to negligence in road accident was registered but the deceased’s family demanded a case of murder. A press statement issued by SP rural Aditya Langeh also stated Rawat was run over by some men on a bike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/malihabad-mobsters-arms-licences-to-be-cancelled-admin-to-press-nsa/articleshow/78083818.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||Reputation in India matters little as does privacy, says Harish Salve||NEW DELHI: Renowned lawyers Kapil Sibal and Harish Salve on Saturday said media trial not only marred reputation and hindered investigations, but also impeded foreign investments in India in some cases. Speaking at the first Ram Jethmalani Memorial Lecture on 'Pros and Cons of Media Trial', Salve said media activism is welcome where systemic apathy and police indifference fail the poor when pitted against the rich, influential and politicians. "It does a great job when it takes up the cause of the poor failed by the system and police," he said. "But it becomes a problem when the rule of noise displaces the rule of law. Media seldom believes in law of evidence and often runs a campaign to embarrass through selective leaks from investigating agencies. Reputation in India matters little as does privacy. This lacuna has to be contained if India is to become a responsible republic," he said. The former solicitor general and now a Queen's counsel said "media trial, as prevalent today, is not only non-conducive to Rule of Law but also is a great impediment to investments in India". He suggested setting up of a tribunal headed by a retired judge to expeditiously decide defamation cases, with an outer limit of six months, to rein in the errant media. He said only the courts can rein in the media by drawing the ‘Laxman Rekha’ and hold it accountable. Sibal said sensationalism with scant regard for facts has become the order of the day for media coverage. "Look at the telecom sector. The media resorted to sensationalism in coverage by which it marred the reputation of many who were later found not guilty by the trial court. But the biggest fallout of this was that the robust sector which was giving good revenue to the government was reduced to a debt-ridden one," he said. Sibal said parallel media trial affects ongoing investigations and, spurred by social media, also affects the sanctity of the trial. He said to bring sanctity to media coverage, big business houses must exit from the media business. Senior advocate A M Singhvi said aberrations in media coverage are getting bigger and starker as often they resort to “verbal terrorism, visual extremism and content tyranny”. At the lecture organised by Mahesh Jethmalani, late doyen of criminal law Ram Jethmalani got fulsome praise from Justice N V Ramana, Attorney General K K Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and eminent lawyers Fali S Nariman, Soli J Sorabjee and many others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reputation-in-india-matters-little-as-does-privacy-says-harish-salve/articleshow/78084485.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 13, 2020||Rajkot||Manpower needed in civil hospitals||RAJKOT: The rising number of cases in Rajkot have forced the district administration to ask for the manpower in civil hospitals. Additional district collector P B Pandya said: “There are 80 medical attendants deputed from Surat, apart from 70 doctors.” The district hospitals are also facing the shortage of ventilators. According to the collector office, the civil hospital provided 27 ventilators to private hospitals. The civil hospital has the stock of 88 ventilators. “We have asked the government to provide more ventilators and oxygen, and we will get as per our need,” Pandya added. There were a total of 2,009 active cases registered on Saturday in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/manpower-needed-in-civil-hospitals/articleshow/78082166.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Varsities set to start final exams this month||VISAKHAPATNAM: Universities in the state, which had to put their final examinations on hold in the wake of Covid-19, have now started finalising schedules for these exams for both on-campus and affiliated colleges. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has made final exams mandatory. To this effect, Andhra University (AU) will be conducting postgraduate science stream exams from September 28 while exams for arts programmes will be held in two phases — in September and October. Elsewhere, Adikavi Nannaya University will be starting with their final exams on September 14. Several engineering colleges in the region have announced dates, and in some cases, commenced final exams on the instruction of their affiliated university. Ignou Visakhapatnam Regional Centre officials said that end-semester exams will be conducted from September 17 across six examination centres. AU vice-chancellor Professor PVGD Prasad Reddy said that exams will be conducted in a staggered manner to ensure adherence to Covid-19 precautions. “However, there will be no change in exam duration or modality,” the vice-chancellor said. Nannaya University vice-chancellor Prof M Jagannadha Rao said that the varsity has set up 139 examination centres, including 113 for the degree exams and 26 for the PG exams. “Around 23,000 degree final semester students and 4,200 PG fourth semester students will appear for the exams. The varsity has decided to allot only one student per bench in a zigzag pattern and 12 students in an exam room,” said Prof Jagannadha Rao. Meanwhile, Vignan’s Institute of Information Technology Rector Dr V Madhusudhana Rao said the institute had successfully conducted Day-1 of exam proceedings for nearly 1,200 BTech students on Saturday. “One special isolation exam hall has been arranged for sick students. From entry point to exam hall, the whole space is demarcated with circles to maintain proper physical distancing among students,” said Dr Rao. Ignou regional director Dr S Raja Rao said that during the entire examination period, centres will strictly implement physical distancing and other precautions as suggested by the Union government to ensure student safety. If a student is unable to appear for these exams, special exams will be conducted for them by the universities as and when feasible. The UGC has given the freedom to varsities when it comes to the conduct of intermediate semester or year exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/varsities-set-to-start-final-exams-this-mth/articleshow/78082191.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||APRTC may soon resume city services across Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Even as interstate bus services from Andhra Pradesh remain suspended, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is looking to start city services soon. A proposal has been sent to the state government regarding the operation of city services and the APSRTC is awaiting the decision of the government. The APSRTC plans to resume services by September 20, when the eligibility test for village and ward secretariat posts is slated to be held, and for which more than 10 lakh aspirants are expected to appear. At present, the APSRTC is running city services only in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. There is no clarity on the resumption of bus services to Telangana with talks between officials of the transport corporations of both states failing to yield results as yet. The issue of operating a certain number of services by each state has been a contentious issue since bifurcation that over the years has been resolved through consultations at various levels. The easing of restrictions on interstate movement by the Union government, however, has brought to the fore the dispute on the number of services to be operated between the two states. An agreement between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states that an equal number of services are to be operated by both states. However, 90% of bus services to Telangana from various districts of Andhra Pradesh ply to Hyderabad. This has become a bone of contention at a time when transport corporations of both states are struggling with operational issues due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aprtc-may-soon-resume-city-services-across-state/articleshow/78082207.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC seeks free tele consultation from city private doctors||NAGPUR: Soon, free-of-cost telephonic consultations for home-isolated Covid-19 patients will begin in the city. However, the local chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) stated that they can’t compel any doctor to offer services for free. On Saturday, top administrative officials of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) held a meeting with the representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA). According to NMC health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja, a doctor will cater to a maximum of ten patients. “They will have to register with us and we will allot them a doctor. S/he will advice the patient on blood tests, CT scan, medicines and need for hospitilzation etc,” he said. According to Kukreja, another round of talks would be held with IMA and VHA representatives on Monday and then this scheme would be made public. On shortage of beds, Kukreja said, “Additional municipal commissioner Jajaj Sharma is trying his best to increase the beds every day.” IMA Nagpur president Dr Archana Kothari said that if doctors were willing to provide free teleconsultancy to patients the NMC could go ahead with the scheme. “They can't compel any doctor to offer services for free,” she added. Convener of VHA Dr Anup Marar stated that the meeting delved into the need to commence teleconsultation services for patients on home isolation. “IMA has offered the expertise of willing volunteer doctors. It was conveyed that NMC will allocate patients to each doctor for desired tele-consultation and no litigation issues will befall on these doctors. Moreover, the proposal of IMA to have public education sessions on Zoom platform, FB Live, youtube, private channel on daily basis was also accepted by NMC,” he said. During these daily sessions, all FAQs will be informed to the patients on a daily basis. “Any subsequent query can be cleared by patients with respective private doctors who will coordinate under respective zonal medical officers. Moreover, a list of laboratories and CT scan centres where tests of Covid patients can be done will also be displayed through these social media platforms. “Guidelines on home isolation, diet regimen, biomedical waste norms, drug prescription, blood tests, CT chest etc will be conveyed by these volunteering tele-consultants as per common protocol designed by Nagpur division corona task force,” added Marar. On 17 out of 31 hospitals refusing to turn themselves into dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH), Kukreja said, “Each of them has given excuses. We are going through them and talking to them. When action is taken on them it will be made public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-seeks-free-tele-consultation-from-ima-vha/articleshow/78083602.cms||Ashish Roy
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt releases funds for medical colleges||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Saturday released funds for establishing six medical colleges in the state. The government had earlier this year planned to establish a medical college in each Lok Sabha constituency and started the process of land acquisition across 25 parliamentary constituencies. On Saturday, the government issued orders sanctioning Rs 500 crore each for medical colleges in Paderu in Visakhapatnam, Pulivendula in Kadapa, Piduguralla in Guntur and Machilipatnam in Krishna districts. The government also issued orders releasing Rs 104.17 crore for land acquisition for medical colleges at Amalapuram, Eluru, Piduguralla, Madanapalli, Adoni and Pulivendula. The government had earlier allocated public land in these places and decided to acquire additional land for which funds were released. The medical colleges in Paderu, Pulivendula and Piduguralla, which have been sanctioned Rs 500 crore each, will each have 100 seats. The medical college at Machilipatnam will have 150 seats and has been sanctioned Rs 550 crore. The state government has also issued essentiality certificates to obtain permission from the central government for the colleges and the seats allocated to each. The central government has already granted approval for setting up the colleges under a centrally-sponsored scheme with a 60:40 sharing basis between the Centre and the state. The state has meanwhile instructed the director of medical education to take up the issue of getting all clearances from the central government. The director was also asked to oversee the land acquisition process and ensure work on construction of the colleges starts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-releases-funds-for-medical-colleges/articleshow/78082235.cms||Gopi Dara
September 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Design works for new chariot at East Godavari shrine underway||RAJAHMUNDRY: The design for a new chariot for the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district is currently in the works. The design for new chariot is being prepared by the engineering wing of endowments department. The executive engineer of the endowments department has already sent design proposals to the state government. The new chariot is likely to be ready by January 2021 and will be used during Kalyanotsavam at the temple. It may be recalled that the chariot of the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple was gutted last Saturday (September 5). Speaking to STOI, additional commissioner of endowments K Ramachandra Mohan, who is also the special officer for the new chariot, said that the new chariot will be similar to the old one in all aspects. Mohan explained that the length of the chariot at the base will be 20 feet, width 16 feet and height 40 feet. The chariot will have six wheels, he said, while adding that the estimated cost for the new chariot will be around Rs 90 lakh. He further said that the new chariot will be made using teak wood and should be ready before Sankranti festival. He added that eight more CCTV cameras have been put up in the temple premises along with the existing 22 put up inside the temple. Mohan informed that the chariot which was gutted was insured for an amount of Rs 84 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/design-works-for-new-chariot-at-eg-shrine-underway/articleshow/78082305.cms||Samson Raj
September 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000 cases, tally at 5.57 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,901 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 5,57,587. The toll increased to 4,846 as 67 more patients succumbed to the virus. As many as 10,292 patients were declared cured in the last 24 hours. There are currently 95,733 active cases, with 4,57,008 cumulative recoveries and 4,846 deaths, translating to a recovery rate of 82%. East Godavari reported 1,398 fresh cases, followed by Prakasam (1,146), West Godavari (1,069) and Chittoor (932). Of the 67 deaths, nine are from Kadapa, eight each from Chittoor and Prakasam, seven from Nellore, six from Guntur, five each from Krishna, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, four from West Godavari, three each from Anantapur and East Godavari, and two each from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Anantapur crossed the 400-mark in Covid-19 deaths while Kadapa’s toll breached the 300-mark. Chittoor accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 casualties in the state with 520 deaths, followed by Guntur (459) and East Godavari (449). About 45.27 lakh samples have been tested in the state so far, including the 75,465 people tested on Saturday. The case positivity rate stands at 12.32%, while the mortality rate has decreased to 0.86%. The recovery rate has improved to over 90% in Anantapur and Kurnool districts, while it’s above 80% in Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Krishna, Nellore, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari. Prakasam has the lowest recovery rate of 59%, while Vizianagaram stands second from the last with a recovery rate of 65%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-caseload-crosses-5-5l-toll-nears-5k-mark/articleshow/78082232.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi-Dharwad top cop says dept faring well in solving murder cases||Hubballi: The Hubballi-Dharwad police commissionerate will strictly monitor the new beat system to curb crime of all shades in the twin cities. Hubballi-Dharwad police is at the receiving end over growing incidents of murder and attempt-to-murder cases. Recent cases of murders, especially the double murder in Keshwapur station limits, have jolted the faith that people have in the police department. However, police beg to differ on the development. According to them, 16 murder cases were reported in the last 11 months, “but the accused were nabbed within 24 hours of the crime”. According to the data sourced from the commissionerate, 16 murder cases were reported between September 1, 2019, and August 31, 2020. Of them, 14 cases were solved and 42 accused were arrested in a record time — the average time taken to arrest the accused was less than 24 hours. It was 15.75 days to nab the accused invovled in murders reported between September 2018 and August 31, 2019. In that period, 12 murder cases were reported, and 34 accused were arrested. They had taken only 4.11 days to arrest the culprits in 26 murder cases reported between September 1, 2017, and August 31, 2018. By the end of August this year, police solved three cases registered in the previous years. Police commissioner R Dileep said the police are trying their best to check the crime rate, and that murders are happening despite the best measures. “Police have solved the cases in record time. In many cases, the accused were arrested within hours after the incident, be it the murder at Deshpande Nagar near Sri Krishna Kalyan Mantap or the double murder. In ‘Fruit’ Irfan murder case, police did an exemplary work — the accused were arrested from the hotspot zones of Covid cases in Mumbai,” said Dileep. The commissioner said though the crime-detection rate is high and the time duration of cracking the cases is good, some vested interest are trying to show the department in bad light. “Those who are not able to get their illegal work done are trying to project that the law and order situation is bad,” he said, without naming who the vested interests are. Dileep said the police unit will work more vigour in the coming days. “The beat system will be strengthened, and I myself will pay surprise visits to the nook and corner of the twin cities to ensure the effectiveness of the beat and the efficiency of police personnel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hubballi-dharwad-top-cop-says-dept-faring-well-in-solving-murder-cases/articleshow/78082525.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 13, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 10,000 cases, tally at 5.57 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,901 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 5,57,587. The toll increased to 4,846 as 67 more patients succumbed to the virus. As many as 10,292 patients were declared cured in the last 24 hours. There are currently 95,733 active cases, with 4,57,008 cumulative recoveries and 4,846 deaths, translating to a recovery rate of 82%. East Godavari reported 1,398 fresh cases, followed by Prakasam (1,146), West Godavari (1,069) and Chittoor (932). Of the 67 deaths, nine are from Kadapa, eight each from Chittoor and Prakasam, seven from Nellore, six from Guntur, five each from Krishna, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, four from West Godavari, three each from Anantapur and East Godavari, and two each from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Anantapur crossed the 400-mark in Covid-19 deaths while Kadapa’s toll breached the 300-mark. Chittoor accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 casualties in the state with 520 deaths, followed by Guntur (459) and East Godavari (449). About 45.27 lakh samples have been tested in the state so far, including the 75,465 people tested on Saturday. The case positivity rate stands at 12.32%, while the mortality rate has decreased to 0.86%. The recovery rate has improved to over 90% in Anantapur and Kurnool districts, while it’s above 80% in Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa, Krishna, Nellore, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari. Prakasam has the lowest recovery rate of 59%, while Vizianagaram stands second from the last with a recovery rate of 65%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-caseload-crosses-5-5l-toll-nears-5k-mark/articleshow/78088314.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Bullion trader arrested for supplying drugs at parties||BENGALURU: Sleuths from Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Saturday arrested Vaibhav Jain, a bullion trader and resident of Jayanagar, on charges of supplying drugs in parties attended by Sandalwood stars and socialites. This takes the number of arrests in the alleged peddling case to 10. Jain, in his 30s, had been named by RTO official Ravishankar (arested in another case) as a regular at parties hosted in clubs and resorts and as the main supplier of drugs, especially ecstasy pills. Jain, who is also a party promoter, is allegedly linked to Viren Khanna and Rahul Tonse, who are also in custody. He’s accused number five in the FIR registered by CCB under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, at Cottonpet police station. “Jain played a vital role in supplying drugs at parties and other places like houses of the other accused. We have evidence in the form of pictures, mobile texts and videos to establish his connection with the case,” an investigating officer said. Producer’s bail plea hearing tomorrowA local court will hear film producer Shivaprakash’s plea for anticipatory bail on Monday, sources said. “We are ready with the objections and are confident of getting the bail cancelled. He is yet to be arrested,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bullion-trader-held-for-supplying-drugs-at-parties/articleshow/78082419.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||High court seeks details of CID case against doctor||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court has directed the legal services authority to submit details of the case registered by the crime investigation department (CID) against a doctor and Congress functionary for his alleged remarks against the government in a TV show. The CID registered a case against Dr G Gangadhar after a complaint was lodged by Dr C Vara Sundaram, joint director, public health & family welfare. It was alleged by Sundaram that a vernacular news channel had broadcast false news regarding the safety of doctors and frontline warriors. He said the channel accused the government of failing to provide PPE kits and N-95 masks to doctors without verifying the facts. The complaint was sent to the DGP’s office, from where it was transferred to the CID. While the channel aired the ‘news’ on April 16, the complaint was lodged on April 22. The CID registered a case against the news channel and Dr Gangadhar, who expressed his views on the channel the same day. The CID sent notices to the doctor on August 30 after about four months, asking him to appear before the investigation officer for questioning. AP Congress Committee president, Sake Sailajanath, then wrote a letter to the chief justice of the high court, requesting him to take cognizance of the issue as to how the state government is curtailing the rights of citizens by slapping cases. Responding to the letter, the HC directed the legal services authority to collect all details and documents pertaining to the case and submit it to the court. Representatives of legal services authority on Saturday collected relevant documents from Dr Gangadhar, based on which he made the observations about lack of safety equipment for doctors in the state. The doctor said his views were based on facts and after verifying the daily situation reports filed by officials about stock positions at various government hospitals. Sailajanath said the government is trying to curtail the voice of those speaking up for people to cover up its failures in handling the Covid-19 situation in the state. He said there have been numerous incidents where doctors and frontline workers expressed anguish over not being provided with necessary safety equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-seeks-details-of-cid-case-against-doctor/articleshow/78082243.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag boy scores perfect 100||Visakhapatnam: City-based YSS Narasimha Naidu scored a 100 percentile in Paper 1 of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main.. Narasimha had secured a 99.87 percentile in the JEE Main January cycle. Out of a total of 300, Narasimha secured 286 –100 each in maths and physics, and 86 in chemistry. While he ranked fifth in the All India open category, he stood first in the country in the EWS category. Speaking to STOI, Narasimha said he is currently preparing virtually for the JEE Advanced examination. “I want to make it to IIT-Bombay to pursue BTech computer science. I want to thank the management and faculty of my college Ascent Classes for their encouragement and help in achieving the 100 percentile,” said Narasimha. Yeluri Swamy Naidu and Parvathi Anantha Lakshmi, proud parents of Narasimha, explained the preparations their son took for the JEE Main and the upcoming JEE Advanced. A maths teacher, Anantha Lakshmi oversaw a section of Narasimha’s preparation for the exam. Swamy Naidu is a system admin at a private engineering college in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-boy-scores-perfect-100/articleshow/78082284.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 13, 2020||Nashik||Irked with salary delays, ZP teachers demand online reforms||Aurangabad: The repeated delays in the release of monthly salaries of the zilla parishad (ZP) teachers in Aurangabad district have prompted them to seek the introduction of online reforms to streamline these processes. Rajesh Hiwale, the spokesperson of the Association of Primary ZP Teachers of Aurangabad, said the education department must introduce online measures such as cash management product (CMP) for the the salary release process. “The existing offline process is riddled with many procedural delays, which, in turn, delay the release of monthly salaries of the teachers. The salary bills move from one government department to another manually for necessary approvals. This is all very time consuming. These issues can be resolved if the CMP is introduced,” he said. A ZP teacher, preferring anonymity, said they are also government servants and must get the salaries on time. “The salary for July was paid by August 25, while we are still awaiting salary payments for August. Such arbitrary release of salaries has been the norm in the education field,” he said. Hiwale said the Jalna ZP has opted for online reforms for teachers, which has ensured timely release of monthly salaries. In the past, TPI had carried multiple reports highlighting how the monthly salaries of ZP teachers in Aurangabad district are credited in an arbitrary manner, posing difficulties in finance management, including payments of EMIs towards home or vehicle loans. ZP education officer (primary) for Aurangabad S P Jayaswal could not be reached for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/irked-with-salary-delays-zp-teachers-demand-online-reforms/articleshow/78082769.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Stinking dumping yard in Atladara now flat land||Vadodara: It was a dumping yard that raised a stink and even eyebrows among both environmentalists and residents of the area. Today, the area looks like a flat land with no garbage on it. Frustrated with the stench from the Atladara dumping site that had 3.75lakh metric ton (MT) waste on it, the residents of the area had moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT). It was following the directives of the tribunal that the project to clear the site was taken up. Apart from the stench, a major concern was that that the leachate from the waste was polluting land and ground water. The Vishwamitri River too passed near the site. The site was very old and was not under use any more. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) awarded a contract in 2018 to clear the site by recycling the waste on it. The initial contract was for 3lakh MT as the preliminary estimate of the garbage at the site. The work on clearing the site began on July 17, 2018 and the task of handling 3 lakh MT was completed on December 30, 2019. It transpired that the actual amount of waste was higher and another contract to clear the remaining waste was awarded to Zigma Global Environ Solutions, the same company that had recycled the waste earlier. VMC additional city engineer S K Naik said that the site was finally cleared last month. It was one of the major reasons that led to Vadodara ranking among the top 10 cities in the Swachh Survekshan.  Tyres that could be recycled||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/stinking-dumping-yard-in-atladara-now-flat-land/articleshow/78081800.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mysuru||Covid update: 637 test +ve, 565 discharged in Mysuru||Mysuru: Mysuru registered 637 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this the total cases touched 25,086. On Saturday 565 patients were discharged. With this the total patients cured from Covid-19 in the district rose to 17,490. Among the 637 new cases, 332 came in contact with infected people, 26 have SARI, 180 have ILI, and 99 had travelled. On Saturday 14 people died due to Covid. With this the total number of fatalities due to the disease in the district touched 576. In Chamarajanagar district 59 people tested positive on Saturday. Two people died due to the disease while 58 people were discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-update-637-test-ve-565-discharged-in-mysuru/articleshow/78082077.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Addicted to PUBG, BTech student ends life in Andhra Pradesh's Anantapur||TIRUPATI: An engineering student, who was reportedly addicted to online game PUBG but couldn’t play the game owing to the government’s ban on Chinese apps, committed suicide at his home even as his parents searched in vain for their missing son for almost five days. Police said Kurkuri Kiran Kumar Reddy went missing from his home at revenue colony in Anantapur about five days ago. His parents initially thought he might have gone to his friend’s place without informing them, which was his usual habit. But after he didn’t return for two days, they panicked and started searching for him everywhere, except their own house. Late on Friday evening, the boy’s uncle found Kiran’s body in a small store room built on the first floor of the building. Kiran, who was in BTech final year in Chennai, was addicted to PUBG. He used to play with bitcoin and had invested nearly Rs 3.5 lakh, which he had borrowed from his mother. The unsuspecting mother lent the huge sum to her son, who was still pursuing his education, without thinking of the consequences. Later, he even pawned his laptop, phone and other personal properties as he started losing money in the game. After his college closed down due to Covid-19 lockdown, Kiran went to his grandparents’ place at Amadaguru in Anantapur district. His grandparents, who grew restless after watching their grandson addicted to PUBG, asked his parents to take Kiran home. After returning home, he started getting restless and disturbed, particularly after PUBG was banned. Police have registered a case and are investigating what made him take the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/engg-student-addicted-to-pubg-ends-life-post-ban/articleshow/78082221.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 13, 2020||Bengaluru||From login to face recognition, many tech glitches mar NLAT||BENGALURU: Many students who appeared for the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT 2020) on Saturday faced several technical glitches. Some candidates and law firms claimed the test was not well proctored with several instances of cheating coming to light. The test, conducted by National Law School of India University for the first time, was held in three sessions. Students said they had trouble with login, credential verification and face recognition. The online proctored exam could be taken from home or 35 centres listed by NLSIU. This year, the university decided to conduct its own entrance exam instead of Common Law Admission Test. A candidate who was supposed to appear at 4pm couldn’t begin the exam because of technical issues. He told STOI that even though it began late, the paper was submitted automatically before 5pm. “I didn’t receive any email or help from the university,” he said. A parent said his daughter spent the whole time trying to log in. “Her mock test had gone well so we were not expecting this. I have tried reaching out to NLSIU through helplines, email and Twitter, but have got no response. This is unacceptable,” he said. Many others took to Twitter to share that the test ruined their hopes of getting into the premier law school. “...Nobody even responded to my emails and calls. I tried to log in several times but in vain. Please help me! Please do something,” a student tweeted to PM Modi. Candidates allege cheatingSome candidates alleged that cheating was widespread, backing their claims with screenshots of students discussing the question paper during the exam. “Foolproof low-tech NLAT cheating confirmed: We just watched someone’s entire NLS admissions test run live via a Zoom screen share (sic),” a Twitter user wrote. For some candidates, however, it was smooth sailing. Yashvi, who took the exam in Ahmedabad, said: “Thankfully, I did not face any technical issues. I would say the difficulty level was 7/10, mostly because the maths section was lengthy and time-consuming. While I wasn’t fully satisfied, I think the paper wasn’t bad. Not being able to go back and forth made answering questions difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-login-to-verification-many-tech-glitches-mar-nlat/articleshow/78082495.cms||Farheen Hussain
September 13, 2020||Surat||VNSGU MCom exam repeats question paper||SURAT: More than 70 percent questions in the MCom semester 4 Management and Accountancy exam held on Friday in Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) were repeated from the college’s earlier internal exam of K K Kadadia College, Ankleshwar. After the issue was brought to their notice, varsity authorities started an inquiry into the issue. VNSGU authorities suspect that the semester exam question paper was set by the same teacher who prepared the question paper for the college. “It is possible that the teacher submitted the same question paper with minor alterations. But the issue came to light when some students informed their teachers,” said a VNSGU official. “We have started an inquiry to find out the facts,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-mcom-exam-repeats-question-paper/articleshow/78081994.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Mass mortality in tuna fish due to dumping of excess catch, says CMFRI||VISAKHAPATNAM: Mass mortality of tuna fish has been observed in and around the RK beach stretch in the city over the last few days. Around 700 kg of the species washed ashore on Friday following which scientists from the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute visited the spot to investigate the cause. As per the findings of CMFRI scientists, excess catch may have been dumped by fishermen owing to weight of the catch, which later washed ashore. It may be recalled that barely a month ago, mass mortality of silver-bellies species was noticed along the Rushikonda-Sagar Nagar stretch due to the creation of oxygen minimum zone. “The dead fish species euthynnus affinis (little Tuna or Kawakwa) was spotted on Friday on RK beach stretch, roughly around 500 in number. The length of fish ranged from 30 cm to 50 cm while their individual weight varied from 0.5 to 2 kg,” Subhadeep Ghosh, scientist in-charge at CMFRI, told STOI. He added that they must have died a couple of days before as they were found in a putrefied condition. “Due to huge landings of these species from purse seine nets and not enough space on board the fishing vessel for storage, plus low price may have resulted in fishermen discarding some of the inferior quality fish into the sea, which eventually washed ashore,” he said. CMFRI had earlier conducted an in-depth research on mass mortality of silver-bellies on the Rushikonda-Sagarnagar stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mass-mortality-in-tuna-fish-due-to-dumping-of-excess-catch-cmfri/articleshow/78082245.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Tribal student aces JEE-Main, wishes to be a space scientist||VISAKHAPATNAM: Mandangi Earthasingh, a tribal student from a remote village in Srikakulam district in Andhra Pradesh has secured a whopping 95.7 percentile in JEE-Main. With a rank of 346, Earthasingh has topped the list among scheduled tribe (ST) students in the state, said Ch Sridhar, project officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Seethampeta. Sridhar added that a total of 55 tribal students appeared for JEE in the district of which 33 qualified. Speaking to STOI, Earthasingh, the son of an agricultural labourer, said his ambition is to become a space scientist and wishes to work with the Indian Space Research Organisation. Discussing his plans, he expressed his wish to pursue his education at IIT-Chennai. “I expected 90 percentile in JEE Main but this was beyond my expectations,” said Earthasingh who did his schooling in Bhamini, a remote mandal at the Andhra-Odisha border. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas recalled the services of former ITDA project officer CM Saikanth Varma, who created a ‘Super-60’ batch for tribal students training them for JEE, IIT and NEET entrance exams. “We coached the students online during the lockdown in the wake of the pandemic,” he added. The collector further said that laptops and routers were distributed among students for their coaching. Of the 33 tribal students who have qualified, 26 are from the Savara tribe. Parents of two such students are unlettered agricultural labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribal-student-aces-jee-main-wishes-to-be-a-space-scientist/articleshow/78082277.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Five months after fire, slum dwellers get makeshift sheds||BENGALURU: Five months ago, miscreants set their shanties on fire when they’d gone to their home-district Kalaburagi after the lockdown was announced. When they returned, they were greeted by heaps of ash and rubble. On Saturday, however, they had reason to cheer as several social groups joined hands to construct 33 tin sheds for them. Pointing to the torn tarpaulin cover that was once her house, Kacharakanahalli slum resident Cauvery M said: “We are so happy to have finally got sheds which won’t allow water or insects to enter.” She thanked the organisations that swung into action to give them a better life after TOI highlighted their plight after the arson. The high court too had taken cognisance of the issue and directed the government to pay more compensation to the victims; it also allowed them to rebuild their shanties there. Groups such as Good Quest Foundation, Project Vision, Aifo, Don Bosco, Friends of Ballari & Kalaburagi, Wiseman International and other volunteers joined hands to rehabilitate the homeless. Vinod Kumar of Good Quest Foundation said: “This was possible because of the TOI article. We decided to chip in and help the slum dwellers during their difficult times.” The volunteer groups decided to erect tin sheds, each costing around Rs 24,000, and mobilised Rs 8 lakh. The sheds, although temporary structures, should ideally last for 30 years and protect them from rain, strong wind and strays. Laxmi D, another resident, said, “We face a lot of problems during rain. Snakes and scorpions would enter our sheds giving us sleepless nights. Several people have been bitten by snakes; I was attacked by a dog.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/5-months-after-fire-slum-dwellers-get-temporary-sheds/articleshow/78082440.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||FSPV likely to power Mid Manair||HYDERABAD: Officials of the Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation (TSREDCO), in a bid to use unconventional energy in the the irrigation sector, have submitted a feasibility report on the implementation of a floating solar power system (FSPV) for a 100 MW solar project at the Mid Manair reservoir in Rajanna Sircilla district. “We are waiting for the state government’s nod for its implementation. The state has realised the importance solar power. We expect a decision after the ongoing Assembly sessions,” sources in TSREDCO told STOI. The source said that since it would be difficult to find the 5,000 acres of land TSREDCO needed for a ground mounted solar power system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fspv-likely-to-power-mid-manair/articleshow/78082866.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||O flow: 2 GPCB officials to ensure logistical stamina||Ahmedabad: Two senior Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) officials have been assigned the task to coordinate and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to designated Covid hospitals in the city. The decision was taken after the state government on Friday issued a notification bringing oxygen supply under the purview of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The entire process of oxygen supply and coordination will now be under the supervision of the member secretary of the GPCB, said AMC officials. Both officers will work in coordination with the deputy municipal commissioner, health, and officer on special duty, Dr Manish Bansal. During a meeting on Saturday chaired by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS, forest and environment, who is in charge of the city’s Covid control, it was decided that C A Shah and N D Ajmera of GPCB will act as nodal officers for this purpose. Gupta said that to ensure smooth supply of oxygen to the hospitals, dedicated coordinators were needed between hospitals and suppliers. AMC officials said the spike in Covid cases has led to increased demand for medical oxygen from Covid hospitals. As on September 12, there were 3,700 active Covid patients undergoing treatment in city hospitals they said.After acute shortage of medical oxygen reported from across the state since September 7, the state government issued the notification directing manufacturers to ensure oxygen is produced ‘uninterrupted and as per the maximum production capacity.’The government also made clear that priority should be given to supply of medical oxygen to hospitals, and if the need arose the proportion of medical oxygen manufactured at a unit can be pushed above the stipulated 50%, with the balance stock available for industrial use. Food & Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) officials said violation of the notification is punishable under Section 188 IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/o-flow-2-gpcb-officials-to-ensure-logistical-stamina/articleshow/78082863.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kanpur||KCA biennial elections to be held today||Kanpur: The biennial elections of Kanpur Cricket Association will be held at Cooperative Estate Dada Nagar at 11.30am on Sunday, September 13, 2020. The election will take place during Annual General meeting of association. KCA general secretary S N Singh said representatives of affiliated member clubs and life members would attend the AGM. The meeting will begin with the presentation of the annual report for year 2019-20 and income and expenditure report. Thereafter, elections will be held. The members would elect a 14-member committee consisting of a chairman, three vice-presidents, one secretary, two joint secretaries, one treasurer, and five executive members. After election, the new committee will pick one tournament secretary and one Kanpur Premier League and three co-opted members. All the Covid protocols would be followed during the meeting and efforts will be made to complete formalities at earliest. Talking to TOI, general manager Dinesh Katiyar said that KCA could not complete its prestigious KDMA league and some major tournaments, including Sunday league, due to corona pandemic. About 45 matches are pending in KDMA league, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kca-biennial-elections-to-be-held-today/articleshow/78082182.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nashik||Percolation tank breach affects crops on 170 acre||Nashik: A percolation tank breached in Valvade village of Malegaon taluka in Nashik district on Friday evening, affecting standing crops on 170 acre of land and swept away 106 cattle heads. There was, however, no human casualty nor any damage to houses of villages situated in the area, said officials on Saturday. Malegaon tehsildar Chandrasing Rajput said a section of the percolation tank, constructed in 1975, breached following 29mm rainfall in within two to three hours. The Kalamdari tank, as is locally known, is situated about 2 km on the northern side of the Valvade village and falls in Vadner Circle of Malegaon taluka. Sub divisional officer Vijayanand Sharma has in the official report sent to the district collector said two buffaloes, a cow and 103 small cattle like sheep and goat were swept away by the water. According to the officer who visited the site on Saturday morning, 12 electricity poles in the farms were damaged and soil swept in by the gushing water from the percolation tank entered at least 20 wells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/percolation-tank-breach-affects-crops-on-170-acre/articleshow/78082857.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Shabbir: TRS govt neglecting edu||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir of Congress has charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government of neglecting the education sector and ignoring the problems being faced by teachers. He was addressing a programme organized in connection with teachers’ welfare by National Solidarity Committee (NSC) here on Saturday. “KCR-led TRS came to power in 2014 on the promise of offering free KG to PG education. Over 4,000 primary schools were shut down while hundreds of junior and degrees colleges were closed,” Shabbir Ali said. Many teachers and lecturers had to sell vegetables for livelihood as they lost jobs or were not paid salaries on pretext of Covid-19, he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shabbir-trs-govt-neglecting-edu/articleshow/78082870.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Supply regular, but cost is up’||Ahmedabad: After the state government and civic body’s intervention on Friday, the majority of the private hospitals in the city reported steady oxygen supply. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), told TOI that the member hospitals did not raise any issues on Saturday. “The intervention is a welcome step, and it would hopefully ensure reliable supply mechanism,” he said. Dr Hardik Shah, director of Vastrapur-based DHS Hospital, said that supply chain has improved. “From Friday evening, we are getting 80 oxygen bottles of 5,000 litres each as required. Two days ago, the supply was 50-60 bottles,” he said. “On the other hand, cost is on a higher side. Our take on the issue however is – the pricing can still be negotiated, but uninterrupted oxygen supply is lifeline for the Covid-19 patients and should be ensured at any cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/supply-regular-but-cost-is-up/articleshow/78082864.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Southwest monsoon withdrawal delayed: Met department||KOCHI: The southwest monsoon withdrawal appeared to be delayed by a week. A report by the weather department said that there will be isolated heavy rainfall for Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur. An orange alert of 11-20 cm rainfall has been sounded for Kasaragod for Sunday. The district received heavy rainfall on Saturday too along with Idukki and Kannur. In association with likely low-pressure system on September 13 near north Andhra Pradesh coast and its movement across Telangana, Vidarbha, excess rainfall with heavy to very heavy rains are expected at some places in Kerala from September 14-17. Delay in southwest monsoon withdrawal is triggered by a series of conditions, including an offshore trough at mean sea level which now runs from north Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast. A cyclonic circulation over east central Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast extending up to 2.1km above mean sea level persists. An east west shear zone now runs roughly along the peninsular region between 3.1 and 5.8km above mean sea level. The southwest monsoon was vigorous over Kerala on Saturday with Vadakara and Hosdurg getting 14cm each, while Koyilandy 11cm, and Kozhikode, Thalassery and Mahe recorded 9cm each. Kannur, Irikkur and Vythiri received 8cm each while Cial Kochi, Kodungallur, Thrithala and Perinthalmanna got 7cm rainfall each. The state received 146% excess rainfall in Sep 3-9 week, with the highest in Cherthala and Kottayyam at 18cm on September 7. Northeast India and south peninsular India will experience above-normal rainfall activity during the next two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sw-monsoon-withdrawal-delayed-imd/articleshow/78082201.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Chrysanthemum show cancelled due to Covid-19||CHANDIGARH: The annual Chrysanthemum show of the municipal corporation (MC) Chandigarh, which is usually held in December, will not be organised this year. Though the formal decision in this regard will be taken in the coming days, sources in the civic body have confirmed that since Covid-19 cases are increasing day by day, the show will be cancelled. Since the Chrysanthemum show is the most popular flower show after the Rose Festival in the city, the civic body authority spends significant amount every year to make it a successful event. Besides common public, government and semi-government agencies also participate in the show and display their decorated flowers to win the prizes. “We haven’t faced this type of situation before, but precaution and safety is our prime concern,” said sources. It takes approximately Rs 18 lakh to Rs 20 lakh to organise the event. The preparation of Chrysanthemum show starts almost two months before. Another reason for its cancellation is the financial crunch being faced by the civic body, said sources. During the three-day show, hundreds of different flowers from the Chrysanthemum genus are showcased. Last year, the officials had added some new features like music show. Many people from Panchkula and Mohali also participate in the show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-chrysanthemum-show-this-year-covid-19-financial-crunch-cited-as-reasons/articleshow/78082867.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 13, 2020||Nashik||City students excel in JEE exams||Nashik: City students have performed exceptionally well in the JEE (Mains) exam, the results of which were declared late on Friday night. Over 450 students have qualified for the JEE (Advanced) scheduled to take place later this month. Aditya Kulkarni, a city-based student, secured All-India rank of 256 in the persons with disability (PwD) category. His teachers heaped praises on him for his zeal and concentration that enabled him to put up a good show. According to Kapil Jain, director of a reputed private tutorial, more than 250 students of his coaching centre have qualified for the JEE (Advanced). “Twenty-eight of our students have scored more than 99 percentile, 52 have got more than 98 percentile and 95 have scored over 95 percentile. We are really proud of our students,” added Jain. According to Sunil Kumar, the centre head of another reputed coaching class, more than 120 students have qualified for JEE (Advanced). Aditya is a student of his tutorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-students-excel-in-jee-exams/articleshow/78082868.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||2 buffaloes rescued from Gaunem dam||POINGUINIM: In a rare instance, five firemen under the guidance of Canacona station fire officer Ravindranath Pednekar, rescued two buffaloes who were struggling in the deep water of the Gaunem minor irrigation dam, in Gaondongrim, on Friday. Pednekar said that the fire station received a distress call at 3.45pm from the security personnel posted at the dam, Babu Bhagat, stating that while he was on his usual rounds he noticed two buffaloes struggling in the waters at one end of the dam as they had got entangled in the vines of a huge tree. The fire station officer told TOI that a fireman climbed the tree and with a cutting tool, started freeing the buffaloes. “It took us almost one and a half hours to free both the entangled buffaloes from their ordeal,” said Pednekar. Along with Pednekar, other firemen who assisted the rescue operation were S K Desai, K M Gaonkar, P G Pagi, P D Velip, and S Madhukar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-buffaloes-rescued-from-gaunem-dam/articleshow/78083880.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Chd’s topper says no to JEE advance||Chandigarh: Kunwar Preet Singh, by obtaining 99.9972380 percentile score in JEE mains 2020, has become Chandigarh topper. The result was announced on Friday night by the national testing agency (NTA). Kunwar, who is opting for computer sciences, is not planning to crack JEE advance to get his choice stream for proceeding in engineering. Kartik Sharma, who studied in Panchkula but belong to Amritsar, scored 99.9910264 percentile. This is his second attempt of the JEE mains. He said his sister, a BTech aspirant, was a motivator and guide. Both toppers said to focus they had to make some sacrifices when it came to entertainment. While Kunwar also avoided watching television, Kartik said he was not given a smartphone of his own. Bashar Ahmed, who is from Uttarakhand but prepared for the exams in a Chandigarh-based academy, scored 99.9930425 percentile. Anaad Kaur, by scoring 99.9536112 percentile became the woman topper in Punjab, but she too prepared for JEE mains from Chandigarh. The students told TOI that Covid-19 had a mixed impact on them — some were stressed because of delay in decision over conduct of the JEE examination this year, while others felt that it gave them time to relax and start with a fresh mind for the exam. The JEE (Main) April/September examination for BE/ BTech. was conducted by NTA between September 1 to 6 in two shifts every day. The examination was conducted in 660 centres in 232 cities including eight outside India. Approximately, 6.45 lakh candidates had appeared for BE/BTech this year. Sadanand Wani, Tricity centre head of Allen Career Institute, said the pandemic was a tough time for the candidates, who were planning to appear for JEE, which is gateway for JEE advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chds-topper-says-no-to-jee-advance/articleshow/78082872.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fourth straight day of 1,300+ cases in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, Gujarat added 1,365 positive cases — the highest daily tally — taking the total to 1.12 lakh. This was the state’s fourth consecutive day of 1,300-plus daily cases and the second consecutive day of recording highest daily cases. The new cases include 278 from Surat, 175 from Ahmedabad, 146 from Rajkot, 125 from Jamnagar, and 123 from Vadodara. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot reached 33,638, 23,900, 9,694, and 6,546 respectively. Jamnagar district became the fifth to cross 4,000 cumulative cases. An analysis of the cases reveals that the last 1,000 were recorded over the past nine days at the average of 112 daily cases. The state also recorded 15 deaths, taking the total to 3,198. The deaths include five from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two each from Bhavnagar and Rajkot, and one each from Gandhinagar, Gir-Somnath, and Vadodara. The number of deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot are now 1,754, 686, 149, and 112 respectively. The four districts cumulatively account for 84% of the state’s Covid-19 mortality. In all, 1,335 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 92,805. The share of active cases in the total positive cases is now 14.5% at 16,333. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are now 82.6% and 2.9% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4th-straight-day-of-1300-cases-in-gujarat/articleshow/78082887.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Cases spike, but flat residents callous about Covid protocols||KOCHI: Despite the increasing number of Covid positive cases and warnings by health officials, many apartment complexes in the city have lowered the guard against the possible community spread. As the government announced the fourth phase of lockdown, the residents have also started to go easy on implementing Covid protocols. “Many residents have started to behave as if the disease is completely gone,” said Sudha R, officer-bearer of an apartment complex on Chittoor Road. Although the state government and health officials have been insisting on making use of the relaxations with utmost safety and care, city residents are “demonstrating a more casual approach.” “Most people do not wear face masks properly. Not all are adhering to hand washing or use of hand sanitizers. Lobbies, lifts and other common areas are not sanitized on regular intervals,” said Prabhakaran, a security guard at an apartment complex. He said that log books are maintained to enter the details of visitors. “While it is important to revive economy, the state government should not encourage people to come out in large numbers. Crowding should not be allowed,” Xavier Joseph, a resident of an apartment complex at Thevara. Meanwhile, office-bearers of many apartment owners’ associations maintain that without the cooperation of residents, they cannot implement Covid protocols successfully. All Kerala apartment owners association secretary V K Shankarankutty said that be it tackling Covid or undertaking regular maintenance works, it require cooperation of all residents. “There will be expenses and all residents should be willing to share it equally,” he said. It is being out that when monthly maintenance expenses go up, some flat residents are reluctant to foot the increased bills, often leading to disputes. Ernakulam district residents association apex council (Edraac) maintained that at the association level they issue clear instructions to adhere to Covid protocols. While at some places it is followed in letter and spirit in some other places it gets diluted. “Be it apartment owners association or residents association we can only give instructions. Each individual should own up the responsibility to take utmost care to stay safe and healthy. If there are serious violations, the associations must report to health department and police,” said Edraac president P Rangadasa Prabhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cases-spike-but-flat-residents-callous-about-covid-protocols/articleshow/78082216.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospitals flout rules, ignore Telangana govt cap on Covid bills||HYDERABAD: In spite of the state clamping down on hospitals overcharging for Covid treatment, some continue to flout rules brazenly – handing out bills on a sheet of paper or without hospital stamp. All this in a bid to collect as much as they can. Ramanjeet Singh, who was helping a friend’s brother, in a hospital at Mahdapur said an itemised bill was not given to the patient. “This was a clear case of overcharging. The patient was charged Rs 10.2 lakh for Covid treatment. He was told that a computerised bill would be generated after making the payment.” Singh said this was a clear case of the hospital “working backwards”. “They see how much of the bill the customer is able to pay, extract the most and then create the official bill,” Singh said. Another patient’s brother getting treated in Begumpet said they were charged approximately the same amount, but the bill though computerized did not have the name of the hospital on it. “I assume they want to collect as much as they can, but at the same time do not want their name made public,” he said. In fact, several hospitals have not mentioned any GST charges on their bills. Taking up the matter, Sai Teja, vice-president, Forum Against Corruption, wrote a letter to the anti-evasion section of the Hyderabad GST commissionerate. Giving the examples of two private hospitals in Gachibowli and Kukatpally, he complained that “hospitals are collecting charges from the patients walking in and issuing non official bills for it.” Calling for a heavy penalty to be levied, he wrote: “Request you to please visit as many hospitals as possible in Hyderabad at least as this is a normal practice across the city.” Responding to the letter, assistant commissioner, anti-evasion section, acknowledged the complaint and forwarded it to the concerned officials. “As seen from the copies of bills, the firms… fall under the jurisdiction of Rangareddy GST commissionerate and Medchal commissionerate respectively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosps-flout-rules-ignore-govt-cap-on-covid-bills/articleshow/78082876.cms||Uttara Varma
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||2 injured in road accident||Chandigarh: Maloya police registered a case against a car driver for hitting an auto rickshaw and injuring a woman passenger and auto driver at Sector 38 (west) on Friday night. Both injured were admitted at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector for treatment and both injured are stated to be out of danger by the doctors, police said. Police said injured have been identified as Ravi of Sector 38 (west) and Nisha, a resident of Sector 36. In his complaint, Ravi, an auto driver said a car driver fled after hitting his auto near Karan taxi stand in Sector 38 (west). Due to the collision, the auto rickshaw overturned and both got injured. Passersby informed the police about the accident. PCR reached the spot and lifted all the injured to GMSH-16 for treatment. Maloya police also reached the spot and recorded the statement of Ravi, registered a case against the unknown car driver and started a probe. No arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/78082875.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Change in number of NEET centres||Ahmedabad: The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on September 13 will be held across 217 centres covering 10 cities in Gujarat. The exam is expected to see participation from 80,219 candidates in the state. The cities where exam centres have been set up are Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Bhavnagar, Valsad, Vadodara, Patan, Panchmahals and Anand. Earlier, examination was scheduled to be conducted from 214 centres but due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic some centres in cities like Bhavnagar, Surat and Rajkot were recently declared in containment zones. “Many centres had to be changed and new centres have also been created in the last few days as a safety and precautionary measure,” said sources in education department. The results of the examination are likely to be declared by the end of this month. In 2019, about 76,000 students had taken the NEET. There are currently about 5,400 medical seats, 1,200 dental seats, 3,600 in Ayurveda programme and about 3,300 seats in homoeopathy colleges in Gujarat. District authorities have been instructed to ensure there’s no crowding at test centres and to implement social distancing during the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/change-in-number-of-neet-centres/articleshow/78082883.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Pawan Bansal made AICC gen sec||Chandigarh: All India Congress Committee (AICC) has appointed former city MP and Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal, general secretary (administration) and permanent invitee of AICC. Party’s general secretary and PM K C Venugopal issued the list of the new members of the AICC in this regard on Friday. Following the move, hundreds of the Chandigarh Congress Party workers and office bearers reached his residence to congratulate him. The move has brought joy among the supporters of Bansal, who said it was a good decision by the party’s central leadership. Pardeep Chhabra, president of Chandigarh Congress said, “This is the most crucial day for Chandigarh. Bansal has received this position due to his loyalty, hard work and integrity. Chandigarh Congress thanks Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for their said decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pawan-bansal-made-aicc-gen-sec/articleshow/78082885.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||30-year-old dies in hit-and-run||Mohali: A 30-year-old man on Saturday succumbed to injuries he sustained in a hit-and-run on September 10. Kulwinder Singh was walking along the road with his father to catch a bus to Patiala near the toll plaza on Patiala road when he was allegedly hit by a speeding car. Bhagwan Singh from Bathinda said his son Kulwinder was working in Aerocity in Mohali. On September 10, he had come to meet his son. Police registered a case under Sections 304 and 279 of the IPC. Cops are yet to arrest the driver despite being given the registration number of the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/30-year-old-dies-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/78082880.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘No one is getting Rs1.5L to treat every positive patient’||NAGPUR: After being detected Covid-19 positive last week, 26-year-old Nilesh Chavam refused to get admitted to the Covid Care Centre in the sub-district hospital of Arni tehsil in Yavatmal. Nilesh claimed that he had no symptoms and was absolutely fine. “I was declared positive by the local gram panchayat who connived with the laboratory just to earn Rs1.5 lakh which the central government provides for every Covid patient,” alleged Nilesh. There are hundreds of asymptomatic positive patients in rural Vidarbha who are making similar claims. Despite repeated clarifications by different government authorities, people are still falling for the fake news on social media which claims that the government of India is providing Rs1.5 lakh to every municipality and designated Covid hospitals for every positive patient. In cities, private hospitals designated for Covid-19 services are repeatedly being blamed for levying extra charges despite getting Rs1.5 lakh per patient in advance from the government. TOI spoke to health department officials, hospitals and local bodies all of whom outrightly rejected the allegations. “There is a false perception that the government is giving private hospitals Rs1.5 lakh per patient which is absolutely wrong,” said Dr Anoop Marar, coordinator of Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA). Similar rumours were spread in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, too, where the government aid was alleged to be Rs3 lakh per patient. In Maharashtra, the Rs1.5 lakh figure may have been misconstrued from an earlier announcement by the state health department to give insurance cover to all citizens for a similar sum. In April, the government had announced that Covid treatment would be free of cost in the state under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) scheme. The state was to bear the cost of treatment of even those who don’t have the MJPJAY card or come under the BPL category. The state also extended the insurance cover of Rs1.5 lakh per family to every member. This is a fact and the government is bearing the cost of treatment for Covid-19 patients in government-run hospitals. “Right from free meals, medicines, hospital stay and ICU facilities if need be, the government is spending lakhs of rupees on the state’s Covid-19 patients. The funds are not given to the local authorities or hospitals directly. The figure of Rs1.5 lakh per patient is fake,” said a senior doctor from Covid-19 ward in GMCH Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-one-is-getting-rs1-5l-to-treat-every-positive-patient/articleshow/78082891.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Mangesh Ghildiyal gets charge of under secretary in Prime Minister's office||DEHRADUN: Tehri Garhwal’s district magistrate (DM) Mangesh Ghildiyal has been named the new under secretary in Prime Minister's office for a period of four years. A letter in this regard was issued by the department of personnel and training to chief secretary of Uttarakhand on September 12. Ghildiyal was previously the DM of Rudraprayag district, where he closely monitored the developments of the reconstruction work at Kedarnath and the construction of the All Weather Char Dham Road — the two major projects introduced by PM Narendra Modi. Prior to taking charge as Rudraprayag DM, Ghildiyal was the district magistrate of Bageshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dm-tehri-gets-charge-of-under-secretary-in-pmo/articleshow/78082217.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Doon’s Bashar Ahmed becomes JEE Main state topper||DEHRADUN: Bashar Ahmed, a student of the city's Tons Bridge School has topped the state in JEE Main 2020, scoring 99.9 percentile. Ahmed was among the top-50 highest scorers in this year’s JEE Main results. Speaking to TOI, the 18-year-old said, “I am currently preparing for my JEE Advance exams which will take place later this month. I have been taking coaching for my engineering entrance exams for the past two years and I am extremely satisfied with my result. My ultim ate aim is to study BTech (Computer Science) from either IIT Bombay or IIT Kanpur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doons-bashar-ahmed-becomes-jee-main-state-topper/articleshow/78081431.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Co-working to virtual shopping, malls find new ways to stay afloat||HYDERABAD: After a complete no-show for months, Hyderabad’s malls are gradually getting their footfall back, reaching 30% and 35% of pre-Covid figures. But with the crowd-pulling multiplexes still shut, owners say they are mulling new ways to keep their coffers ringing. If some are exploring the idea of introducing co-working spaces within their premises, others are curating innovative online shopping models to attract buyers. “We are giving the co-working option a serious thought. The idea is still at the drawing board stage,” said G Yoganand, chairman and managing director of Manjeera Constructions. He admitted that the Manjeera Mall in Kukatpally has seen a sharp drop in revenue. “We haven’t been getting any rent from the theatres. They aren’t even paying common area maintenance (CAM) charges. Also, since 40% to 50% of the footfall is drawn by the multiplex, it’s affected us adversely,” he added. While Inorbit Mall, Madhapur too is feeling the heat, officials say they are slowly recovering. “Currently, we see customers spending about one to one-and-half hours, whereas with the multiplex it usually is over two-and-half hours,” said Naviin Ibhrampurkar, head of marketing and corporate communications, Inorbit Malls. To beef up its popularity, the city branch will soon launch its own virtual mall experience for customers. “This will allow customers to view products at the mall and shop. We also have the virtual video calling service, curb side pickup option, home deliveries and contactless dining services as a part of our offering,” he said. Another prominent mall is also toying with the idea of online sales to increase their earning. “If we decide to roll it out, we’ll tie up with delivery agents to ensure that stocks from our outlets are dropped off at the buyers’ homes the same day,” said a senior official, adding that post lockdown, the mall’s footfall has improved from 8,000 (June) to 38,000 (September). Prior to March, it touched 1.2 lakhs over weekends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/co-working-to-virtual-shopping-malls-find-new-ways-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/78082897.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fuel outlets flout rule, allow petrol in bottles||HYDERABAD: Ten months ago, a veterinary doctor was gang-raped, murdered and later her body was set on fire by four youth using petrol, bought from a fuel bunk in a bottle on the Bengaluru Highway. Even before the gory incident faded from public memory, fuel outlets in the city are back to their old ways, selling fuel in bottles, violating Telangana Petroleum Products (Licensing and Regulations of Supplies) Order. Just prior to the vet incident, authorities had ordered fuel outlets not to sell petrol/diesel loose after a sub-registrar was burnt alive in her own office at Abdullapurmet. A TOI reporter-photographer team went to at least six petrol pumps in Basheerbagh, Raj Bhavan Road, Tank Bund, Himayatnagar and Banjara Hills to buy petrol in a bottle. Of them, just two outlets refused to sell loose petrol. “After the sub-registrar and Disha incidents, police had instructed us not to sell loose petrol. It is impossible to enforce the order in the city,” said Ashok Naredi, a member of Telangana Petroleum Dealers’ Association. “Customers create nuisance if pumps refuse them petrol in plastic bottles. At most petrol pumps, one can see ‘no mask, no fuel’ board. However, over 30% customers do not wear masks. If the staff refuse fuel, the customers argue,” Ashok added. “The department doesn’t have the manpower to inspect all pumps. If we receive any complaint, we will book them. As customers themselves ask for loose petrol, we don’t receive any complaints,” a civil supplies official said. The official said, as per rules, petrol pumps should put up a board informing citizen about the ban, but only a handful follow it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fuel-outlets-flout-rule-allow-petrol-in-bottles/articleshow/78082893.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Will raise farmers’ concerns, put suggestions before Centre: BJP MPs||Chandigarh/Rohtak: Use of police force on farmers during a protest demonstration at Pipli in Kurukshetra has left the BJP trying to make amends and the Congress on attack mode. A three-member committee of BJP MPs from Haryana reached out to farmers, while the Congress lashed out at the incumbent party. Committee members, Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and Bhiwani MP Dharamvir Singh spoke to farmers and farm leaders in Rohtak. MP Dharamvir Singh said the central government brought about the three ordinances under its new agriculture policy to double farmers’ income. The Bhiwani MP said this after he, along with Kurukshetra MP Naib Singh Saini and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, met a delegation comprising various farmer organisations as well as traders from the grain and vegetable markets at circuit house. Addressing mediapersons later, the MPs said suggestions received from various farmer organisations and traders would be put before the central leadership. However, AICC communication head and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Randeep Surjewala equated the BJP government with the East India Company. He said the ordinances were aimed at limiting the role of farmers and other communities to contract labourers. The three-member committee of MPs was formed by state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar to quell the anger over police action. Committee member Brijendra Singh said the ordinances brought about by the central government are complementary to each other and added that the objective of these is to bring about structural reforms in agriculture so that farmers could get a profitable price for their crops. Claiming that efforts are being made to spread confusion regarding the ordinances, the MPs said the reality is that these ordinances would neither abolish the existing mandi system nor end the minimum support price (MSP) regime. “In any case, farmers will get the MSP for their crop. In a way, they have been given the freedom to sell their produce in the open market,” Brijendra Singh said. With the option to sell their produce in the market of their choice, the farmers would also get a larger number of potential buyers, committee members claimed. They said the government has excluded many agricultural products from the purview of these ordinances, including grains, oil, onions and potatoes etc, for the benefit of farmers. The committee said under these ordinances, the farmers would get a national structure, which would allow pre-settlement agreement between agribusiness companies, processors, wholesalers, exporters and farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-raise-farmers-concerns-put-suggestions-before-centre-bjp-mps/articleshow/78082900.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||More students from state make it to JEE (Main) list||Kochi: The number of candidates from Kerala in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main rank list has shot up compared to last year. The exam was conducted amid strict Covid-19 protocols from September 1-6 and the results were published on September 11.Leading entrance coaching centres said the number of candidates who secured a place in the top 10,000 rank list increased by at least 30%.They said this will not only ensure the admission of more Kerala students in India’s top colleges but also could lead to more students from Kerala getting admissions in the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT), which will be decided later, based on JEE Advanced exam results.They said questions were of moderate difficulty and most students could do well as they got additional time for preparation due to the postponement of the exam following the pandemic. However, many said the performance of girls was expected to be better. Most of the top ranks were secured by boys.“Around 2.5 lakh top rank holders will be eligible for the JEE Advanced and definitely, the number of students who have secured ranks in this list has risen by 40% though the exact numbers will be available only later. Usually, these students have a higher probability of getting top ranks in JEE Advanced too. In our centre, the number of students within the top 10,000 ranks has increased from 110 to around 160 this year. IITs feature only a total of 13,000 seats across India and this year more Kerala students are expected to qualify,” said Binoy Joseph, a faculty of Brilliant Study Centre, Pala.Advaid Deepak from Kozhikode was the state topper in JEE Main exam securing 96th rank and Aleena MR, who secured 2212th rank, was the female topper in Kerala. Adithya Biju, who secured 101st rank, is the second state-topper.Entrance coaching experts are of the opinion that the result of National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test, which is to be held on Sunday is expected to be similar to JEE Main.“Usually, students appear for these entrance tests under too much pressure but this time, they got more than three months due to the pandemic and there was enough time after the conclusion of coaching classes in April. Hence, they were able to secure good marks though the competition was tougher,” said Arun Viswanath, branch head, Akash Institute, Ravipuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-students-from-state-make-it-to-jee-main-list/articleshow/78082229.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Among PSC stars, engineer who gave up MNC job & four PhD scholars||LUCKNOW: Forget expensive professional courses, even regular graduation was a luxury for Shikha Shukla, who ranks 59th in Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission and will be a deputy collector after graduating through distance learning. Like her, several candidates toiled hard to clear UPPSC, the results of which were declared on Friday. “I lost my father in a road accident when I was five years old. The journey was tough. I owe my success to my mother Rajni Shukla, who raised me with a small pension.” I began working soon after my graduation in 2011 while preparing. I am presently working as assistant section officer in Indian Railways and will quit my job to join my dream job. An engineering student, Gaurisha Srivastava didn’t join a multinational to fulfil her dream of cracking UPPSC. “I got selected for the post of block development officer. Since graduation was necessary I preferred pursuing BTech in Information Technology from a private college in Lucknow.” Similarly, a student from research background, Ajendra Singh grabbed the post of deputy collector with 61st rank. He is pursuing a PhD from Lucknow University’s physics department under supervision of Prof Poonam Tandon. Of the 10 candidates from Lucknow University, four including Singh are PhD students. Two research scholars from sociology department, Priya Patel and Suraj Singh have been selected for the post of district probation officer. Singh is pursuing research under Prof BK Gupta, while Priya is under Prof Smita Verma. Another PhD student, Garima Singh of psychology department has been selected as commercial tax officer and is pursuing PhD under Prof Archana Shukla. Anshuman Tiwari from political science department has been selected as assistant commissioner and Ankita Shukla as an executive officer. Rahul Singh from the social work department has been selected as sub-registrar. Akhilesh Patel of the education department, Nandita Singh from Ancient Indian History and Arun Kumar Yadav have been selected for the post of principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/among-psc-stars-engr-who-gave-up-mnc-job-four-phd-scholars/articleshow/78083870.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vadodara boy ranks in 100th percentile again in JEE Main||Vadodara/Ahmedabad: As many as 8,000 candidates from Gujarat have qualified for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2020 based on the results of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main that were announced recently by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Vadodara-based Nisarg Chadha has given a stellar performance scoring 100th percentile in the entrance test for B.E./B.Tech courses that was held in September. And this is for the second time that he has achieved this feat. Earlier he scored a perfect a perfect score of 100th percentile in the JEE (Main) exam held in January. He is among the top 24 candidates to achieve a perfect score of 100th percentile. Nisarg, a student of Navrachana School at Sama in Vadodara is ranked second in the All India Ranking (AIR) for JEE Main. “Nisarg has been a bright kid right from childhood but a complete nurturing makes him what he is today,” said Nisarg’s mother Dr Amola Chadha. His father Dr Amit Chadha is a urologist. Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Nisarg’s parents took extra care to ensure that the 17-year-old kept his focus on studies. “We could not help in his studies but tried helping him in our small little ways. During the pandemic, we did not go out as we didn’t want to take the risk of getting infected. The entire focus is now on JEE (Advanced),” said Dr Amola. “Nisarg’s achievement is a matter of great pride and joy for us. He has excelled not only in academics but in sports and co-curricular activities as well,” said his school principal Suprabha Menon. The JEE (Main) Examination, 2020 has been conducted twice in CBT mode this year. The ranks of the candidates have been decided taking into consideration better of the two NTA scores and in accordance with the policy already made available on the official website, NTA said in a media statement. The number of 100th percentile holders was 9 in the January attempt. “He is a role model for younger students,” said Ushashri Maddali. “Really proud to be his class teacher and maths teacher.” Apart from Nisarg, three other candidates from Gujarat including Ahmedabad-based Harsh Shah (59 rank) and Aditya Soni (93 rank) along with Surat-based Anmol Sharaf (86 rank) have featured in the latest AIR for JEE Mains. Last year, 10,000 students from Gujarat had qualified for JEE (Advanced) to be held later this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vadodara-boy-ranks-in-100th-percentile-again-in-jee-main/articleshow/78082901.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Credit society’s manager booked for irregularities||Vadodara: A manager of a cooperative credit society in Dabhoi was booked for taking loans amounting to Rs 5.5 lakh without any approvals or verification. The accused Chetan Rathwa, who was serving as the manager of Shri Balaji Cooperative Credit Society Ltd since October 2005, had initially taken a loan of Rs 10,000 for himself without taking any approval of the executive committee of the society. Rathwa had not even submitted proper documents while applying for the loan. Later, his wife Sunita applied for a vehicle loan amounting to Rs 5.4 lakh and Rathwa approved without any documents or following due procedures. After taking the loan amount, the couple did not even repay it. Recently when the society’s office bearers learnt about the irregularities committed by Rathwa, they approached Vadodara rural police. Based on their complaint, an offence of cheating was registered at Dabhoi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/credit-societys-manager-booked-for-irregularities/articleshow/78081815.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Karnal govt school reopens for trial, 70 students attend||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: After staying closed for more than six months due to coronavirus outbreak, a government school in Karnal’s Nigdhu village on Saturday resumed classroom teaching for the students of classes X and XII on trial basis. The schools have been shut since March to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. A team of the education department along with experts recorded the video (demonstrating standard operating procedures) of the classroom teaching. On the first day, the students of Class XII were called by the schools and around 70 attended the classes. Teachers and students were given entry after thermal screening and proper sanitising of hands. The students also brought written consent from their parents to attend classes. The students and teachers took all preventive measure like wearing face masks and keeping distance. It is pertinent to mention here that the education department has selected two schools — Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu in Karnal district, and Government High Sschool, Bajidpur in Sonipat district— for the trail as a majority of parents showed interest in opening schools. As per the letter issued by the department, these schools have reopened on trial basis and video of the classes being conducted will be shot that will demonstrate how standard operating procedures (SOPs) and other Covid-related guidelines have been followed. The videos will be shown to students of other schools in the state through EDUSAT network. Sonam, a Class XII student said, “We are very happy. Now, we will study in the school as we used to before the pandemic. It is a proud moment for all of us as the government has chosen our school as a model institute in the state.” Principal of GSS, Nigdhu, Dharampal said with the aim to maintain social distancing, only 15 students were seated in one classroom. All preventive measures like wearing face masks and social distancing were adhered to by the students as well as the teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-govt-school-reopens-on-trial-70-students-attend/articleshow/78082907.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Landslide at Pettimudy: Kerala revenue minister orders probe by SDMA head||IDUKKI: Revenue minister E Chandrashekaran has ordered a comprehensive inquiry into whether there were any lapse by KDHP tea estate management in informing the government authorities about the landslide at Pettimudy. The probe was ordered based on the report submitted by revenue special team, headed by Munnar special tehsildar Binu Joseph, recommending further investigation on possible lapses by KHDP officials. Revenue minister E Chandrasekharan told TOI, “Based on the report recommended by the Idukki district collector, I have directed the state disaster management authority (SDMA) commissioner A Kaushikan to conduct an inquiry. The inquiry will be under the purview of the disaster management Act. After the probe, the commissioner will submit a report,” minister said. The minister wants more experts included in the new panel and the team has been asked to submit proposals to increase disaster preparedness in similar disaster prone areas in future, said officials. Meanwhile, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) report accessed by TOI said that high-intensity rainfall triggered the landslide at Pettimudy. The report has recommended shifting the housing lines from the flanks of streamlets at Pettimudy. “Incessant and high-intensity rainfall on preceding days is assessed as the triggering factor. It is inferred from site conditions that the instability in the slope was induced by reduction of strength on super saturation and increase in pore water pressure of the overburden material. The steep slope of the terrain and nature and thickness of the overburden material are the major factors owed for this. The analysis of rainfall data received from Pettimudy division of Nyamakad Estate indicates that high-intensity rainfall was recorded in this area during the first week of August. The highest daily value of the same was recorded as 24.3cm during the event day,” said the report. The report recommended, “As a safety concern, it is recommended that inhabitations in the hill slope of Pettimudy area should be kept at a safer distance from the tributary streamlets and also from the main river. It is also recommended to shift the housing lines away from the flanks of streamlets. No new construction shall be done or allowed in the mouth area or close to the stream flanks.” The GSI report also said, “As a correction measure at the road bench level, it is suggested to provide a proper drainage arrangement with provision of a culvert of suitable dimension at the Edamalakkudy road juncture.” Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan told TOI, “Based on the GSI findings we will not allow human settlements in Pettimudy. The area is under threat of repeated landslides. The people in the area are also not willing to stay there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pettimudy-min-orders-probe-by-sdma-head/articleshow/78082230.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Uddhav Thackeray should hold a meet on Covid in Vidarbha: Bawankule||NAGPUR: BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule has demanded that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar should immediately hold a meeting to review the Covid situation in Vidarbha. In a video released on Saturday, he said, “No minister of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is bothered about people dying in Vidarbha due to Covid-19. The numbers have assumed frightful proportions but they are busy with Mumbai and Pune only.” Bawankule further said that people were dying as there was shortage of hospital beds, medicines, oxygen cylinders, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cm-should-hold-meet-on-covid-in-vid-bawankule/articleshow/78082905.cms||Ashish Roy
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Court denies bail to murder case accused||CHANDIGARH: A local court has denied bail to a 20-year-old accused in a more than one-year-old murder case. The accused is identified as Harpreet Singh of Sector 43. Sumit Katoch, the complainant, had said a quarrel took place between his elder brother Amit and one Rajat Tiwari last year. On June 28, 2019, his brother went to meet his friends at the mini market, Sector 40 A, Chandigarh. Half an hour later, a friend of Amit called Sumit from PGI saying that Tiwari and his three accomplices had injured his brother with swords and knife in the market of Sector 40. Doctors had later declared Amit dead. The counsel for the accused said he was neither named in the FIR nor in the inquest report or the post-mortem documents. “The alleged injury attributed to the accused with a soft drink bottle is not possible as glass bottles were banned before the incident took place,” he argued. On other hand, the prosecution submitted the accused inflicted a blow on the head of the victim and the act was recorded in a CCTV camera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-denies-bail-to-murder-case-accused/articleshow/78082898.cms||Neha Sharma
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Teenager ends life after being chided by family||NAGPUR: Reesha Wasnik, 15, a student of standard XII, consumed poison at her residence at Jai Bheem chowk in Kamptee on September 9 after being scolded by family members for retuning late from tuition. She was later tested Covid-19 positive. Police said Wasnik was rushed to Mayo Hospital where the doctors had declared her dead on September 10. She is believed to have consumed poison to kill cockroaches. Police said no suicide note was found. There was also much drama at Mayo Hospital where her family members started protesting against the doctors for declaring her Covid positive. As per the norms, no post-mortem was performed. New Kamptee police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teenager-ends-life-after-being-chided-by-family/articleshow/78082945.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Promotions for revenue staff, VRAs to be sent to other departments||HYDERABAD: A day after the assembly gave the consent for the new Revenue Act, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced promotions for all levels in the revenue department along with car allowance to tahsildars. He said Rs 60 crore will be released to provide facilities to tahsildars. The CM also asked officials to ensure are no fund crunch to the revenue department for facilities and protocols. He made these remarks when revenue officials from various associations met him at Pragathi Bhavan on Saturday. Chandrasekhar Rao said the government had always been taking people-centric decisions and the New Revenue Act was one such thing, not against any one. The CM appreciated the revenue staff, saying that they were handling 54 responsibilities such as elections, natural disasters and many other schemes. “Options would be given to VROs to get absorbed into other departments. Since there were more VRAs from the poorer sections, children of the advanced aged VRAs will be given jobs. Though it was an additional Rs 260 crore burden on the government to implement scales for the VRAs, the government is ready to implement it on a humanitarian ground,” the CM said. He exhorted the revenue staff to work with commitment and dedication to implement the New Revenue Act, which was aimed at transparent, corruption and hassle-free services to the people. Telangana Revenue Employees Services Association (TRESA) state president Vanga Ravinder Reddy and 60 representatives attended the meeting. While extending their support to the new Act, they urged filling up of the CCLA post, continuation of eligible VROs in the revenue department, increasing the staff strength, filling up vacant posts, promotions to the eligible persons and regularisation of computer operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/promotions-for-revenue-staff-vras-to-be-sent-to-other-depts/articleshow/78082976.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Give free laptops to poor kids: Cong||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday demanded that the central and state governments should provide free laptops to all the students from Below Poverty Line (BPL) families in Telangana. He was addressing the DISHA meetings in Suryapet and Nalgonda districts which was held to review all the central government schemes in these two districts under Nalgonda constituency. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-free-laptops-to-poor-kids-cong/articleshow/78082958.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Gang of 6 ‘tracking’ RTA officials busted||AMBALA: Police, on Saturday, booked six members of a gang caught conducting reconnaissance of state road transport authority (RTA) officials of Ambala in Naraingarh area of the district. On Saturday, Ambala ADC-cum-secretary, state road transport authority (RTA) lodged a police complaint after she busted a gang of six members sending locations of RTA staff to transporters to help them pass through the district with overloaded vehicles on Thursday. The accused were released by Ambala police as a case was not registered till Saturday. Now, police are working to arrest them. ADC Preeti said, “The gang shared locations of RTA officials on a WhatsApp group namely ‘Tiger Zinda Hai’ in Ambala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gang-tracking-ambala-rta-officials-busted/articleshow/78082950.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Youth held for killing father in drunken brawl||KOCHI: North Paravur police arrested a 25-year-old man on Saturday for allegedly killing his father in a drunken brawl a few days ago.  Police sources said the youth, identified as Rahul Dev of Kanakattussery house, Cheriyappilly, Paravoor, stamped on his father Jalaadharan’s abdomen causing him serious injury.  Jalaadharan who complained of vomiting and stomach pain, was taken to a hospital, but he died on his way.  Rahul Dev, meanwhile, gave a statement to the police that his father died after getting drunk and falling down, hitting his head.  A case of unnatural death was registered and a probe was initiated under the direction of the district police chief (Ernakulam rural) SP K Karthick. The police realized that something was amiss after the post-mortem report indicated that the man died due to an injury in the lower abdominal region.  Further investigation revealed that the father and the son used to get into fights often after getting drunk. On Tuesday too, they entered into a heated argument, police said.  “The incident happened on Tuesday and the family brought the father to the hospital the next day. It seems like the rest of them were unaware of what took place between the son and the father,” said an officer with North Paravoor police station.  Police said though they registered a case of unnatural death, later, the FIR was updated with murder charges. The accused was presented before a magistrate and was remanded in judicial custody after conducting tests for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/youth-held-for-killing-father-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/78082234.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district reports 716 fresh cases||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 716 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 patients have succumbed to the contagion since Friday night Karad tehsil, which is a Covid hotpot, has reported 244 cases out of the fresh cases including 106 cases from Karad town. Satara tehsil reported 128 cases including 64 patients from Satara town. Apart from these, Koregaon tehsil added 98 cases, 26 cases were traced in Jawli and eight cases in Mahabaleshwar among others. The deceased include 19 men and six women. Majority of the deaths were from Karad and Satara tehsil. The district has 22,863 Covid cases so far, of which 8,302 are active and 13,937 patients have recovered from Covid. The death toll stands at 624. Meanwhile, district collector Shekhar Singh has appealed to the citizens to not believe any news on the scarcity of oxygen. He said the district has adequate supply of oxygen. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-reports-716-fresh-cases/articleshow/78081481.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Pics: Have Bharat Darshan in Delhi park from March||NEW DELHI: Amid the hustle and bustle, honking of vehicles and traffic jams on Ring Road near Punjabi Bagh crematorium, about 17 artists from across of country have congregated to give life and unique shapes to scrap material, such as metal, plastic, tyres, broken mosaic tiles and glass sheets. Undeterred by the mayhem, they have been calmly designing the art pieces to ensure they look perfect and beautiful. Replica of Stone Chariot, HampiWelcome to the under-construction Bharat Darshan Park, a tourist destination conceived by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). With the target of March 2021 in mind, workers of the civic agency and the artists have been working meticulously to give a final shape to 35 replicas of famous monuments from various states. Replica of Mysore PalaceThe replicas include Charminar, Gateway of India, Sun Temple at Konark, Khajuraho temple, Nalanda monuments, Mysore Palace, Golden Temple, Meenakshi temple, Hawa Mahal, Hampi, Victoria Memorial, Sanchi Stupa, Gol Gumbaz, Ajanta Ellora caves, Mahabat Maqbara at Junagarh Fort, Taj Mahal, Qutub Minar, among others. “Initially, the plan was to create replicas of 17 monuments from 14 states. But LG Anil Baijal directed that we add 18 more structures from the remaining states to give a complete feel of India. That’s why the deadline of the project was extended from October this year to March 2021,” said SDMC commisioner Gyanesh Bharti. Replica of Taj MahalWhile four replicas are nearly complete, work is in progress on the remaining 28. When TOI visited the place, it found a replica of the carved stone chariot at the 7th century Vijaya Vitthala Temple in Hampi, Karnataka, at one end of the park. It was halfway done and artist Zakhir Khan was busy carving the rest. He had 3D images and detailed graphics defining every carving in detail. “We are doing everything minutely, be it the idol size or zigzag shape of the chariot. We are mainly using automobile spare parts. For making elephant trunks, we have used silencers of cars. The chariot wheels are made of high-mast streetlight poles and other details with motorcycle chains,”’ said Khan from Delhi College of Art. Replica of Sanchi StupaAll 12 domes of the Mysore Palace replica have been made out of automobile gears, while the walls have been created out of sheets of hawkers’ stalls. “To recreate the miniatures, nuts and bolts of trucks and cars are being used,” said an SDMC official. The 48-foot structure is among three of the widest replicas at the park. Replica of Qutub MinarThe bricks of the replica of Victoria Memorial in Kolkata have been made with iron strips of benches. “Bicycle rims have been used for creating the domes. The work is nearly 50% complete,” said Krunal Kehar, an artist from The Maharaja Sayajirao University, Baroda. He is also working on the Nalanda University replica by taking references from history books. Replica of Gol Gumbaz“The focus of the Sanchi Stupa replica will be on the four gates that tell the story of Lord Buddha. We will create them from metal sheets. We have given electricity pipes the shape of a dome for the main structure,” said Kamar Alam, an artist from Delhi College of Art. Replica of Meenakshi TempleIn the Golden Temple structure, a waterbody would be created around a 50-foot structure and golden hues would be given using scrap brass and golden dust. (Photo courtesy: Yogesh Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/have-bharat-darshan-in-delhi-park-from-mar-south-corpn-plans-replicas-of-35-monuments/articleshow/78083920.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur police to survey crowded places, issues warning to traders||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar is set to hit the streets soon to assess the situations at crowded places, key markets and malls to prepare a strategy to enforce Covid distancing. After stringently enforcing the mask rule, Kumar’s next agenda is crowd management for an effective Covid distancing strategy. With a view to break the Corona chain in the city, which is witnessing a staggering spike in Covid cases and deaths too, Kumar is gearing up to delve into a stricter policing format. On Saturday, the city police continued it’s sweeping drive against citizens not wearing masks penalizing 2,026 people and collecting more than Rs4.11 lakh fine. “Our drive against non-users of masks was also part of sensitizing people and not just mere enforcement of the rule. We plan to have more such drives,” said Kumar. Kumar, who aims to continue policing measures complementing the efforts of NMC in the fight against Corona, sounded disappointed on citizens and traders taking Covid distancing lightly. “Despite appeals, Covid distancing is not being followed at markets, shops and malls. A fresh appeal is being sent out now and it would follow with stringent actions,” said Kumar. “This is a critical phase and until citizens follow the Covid guidelines with discipline we would not be able to break the Corona chain,” added the CP. Kumar said traders must allow only as many customers inside the shop by which Covid distancing is possible. “Unnecessary crowding must be avoided,” he said. Kumar, who is also keeping a close tab on his department’s preparedness to fight the pandemic and also health issues of the Covid affected personnel, said the early detection and hospitalization of the cops tested positive is his aim. Along with joint CP Nilesh Bharne, he handed over cheques of Rs50 lakhs to the nearest kin of the cops dying of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-to-survey-crowded-places-issues-warning-to-traders/articleshow/78082994.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Spl teams to identify encroachers: Wakf board||Hyderabad: The chairman of Telangana state wakf board, Mohammed Saleem, has welcoed chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to ban registration of wakf land across the state. Addressing a press conference, Saleem said that in wake of government’s decision, wakf board will form special teams to identify encroachers and take strict action against them. “The new revenue act will empower the revenue and police departments to act jointly for the protection of wakf lands and crack down on land mafia,” he said. On Friday, KCR banned wakf and endowment lands registrations till a comprehensive land survey is taken up. Further, Saleem said that he will prioritize the efforts to de-register wakf properties that have been registered under fake and fictitious documents. “District collectors, revenue divisional officers and tahsildars will also be alerted about any activity of land sharks attempting to alienate wakf land,” he said. Saleem also welcomed the CM’s decision to re-build the two mosques at the same place, which were razed during the secretariat complex demolition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-teams-to-identify-encroachers-wakf-board/articleshow/78083003.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||LAC stalemate and the way forward||Foreign ministers of India and China met in Moscow, in an atmosphere of unease and palpable distrust. Notwithstanding altered ground realities, media projections included rank optimism; forecasting PLA withdrawal to doomsday predictions of imminent, all-out war. In order to take a considered view, it is appropriate to recount the Sumdorong Chu incident. The stand-off started in June 1986 and lasted nearly one year. It required a visit by former PM Rajiv Gandhi in 1988, followed by five years of tortuous parleys (in characteristic Chinese style), to arrive at ineffective protocols, now smashed to smithereens by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Unfortunately, China pushed its agenda to de-link border resolution from the template of bilateral relations. It managed to convince India to remain focused on economic development, leading to debilitating supply chain dependencies. Concurrently, border talks were put on the backburner and in ‘slow wok’. Now, much belatedly, realisation has dawned that it was a clever ploy to gain time to ramp up border infrastructure. This interregnum was also utilised for modernisation and reforms in PLA. Unfortunately, we were lulled into following the Chinese game plan and neglected our armed forces. The status of our forces and pandemic convinced PLA to apply the fifth maxim of, “Loot a burning house,” as enshrined in their war fighting manual titled, “The 36 Stratagems”. We also bound ourselves to protocols of flag/banner drills and banning fire arms, promoting the use of barbaric stone age weapons. The critical requirement in parleys is to ensure coupling of progress on border resolution with overall bilateral relations. Putting it bluntly, it has to be stated unequivocally that ambiguity in border definition can’t go hand in hand with trade. The model has to be like our current stand with Pakistan; wherein terror and talks are not acceptable concurrently. It will be appropriate to incorporate defence experts in diplomacy to signal our concern and focus. The contrast in two defence delegations; uniform heavy Chinese with bureaucrat dominated Indian side, is too stark to be missed. Desired end state should be to convert LAC from Line of Ambitious (Imagined) Claims to Line of Articulated (Agreed) Clarity. It is rather disappointing that diplomats have reinforced status-quo rather than providing any clarity or commitment on critical aspect of delineation of LAC. Despite attempts to give it an optimistic spin by official sources, the five-point agreement has made the task of commanders more complex. The only silver lining is that we are still talking and promulgating joint declarations, though China has issued its own addendum, reiterating that border resolution can remain de-linked from other bilateral issues. This is like reference to ‘strategic guidance to commanders’ spelt out only in the Indian declaration, after Wuhan. This resulted in one-sided Indian compliance and continued licence to PLA hierarchy. Corps Commanders are expected to kickstart stalled disengagement process, even when original set of protocols has been destroyed by China and trust is conspicuous by its total absence. PLA will attempt to shift the focus of de-escalation to Spanggur gap. India has to remain centred on sequencing it, in the correct order, i.e. Hot spring, Gogra, Finger 5 to 8, North of Pangong Tso(PTSO), Depsang and only after due verification in Spanggur gap. Buffer zone formulation needs review because it limits freedom of patrolling. Before analysing possible scenarios, it will be appropriate to reiterate that the hype on PLA’s technological prowess in cyber, electronic and surveillance has been debunked as nearly five months into the stand-off, it is yet to manifest. The limitations of technology in such terrain and altitude are fairly evident with Indian troops managing to surprise and secure features south of PTSO. Efficacy will further reduce, with winter making LAC largely non-kinetic. In contrast, our Army has proven niche capabilities in high-altitude and winter warfare. It is particularly heartening to see spontaneous mobilisation of Ladakhis, making it a genuine peoples’ war, generating potent signal to Chinese. Utilisation of SFF has added a sharper edge to psychological messaging. The most likely scenario can be described as – grab to improve posture before winter. PLA, stung by the surprise manoeuvre to secure Spanggur gap, may even resort to desperate measures to even scores. We will have to keep our guard up, particularly in areas south of PTSO, Depsang and even Arunachal. The second possible scenario is, drift to next campaigning season. It will allow both sides time to negotiate more reliable Confidence Building Measures (CBMs). The most dangerous but mercifully, least likely scenario is – limited conflict. It is learnt that China has not provided any credible explanation for the huge build-up (in the garb of training) and its treachery. However, hints have been given on two accounts. Media reports indicate that PLA is attempting to shift blame on theatre and other commanders, akin to the narrative rolled out after the Doklam crisis. In the highly centralised CCP-PLA system; such scapegoating seems most ludicrous. It is also being suggested that PLA may not be averse to pull out from rear areas, albeit maintaining their posture in forward areas. This is attributable to realistic appraisal of challenges of maintaining large forces through winter. Consequently calibrated thinning out is likely. Our forces face a complex challenge but comforting thought is that they are the best in this domain and may even surprise us with more leverage for diplomacy. PLA at Mukhpari indulged in failed ‘Hulla-Bol’ operations complete with spears. It is time they realise that Indian Army can’t be coerced by such rush drills and propaganda manoeuvres. The writer is former Army Commander, Western Command||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lac-stalemate-and-the-way-forward/articleshow/78082983.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Exports offer lifeline as domestic market flounders||AHMEDABAD: Even as the domestic market continues to face challenges on the demand side, exports have come to the rescue of sectors such as pharmaceuticals, ceramics, chemicals and engineering. Export orders have not only helped these sectors stay afloat but also provided a cushion against slowing domestic demand. Tile-makers see a surge in exportsCeramic tile-makers in Morbi — India’s largest cluster of ceramics — shipped tiles worth Rs 2,700 crore in the April-July. All big ceramic players across Gujarat and India are operating at 80-85% capacity as export demand remains robust. Domestic demand for ceramic tiles continues to languish with slow recovery of real estate industry. The export market is going strong, with many countries looking at sources other than China. There is also pent-up demand in markets. “With anti-China sentiments across the world, and with the USA imposing heavy duties on tiles from China, we foresee huge export potential for Indian companies,” said Kamlesh Patel, chairman and MD, Asian Granito India Limited. The recent reduction in gas price by the Gujarat government will also make locally made tiles globally more competitive. “The tile-makers are receiving export orders from the US, UK, Indonesia, Mexico and Europe and the Middle-East,” said Nilesh Jetpariya, president, wall tiles division, Morbi Ceramics Association (MCA). Pharma exports grow, domestic sales downAlthough the pharmaceutical sector was not hit as hard as many others, it is still struggling to regain domestic market growth. After registering a negative sales growth of 12% in April and 9% in May, the medicine sales in the domestic market recovered by 2% in June. The growth, however, was flat in July and further slipped into the red with a fall of 2% in August, according to data compiled by AIOCD AWACS, a market research wing of All India Organization of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD). On the other hand, figures from the Union commerce ministry and Pharmaceutical Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) show pharma exports grew around 20% in July. Despite logistics and supply-side issues, the pharma exports grew by more than 9% in the April-June quarter and reached the pre-Covid levels in terms of export growth. While export growth in the pharma sector was less than 1% in April, it bounced back with 10% and 17% growth in May and June, respectively. Export orders rise in engineeringEngineering goods exports from India surged by about 9% in July. Some companies in Rajkot even had to fly back their skilled labourers from other states to fulfil orders. With relations between the US and China getting strained, several American and European companies have turned their eyes on sourcing key engineering components from India. As far as the engineering industry in Rajkot is concerned, the experts say, the share of export orders in overall production has surged to 50% in the past two months. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the share was 35%. “There has been strong demand for agricultural tools from African countries. In addition, export orders for auto parts, pumps, valves and bearings have picked up providing a much-needed cushion to the industry in this trying time,” said Brijesh Dudhagara, vice-president of Rajkot Engineering Association. The maximum orders are flowing in from European, American and African nations, said industry players. Breather for cotton yarn makersA subdued textile market has left cotton yarn makers struggling for local orders, their exports have grown by 10% in the past two months. “Higher exports demand pushed up capacity utilisation of spinning mills to 70% in July and August. The improvement in exports has helped manufacturers sustain their costs and ensure inflow of revenues,” said Saurin Parikh, president, All Gujarat Spinners’ Association (AGSA). Ray of hope for garments and apparelThe garments and apparel exports went down in April-July this year, as against the same period in 2019. However, when compared on a month-on-month basis, the readymade garment exports from the country firmed 55% in June and 32% in July. Industry estimates suggest that Gujarat accounts for 7% of India’s apparel exports. “Since the markets in US and Europe have reopened, orders have started pouring in from the international market in a big way. This helped recover export demand faster than domestic demand,” said Rahul Mehta, chief mentor, Clothing Manufacturers Association of India (CMAI). (With inputs from Nimesh Khakhariya in Rajkot)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/exports-offer-lifeline-as-domestic-market-flounders/articleshow/78083010.cms||Kalpesh Damor
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Covid continues rampage; 1,117 more test +ve in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus continued its rampage in the state capital with over 1,100 new cases being detected for the second consecutive day on Saturday. Total 1,117 new cases in 24 hours pushed the Covid-19 patient count to 38,336 since the outbreak. The infection has soared in September with over 10,000 cases being reported in the month so far. In fact, the daily average case tally this month has mounted to 909 in comparison to 620 in August — an increase of 46%. Experts said cases will increase further in coming days as each patient infects four others on an average. As the virus has an incubation period of 5-14 days, the infection chain set in motion by a patient picks pace gradually and numbers start growing exponentially. The same trend is visible across the city. A micro picture revealed the top contributors to spike were from Gomtinagar, Rae Bareli road and Indira Nagar. In Gomtinagar, 65 residents tested positive on Saturday with the prime locality recording highest number of cases since past 20 days. Health officers said residents, who came in contact with patients detected earlier, are now testing positive. In fact, entire families are testing positive, resulting in spike, they added Rae Bareli road and Indira Nagar are also reporting surge in cases and have been among top five localities in daily new cases for several days now. On Saturday, 54 cases were detected from Rae Bareli road and 52 from Indira Nagar, followed by Chowk 48, Jankipuram 42, Alambagh 39, Mahanagar 38, Aashiana 37, Chinhat and Hazratganj 35 each, Contonment 33, and Talkatora and Aliganj 32 each. Of the cumulative caseload so far, 28,301 (73.8%), including 837 on Saturday, have recovered, while 9,539 (24.8%) are recuperating at home and in hospitals. About 506 (1.3%) could not survive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-continues-rampage-1117-more-test-ve-in-city/articleshow/78083925.cms||Yusra Husain
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana keen to develop PV Narasimha Rao’s birth village||LAKNEPALLY (WARANGAL RURAL): The government is keen to develop Laknepally village, the birthplace of former PM PV Narasimha Rao, minister for tourism V Srinivas Goud said. Goud, along with panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao and tribal welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod visited Laknepally on Saturday. He said PV’s birthplace would be developed as a cultural and heritage centre. “As part of PV’s centenary, the government has resolved to develop Laknepally and Vangara as tourism spots by bringing them under a tourism circuit,” Goud said. He said a memorial will be built and PV’s ancestral home will be made a heritage place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-keen-to-develop-pvs-birth-village/articleshow/78083007.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 13, 2020||Goa||Saving Chicalim’s heritage, one ‘parkonnem’ at a time||Vasco: Riddle me this, one of the oldest games in the world, has become the Chicalim biodiversity group’s latest way of spreading the message about the need to save the village’s biodiversity. Bio-crusaders have started a riddle, or, as it is called in Goa, ‘parkonnim’ (plural for parkonnem) contest on WhatsApp. “It started as a fun way to make the people of Chicalim and Sancoale, who are on the Chicalim Biodiversity WhatsApp group, aware about the various heritage aspects of the Chicalim village. The long term aim is to push for making our village a heritage village and in this manner afford its biodiversity and historical legacy protection,” says environmentalist and parish priest of the village, Fr Bolmax Pereira, who came up with the concept of converting it from a hyper local contest to a wider one, where Goans from all over can participate. It was human rights activist from Chicalim, Cyril A Fernandes who revived ‘parkonnem’ on the messaging app as a fun activity. Now, as part of the contest, right from the village’s megalithic caves, said to be one of the earliest evidences of settlement in the Goa region, and the now much talked about threatened biodiversity of the Chicalim Bay, to the ancient ruin of a church and more, the ‘parkonnim’ cover it all. The competition is being held in memory of C G Varkey. “George Varkey, his son, was filled with nostalgia when he saw one of these ‘parkonnim’ on a group. His father used to pose these to him and he approached us with the offer of setting up an annual Varkey Rolling Trophy of Heritage with a cash prize of Rs 5,000,” said Pereira, who is assistant professor, botany, at the St Joseph Vaz college, Cortalim. While the group has started with the annual trophy with the riddle contest they will cover various aspects of heritage with time, said Pereira. The Chicalim bio-crusaders record each ‘parkonnem’ through their members or guests and then post it in the WhatsApp groups with the poser ‘kitem tem sang’ (what is it). Till date, 36 riddles have been posted and the contest will end at 50. Finally, the person who has answered the most ‘parkonnim’ will win. The group is looking at putting up all the ‘parkonnims’ on to the SFXchicalim.org website so that the contest is be accessible to all Goans everywhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saving-chicalims-heritage-one-parkonnem-at-a-time/articleshow/78084007.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||HC judge lays stone of ADR centre in Y’nagar||Yamunanagar: Punjab and Haryana high court judge-cum-Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HSLSA) executive chairman Justice Rajeev Sharma laid the foundation stone of the alternative dispute resolution (ADR) centre on Friday. The centre will be constructed at a cost of Rs 4.50 crore at the judicial complex in Yamunanagar. Justice Rajeev Sharma said the ADR centre at the judicial complex was the need of the hour. He said ADR centres set-up by the HSLSA in some districts of the state were directly benefiting the public. He said the HSLSA had done a commendable work in providing quick and cheap justice to people through Lok Adalats. He said cases should be settled before going to the courts. “Such efforts should always be made on a larger scale so that litigation could be avoided and efforts should be made to provide quick justice to people,” he said. The officials said the ADR centre would be a two-storey building. The ground floor will consist of members’ chamber, permanent Lok Adalat, chairman’s chamber, computer room, ADR centre and staff room. The first floor will have room, library, store, multipurpose conference hall, settlement hall and toilets. Similarly, the second floor will have a multipurpose conference hall, store, chambers and rooms for mediators, meeting rooms and toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-judge-lays-stone-of-adr-centre-in-ynagar/articleshow/78082998.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Nine accused in Maoist attack case discharged||KOZHIKODE: The sessions court in Palakkad has discharged nine accused in a case related to a Maoist attack on KFC and McDonald’s outlets in Palakkad. In the order issued on September 9, the court refused to frame charges against the accused. Maoist leader Roopesh who was the eight accused in the case argued for himself and got discharged without a trial while a defense counsel appeared for others. A total of 10 people were named as accused in the case, including the leader of the outfit C P Moideen, who is absconding. Roopesh’s wife Shyna, the ninth accused in the case, was also discharged as the charges against her as well were found groundless. According to the prosecution, the two outlets at Chandra Nagar in Palakkad came under attack on December 22, 2014. Two groups attacked the outlets under the leadership of Moideen as part of the urban action plan of the CPI (Maoist). Roopesh and Shyna were made accused in the case under Section 120(B) of the IPC. But they were not members of the unlawful assembly which allegedly organized the attack. Roopesh argued that he and Shyna were not present at the scene or near the scene of occurrence at the time of the happening of the incident. The investigating officer filed a report before the court to incorporate the names of accused eight and nine in the first information report and connected documents only on March 8, 2016. Roopesh argued that no witness has given evidence to prove the alleged conspiracy. Similarly, no document was produced by the prosecution to prove that the accused committed the offenses pursuant to the conspiracy hatched between them and Roopesh and Shyna. Shyna said Roopesh did his law degree from Cochin University and is arguing in person all the cases against him.  “Earlier police were reluctant to produce him in the court, but as he himself is arguing the case, now they have no option but to produce him in person,” she said. Shyna said the state government had moved the Supreme Court against the lifting of the UAPA against Roopesh in some cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nine-accused-in-maoist-attack-case-discharged/articleshow/78082241.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Shatabdi back on track, but most seats remain vacant||LUCKNOW: The New Delhi-Lucknow Swarn Shatabdi Express resumed operations after 174 days but found few takers with just 12 to 19% occupancy despite extensive preparations for Covid-19 screening and contactless ticket examination. A total of 255 passengers boarded the Shatabdi Express to Delhi from Charbagh and only 164 passengers alighted from the premium train which always ran full capacity in pre-Covid times. The Swarn Shatabdi has 1,300 seats but most had to go abegging on Saturday as railways rolled out 80 trains on track for plying after Covid-19 induced shutdown. “We had set up thermal scanning facility for passengers at the entrance of the station. The passengers had been asked to report 90 minutes before departure, but still few came late,” said station director Girish Kumar Singh. Three passengers came late, but were still subjected to thermal scanning made and had to run to board the train. The train departed for New Delhi exactly at 3.35pm as per schedule. Most passengers headed to Delhi said they were going to rejoin their jobs after lockdown. Manoj Kumar, an IT engineer in an e-retail firm, said, “The arrangement for passengers screening at railway station gave a feeling of being at airport. Staff was humble but attentive while checking tickets and temperature.” Sumitra Sharma, another passenger, said, “This thorough checking should be a permanent feature now.” Senior railway officials, however, said that this arrangement is only till the pandemic lasts as the number of train passengers is huge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shatabdi-back-on-track-but-most-seats-remain-vacant/articleshow/78083949.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Proposed eco-sensitive zone around Mangalavanam increased by 20 acres||Kochi: Ministry of environment, forest and climate change has reduced the extent of the proposed eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) around the boundary of Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary to a maximum of 1km in the new ESZ draft notification. The 2017 notification had proposed to notify an area with extent ranging from zero to 1.5 kilometers. But the total ESZ area has grown from 0.45sq km to 0.53sq km, adding close to 20 acres, and technically giving more breathing space to the sanctuary, once considered a haven for migratory birds but has degraded over the years because of rapid developmental activities.. The ESZ comprises land belonging to Southern Railway, BPCL, HUL, GCDA, HPCL, Port Trust, KSEB sub-station, Pandit Karuppan Memorial, LMCC Convent and other private lands. The maximum length available is on the northern side where the ESZ extends to 1km but the western and south western sides because of the presence of high court and Central Marine Fisheries Institute have zero extent. The state government would now have to prepare a zonal master plan within a period of two years from the date of publication of this notification in consultation with local residents and adhering to the stipulations. The notification, however, stated that zonal master plan shall not impose any restriction on the approved existing land use, infrastructure and activities. While the new draft notification has given more area to the sanctuary, officials said it is not clear whether it would help the spot reclaim its status as a birding haven as buildings new and proposed have choked it. The sanctuary, with an area of just 2.74ha, had witnessed mangrove regeneration over the years but the heronries have vanished and is no more a favourite haunt of birders. MoEFCC has also proposed setting up an 11-member committee for monitoring the ESZ notification with the district collector as chairman. As per the notification. new commercial construction of any kind will not be permitted within one kilometer from the boundary of a protected area or up to extent of ESZ, whichever is nearer. Locals shall, however, be permitted to undertake construction in their land for their use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/proposed-eco-sensitive-zone-around-mangalavanam-increased-by-20-acres/articleshow/78082249.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre yet to release funds for Telangana highways||HYDERABAD: Despite repeated representations by the Telangana government, the Union road transport and highways ministry has not released maintenance funds for the 936 km-long highways in the state. One of these highways passes through Gajwel, the constituency represented by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. The 150 km-long 161AA national highway stretches from Sangareddy to Narsapur, Toopran and runs via Gajwel, Pragnapur, Jagdevpur, Bhuvanagiri before terminating at its junction with NH-65 near Choutuppal. The highway is also part of the regional ring road project. The state government’s plea for the release of Rs 213 crore towards repair and maintenance of national highways has yielded no response so far. “The ministry has not released the funds for the last one year,” said state roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashant Reddy. With no funds available, the state’s roads and buildings department is unable to take up road repairs. The recent incessant rains, that battered the state, worsened the situation and the estimates for repairs have shot up. Enquiries by TOI revealed that these eight national highways were transferred to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) but funds were not sanctioned by the union ministry. NHAI regional officer A Krishna Prasad confirmed to TOI that their chairman has written to the union ministry that except for the 78-km stretch between Karimnagar and Warangal, the highways authority cannot spend its funds on remaining stretches as there is no recovery mechanism in the form of toll tax. “Now it is the Union ministry which has to take a call on release of funds for maintenance of these roads or to take back these roads from NHAI. A decision is expected soon,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-yet-to-release-funds-for-t-highways/articleshow/78083012.cms||Roushan Ali
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Fountain at AIIMS roundabout gets a new deadline||NEW DELHI: After a gap of four months, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has intensified construction work of a fountain at the AIIMS roundabout. NDMC officials said that due to the coronavirus pandemic, work was at a standstill for some time and later they faced issues in getting labourers. “Now, all issues have been sorted out and we have set a deadline of January 26, 2021 for the project,” said an official. In May 2018, NDMC had decided to construct the biggest fountain in the city at one of the green islands near the AIIMS flyover, which also has eight giant steel sprouts. But the project could not see the light of day because of various hindrances, including shortage of manpower. While the construction work is on in full swing at the site, the civic agency will take at least three months to install and operate the tertiary treatment plant. “We are using an advanced technology to make the treated water odour-free and crystal clear. The machine will be compact in size. The plant will be installed at the pump room below the fountains so as to save space. No gases will be emitted. We are using this technology for the first time,” added the official. For supplying water, the civic agency is in the process of laying a pipeline from the main CPWD unfiltered water line. Besides a giant cascading fountain of 15 feet height and 30 metres width, the redeveloped landscape will have LED lighting, decorative plants and shrubs. “There will be steps around the fountain so that water will flow down the steps. The makeover of this lawn will improve the aesthetic beauty of the entire area,” the official said. Over 65% of the work has been completed, claim NDMC officials. “In 2018, when we proposed to dismantle the sprouts and replace them with a water fountain, some objections were raised by Delhi Urban Art Commission. Thereafter, in December 2018, we had requested the arts commission to prepare a plan for comprehensive redevelopment of the landscape,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fountain-at-aiims-roundabout-gets-a-new-deadline/articleshow/78083990.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||First E-Lok Adalat held, 1,787 cases settled in a day||DEHRADUN: In the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and rising pending cases in courts, Uttarakhand State Legal Services Authority, Nainital, organised the state’s first E-Lok Adalat on Saturday. In total, 5,067 cases of bank/money recovery, family disputes, and marriage-related cases, maintenance matters, criminal compoundable cases, and pre-litigation cases from 13 districts of Uttarakhand were referred to the E-Lok Adalat. Among these, 1,787 cases were settled by the courts. GK Sharma, Member Secretary of the Uttarakhand State Legal Services Authority, informed The E-Lok Adalat was organised under the guidance of Justice Ravi Malimath, Honorable Acting Chief Justice, High Court of Uttarakhand and Executive Chairman. “As many as 475 cases were settled in Dehradun, 498 in Haridwar, 125 in Nainital, 46 in Pauri, 20 in Pithoragarh, 65 in Tehri, 293 in Udham Singh Nagar, 18 in Bageshwar, 80 in Almora, 47 in Chamoli, 67 in Uttarkashi, nine in Rudraprayag, and six in Champawat. In total, 5,067 cases were referred and among these, 1,787 were settled,” added Sharma. In addition to the above, a total of 217 cases were settled at pre-litigation stage throughout the state in the said E-Lok Adalat, where in a cumulative of Rs 4,02,10,873 was the settlement amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-e-lok-adalat-held-1787-cases-settled-in-a-day/articleshow/78081508.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Covid cases touch 30,000 mark in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The Covid-19 tally of the state touched 30,336 cases even as the infection rate rose to 6.2% on Saturday and the number of active cases reached 9,781. Uttarakhand yet again recorded its biggest single-day hike in coronavirus cases with as many as 1,115 fresh infections being reported from the state. Fifty-three inmates of Haldwani district jail also tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Dr Bhagirathi Joshi, chief medical officer of Nainital, confirmed to TOI that a total of 80 inmates of Haldwani jail were tested for coronavirus on Friday, of which 53 were found infected on Saturday. “We are planning to test all other inmates, especially the symptomatic ones. The jail administration has already started isolating the inmates so that the spread of infection can be controlled,” added the CMO. Umesh Sharma Kau, BJP MLA from Raipur constituency, was among those who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. He confirmed the news of his infection in a tweet saying, he was symptomatic and hence, got himself tested. “I request all those who have come in my contact very recently to get themselves tested,” added Kau in his tweet. Of late, several leaders of the ruling party have tested Covid-19 positive. These include state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat, cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, Jhabreda MLA Dehraj Karnwal, Khanpur MLA Pranav Singh ‘Champion’, and Dharampur MLA Vinod Chamoli, among others. Eleven out of 70 MLAs in the state have so far tested positive for the virus. Also, 14 deaths of Covid-19 patients were recorded on the day, pushing the fatalities to 402 in the state. Of the fresh cases reported on Saturday, the maximum of 290 were from Dehradun, followed by 269 from Haridwar, 180 from Udham Singh Nagar, and 110 from Nainital. “Among the hill districts, Pithoragarh reported 68 cases, followed by 51 from Uttarkashi, 46 from Tehri, 31 from Pauri, 25 from Rudraprayag, 14 from Chamoli and eight from Almora,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-cases-touch-30k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/78081509.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Happy to be back at work, Kolkata Metro staffers brace for ‘challenge of a lifetime’||KOLKATA: For the 2,000-odd Metro Railway personnel, resumption of services will be their biggest professional challenge ever. “Ensuring seamless operations following the nitty-gritty of social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols, and keeping ourselves and the public safe, will undoubtedly be the most challenging phase of our lives,” said a motorman with two decades of experience. TOI on Saturday spoke to a few motormen, traffic and signal personnel, station superintendents and ticket counter staffers to feel their pulse on the eve of service resumption. Emerging safe out of the pandemic was the common narrative. A station supervisor who is in his mid-fifties said: “Frankly, we were fervently hoping services would start in September because it was so strange — getting paid without sweating it out. We welcome the authorities’ decision of service resumption but we are also scared. So many of us will be dealing directly with the public. We just hope everyone emerges unscathed in these trying times.” A ticket counter staff member echoed his sentiments: “It’s a relief to be back in action. We are happy that the state government and the Metro authorities came up with this novel way of regulating crowd, by making e-passes mandatory for accessing stations. That’s the most crucial safety measure.” Tapas Mukherjee, general secretary, Metro Railway Workers’ Congress (MRWC), added: “Safety is the biggest worry now. Precautions must be followed to the hilt, both by Metro staff members and by the commuters. Everyone must behave responsibly and adhere to rules. Especially vulnerable are those who will be in close contact with the public. This is an unprecedented circumstance for all of us.” Some of the Metro personnel are unnerved by the fact that four staff members working in the East-West section have contacted Covid. One of them is still in the hospital. “Our jobs are a part of our lives, but some of us are the only bread-earners for our families. We just pray and hope that we can run the service and no one is adversely affected,” a motorman said. Motormen said they will have to be extra alert because the stoppage time has been increased from 20 seconds to 30 seconds. One of them, with 24 years of work experience, said, “I am sure everyone will adapt to the new situation because we are all professionals and want to do a good job at the end of the day. The fear will be forgotten the moment we start executing our duties. Of course, with the Covid protocols and sanitization norms in place, our responsibilities have increased manifold.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/happy-to-be-back-at-work-staffers-brace-for-challenge-of-a-lifetime/articleshow/78082250.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 13, 2020||Bareilly||Three persons kill selves in Shahjahanpur in a day||BAREILLY: Congress Party's former district unit member and two others ended their lives for personal reasons in three separate incidents over the past 24 hours in Shahjahanpur district. The first case was reported from Powayan town, where Aadesh Kumar (23) shot himself dead while he was under the influence on Friday midnight. He was unemployed and was searching for a job. Five-month pregnant Anjali Singh (24) was found hanging in her house in Jalalabad area on Saturday. Her brother, Devendra, alleged that she was fed up of being harassed by her husband, Suraj Singh, for dowry. The couple was married in 2019. Manoj Tripathi (55), a former member of the Congress Party’s local unit, tried to end his life by hanging himself but was rescued by his family members and admitted to hospital. Hr passed away while undergoing treatment. Pravesh Singh, SHO of Kotwali police station, said, “The reason behind Tripathi’s suicide is still uncertain. We will register an FIR if there is any complaint from the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-people-kill-selves-in-shahjahanpur-in-a-day/articleshow/78080781.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: For 1st time ever, change in AC mode to pump in more fresh air||KOLKATA: When the first rake chugs out of Noapara carshed at 9.45am on Sunday, exactly 174 days after coronavirus put brakes on Metro services on March 22, brace for a comparatively warmer — but safer — ride. Laying special emphasis on managing air circulation, the Metro authorities have decided to keep the ‘maximum fresh air intake’ option of the air-conditioners on to pump in more fresh air into rakes. “The idea is to allow more fresh air from outside and disperse any suspended viral particles,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said on Saturday. “As per Railway Board’s recommendations, as a Covid-19 safety measure, the ‘maximum fresh air intake’ provision of the air-conditioner will be used to pump fresh air into trains,” said Joshi, adding: “During the pandemic, airconditioning is being controlled this way in Rajdhani trains.” The Metro authorities will start with this new practice from Sunday itself, when 74 trains will run along the north-south corridor and 50 along the new East-West line from 10am to 7pm. “We will be able to check how passengers are behaving in the new normal, if they are maintaining social distance and adhering to all the rules. The feedback will be useful,” said an official. Air circulation, according to officials, is particularly important for the north-south Metro as 18km — the stretch between Dum Dum and Mahanayak Uttam Kumar — of its 27km link being underground. The entire 5km stretch of East-West Metro that is now operational is elevated. Using the ‘maximum fresh air intake’ provision raises temperature further as a precaution against coronavirus, probably in the range of 24-28 degrees Celsius, according to a Metro official. This provision in the AC setting will be used for the first time in Metro operations to enable the compressor release optimum fresh air, said GM Joshi. “Even in stations, we have installed different types of filters for the ventilators so that there is more fresh air in circulation,” he explained. The high-grade air filters are capable of capturing small particles and releasing pure air. Similarly, excess fresh air will be circulated inside the tunnels. Air circulation control will be easier for non-AC rakes, though. But Metro Railway will mostly be using the 23 AC rakes that are in far better condition. Most of these rakes will be used on Sunday along the north-south corridor. “The entire system will be put to test tomorrow, with passengers in rakes,” Joshi said. In normal circumstances, fresh air is mixed with the AC’s circulated air. “The air inside coaches is a mixture of 70%-73% recycled air and 27%-30% fresh air, generated from the outside ambience. When commuters board trains, the air inside the coaches are drawn by the HVAC (heat, ventilation, airconditioning), cooled, filtered and then blown back,” said an engineer. The air from outside is sucked in by the system and is also blown in simultaneously into the trains after being passed through the same cooling and filtration units. So the air is fully replaced by outside air every two minutes or so. In the new normal, infusion of air will be done at a faster rate to prevent contagion and the ventilation system set in such a way to bring in maximum fresh air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-1st-time-ever-change-in-ac-mode-to-pump-in-more-fresh-air/articleshow/78082244.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Man held with opium worth 10 lakh||Rudrapur: A man in his thirties, identified as Aagas Ali, was held with one kilogram of opium worth Rs 10 lakh (in the international market) by local police in Sitarganj city of Udham Singh Nagar on Saturday. “Accused Ali, a native of Sisaiya village, was caught in possession of contraband during police checking at Nakatpura crossroad near Uttar Pradesh border. He had procured the opium from Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh and was heading to supply it to his customers in Udham Singh Nagar,” said Mohammad Salauddin, station house officer of Sitarganj police station. Ali was booked under National Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and was presented before court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-with-opium-worth-10l/articleshow/78081520.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Cong replaces ‘average performer’ Anugrah Narayan with Devender Yadav as state in-charge||Dehradun: In a late Friday evening development, Uttarakhand unit of Congress party replaced Anugrah Narayan Singh with Devender Yadav as party’s state in-charge. “Yadav is a young and energetic leader. In tough geographical locations of Uttarakhand, we need leaders who can travel to far flung and remote locations. His presence and leadership will ensure a win for the party in 2022 polls,” said state vice-president of Congress, Suryakant Dhasmana. A two-time MLA from Badli constituency in Delhi, Yadav faces the uphill task of bringing the senior state leaders under an umbrella. In the last few years, reports of infighting among the senior state leaders of Congress have often emerged with party veterans like Harish Rawat, Indira Hridayesh, Pritam Singh, and Kishore Upadhyay taking potshots at each other on several occasions. Due to the bickering in the party ranks, the Congress even saw a major split in 2016 as 10 of its MLAs joined BJP and later contested under the BJP banner. Earlier in 2018, Anugrah Narayan Singh, who is a former MLA from Prayagraj, had replaced Ambika Soni as the party’s state in-charge. However, political observers see Singh as an “average performer” as under his guidance, Congress contested two by-polls at Tharali and Pithoragarh and faced defeat in both the constituencies. In the mayoral polls too, Congress could manage to win only two seats of Kotdwar and Haridwar and lost the remaining six constituencies. Meanwhile, the party has made former chief minister Harish Rawat as the in-charge for Punjab. Earlier, Rawat was selected as the in-charge for Assam, which would be going to polls next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-replaces-average-performer-anugrah-narayan-with-devender-yadav-as-state-in-charge/articleshow/78081525.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Southern Command chief visits Vadodara||Vadodara: The general officer commanding-in-chief (GOC-in-C) of the Southern Command of the Indian Army visited the military station in the city on Friday. Lieutenant general C P Mohanty was briefed in detail by the commandant, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) School, formation commander and station commander on the operational readiness and important training aspects. During his 2-day visit, the army commander also inspected various facilities and security set up by the Indian Army and its efforts to contribute to the nation’s fight against Covid-19. He complimented the upgraded training facilities at EME School and the training node of the formation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/southern-command-chief-visits-vadodara/articleshow/78081845.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Can’t conduct Covid tests at Rs 1,600, say pathologies||LUCKNOW: Private pathologies engaged in Covid-19 testing in UP have urged the government to reconsider its decision to revise the cost of tests from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600. Claiming that the labs will not be able to bring down the cost of testing in view of overhead expenses, a group of pathologies made an official representation to additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Saturday. Though the matter has been taken up by senior officials, a decision is yet to be taken. Sources said the government is exploring all available options.  On Thursday, the government had announced slashing of the cost of Covid-19 tests at private labs. Officials said the move came after the reduction in the cost of reagents required to undertake tests. Issuing relevant orders, Prasad had said the new rates would come into immediate effect and added that overcharging would be considered a violation of the Epidemic Act. However, private pathology owners in their representation to Prasad said the ‘cheaper reagents’ were still not available in the market. They also expressed resentment over the sudden issuance of the order without any consultation with private pathology owners. “We were not given any time to voice our concern. The authorities did not give us any time to prepare for the transition,” said a pathology owner. Another representative said that the new price would not even cover their expenditure. “We have urged the authorities to also consider our overhead expenses like home collection, engaging data entry operators and wastage costs that go in conducting urgent tests,” a Covid-19 coordinator at a private lab said. One of the signatories of the letter to the government, Dr Bandana Mehrotra, said the rate revision was done without prior information, hence all testing had to be stopped to find out if labs can adjust to the new rates because raw material - regents and testing kits - at cheaper rates are not available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cant-conduct-covid-tests-at-rs-1600-say-pathologies/articleshow/78083988.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh government slashes prices, pvt labs stop RT-PCR tests||LUCKNOW: Private pathology labs abstained from conducting Covid-19 tests for the second consecutive day on Saturday, giving a tough time to people suspected to be having novel coronavirus infection. There are 15 private labs in the city which have permission to carry out diagnostic examination of swab samples through RT-PCR method. These labs stopped RT-PCR testing after the state government reduced the cost of test from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600 on September 10. As a result, an estimated 4,000 Covid-19 tests could not be done in two days. “About 2,000 Covid-19 tests are done by these 15 labs daily. Every test through RT-PCR method costs us at least Rs 2,200. If the government wants us to reduce the prices, it should help us in finding suppliers who can provide quality raw material required to conduct tests at cheaper rates,” said Ashwini Singh, director of a private lab in Chowk. As the issue remained unresolved on Saturday, many people had to go back home disappointed or visit heavily overcrowded government hospitals for tests. Rajnish Mishra of Chowk wanted to get a test done for his family of four. “We all had come in contact with a relative who was tested positive on Friday. I too had cough, hence the family doctor advised me to go for a test and self-isolate. My family and I went to a lab near my house but we were told that no testing is being done,” he said. As a result, rush has increased at already overloaded government hospitals. Arshit Srivastava and his wife went to KGMU fever clinic for a test and had to stand in a queue for long after a private lab near their house refused. While the order was hailed by the people, private labs cried foul claiming that regents and testing kits are not available at lower prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/govt-slashes-prices-pvt-labs-stop-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78086786.cms||Yusra Husain
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR: Will solve Cantt road closure||Secunderabad: Minister for municipal administration & urban development (MA&UD), KT Rama Rao assured to resolve road closure issues. On Saturday, KTR held a meeting with the MA&UD principal secretary, Arvind Kumar, SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy and TRS Malkajgiri Lok Sabha in-charge, M Rajasekhara Reddy and discussed state government’s dues to be paid to SCB, road closure, water problem and welfare schemes. KTR said that the state is keen to resolve the road closure issue and accordingly, represented the union defence minister, Rajnath Singh. “KTR also said that all the dues which are pending with the state will be cleared after discussion with the finance department,” TRS Malkajgiri Lok Sabha in-charge, M Rajasekhara Reddy told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-will-solve-cantt-road-closure/articleshow/78083046.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer Covid ward to get more beds||Ajmer: The Covid-19 ward at JLN Hospital will have oxygen facility in every bed. Looking at the rapid rise of cases in the district, the administration asked the hospital to remain alert and increase beds with oxygen facilities.Coronavirus infection is increasing not only in urban but also in rural regions of the district. Sources said that at present the Covid ward is almost full and oxygen facility is in demand.District collector Prakesh Rajpurohit inspected the ward which has been set up on the rear of the medical college and near the urology department. He sought information about oxygen cylinders’ availability and directed hospital authorities to increase the number of beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-covid-ward-to-get-more-beds/articleshow/78083035.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three booked for attempt to murder||CHANDIGARH: UT police booked three men under charges of attempt to murder for assaulting a person with sharp-edged weapons at Sector 9. Injured was admitted at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16. No arrest has been made so far. In his complaint, Rohit Singla, a resident of Sector 22, alleged that three unidentified persons in a car bearing Haryana registration number assaulted him at Sector 9 market with sharp-edged weapons, sticks and injured him critically before fleeing the spot. The complainant informed the police about the incident and PCR rushed him to GMSH-16 for treatment. Sector 3 police also reached the spot and recorded his statement. Police registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC against unknown persons and are scrutinising the CCTV footage installed in the market to identify the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-booked-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/78083028.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh government slashes prices, pvt labs stop RT-PCR tests||LUCKNOW: Private pathology labs abstained from conducting Covid-19 tests for the second consecutive day on Saturday, giving a tough time to people suspected to be having novel coronavirus infection. There are 15 private labs in the city which have permission to carry out diagnostic examination of swab samples through RT-PCR method. These labs stopped RT-PCR testing after the state government reduced the cost of test from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600 on September 10. As a result, an estimated 4,000 Covid-19 tests could not be done in two days. “About 2,000 Covid-19 tests are done by these 15 labs daily. Every test through RT-PCR method costs us at least Rs 2,200. If the government wants us to reduce the prices, it should help us in finding suppliers who can provide quality raw material required to conduct tests at cheaper rates,” said Ashwini Singh, director of a private lab in Chowk. As the issue remained unresolved on Saturday, many people had to go back home disappointed or visit heavily overcrowded government hospitals for tests. Rajnish Mishra of Chowk wanted to get a test done for his family of four. “We all had come in contact with a relative who was tested positive on Friday. I too had cough, hence the family doctor advised me to go for a test and self-isolate. My family and I went to a lab near my house but we were told that no testing is being done,” he said. As a result, rush has increased at already overloaded government hospitals. Arshit Srivastava and his wife went to KGMU fever clinic for a test and had to stand in a queue for long after a private lab near their house refused. While the order was hailed by the people, private labs cried foul claiming that regents and testing kits are not available at lower prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/govt-slashes-prices-pvt-labs-stop-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78086787.cms||Yusra Husain
September 13, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government slashes prices, pvt labs stop RT-PCR tests||LUCKNOW: Private pathology labs abstained from conducting Covid-19 tests for the second consecutive day on Saturday, giving a tough time to people suspected to be having novel coronavirus infection. There are 15 private labs in the city which have permission to carry out diagnostic examination of swab samples through RT-PCR method. These labs stopped RT-PCR testing after the state government reduced the cost of test from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600 on September 10. As a result, an estimated 4,000 Covid-19 tests could not be done in two days. “About 2,000 Covid-19 tests are done by these 15 labs daily. Every test through RT-PCR method costs us at least Rs 2,200. If the government wants us to reduce the prices, it should help us in finding suppliers who can provide quality raw material required to conduct tests at cheaper rates,” said Ashwini Singh, director of a private lab in Chowk. As the issue remained unresolved on Saturday, many people had to go back home disappointed or visit heavily overcrowded government hospitals for tests. Rajnish Mishra of Chowk wanted to get a test done for his family of four. “We all had come in contact with a relative who was tested positive on Friday. I too had cough, hence the family doctor advised me to go for a test and self-isolate. My family and I went to a lab near my house but we were told that no testing is being done,” he said. As a result, rush has increased at already overloaded government hospitals. Arshit Srivastava and his wife went to KGMU fever clinic for a test and had to stand in a queue for long after a private lab near their house refused. While the order was hailed by the people, private labs cried foul claiming that regents and testing kits are not available at lower prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-slashes-prices-pvt-labs-stop-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78084018.cms||Yusra Husain
September 13, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh government slashes prices, pvt labs stop RT-PCR tests||LUCKNOW: Private pathology labs abstained from conducting Covid-19 tests for the second consecutive day on Saturday, giving a tough time to people suspected to be having novel coronavirus infection. There are 15 private labs in the city which have permission to carry out diagnostic examination of swab samples through RT-PCR method. These labs stopped RT-PCR testing after the state government reduced the cost of test from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600 on September 10. As a result, an estimated 4,000 Covid-19 tests could not be done in two days. “About 2,000 Covid-19 tests are done by these 15 labs daily. Every test through RT-PCR method costs us at least Rs 2,200. If the government wants us to reduce the prices, it should help us in finding suppliers who can provide quality raw material required to conduct tests at cheaper rates,” said Ashwini Singh, director of a private lab in Chowk. As the issue remained unresolved on Saturday, many people had to go back home disappointed or visit heavily overcrowded government hospitals for tests. Rajnish Mishra of Chowk wanted to get a test done for his family of four. “We all had come in contact with a relative who was tested positive on Friday. I too had cough, hence the family doctor advised me to go for a test and self-isolate. My family and I went to a lab near my house but we were told that no testing is being done,” he said. As a result, rush has increased at already overloaded government hospitals. Arshit Srivastava and his wife went to KGMU fever clinic for a test and had to stand in a queue for long after a private lab near their house refused. While the order was hailed by the people, private labs cried foul claiming that regents and testing kits are not available at lower prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/govt-slashes-prices-pvt-labs-stop-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78086785.cms||Yusra Husain
September 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man drowns, youth feared dead in Kerala's Kulakkode||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A 36-year-old man died by drowning and a 19-year-old youth went missing while swimming in Karamana river at Kulakkode near Vellanad under Aryanad police station limits on Saturday. Kulakkode resident Arun, who was working as a lab technician at Regional Cancer Centre in the city, is the deceased. Sajith, hailing from Peringamala near Palode and currently living in a rented house at Karakulam, is the one who went missing in the river. He was working as an attender at a private hospital in the city. Police said Sajith and Arun’s mother were colleagues at a private hospital. Sajith went to Kulakkode to pick up Arun’s mother to go for duty. Sajith reached Arun’s residence in the afternoon. Since their shift would only begin at 5 pm, the two men decided to go for a swim. “The two men were swimming from one bank to the other and then back. While swimming back from the other bank, Sajith drowned, apparently owing to exhaustion,’’ said a police officer of Aryanad station based on eyewitness accounts. Arun, after reaching back at the starting point, dived into the river again, seeing Sajith drowning. But, both of them soon disappeared under the water, police said. Search operations were soon launched and rescue workers managed to retrieve the body of Arun. Search for Sajith was continuing at the time of going to press. Besides parents, Arun leaves behind wife Aswathy and two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-drowns-youth-feared-dead/articleshow/78082278.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand hills see new rush for filmmakers||DEHRADUN: The Covid pandemic may have spelt doom for many sectors but it seems to have given a push to film shoots in Uttarakhand. Around a dozen producers and directors who were planning to shoot their movie in a foreign location earlier, are now eyeing the picturesque locations of the hill state. Some of them are currently in the process of finalising details with local authorities while others have started shooting. Bollywood filmmaker Vishal Bhardwaj (who has a house in Landour) for instance has been in Mussoorie for the past few months now, readying the script of his next venture, which is likely to be shot in the backdrop of the hills of Garhwal later this year. More such Bollywood projects are also in the pipeline. According to state government sources, permission has been given for the shooting of 40 feature films, ad films, TV serials and web series in the state ever since the unlock process started on June 2. Doon-based film co-ordinator Sumit Adhlakha, who connects production houses to the state government, said the amended film policy introduced by the state government a few years ago has been a game changer. “A subsidy ranging from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 1.5 crore that is being provided by the state to filmmakers saves a lot of expenses for producers. The free-of-cost security cover that is given to film units, along with a 50% discount on stay in tourism department rest houses are a major plus too,” Adlakha said. Filmmaker Milan Luthria (who has made films like ‘Once Upon a Time in Mumbai’ and ‘The Dirty Picture’) shot his forthcoming film in Mussoorie for three months in 2019, and says that the experience of shooting in Uttarakhand was a great one. “We thought Mussoorie, being a popular hill station, would be crowded, but that wasn’t the case. We shot for several months in Mussoorie and surrounding areas and apart from minor traffic jams, did not face any problems. The cleanliness of the town is commendable. We would love to come back here,” Luthria said. Anuj Nautiyal, who makes arrangements for film shoots in Uttarakhand, said that while the biggest USP of the state is its picturesque locales, the government should also invest in developing basic facilities in remote areas to make it easier for film crews to shoot there. “When a film is shot at a certain location, it turns into a tourist spot, which in turn boosts the local economy. Take Harsil in Uttarkashi, for instance, where ‘Ram Teri Ganga Maili’ was shot in the 1980s. Local businesses are still thriving there because tourists stop to see the location of the shoot,” Nautiyal said. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the state government is committed to making Uttarakhand a top-notch film shoot location. “The spurt in projects being shot in the hills of our state is the result of the hard work we put in in the last three years,” he told TOI. “Besides making changes in our film policy, we personally met top producers and directors. There are three major impacts of producers increasingly coming to Uttarakhand – employment of locals, upliftment of the state economy and boost in tourism. Producers and directors inevitably need the help of locals and when a film crew stays in hotels and guest houses and uses local resources, it directly or indirectly contributes in improving the state’s economy. And of course, when audiences spot picturesque locales in films, they want to visit the state,” the CM said. Some of the major films to have been shot in the state in recent years include ‘Kedarnath’, which was released in 2018 and is based on the 2013 floods and ‘Batti Gul Meter Chalu’ (2018), a social drama which deals with problems of intermittent electricity supply and inflated bills in Uttarakhand’s villages. Apart from these, parts of ‘Student of the Year’ (and its sequel), ‘Kabir Singh’, ‘Batla House’ and ‘Parmanu’ were also shot in the hills. A-listers like Shahid Kapoor, John Abraham, the late Irrfan Khan and Sushant Singh Rajput have shot extensively in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-foreign-shores-off-limits-hills-of-uttarakhand-emerge-as-attractive-destination-for-filmmakers/articleshow/78081531.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s pet dogs to get unique IDs||HYDERABAD: For the first time, the city will have a database of licenced pet dogs in the city. These pets will have a unique identification number (UID). Pet owners shall no longer visit Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) offices for obtaining a licence for their dog. They can apply for it online as the option to avail online licence will be rolled out this month. No objection certificate (NOC) from two neighbours (adjacent to the house/flat ) where the pet stays, health records of the pet, vaccination schedule and details of the owner should be uploaded. A fee of Rs 50 shall be paid online. “After Mumbai and Delhi, Hyderabad will be the third city which will have an exclusive database of pet dogs. The database will also ensure timely vaccination of dogs,” said Abdul Wakil, GHMC chief veterinary officer. Meanwhile, GHMC has decided to make Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) chips mandatory to obtain a licence from next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citys-pet-dogs-to-get-unique-ids/articleshow/78083055.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: NEET centres pass NTA scrutiny, ready for ‘Covid test’ on D-Day||KOLKATA: As many as 66 centres for NEET in Kolkata and 16 in Howrah have readied themselves for Sunday’s examination. In the past one week, each centre went through multiple rounds of sanitization, furniture arrangements, staff drills and virtual meetings with the National Testing Agency and city coordinators. On Saturday, most centres sanitized their premises four times and the last round was inspected by NTA teams. Hundreds of students from the districts and even other states like Odisha are putting up at guesthouses in Park Circus, Sealdah and Moulali. While some arrived as early as on Friday morning, others — accompanied by parents — reached on Saturday. In the absence of trains, most of them had to pay through the nose to travel. Biswaraj Mondal and Danish Khan from Malda had taken a bus around 8pm on Thursday. They shelled out Rs 800 for one-way tickets. “The bus driver said that he was taking a risk on lockdown day and, hence, we had to pay that amount. We reached Esplanade around 9.30am on Friday. We pleaded with the cops to help us reach Park Circus. But they said that the only option was to walk. I could not sleep in the bus. The long walk left me exhausted. At a time when I should have been studying, I was trying to recover from fatigue,” Mondal said. At Hotel Raj and Akash Hotel in Sealdah, there were at least 12 families from Odisha who had booked a car from the Digha border. “The vehicle will remain with us. Hiring a car is costly, but we cannot risk travelling by public transport,” said Priyadarsini Panda, a candidate. Organisations like the Indian Medical Association, West Bengal, West Bengal Haj Committee and NGOs like Bengali Academia for Social Empowerment (BASE) are offering accommodation for students from far-flung areas. “We decided to offer accommodation to NEET-UG candidates from the districts so that they can reach their examination centres on time,” said Santanu Sen, secretary IMA, West Bengal. Late on Saturday, the centres were cordoned off. Depending on the locale and the number of candidates, 100-400 metres were cordoned off for parents to stay beyond a point to prevent crowding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neet-centres-pass-nta-scrutiny-ready-for-covid-test-on-d-day/articleshow/78082275.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Non-compliance of MBC quota in jobs: Sachin Pilot to Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot over the issue of 5% reservation to Gujjars and other communities under more backward classes (MBCs), claiming that it is not being complied with in several recruitments in the state. Pilot said it has been brought to his notice that people in MBC category were not being given the benefit of 5% reservation in government recruitments. There are five communities, including Gujjars, in the category which was created following Gujjar agitation. Pilot, who was sacked from the posts of deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president in July after he rebelled against Gehlot’s leadership, belongs to Gujjar community. In the letter to CM, Pilot said that it was mentioned in the Congress manifesto for 2018 state assembly polls and Congress government had also promised in 2011 that 4% shadow posts will be reserved for the SBC (special backward classes) category after it was embroiled in legal hurdles. He claimed that the 5% reservation rule was not applied to constable recruitment-2018, REET recruitment-2018, panchayati raj LDC recruitment-2013, technical helper recruitment-2018, nursing recruitment-2013 and 2018, jail guard recruitment-2018, Asha supervisor recruitment-2016, commercial assistant recruitment-2018, second-grade teachers’ recruitment-2018 and others. Pilot also mentioned in the letter that development works under Devnarayan scheme, a welfare scheme meant for Gujjars, had been stalled for some time, which, he said, was painful. “People meet me personally to demand proper implementation of the schemes,” he said. He expressed hope that the chief minister will look in to the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/non-compliance-of-mbc-quota-in-jobs-pilot-to-cm/articleshow/78083072.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Stress-free conditions must to deal with Covid: Doctors tell NMC||NAGPUR: Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA), having 10,000 private beds under its command, on Saturday raised with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) issues affecting its members who have been asked to treat Covid patients. The private hospitals sought relief and a stress-free atmosphere in dealing with the pandemic. VHA secretary Dr Alok Umre and its convener Dr. Anup Marar highlighted the problems being faced by doctors in running their establishments “with hands tied in the form of unconstitutional notifications, frequent change of guidelines, rate capping of non-Covid care, forceful coercion, threats, and non-appreciative atmosphere”. VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat said, “Maximum usage of one PPE per day per patient is unscientific and will boomerang on the quality of care delivered to patients. This ruling is difficult to follow on ethical grounds and urgently needs a review.” Vice president Dr Shrikant Mukewar mentioned that rate capping has already dented the fiscal situation of those hospitals that are running Covid sections. Dr Marar stated that patients are rushing to private hospitals assured of good quality care. “The rush to private hospitals speaks volumes about the faith of patients in private hospitals,” he said. Convener Dr Sameer Paltewar said all cashless beneficiaries must claim reimbursement to cut paper work and time. Dr Umre said, “Intimidations, stringent notifications, repeated inspections, audits, varied formats submission to various platforms are taking a toll. This is not in interest of patients and will backfire.’ Joint secretary Dr Dilip Rathi sought a rate cap on oxygen and biomedical waste charges. Joint secretary Dr Shantanu Sengupta stated that forcing private hospitals to stop admitting non-Covid patient is unconstitutional. Treasurer Dr Deepak Deshmukh asked why hospitals are being forced to pay electricity, water and taxes as per commercial rates if treatment cost is capped. Joint treasurer Ravi Mannadiyar said even doctors and nurses in private practice are getting infected while attending to patients and hence an insurance security is required for them too. Executive members Dr Avinash Pophali, Dr Prakash Khetan, Dr Deepak Jeswani, Dr Prashant Rathi, Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala, Dr Akash Balki and Dr Amol Deshmukh appealed to the NMC to consider the above issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stress-free-conditions-must-to-deal-with-covid-doctors-tell-nmc/articleshow/78083049.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Over 11,000 complaints settled since August 2017||CHANDIGARH: Around 11,869 complaints have been disposed of during the public grievance redressal campaign from August 1, 2017 to August 31, 2020. The data reveals that a total of 13,034 persons attended the camp and complaints of 1,165 people could not be solved. The UT police department had started the campaign on July 25, 2017. The police data reveals that a total of six grievances redressal camps were organised in 2017 and 1,734 people had attended the camps at various police stations and wings. However, the police could only settle 1,334 complaints in 2017. In 2018, the police held 12 camps and 4,668 people attended the same. A total of 3,060 complaints were solved. Last year, the police arranged 12 public meetings and 5,396 city residents reached the cops with their problems. However, the police department claimed to have solved a total of 6,128 complaints, including pending complaints of the previous years. However, due to the coronavirus pandemic, only three redressal campaigns were held till March 2020 and 1,231 people attended the redressal campaigns. The police said 1,347 complaints were addressed in these three camps till date. The police department temporarily suspended the redressal camps after March and the same would be resumed when the situation gets better. The police department has been organising public grievances redressal campaign in all the 16 police stations and other units every month since 2017. The main motive of this campaign is to increase cooperation between the police and the public. With these camps, the police address minor issues in a short span of time or effectively without lodging any FIR. The DSPs of the divisions and units supervise these campaigns. However, many people were also found complaining that after settling issues in these camps, after a few days the same problem again came up and they had to approach the cops. Besides holding public grievances redressal campaigns, area SHOs and DSPs also hold public meetings with the resident welfare associations (RWAs) and people in their jurisdictions from time to time. The police data reveals that 2,066 public meetings were held by the SHOs and DSPs and 66,259 people have attended these meetings from August 2017 till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-11k-plaints-settled-since-aug-2017/articleshow/78083092.cms||Pawan Tiwari
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi mixologist debuts on list of world’s top bars||NEW DELHI: On September 10, Drinks International, the UK-based magazine covering the beverage trade across the world, announced its 2020 Bar World 100 list, a ranking of 100 most influential people in the global industry — mixologists, bartenders, bar owners, journalists, et al. And for the first time an Indian mixologist, Yangdup Lama, made it to this list on the 73rd spot. Monica Berg of London bar Tayer + Elementary has topped the list. The Bar World 100 is a respected guide to the leaders of the bar industry, chosen by a voting panel of more than 100 worldwide commentators. Forty-eight-year-old Lama has been mixing drinks for the past 25 years and runs two bars in Delhi-NCR, one in south Delhi and the other in Gurgaon. Sidecar, his south Delhi bar, won a spot on this year’s Asia’s 50 Best Bars, the second Indian bar to be on this prestigious list which is an offshoot of the World’s 50 Best Bars, owned and organised by William Reed, a B2C media company in the UK. Nitin Tiwari, a well-known mixologist in Delhi, said that Bar World 100 is a prestigious list in the industry, “and it’s something we anticipate every year”. He added: “India has never got a chance to get featured until now and I hope we’ll get more such mentions.” Tiwari is a consultant mixologist at Indian and international bars, and is co-founder of Together at 12th bar & restaurant, Le Meridien, Gurgaon. “It means a lot to me to be on this list. It goes to show that Indian bars are being noticed at a global level,” Lama, who hails from Darjeeling but has been working in Delhi for more than two decades, told TOI. Being behind the bar all these years has given him unique insights into India’s bar culture. “In India, promoters of this business have always believed that a bar needs a DJ. They have never invested in the skills of the bartender,” said Lama. He also added that drinking behaviours are changing now for the better. “One key thing is that the young crowd is more experimental. There was a time when people never trusted their drink with a bartender. These days they connect with the bartender, ask questions — what whisky are they drinking, what’s the flavour profile of gin, where’s the wine from. The Indian consumer is truly coming of age,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-mixologist-raises-bar-debuts-on-world-100-list-of-top-watering-holes/articleshow/78084041.cms||Shobita Dhar
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man held for blackmailing US minor||HYDERABAD: An engineering graduate, who allegedly harassed a 12-year-old girl from California in the US, was arrested by Cyberabad police on Saturday.  Cyberabad police said that the victim accepted a friend request from the accused D Sandeep Rao, on her social media account.  Subsequently, the accused befriended the victim and convinced her to share private photos. After saving these photos, he demanded she send more. When the victim refused, Rao began blackmailing her. Later, Rao shared the victim’s photographs with her friend, and asked her to make the victim call him, following which the victim shared more photographs. Following this, the girl informed her parents, who then lodged a police complaint. Rao was arrested under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-blackmailing-us-minor/articleshow/78083100.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Landless can’t be evicted despite not having title: HC||JODHPUR: Stating that every person has a right to life, the state cannot not evict any landless person from a land even if he did not have title of the land, a division bench of high court observed and barred the government from removing residents of Sahava village in Churu district who inhabited a johar land. The bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Dinesh Mehta directed the government to verify the nature of encroachment as well as the land and make arrangements to allot land and a building in case of encroachers being landless for 3-6 months. The court gave these directions while hearing an appeal by the residents of the village at Taranagar in Churu district settled on a johar land who challengedg the eviction order by a single bench of the high court. Moti Singh Rajpurohit, representing the petitioners, said over 300 houses had been built in the village a long time ago but few people approached the high court terming it to be encroachment demanding that encroachers be removed. “The single bench had given directions to identify those encroachments, demolish them and clear the land. These encroachers then challenged the order in the high court and prayed for alternative arrangements,” said Rajpurohit. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/landless-cant-be-evicted-despite-not-having-title-hc/articleshow/78083097.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Dehradun||Despite better Swachh ranking, state of public toilets in Doon remains poor||DEHRADUN: Even as Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) officials have been patting their backs for making remarkable progress in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the public toilets in the city continue to be in a deplorable state with no signs of cleanliness. As a result, residents have been facing problems at market places ever since the lockdown restrictions were lifted. Ashish Jain, a doctor, said, “I have written about the issue to the municipal commissioner suggesting that the people maintaining these public toilets must be fined in case the facility is found dirty. I have also written to the officials of Swachh Bharat Mission suggesting ways to keep the community toilets clean and usable but to no avail.” On Saturday, a TOI team visited a few public toilets near Parade Ground, Jhanda Sahib, and district court premises and found that the public toilets in these areas were far from clean and poorly maintained. Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon resident’s welfare front, said, “The public toilets facilities are one of the basic facilities which are needed by everyone. Our public toilets are not clean and emanate a stench all around. The authorities must ensure that the toilets are maintained as people pay to use the facility.” Ishwar Chawla, a resident of Ashirwad Enclave, said, “The issue is pertinent to all of us and people living across the city feel the need for a clean toilet. The facilities at crowded markets are so bad that one cannot even bear the smell for a second leave alone using them. We will soon have tourists coming to Uttarakhand and we must get the basic necessities in place.” When asked on the plight of public toilets, city mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama told TOI, “We will look into the matter and ensure that these facilities are cleaned before the tourist season begins in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-better-swachh-ranking-state-of-public-toilets-in-doon-remains-poor/articleshow/78081563.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested for gangrape in Bharatpur||Alwar: Police arrested two men for gangrape of a 28-year-old woman in Bharatpur on Saturday. The accused include a police constable and an employee of electricity department. “The woman alleged that on the night of the incident, she had gone to a hotel with the two accused where they consumed alcohol following which the duo took turns to rape her. We have arrested the duo,” said an official of Sevar police station. According to the woman, she came in contact with the accused constable a few months back. He was posted in Jhalawar and she stayed in a rented accommodation in Bharatpur. “The complainant claimed that after raping her, the accused dumped her in front of her house where her husband found her,” added the official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-gangrape-in-bharatpur/articleshow/78083090.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Mobile snatched near Kansal||Chandigarh: Two men on a Honda Activa scooter allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a cyclist from near Kansal on Friday night. Radhey Shyam, a resident of Kansal, said he was returning home on a cycle around 8pm, when the two accused came from the rear and the pillion rider grabbed his mobile. Police tried to trace the accused but failed. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mobile-snatched-near-kansal/articleshow/78083073.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Went through an ordeal, but couldn’t save my mom||NAGPUR: The entire city is grappling under probably the worst pandemic ever. I want to share the horrendous ordeal I went through to save my mother’s life. My 69-year-old mother suffered a brain stroke on September 5 and we admitted her in a private hospital in Ramdaspeth. Later, she was diagnosed with acute leukaemia (blood cancer) and also tested Covid-19 positive. As the private hospital where she was admitted to was a non-Covid one, the doctors asked us to take a discharge and shift her to a Covid hospital designated by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). I contacted a nearby private hospital and a person said that they would keep the bed ready. The hospital was hardly 250 metres away but the ambulance cost us Rs3,000. We reached the hospital within 30 minutes only to be told that the bed had got occupied. I frantically started calling top private hospitals in the city, but there was no bed available. I used my contacts, sought help from civic officials, but all in vain. I even tried contacting rural hospitals in areas like Kamptee but the situation was the same there too. I was ready to pay the hefty admission charges of the private hospitals. In one small hospital, there was a bed available but not an ICU. My mother’s condition was critical. She was lying in the ambulance with oxygen supply for more than five hours and the cylinder was about to get empty. Lastly, at around 11pm, I took my mother to a government hospital on Central Avenue. Though all ICU beds were occupied, the doctors considered the critical condition of my mother and shifted a recovering patient in ICU to another ward and admitted my mother. Unfortunately, it was too late and my mother passed away on September 8. I want to convey a message to everyone that the condition of Nagpur is very critical due to Covid-19 pandemic; beds are not available and the private hospitals and ambulances are levying heavy charges, provided if a patient is lucky to get a bed in the hospital. So, I request all become more proactive to fight with this situation. Please don’t get out of the house unless it is absolutely necessary. Follow the SOPs of the Union health ministry and maintain social distancing. I want to ask NMC why didn’t you foresee this situation? Why aren’t enough ICU beds and oxygen set-up available for critical patients? The biggest threat this virus brings in a human body is sudden dip in oxygen levels and despite this, there is a shortage of oxygen in the entire city. Everyone, please take care. Because, if you and your beloved ones fall ill, it is not certain that you will get a bed in a hospital. So take care of yourself and your loved ones to fight with Covid-19 and wait for the vaccine to inoculate in your body and gain immunity from the virus. (The writer, who is lawyer at the Bombay High Court and, District and Sessions Court, spoke to Manka Behl)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/went-through-an-ordeal-but-couldnt-save-my-mom/articleshow/78083098.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Five Delhi kids who beat Covid & exam jitters for perfect score||NEW DELHI: For Gurkirat Singh, there wasn’t much he was nervous about though he did feel “pre-exam jitters while going for the tests due to the Covid-19 situation”. But the arrangements at the Joint Entrance Examinations centre and the first glance he had of the question paper put him at rest. Singh is one of the five students from Delhi to have scored in the 100 percentile in the all-India exam for entrance to engineering institutions, the results of which were announced late on Friday. JEE Mains was conducted earlier this month after several weeks of opposition from political outfits and student groups, who were against the conduct of the tests in the middle of a raging pandemic. Around 8.6 lakh candidates, however, registered for the exam. The top scorers from Delhi are Chirag Falor, Gurkirat Singh, Laksh Gupta, Nishant Aggarwal and Tushar Sethi. They are among the 24 candidates who ended up scoring in the 100 percentile in the exams. Most of these students have not wasted any moment and are already preparing for JEE Advanced, which will be held on September 27. Candidates can register for the this qualifying test by September 17. Already preparing for JEE Advanced, Singh, son of a surgeon father and a medical college teacher for a mother, hoped that he will again get a score in the 100 percentile. “After the exam, I felt confident of doing well as my papers had gone well. Even my parents and I sat down and tallied the question paper with answers, and we were sure that I would get around 99.9 percentile,” said Singh. The student is, however, keen on pure sciences and has already secured admission in the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. “However, I am still considering the IITs,” Singh smiled. Falor also plans to sit for JEE Advanced despite having already started his first semester at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA. In fact, when the results were announced on Friday night, he was attending an online class at MIT. The Pune resident had come to Delhi for classes XII and XII and lived in a hostel while preparing at a coaching centre. “I haven’t had much time to prepare for the advanced JEE because I have already started my MIT classes. I will go to the US in January,” revealed Falora. Like Falor, Harshvardhan Agarwal, the lone 100 percentile from Sonipat in Haryana, will travel to Delhi every weekend to attend his coaching classes. “There aren’t many coaching institutes in Sonipat, so I had to come to Delhi,” said Agarwal. “My plans are to sit for JEE Advanced and try gain admission into IIT-Bombay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-delhi-kids-who-beat-covid-exam-jitters-for-perfect-score/articleshow/78083121.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Safety checks in place for NEET||Bhubaneswar: Massive preparations have been put in place to ensure a smooth and safe National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (undergraduate) across the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All arrangements have been made for NEET exam as per the guidelines of National Testing Agency (NTA) by the respective collectors and municipal commissioners. Students are advised to appear for the examination without any fear of Covid-19,” said Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department. For safety of students and others, who are part of the examination process, students will be allowed to enter the centres in a staggering manner with proper checks of all safety aspects. For this purpose, the reporting time has been set at 11 am. It will take over two hours to conduct necessary checks, including that of safety protocol. At 2 pm the examination will start and will end at 5 pm. “As many as 37,459 candidates are expected to appear for the exam in 83 centres. In capital city, 600 students will sit for the examination. In pre-Covid days, we used to have 35 students in one room. But now this has been reduced to around one-third, which means 12 students will be accommodated in a room to maintain social distancing norms,” said NEET state coordinator Polly Patnaik. “Those who are found to be running a temperature (suspected cases) will be made to sit in an isolation room and give the test,” she added. In JEE (Main), a total of 38,236 students had appeared for the exam between September 1 and 6 in 26 centres across seven cities. In Bhubaneswar, BMC has decided to close retail and wholesale markets in Unit-I to minimize rush near the examination centre close to it. The representatives of the market associations have been asked to ensure that all shops remain close for Sunday. Gayadhar Swain, president, Rajadhani Haata Byabasayi Sangha, said they have announced closure of the market through public address system. “We have received the letter from the BMC and no shopkeeper will be allowed to open his/her counter for the day,” Swain said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/safety-checks-in-place-for-neet/articleshow/78082299.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||51 inmates test positive in Bundi jail||Kota: At least 51 inmates lodged in Bundi district jail at Talabgaun on NH-52 tested Covid positive on Saturday prompting the district administration and medical officials to rush to the prison to take preventive measures. The jail currently accommodates 317 inmates including 25 females. Three inmates had tested positive earlier.The morning report of the samples of 91 inmates collected on Thursday revealed the infection of 36 prisoners while the second report received later in the day tested another 15 inmates positive taking the total to 51 in a day, jailor Lokoujjawal Singh told. After three prisoners tested positive earlier this month, random sampling of 91 inmates was carried out on the direction by district collector Ashish Gupta. Two of the three who tested positive earlier this month were discharged from hospital, while one is likely to be sent home in a day or two, he added.Two of the 51 inmates who tested positive on Saturday had been released on bail on Thursday and Friday after test. They have directed for home isolation, the jailor said.The entire jail premises and the barracks were sanitised and preventive measures put in place under the supervision and direction of medical teams and senior district officials, he said. He added that a barrack had been developed into a Covid ward where 49 positive inmates are undergoing treatment.Most of the inmates who tested positive are asymptomatic with no health complications, however medical teams are examining them and those with complications would be shifted to hospital, the jailor said.“The barracks were thoroughly sanitized and one of the barracks has been turned into a Covid ward,” BCMHO, Hindoli, Jagveer Singh said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/51-inmates-test-positive-in-bundi-jail/articleshow/78083108.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MP’s Green India initiative a hit across India||HYDERABAD: Rajya Sabha MP, TRS general secretary Joginapally Santosh Kumar’s Green India Challenge (GIC) initiative has crossed Telangana borders and spread to around 10 states, including neighbouring AP, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Delhi and Uttarakhand. With the initiative turning out to be a huge success, efforts are on to convince Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be part of the campaign. Santosh launched his initiative on July 17, 2017. The mission, which began as a small initiative to promote green cover across the state, has now emerged as the biggest campaign undertaken by an individual with nearly 10 crore saplings planted across the country.“Five years ago, there were challenges like ‘Ice Bucket’ challenge and ‘Rice Bucket’ challenge. An idea stuck me on how to improve green cover as climate change is a major concern across the globe. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had kicked off ‘Telangana ku Haritha Haram’ with the solo intention of increasing green cover from the existing 24% to 33%. Thanks to the efforts, the green cover in Telangana has gone up by 4% to reach 28%,” Santosh told STOI.The GIC campaign has now taken a new turn with individuals adopting blocks and villages to promote green cover. While 2,000 acres of forest block at Keesara was adopted by Santosh himself, actor Prabhas had recently announced that he would adopt 1,650 acres in Kajupally forest block near ORR, Keesara, and develop it. “We have 88 forest blocks in and around Hyderabad. After Prabhas adopted one forest block, many people are coming forward to adopt forest blocks and take up plantation drive in a big way. Chairman of Hetero group B Partha Saradhi Reddy is keen on taking up Narsapur forest block, while actor Nitin and politician Gokaraju Ranga Raju are ready to develop greenery in 300 to 600 acres,” Santosh said. As part of the GIC, a person tags three others after planting a sapling to do the same. The chain continues. Those who succeed in raising the saplings will be felicitated with ‘Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Vanamitra’ award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mps-green-india-initiative-a-hit-across-india/articleshow/78083115.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Privatisation of Trivandrum airport: Finance minister urges Tharoor to rethink his position favouring Adani group||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister Thomas Isaac has urged Shashi Tharoor MP to rethink his stance favouring Adani group in privatisation of Trivandrum International Airport. He has written an open letter to Tharoor in a social-media page answering queries related to the privatisation. Tharoor had explained his stance on privatisation in a meeting of MPs held prior to Lok Sabha session. Mentioning the fund required for investment in the airport, Isaac said funds can be arranged and MP should not turn a blind eye to massive investment made by the state government for infrastructure development in Kerala. “You (Tharoor) justify your stance by stating negligence on the part of AAI on the development of Trivandrum airport. Even if it is true, it is not a solution to handover a public property like an airport to a corporate company. I request you, as local MP, to take a favourable stance for Kerala. We have experience from Cial and can operate TIAL in a better way,” Isaac said. Citing Vizhinjam seaport project, Isaac said the state does not have the expertise to construct Vizhinjam deep-water seaport and compete with Colombo, Singapore and Colachel seaports. “Although it was a project that drew a lot of criticism when we were in the opposition, as a government-initiated investment project, we realise that such interventions will obstruct Kerala’s long-term development needs. Government has formed capital region development programme so that Thiruvananthapuram district gets the benefit when the Vizhinjam project gets completed,” Isaac said. Comparing the privatisation of public property to plunder by British, he said, “The state openly welcomes private investment but cannot allow looting of public property. Central government had given us assurance twice that our demand will be considered in the bidding and we participated in the bid after registering our disapproval. Later, the central government announced unilaterally to hand over the airport to a private entity,” Isaac said. Mentioning the acres given at free of cost by the government to FACT and Velloor Newsprint factory, he said the government has to pay to get back the land that was not used by the company. Stating MPs stance as suicidal for the airport, Isaac reiterated the demand that Tharoor should support the stand taken by the state. Meanwhile, Tharoor, in a new video shared in a social media group, asked people to support the PPP model for the airport put forward by the central government for the development of Thiruvananthapuram. “A modern, effective and well-functioning airport is indispensable if we want Trivandrum to develop and grow. In my very many efforts to attract companies to come to the city and locate themselves here, many have told me that connectivity is a major disincentive. I have nothing against the state government. But, the state government is naturally interested in all four international airports equally. Whereas a private operator, even if it is only motivated by profit and greed, will have every incentive to make sure that Thiruvananthapuram does better than the others. We must have a competitive, modern and efficient airport, therefore let’s work to go ahead with the PPP model arrangement that the central government has indeed decided to give us,” said Tharoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/finance-minister-urges-tharoor-to-rethink-his-position-favouring-adani-group-in-airport-issue/articleshow/78082298.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Ayush Mani Tiwari takes charge as BSF IG||JAISALMER: Ayush Mani Tiwari (IPS) took over as inspector general of BSF, Rajasthan Frontier, from Amit Lodha on Saturday. IG Amit Lodha has been transferred to BSF headquarters in Delhi. Tiwari is an IPS officer of 1997 batch and belongs to the Tamil Nadu cadre. He is an alumnus of the University of Allahabad and did his MBA from the Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA), Gujarat. He secured his masters in police management from Osmania University. He has served as superintendent of police in many communally and caste-sensitive districts of Tamil Nadu like Tuticorin, Madurai, Thiruvallur and Namakkal. He also served as DCP in Chennai City and DIG of Coimbatore Range and IGP of the Armed Police in Tamil Nadu. In 2007, IG Tiwari came on central deputation to the Narcotics Control Bureau and headed the Gujarat Bureau, which has a long border with Pakistan. Prior to joining BSF, he was with the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security as Deputy Director General for three years. He has been bestowed with many honours including the Presidents Police Medal for meritorious service. Tiwari stated that BSF Rajasthan Frontier will continue the effective border domination and make the border impregnable to thwart any nefarious activities and jawan-oriented welfare plans. It must be mentioned that IG Amit Lodha had taken charge on June 19, 2019, and given his services for 15 months. During his 15-month tenure as Rajasthan Frontier IG, he has implemented various works, including those for the welfare of BSF families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiwari-takes-charge-as-bsf-ig/articleshow/78083119.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||‘Ensure fair probe into northeast Delhi riots’||NEW DELHI: Retired police icon Julio Ribeiro has sent an email to Delhi Police commissioner appealing for a fair investigation in the riots in northeast Delhi in February. Calling himself a true patriot and a proud member of the Indian Police Service, Ribeiro urged the commissioner to ensure proper probe of the 753 FIRs registered against protesters. “Delhi Police has taken action against peaceful protesters, but deliberately failed to register cognisable offences against those who made hate speeches that triggered the riots in NE Delhi,” Ribeiro wrote in his mail. “It troubles sane and apolitical persons like me why Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma have not been arraigned before the courts of law, while deeply hurt Muslim women, peacefully protesting against discrimination based on religion, were lodged for months together in jail.” Ribeiro also accused the city’s police force of “entangling true patriots” like Harsh Mander and professor Apoorvanand in criminal cases and said it was a matter of concern. “We, the police forces of the land, and its leadership drawn from the Indian Police Service, have a duty and obligation to respect the Constitution and the enacted laws impartially without regard to caste, creed and political affiliations. Kindly revisit the actions of police under your command in Delhi to determine if they have been true to their oaths taken at the time of their induction into service,” Ribeiro suggested. In its reaction, Delhi Police said in a statement, “An e-mail purportedly sent by Sri Julio Ribeiro has been received today in which he has raised concerns regarding the investigation of NE riots. Sri Ribeiro is a respected police officer. Since the officer in whose name the email has been received has not been in touch with Delhi Police in recent times and especially in the past six months, we are trying to ascertain the veracity and the genuineness of the mail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ensure-fair-probe-into-ne-delhi-riots/articleshow/78084048.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||+VE REPORT: Vidarbha doctors save more than 5,000 critical patients, reduce deaths||NAGPUR: While the focus has mostly been on Covid-19 deaths, thousands are recovering from the infection every day. Out of the about 94,000 coronavirus positive till date in region, more than 64,000 patients have recovered fully — a recovery rate of around 70%. Cases are increasing daily but, simultaneously, the recovery rate too showing a good trend. TOI analysis of data on patients collected from some of the leading Covid hospitals across Vidarbha, reveals that more than 5,000 of the discharged patients had ‘severe or very severe condition’. In general, these patients require oxygen support in the form of non-invasive ventilation (NIV) for about a week. Some of them require high-end antiviral medicines and ICU beds, and, sometimes, off-label plasma therapy too. Most of them had severe comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, asthma, kidney disorder, TB and cancer. In a twitter reaction to TOI’s post, 80 messages and several e-mails were received from various parts of Vidarbha. Some of the patients were eager to share their experiences with names and details. Many expressed willingness to donate plasma too. They had been asked to share experiences of recovered patients who were on ventilator, oxygen support, had pneumonia and still recovered from Covid-19. TOI also spoke to doctors in government and private hospitals who nursed these patients back from ICU, NIV or ventilators BiPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure). Being a tertiary health care centre in central India, Nagpur had the highest number of critical and serious patients of Covid-19 and accounted for the highest number of patients saved from critically ill stage. Nagpur has saved more than 1,500 patients so far. “We have definitely saved many serious patients and prevented the death tally from going up in Nagpur. This effort hardly gets highlighted. Survivor patients and their relatives know the efforts done by our doctors,” said Dr Avinash Gawande, medical superintendent of the GMCH, Nagpur. As young resident doctors are in the frontline of treatment, TOI spoke to their representatives too. “It pains us a lot when a patient in our ward succumbs. We follow all protocols and try to save lives till last moment. Hundreds of patients have been saved from critical condition and severe infection so far,” said Dr Mukul Deshpande of Central MARD. Private Covid hospitals in city also cater to serious patients in Nagpur as well as Vidarbha. Wockhardt was the first private hospital to start Covid-19 services. “Out of the more than 400 patients we have treated, only 9% had mild infection. More than 57% cases were of moderate level of infection where patients needed oxygen and antivirals while 34% cases were severe who required NIV or ventilators and essentially patients who were in the ICU,” informed an official from the management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ve-report-vidarbha-doctors-save-more-than-5k-critical-patients-reduce-deaths/articleshow/78083129.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||BJP panel reaches Jaisalmer to probe elderly’s death||JAISALMER: The committee formed by state BJP president Satish Poonia reached Jaisalmer and started investigation in the case wherein a 78-year-old corona-positive patient died at the Covid centre in Jaisalmer after he fell down in the bathroom. The body was lying there for hours and did not get treatment on time. The committee consists of Jaisalmer in-charge and Jalore MLA Yogeshwar Garg, Phalodi MLA Pabaram Vishnoi and state convener IT Avinash Joshi. The committee, along with local BJP leaders, went to deceased Joshi’s house and expressing condolence, took complete information from the family members. The family told the committee that Joshi fell down in the bathroom and nobody knew about it for a long time. When the family members got information about it, they called the doctor and compounder, but the door was locked from outside. The family explained many more things about carelessness of the Covid centre before the committee. Later, the committee spoke to the CMHO and also visited the Covid centre and addressed the media. Garg told the press that as per the guidelines, keeping a 78-year-old patient at Covid centre was wrong. Apart from this, several types of negligence were carried out at the Covid centre and Joshi did not get first-aid in time. Apart from this, slackness was seen in the health department and they will submit their report to the BJP state president. The three-member team met with district collector Ashish Modi in this regard and the collector satisfied the committee members and said that there was no negligence done in the case. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi also organised a press conference in which he clearly refused of any carelessness or negligence by the health department in death of Joshi at the Covid centre. He said in the ward in which Joshi was admitted, his family member was also admitted in the same ward. The moment information was given, the compounder on duty immediately reached the ward risking his life without wearing a PPE kit and took care of Joshi who was lying on the floor. He said the time was early morning and thus it took the on-call doctor to come in 20-25 minutes and knowingly, no negligence has taken place. The collector also said that he was asymptomatic and there is a guideline to keep such patients at home on the request of family members and based on this, permission was given to keep him in home quarantine. Apart from this, the condition of the elderly person was such that he was given the permission. The collector said that a committee has been made to decide whether to keep a patient in home quarantine or at the Covid Centre and the committee decides where to send the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-formed-by-poonia-reaches-jaisalmer-to-probe-elderlys-death/articleshow/78083123.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Sex racket busted near Medical College Hospital, nine held||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city police have busted a sex racket that has been operating at a house near Medical College Hospital here. Police arrested nine persons, including two women, after conducting a raid at the house on Friday night. They also rescued three women from the racket. The arrested men are: Balu, 50, of Kumarapuram, Vijay Mathew, 24, of Gowreeshapattom, Sachin, 21, of Pothencode, Irshad, 22, of Vizhinjam, Manoj, 24, of Venganoor, Ananthu, 21, of Plamood and Amal, 26, of Powdikonam. Balu and Vijay Mathew operated the racket while the others were their customers. The arrested women, a 54-year-old from Shangumugham and a 32-year-old from Poonthura, assisted Balu and Mathew in their operations. The raid was conducted by a team led by Medical College station house officer inspector P Harilal based on a tip-off received by Kazhakootam cyber city assistant commissioner R Anilkumar. “The racket lured customers by placing advertisements on Locanto, a website for classified advertisements,” the inspector said. The house where the racket operated was actually leased from its owner for providing accommodation to companions of patients admitted in RCC. The one who took the house on lease rented it to the racket, the inspector said, adding that the person who rented out the house was taken into custody on Sunday. His arrest would also be recorded soon. Police also seized cash worth Rs 80,900 from the residence during the raid. Mobile phones of the arrested persons were also confiscated. Harilal said that the women whom the gang employed for soliciting customers were recorded as victims in the case. They were aged 35, 30 and 29. While one of them is a local resident, others hailed from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. After producing in court, they were sent to the Mahila Mandiram shelter home of the government. The others were remanded in judicial custody for charges under Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sex-racket-busted-near-mch-9-held/articleshow/78082310.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Relief for migrants as special train service begins||Bhubaneswar: There was a sense of relief as the Khurda Road-Ahmedabad express special train left Khurda Road at 6.40pm on Saturday. Hundreds of migrant workers had gathered at the station early so that they don’t miss the train that would take them back to their workplaces and a probable job. Having exhausted their savings and spending months jobless, ever since returning from Surat and other cities in Gujarat, they now want to start earning again, given the responsibilities they have on their shoulders. It was a similar scene at around 8.35pm when the train reached Berhampur station in Ganjam. This is the district which had received most of the migrant workers, who fled other states to escape the virus and hunger. The workers said they were returning to their workplace after not getting any job here. “Whatever job we were getting here is not enough to run our family. In fact, we were earning more in the Surat textile industry,” said Sashanka Bhuyan from Belaguntha in Ganjam district. Bhuyan said he boarded a bus to return home in April-end after the Covid-19 outbreak in Gujarat. “We returned to Odisha thinking that Covid-19 will be over after two or three months. But when we found that the situation is not so different here, we decided to return to the workplace,” said Bhuyan who was earning around Rs 22,000 per month in Surat. He, and nine of his friends, are going back to re-join the same company Pandab Dakua, also from Ganjam, said he got a call from the company manager asking him to return. “I have been working in a Surat-based garment factory for the last 21 years. My family members are also going with me. The company was arranging a bus for us, but we asked them to book train tickets instead. We are so happy that the government is running trains back to our workplace. The company has given us Rs 1000 each as pocket money for the journey,” Dakua said. Gautam Swain, from Bhanjanagar in Ganjam said the company has made safety arrangements for workers. “There will be a distance of 10 feet between workers at the textile mill. We will follow Covid guidelines during work. Also, more than four people will not stay together in one room,” said Swain. The train has stoppages at Berhampur, Rayagada, Kesinga, Titilagarh, Kantabanji and Khariar Road in Odisha. “Only confirmed passengers were allowed to board the special train. Thermal screening on passengers was conducted,” said an East Coast Railway (ECoR) source. The train is scheduled to reach Ahmedabad at 7.25am on Monday. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/relief-for-migrants-as-special-train-service-begins/articleshow/78082312.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
September 13, 2020||Goa||101 students answer second NATA||PANAJI: The second attempt for National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) was held on Saturday at Don Bosco College of Engineering at Fatorda. A total of 101 students appeared in two batches at 10 am and 3pm, respectively. The entire test was completed successfully without any complaints or technical issues. Following all the Covid norms, the students were checked for high temperatures, hand sanitisers were provided and they were seated maintaining social distancing, said Chandan Parab, council member, Council of Architecture. The first exam was held on August 29, across India. “During this test, there were a few technical glitches arising due to broadband speed issues and around 10 to 12 students had issues with the display of images in some of the questions,” said Parab. He said that accordingly the second attempt was scheduled on September 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/101-students-answer-second-nata/articleshow/78083125.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Cow cess for epidemics: Cattle welfare panel threatens stir||JAIPUR: The cash-strapped state government through a recent amendment to the Rajasthan Stamp (Amendment) Act 2020 has legalised the surcharge imposed on stamp duty for cow protection be used for purposes of mitigating natural or man-made calamities like drought, flood, epidemic and public health exigencies much to the ire of gaushala owners. The state government promulgated the Rajasthan Stamp (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 to amend the Rajasthan Stamp Act, 1998. While Section 3B of the Act had the phrase “surcharge for conservation and propagation of cow and its progeny,” it has now been amended to include “and for mitigating natural or man-made calamities”. This meant that the surcharge could now be used to contain drought, flood, epidemic and public health exigencies, along with catering to cow welfare. Rajasthan is the first in the country to have a separate gopalan department by the previous BJP government. The government had imposed 10% surcharge on registration of property to find money for the department. Later, a 20 per cent cess was imposed on liquor for cow protection. Dinesh Giri, head of the Rajasthan Gau Sewa Samiti, an organsiation of gaushalas, has now threatened an agitation. “We will launch an agitation in all assembly constituencies on September 21 followed by a memorandum will be given to the chief minister,” Giri said. The state had 2,727 registered gaushalas in the state with about 9.5 lakh cows. The government provides financial assistance of Rs 20 per day for calves less than three years old and Rs 40 per day to grown cows in gaushalas. But Giri said, “this grant is given only to goshalas which have more than 200 cows and have a registration of more than two years. Thus about 35% of the gaushalas are not reeving the funds.” “The state government had announced a nandi shala in every gram panchayats to find a solution to stray cattle menace. But it is nowhere in sight. Where will the government find money for nandi shalas,” he asked. He said the government had many avenues to generate funds to deal with natural calamities but if the money for cow is diverted, the bovine animals will die of starvation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cow-cess-for-epidemics-cattle-welfare-panel-threatens-stir/articleshow/78083116.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Include OBC quota Act in 9th Schedule of Constitution: Gujjars request Modi||Jaipur: The Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to include the Act for other backward classes (2017 and amended act 2019), i.e., providing 5% quota to most backward classes (MBCs), in the 9th Schedule of the Constitution. They have demanded reservation for Gujjars similar to 10% quota to economically weaker section (EWS). “We have urged the Centre to pass a resolution in this regard (including in 9th Schedule) during the monsoon session of Parliament. We will give them a month’s time to implement it. If it is not done, we will seek the community’s support from states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi-NCR to march towards the capital. Moreover, it is not mentioned in the Constitution that reservation above 50% can’t be provided,” said Shailendra Singh, general secretary of the organisation. Under the leadership of Kirori Singh Bainsla, who celebrated his birthday on Saturday, a meeting of the samiti was held in Hindaun. “Also, political reservations should be given to OBCs on similar lines as SC/ST,” he added. They also gave a 15-day ultimatum to the state government to clear the pending issues with regard to 5% MBC reservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/include-obc-quota-act-in-9th-schedule-of-constitution-gujjars-request-modi/articleshow/78083126.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro goes full on with 1.5 lakh weekend travellers||NEW DELHI: With all its 10 corridors operational, Delhi Metro’s 288 trains made more than 3,700 trips in nearly 18 hours of service on Saturday. The resumption of services with the old timings, though with certain Covid-19 precautions in place, allowed more than 1.5 lakh people to travel by the urban train network. The high-speed Airport Express Line was the last corridor to reopen, but more importantly, the service timings reverted to the pre-lockdown schedule of 6am to 11pm and the frequency of trains was also increased. Before the suspension of services in March, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation operated fewer train between 11am and 4pm, considered ‘off peak’ hours. Because of the strict social distancing norms reducing Delhi Metro’s carrying capacity, the peak hours have been done away with, and train are available at optimum frequency between 8am and 8pm. Till 7.30pm on Saturday, the ridership figure was 1,52,845, a rise of 18.5% against the 1,28,886 recorded in the same period on Friday. The Airport Express Line, which reopened on Saturday, carried 2,268 passengers. Like in the last couple of days, it was the oldest corridors of the Delhi Metro network that logged the most passengers. The busiest, Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City), ferried 47,023 people, followed by Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) with ridership figure of 44,949 and the oldest, the Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal) at third place with 19,904 riders. The three corridors cumulatively accounted for 73.1% of Saturday’s ridership despite constituting just 42.5% of the Delhi Metro network. “Now that services have resumed on all the corridors, DMRC will make public only the Line utilisation figures as was done before the lockdown because these figures only reflect the actual utilisation of a metro train system which is spread 400 km with 28 interchange stations providing comprehensive connectivity to the Delhi-NCR people,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. While Saturday was a weekend and still saw 1.5 lakh passengers, Monday is going to be the real challenge for DMRC as its ability to handle increased footfalls through longer service hours will be put to test. “For your and everyone’s safety and to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus, wearing of face masks and adherence to social distancing norms throughout the travel has to be ensured by all commuters,” Dayal reiterated. As part of its special drive to make people aware about the importance of wearing face masks or cover throughout the journey in the metro including inside the trains, “DMRC on Saturday counselled around 200 passengers for not wearing face masks properly. In addition, 114 passengers were fined Rs 200 each for violation of social distancing norms or for not wearing a mask inside the train,” Dayal said. On Friday, DMRC had counselled 150 passengers for not wearing face masks properly and penalised 92 commuters for not wearing a mask or not maintaining social distancing. DMRC has also advised commuters to allow extra time of 15-30 minutes as thermal screening, hand sanitisation at entry points of stations and trains halting for a few extra seconds to ensure people board and de-board smoothly in adherence to social distancing norms will result in increased travel time. Watch Delhi Metro services return to pre-Covid era with all safety protocols||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-goes-full-on-with-1-5l-weekend-travellers/articleshow/78083176.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 13, 2020||Mysuru||MLC Raghu Achar slams Muthalik over ‘baseless’ allegations||Mysuru: Congress MLC Raghu Achar on Saturday lashed out against Sri Rama Sena state chief Pramod Muthalik’s remarks about the alleged drug abuse at educational institutions in the city and the involvement of politicians in the drug racket sans evidence. “Muthalik should stop making such baseless statements for mere publicity stunts. If Muthalik has evidence of consumption of drugs by 32 influential politicians across Karnataka and students from reputed college students, let him provide evidence and lodge a police complaint,” said Achar. “Moreover, it is not a wise to blame all students if one or two are caught red-handed taking drugs,” he added. “I urge government to give full powers to investigating agency and free hand to officers to completely root out this menace which is threat to the country,” he said. Replying to a query on his own party MLA Zameer Ahamed’s name doing rounds in the alleged drug scandal, the MLC said the state government must take stern action against the MLA if the allegations against him are found true. “Until and unless the government stops interfering in police transfers, this menace will continue”, Achar added. - By S Ramesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mlc-raghu-achar-slams-muthalik-over-baseless-allegations/articleshow/78081782.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mysuru||Do not give a political spin to drug scandal, says Suresh Kumar||Chamarajangar: Expressing misgivings about the political overtones that coverage of the drug scandal had accrued over the past few days, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Saturday said that there were social and ethical dimensions to the problem that deserved more attention. Taking umbrage at insinuations of senior Congress member Zameer Ahmed’s alleged links with drug traffickers, Kumar strongly condemned those unnecessarily dragging politicians into the controversy. Admitting that views on issues such as abuse of drugs were bound to be diverse in society, Kumar said, “But the rise in the number of youngsters abusing these substances has turned it into a major health concern. People from all walks of life, and leaders regardless of political affiliation must help root out this menace.” On former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s remarks on the state government’s efforts in tackling the growing problem, Kumar said that police had been vested with the necessary authority and given a free hand in this issue. Dispelling rumours of former CM HD Kumaraswamy’s meeting with CM BS Yediyurappa auguring a rejig in the political equations in Karnataka, Kumar said, “Kumaraswamy called on the CM seeking disbursal of funds for the Dasarahalli assembly segment, which is represented by a JD(S) MLA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/do-not-give-a-political-spin-to-drug-scandal-says-suresh-kumar/articleshow/78081825.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Amnesty scheme approved for mines, construction depts||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has approved an amnesty scheme for three months for the department of mines for outstanding cases of dead rent, royalty, penalty, royalty recovery contracts and short-term permission letter and contractors of construction department. As part of the scheme, the administrative department will make sure that minimum 90% of the arrears are recovered. This scheme will be applicable in cases of fixed balance, surcharge, penalty, arrears of royalty collection contracts or excess royalty collection contracts (RCC or ERCC), dues of STP and construction department contractors and other department arrears except for 31 principal minerals as notified by Government of India on February 10, 2015. The scheme will include those cases in which the orders for demand have been issued till March 31, 2019, regarding the arrears and other arrears of mining leases and contracts and arrears of contractors of STP and construction department. Cases in which the borrower has withdrawn his suit from the court and submitted an undertaking that he will not challenge any court in respect of arrears of cases settled under this scheme, can also be considered. The benefit of the scheme will be applicable only to those outstanding amount to be deposited till the date of implementation of the scheme. The amount deposited earlier will be considered subject to the liabilities of that time and will not be adjusted in the plan. If any of the defaulters had already deposited the principal amount of all outstanding stationary, surcharge, excess surcharge or other arrears and only the interest is remaining, the interest amount may be waived by the mineral engineer or assistant mineral engineer concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amnesty-scheme-approved-for-mines-construction-depts/articleshow/78083148.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Staggered timings, no frisking at NEET today||PANAJI: As over 4,000 students have registered to answer the NEET (UG) on Sunday, they will be allowed to take inside the examination hall with them transparent water bottle, a 50ml hand sanitiser, masks and gloves. NEET (UG) will be held on September 13 from 2pm to 5pm in pen and paper mode. In Goa, the exam is being conducted through 15 centres. The students have been provided staggered entry time on their admit cards, as per which they have to report at the exam centre. The staggered exit time will be decided by the exam centre. The students and parents have been instructed that at all times they have to practice physical distancing of at least 6 feet as far as possible and have to mandatorily use face covers/masks. The instructions to be followed for the exam and advisories regarding Covid-19 have already been issued to the students in their respective admit cards. Students have been told that they have to strictly adhere to these instructions, which include things like maintaining hygienic habits like covering mouth while sneezing and frequently using hand sanitisers. It has already been mentioned in advisories to candidates with their admit card that they have to report as per the staggered time slots given to avoid crowd at the examination centres. Besides the transparent water bottle and 50ml hand sanitiser students will also be allowed to carry items inside the exam hall like “admit card along with Self Declaration/Undertaking (available on the Admit Card) regarding recent health status of the candidate; valid government ID proof; additional passport size photograph (same as uploaded on application form) for pasting on attendance sheet.” In Goa, besides entry to medical and dental college seats, NEET score is also the eligibility to get into ayurveda, homeopathy, nursing and the allied health graduate programmes at Goa Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/staggered-timings-no-frisking-at-neet-today/articleshow/78083147.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vadodara||Fewer cases detected despite higher testing in Vadodara||VADODARA: Despite higher testing, the number of Covid-19 cases detected in the city and district during the 24 hours since Friday evening went down. Out of 3,227 samples that were tested, 121 samples were found positive. The total number of positive cases in the city and district reached 9,543 after the new cases were reported. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed the death of two more persons taking the total number of deaths in the city and district to 160. As many as 103 persons were discharged from various hospitals and home quarantine on Saturday. With this the total number of persons discharged after treatment crossed 8,000 and reached 8,053. After the fresh round of discharges, 1,330 persons remained under treatment. These include 54 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 147 on oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fewer-cases-detected-despite-higher-testing/articleshow/78081868.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 80% Covid patients are now symptomatic||JAIPUR: Though more than 70 per cent Covid-19 patients were initially found to be asymptomatic, there has been change in the trend since September 2. In cities like Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur, more than 80 per cent patients have been found to be symptomatic out of which many with initial mild symptoms ignore consulting doctors which the reason critical patients are increasing. TOI on Saturday spoke to various doctors associated with the Covid treatment, experts from the health department and others to know why oxygen dependent Covid patients are increasing and government and private hospitals are almost in their full capacity. “Patients with mild symptoms like cough, cold, sneeze and mild fever are ignoring it. Some of them are in touch with doctors while many are directly visiting medical stores to get medicines like cetirizine and paracetamol for mild symptoms. These patients become critical in a few days with fall in their oxygen levels or breathlessness before they rush to hospitals,” said Sudher Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College, and head of the core group constituted to treat Covid. He added that hospitals like RUHS, Jaipuria and others are witnessing patients with oxygen dependency because of initial ignorance. “I would suggest that anyone with ILI symptoms should visit a government or Covid dedicated private hospital for check-up and Covid test. Also, we have seen that in some of the cases, there is a need for early CT scan of the chest to pick up pneumonia as it is seen that even if a patient report is negative, he or she might have pneumonia,” Bhandari added. Doctors at Rajasthan University of Health Sciences in Jaipur and other Covid dedicated government hospitals in Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur having higher number of active patients admitted that there is a sharp increase in symptomatic patients. “The same happened with Swine Flu in 2008 when patients initially ignored and rushed to hospitals when their condition deteriorated. Anyone with mild symptoms should immediately visit government hospitals and get themselves tested,” said Dr Sudhandu Kakkad, principal and controller, RUHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ove-80-covid-patients-are-now-symptomatic/articleshow/78083146.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||One arrested with huge cache of explosives in Karauli district||Jaipur: Karauli police arrested one person with large quantity of explosives on Saturday. The explosives included ammonium nitrates and detonators. The accused Arun Kumar Sharma hails from Kalyani village in Karauli district. He is being questioned about the explosives as well as the motive behind the possession. Police recovered 4,400 cartridges of ammonium nitrate-90, 10 detonators, 355-feet fuse wire and 44-feet light wire. SP Mridul Kachawa said, “We received information that in one of the villages, a local had stored large quantity of explosives. Based on the input, a team reached Kalyani. The team reached the spot where the explosives were apparently stored.” The team reached the field where they saw the accused standing next to a tin shed which is generally used to store agricultural produce. “On seeing police, the accused tried to escape, but was soon caught. A search of the tin shed revealed large number of explosives for which the accused had no explanation,” added the official. Cops are yet to ascertain the reason behind possessing the explosives and are looking at various possibilities. Officials claimed that in majority of cases, the accused store the explosives to supply them to those carrying out illegal mining. They also claimed that the explosives found were the ones used for mining purposes though they are looking at every aspect to find the motive for Sharma to have the explosives. Cops also stated that they will find the source from where Sharma acquired the explosives and more arrests are likely in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-arrested-with-huge-cache-of-explosives-in-karauli-district/articleshow/78083144.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mysuru||Pandemic delays govt scheme seeking Dalit students’ admission to elite schools||Mysuru: As part of its measures to improve the capabilities of students from Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) communities, the social welfare department in Karnataka had rolled out an initiative to help students from the underprivileged sections to get admission to elite schools after completing class V. This was meant to supplement the central government’s Right to Education (RTE) Act. Under the initiative, the government will take on all expenses of the students including fees in the elite unaided private schools. As many as 982 students from various SC communities were admitted to various prestigious schools to class VI in the academic year 2019-20. However, this year till now only one student is admitted. This single admission has been done in Mysuru. The uncertainty surrounding reopening of schools owing to the Covid-19 crisis has affected admission of students under this scheme. Parents pointed out that the admission process to prestigious schools kicked off in April each year. However, they have received no such intimation this year. Joint director of the social welfare department, Mysuru N Muniraju maintained they were accepting applications from parents under the initiative, but cited the pandemic for the delay in taking the process forward this year. Data from the Prestigious Schools Information Management System shows that the social welfare department spent more than 21.6 crore to fund the education of nearly 4,000 students under the initiative in the academic year 2019-20. In Mysuru district, 149 students benefitted under the initiative last year. This is a scheme that parents particularly find attractive since their kids get a chance-of-a-lifetime to study in some of the best schools in their respective districts. “These are schools that are not in the RTE quota. But this year, most of these schools have already completed admission to class VI, which means that SC/ST students will be denied the chance to get into these institutions this year. Many of these schools have not only started online classes but even conducted tests. The social welfare department must share information related to the admission process at least now,” said Sadananda K, a resident of Jayanagar in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pandemic-delays-govt-scheme-seeking-dalit-students-admission-to-elite-schools/articleshow/78081677.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Nine accused in Maoist attack case discharged||Kozhikode: The sessions court in Palakkad has discharged nine accused in a case related to a Maoist attack on KFC and McDonald’s outlets in Palakkad. In the order issued on September 9, the court refused to frame charges against the accused. Maoist leader Roopesh who was the eight accused in the case argued for himself and got discharged without a trial while a defense counsel appeared for others. A total of 10 people were named as accused in the case, including the leader of the outfit C P Moideen, who is absconding. Roopesh’s wife Shyna, the ninth accused in the case, was also discharged as the charges against her as well were found groundless. According to the prosecution, the two outlets at Chandra Nagar in Palakkad came under attack on December 22, 2014. Two groups attacked the outlets under the leadership of Moideen as part of the urban action plan of the CPI (Maoist). Roopesh and Shyna were made accused in the case under Section 120(B) of the IPC. But they were not members of the unlawful assembly which allegedly organized the attack. Roopesh argued that he and Shyna were not present at the scene or near the scene of occurrence at the time of the happening of the incident. The investigating officer filed a report before the court to incorporate the names of accused eight and nine in the first information report and connected documents only on March 8, 2016. Roopesh argued that no witness has given evidence to prove the alleged conspiracy. Similarly, no document was produced by the prosecution to prove that the accused committed the offenses pursuant to the conspiracy hatched between them and Roopesh and Shyna. Shyna said Roopesh did his law degree from Cochin University and is arguing in person all the cases against him.  “There are 47 cases against him and he has been discharged in seven cases. Earlier police were reluctant to produce him in the court, but as he himself is arguing the case, now they have no option but to produce him in person,” she said. Shyna said the state government had moved the Supreme Court against the lifting of the UAPA against Roopesh in some cases. “This has exposed the double face of the CPM. At one place the party says it is against the draconian law and at the same time moves discreetly to get it imposed on selected persons,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nine-accused-in-maoist-attack-case-discharged/articleshow/78082333.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Demand for oxygen rises in hospitals, Rajasthan government to set up filling stations at medical colleges||JAIPUR: There has been an increase in demand for oxygen in various medical colleges, Covid care centres and private hospitals treating corona cases. The health department said for the last two weeks, there has been an increase in demand for oxygen cylinders including compressed and liquid in private and government hospitals. Anticipating the need for more oxygen cylinders with growing number of symptomatic Covid patients, the state government is planning to start oxygen cylinder filling plants at its medical colleges in seven divisional headquarters from October. “The consumption of oxygen at hospitals during pre-Covid period was 1,500 to 2,000 cylinders per day. But since September 1, it has gone up to 8,000 to 9,000 cylinders per day. We had already made elaborate arrangements in this regard and had also empowered district and medical colleges at divisional headquarters to order and increase supply,” said Naresh Thakral, mission director, National Health Mission (Rajasthan). He added that from October onwards, every medical college at the divisional headquarters including Jaipur, Udaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Bharatpur, Kota and Ajmer will have oxygen filling plants. “We have chalked out the modalities and hopefully we will start it by October,” he added. Rajasthan government medical colleges and hospitals are facilitating private hospitals in providing the oxygen when needed. “We are facilitating them in everything including medicines, oxygen and other things as the state government is committed to bring down the fatality of Covid cases in the state,” said Akhil Arora, principal secretary, medical and health. The state government is also procuring 2 tankers of 15 kiloliters capacity per day from a Bhiwadi-based company. “In June, we had tied up with various companies to get oxygen supply. We have empowered district hospitals to purchase oxygen as per their needs,” said a senior officer. Oxygen demand has increased in this month so far as 50 to 60 per cent of symptomatic Covid patients require oxygen support. “If we have more than 16,000 active cases in the state, 70 per cent need hospitalisation. Out of this 70 per cent cases who need hospitalisation, at least 60 per cent need oxygen support,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demand-for-oxygen-rises-in-hosps-state-government-to-set-up-filling-stations-at-medical-colleges/articleshow/78083135.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 13, 2020||Delhi||DPCC shuts down 12 illegal dyeing units in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has shut down 12 illegal industries, which were involved in dyeing and washing of jeans in parts of north and north-west Delhi. The units identified were operating without consent and were also not equipped with effluent treatment plants, causing considerable harm to the ground and water in their vicinity, DPCC has said in a report. As many as 61 illegal dyeing units had been shut down earlier in January. DPCC says fresh inspections in Narela, Bawana, Libaspur, Nangli Sakrawat and Mayapuri in July, August and September 2020 have led to the discovery of 79 units. Environmental Damages Compensation of Rs 2.2 crore has been collected so far from five units, which were operating without consent. The environmental compensation will soon be imposed on seven other such units. Another 19 units were observed to be not operating for some time and DPCC gave a clearance to 48 others, the report adds. “The clearance has been provided to all the units that have the consent to operate and are using effluent treatment plants,” said a DPCC official. DPCC was acting on an NGT order, which had directed environmental damages to be issued against all illegal dyeing units that were operating in the capital. “This is the latest report based on the inspections carried out in the last three months. As industries resume, these locations will be inspected again and those found not complying with the norms will be issued fines,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dpcc-shuts-down-12-illegal-dyeing-units/articleshow/78084081.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||428 test +ve in district, 495 get discharged||Coimbatore: The district recorded 428 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 21,655, even as 495 patients were discharged from treatment centres, bringing the active cases down to 3,562. At least 17,754 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far.The toll, meanwhile, rose to 349, with the state including another six Covid-19 deaths from the district in the bulletin. Despite the drop in daily spike and active cases, the demand for beds in intensive care units of top private multi-speciality hospitals has not reduced. Earlier this week, TOI had followed the case of a 70-year-old man who was admitted to one of the smaller hospitals in the city after he was unable to get a bed in big multi-speciality hospitals.A relative of the patient from Goldwins said, “Both the PSG Hospitals and the Royal Care agreed to put him on a waitlist, but never got back to us. The Kovai Medical Center and Hospital too made us wait for three days before agreeing to accommodate us. But by then my uncle was too sick to be moved. Our preference was a larger hospital with more focused resources as his oxygen saturation levels had dropped.”While more than 1,500 beds are available with the 19 private hospitals treating Covid-19 in the city, none of them seem to want to take a patient with breathlessness. “The shortage is for beds with high-flow oxygen facilities and ventilators,” explained a gastroenterologist. The only hospital that takes patients irrespective of their condition is the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital.The ESI Hospital, which is also filled to the capacity with patients from the district, Tirupur, Erode and Nilgiris, has handled deliveries of 105 pregnant women with Covid-19. While seven of them were normal deliveries, 90 others had complications such as gestation diabetes and high or low blood pressure, among others. Some even had low platelet count because of Covid-19 and cardiac problems. The hospital has also treated 76 new mothers. Lungs of 31 of them were affected.While the district has been recording a dip in new cases, neighbouring Tirupur saw its highest ever single-day spike of 256 cases on the day. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Tirupur stands at 4,446, of which 1,529 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/428-test-ve-in-district-495-get-discharged/articleshow/78083173.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||AAP’s Padgaonkar submits resignation||PANAJI: Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) general secretary Pradeep Padgaonkar resigned on Saturday citing health issues. The party, which has begun gearing up for the 2022 state assembly elections and is also running a support campaign for Covid-19 patients, has yet to accept his resignation. Padgaonkar has been ill for a fortnight and was shifted to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital a few days ago. AAP members said Padgaonkar felt he was unable to contribute to the party’s activities and thus chose to step down. “The party has not accepted his resignation. Once he gets better, I will speak to him,” AAP-Goa convener Elvis Gomes, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aaps-padgaonkar-submits-resignation/articleshow/78083180.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||‘Private medical college not a priority’||MARGAO: As regards his plans to utilize the top two floors for a private medical college, Rane said that currently it wasn’t a priority for the government. However, when it was pointed out that public sentiment was against a private medical college, Rane said, “If people don’t a private medical college, I have no ego, we will continue with the nursing institute as it is already designed as a nursing institute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-medical-college-not-a-priority/articleshow/78083163.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Karol Bagh traders want relief extended till March 31||NEW DELHI: Traders of Karol Bagh have urged the mayor and the commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation to extend the deadline to allow vehicles on the recently pedestrianised Ajmal Khan Road till March-end. In July, the traders had argued that footfall at their shops was low in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. They had requested the civic agency to allow free parking and entry of vehicles inside the first pedestrianised market. Their demand was accepted then and BJP Delhi chief Adarsh Gupta later visited the place also. After two months when things are gradually returning to normal and even Delhi Metro has resumed functioning, the traders continue to complain that the footfall has not increased and hence vehicles should be allowed till March 31. Ajmal Khan Road in Karol Bagh was the first shopping hub in Delhi to be pedestrianised on May 1 last year. Murli Mani, president of Ajmal Khan Road Traders’ Association, said traders do not want the stretch to be pedestrianised for some more months as there is low footfall and business has been adversely hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “As the corona situation is still not under control and public transport is hardly utilised by our customers, who prefer to come by their vehicles, we have requested the mayor and the commissioner to extend the deadline for allowing the vehicles in the market. We are expecting a positive reply from them,” said Mani, president of Beopar Mandal Ajmal Khan Road. Traders said that people avoid walking on streets unnecessarily and prefer private vehicles to reach markets. “Our business has already gone down by 70-80%. Some people are coming on the weekends but footfall is not as much as it used to be earlier when 7,000 to 10,000 people would visit the place per day,” rued a trader. Senior north corporation officials told TOI that they have not yet taken any decision in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/karol-bagh-traders-want-relief-extended-till-mar-31/articleshow/78083199.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Local bodies bank on micro surveillance to rein in Covid||Thiruvananthapuram: In an effort to tackle the surge in Covid cases, medical teams and local bodies are improvising strategies in micro-level surveillance. The health team at Anchuthengu, which picked 789 positive cases from 3,467 tests in the past two months, has now initiated a Covid Response Team (CoRT). Daily data of OP visits are being collected from health centres in and around Anchuthengu and the doctors are keeping a tab on patients. Daily updates from various health centres are analysed around noon and suspected patients are tested for early detection and isolation. The system, which began last week, yielded three positive results on the first day itself. While two of them were primary contacts, one person was not a contact. “We are going for selective testing of suspected patients who turn up at daily OP. All details are being separately logged for further monitoring. Every day, we make a pool of suspected cases and all of them are taken for testing. This helps us to broaden our surveillance network,” said Dr Ramakrishna Babu, medical officer in charge of Chirayinkeezhu taluk. While reduced number of tests has thrown up fewer number of positives at Anchuthengu, cases are being sporadically reported from nearby areas like Kadakkavoor, Vakkom, Perumathura and other places under Chirayinkeezhu. Internal mobility is a key factor, which drives faster transmission in closely inhabited colonies. Daily monitoring of patients at health centres has so far helped the team in early detection and isolation. “We have a group of volunteers who are promptly informed and disinfection is done in areas where cases are reported. Awareness on the need for testing and isolation is also being provided as part of our initiative,” said Babu. At Palode, a community-involved surveillance and tracing mechanism is being successfully run jointly by the health, police and the local body. Dr Sreejith L K, medical officer, community health centre Palode and Palode circle inspector P K Manoj have been spearheading the project titled Kaval. Under the scheme, a network of 650-700 volunteers have been established for 18 wards. Anzari, grade sub-inspector at Palode, further spreads the mission to 41 other places and has been taking classes on awareness and mentoring volunteers. “We have one volunteer for 10 houses. Every day, each volunteer makes calls to five houses and look for information regarding symptoms and contacts with positive cases. The message is posted in a coded manner in WhatsApp. This is followed by intervention of public health nurse and Asha worker. We also have three doctors for 18 wards and one doctor for six groups,” said Dr Sreejith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/local-bodies-bank-on-micro-surveillance-to-rein-in-covid/articleshow/78082369.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 13, 2020||Goa||Public service commission to hold online test||PANAJI: The Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) has decided to conduct the computer-based recruitment test (CBRT) for recruitment to various positions in October. Around 1,700 candidates are likely to appear for the test. The CBRT, which is the first stage for direct recruitment to various positions, will be conducted between October 9 to 11, GPSC chairman Jose Manual Noronha told TOI. All the standard operating procedures, as prescribed by the authorities, will be followed for the CBRT which will be conducted over three days. Candidates are expected to appear in batches of around 15 per laboratory. All sanitisation procedures will be followed before and after the CBRT. Adequate precautions, including thermal scanning and mandatory use of Aarogya Setu app, will be enforced for all candidates at the test centre. The GPSC had advertised for a large number of positions mainly in higher education, civil aviation, health services, dental college, medical college, mines and geology, skill training, animal husbandry and veterinary services and agriculture department. A total of 233 posts had been advertised and almost 6,500 applications were received. The CBRT will be conducted for all positions, except junior scale officer (JSO) posts. Tests for JSO posts will be held once colleges are allowed to reopen and the pandemic subsides since around 3,600 candidates are expected to appear for it. In July, the GSPCB had decided to postpone the CBRT for various posts in government departments due to rising Covid-19 cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-service-commission-to-hold-online-test/articleshow/78083191.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Man attacked in Anjuna fights for life||SALIGAO: Businessman Manilal Patel, 54, who was grievously hurt after he was assaulted at a saw mill in Anjuna on Wednesday, continues to be in a serious condition. Sources said Patel, who runs the saw mill, underwent a brain surgery at a private hospital in Mapusa and is presently in the ICU. Anjuna police had arrested nine people for allegedly attacking and severely injuring five people at the saw mill. Those arrested were Antonio D’Souza from Assagao, his family and friends. Several villagers have condemned the attack, as the Patels, who have been running the saw mill owned by Watu Vasun Govekar for almost three decades, have been known to be good-natured and helpful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-attacked-in-anjuna-fights-for-life/articleshow/78083200.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||New Covid-19 hospital to be operational by Sat: Rane||Margao: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday said the new South Goa district hospital at Margao will start functioning as the Covid hospital by the coming Saturday, initially as a 250-bedded facility. “We will have another meeting on Friday (to check its preparedness), and by Saturday we should be able to make the hospital functional,” Rane said after holding a meeting with senior officials of the health department. Dry runs will be conducted before it is made operational. While initially mild to moderate symptomatic patients will be admitted to this hospital, Rane said that once the ITU and high dependency units are set up, and bed capacity enhanced to 300-400, critical patients can then be admitted. This, he said, will be done in a phased manner. “Parallelly, we will develop infrastructure to make this a district hospital,” he said, in the presence of GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar, director (acting) of health services Dr Geeta Kakodkar, in-charge of ESI-Covid hospital, Dr U C Kakodkar, medical superintendent of Hospicio hospital, Margao, Dr Deepa Correia Afonso, Dr Vishwanath Phaldessai and others. Though he had earlier announced that the hospital will start functioning from September 11, he said various issues pertaining to security, data operating facility, nurses, monitors, oxygen supply, etc, were yet to be sorted out. An ambulance will also be stationed at the hospital round-the-clock, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-covid-19-hospital-to-be-operational-by-sat-rane/articleshow/78083219.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Situation in district improves; oxygen shortage easing too||PUNE: The district, with a Covid caseload of over two lakh patients, has also registered high recoveries. According to data, doctors here have been able to treat eight out of 10 patients. The oxygen shortage in the district is showing signs of easing as well. Pune Collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI on Saturday that the amount of medical oxygen being supplied to hospitals by factories, after the 80% medical-use reservation, had improved the situation. “After the allocation, hospitals in Pune district have not reported a shortage of oxygen. We are also catering to oxygen demand from care units in the neighbouring districts,” Deshmukh said. State authorities had recently increased the oxygen supply quota from manufacturers to hospitals to 80%, from the earlier 50%. The district has also appointed a committee to oversee oxygen supply lines. On Saturday, the Union health ministry directed states not to place restrictions on vehicles transporting oxygen. But local authorities haven’t been able to assess the spread of infection. Surveillance programmes, at least in the city have struggled to get off the ground. Recently, the PMC had to call off health surveys for housing societies due to inadequate turnout. “Many did not even allow us into their premises. Such is the level of awareness and fear here,” one citizen volunteer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/situation-in-district-improves-oxygen-shortage-easing-too/articleshow/78083204.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Stalled Baner facility gets ready to restart after management overhaul||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation is set to start admitting Covid patients to the Baner jumbo facility after a staff overhaul at the unit. The civic body has appointed two agencies to oversee operations, has hired counsellors, data entry operators and is also setting up a waiting room for families. Patient admissions were stopped on September 9 after the first contractor pulled out citing a shortage of manpower. The facility, which has 314 beds, currently has 46 Covid patients under treatment. Officials said fresh admissions will begin within a day or two. A special assistant commissioner has been appointed to oversee operations. Kunal Khemnar, the additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are in to the process of setting up all necessary infrastructure at the hospital. The new agencies took charge on Friday.” Khemnar added that the first phase of operations will include patients who need oxygen beds. “There are 54 oxygen beds on the first floor. The units will become operational within the next few days. About 180 staffers, including doctors and support staff, will be provided by the new agencies. We have also beefed up security,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stalled-baner-facility-gets-ready-to-restart-after-management-overhaul/articleshow/78083214.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 2,500 students to appear for NEET exam on Sunday||LUDHIANA: Around 2,566 students will be appearing for NEET exam on Sunday afternoon to be held at three centres in the district. Students have been told to reach the centre at 11am while the exam will kick start at 2pm and continue for three hours. As many as 960 students will sit at SGND Convent School, Andlu; 646 students will appear at Amrit Indo Canadian Academy, Ladian Khurd, Bagga Khurd, and 960 students will take the exam at Guru Nanak Model Senior Secondary School, Doraha. Elanchezhian Jayabalan, joint police commissioner, said, “There is one centre in Ludhiana police commissionerate and there will be adequate arrangement for facilitating the visitors and parking of vehicles. Over 40-50 police officials will be there for the smooth functioning of the exam conduct and to maintain law and order.” Paramjeet Kaur, principal, BCM Arya School and coordinator of NEET, Ludhiana said, “Preparations are in full swing and we are taking all precautions. We have tried to have centres out of the city so that they do not fall under any containment zone. Students will be seated on alternate seats. Adequate arrangements have also been made inside and outside the examination centres to enable candidates stand while maintaining adequate social distancing.” Ravleen Pannu, 19-year-old from DAV Public School, Pakhowal, who will be appearing for NEET exam, said , “My centre is near Andlu, which is almost 30 km away. In Ludhiana city the centres have doubled as compared to last year. All these guidelines do sound promising if they are carried out meticulously by the cooperation of the aspirants. The atmosphere in general has been tense for the past few months, so it has been a bit challenging to keep the positive momentum going amid the terrifying news. I try to meditate every time I feel anxious about the exam. I remind myself of the final destination and keep going. Use of thermo guns for temperature check, slots to allow only small queues to move in at once with proper distancing, alternate seating and ensuring that the staff is uninfected, all of this seems to address the main concerns that the aspirants will be having.” Vanshaj Goel, 18-year-old who will also be appearing for NEET, said, “I am a student of DAV Public School and I have secured 98.4% XII in medical stream. My centre is at Guru Nanak School, Doraha. It would be tough for students reporting at 11am while the exam will kick start at 2pm with masks and gloves and constant fear of Covid-19, but still the exam must be conducted. I really don’t know whether that area is a containment zone or not. The authorities must ensure social distancing and proper sanitisation. The students from containment zones should be recognised and made to sit separately to avoid any spread of the disease.” Ritvik Gupta, 18-year-old from Delhi Public School, who will be appearing for NEET on September 13, said “I have secured 96% in Class XII and I have received my centre details, which is Amrit Indo-Canadian Academy, and I have to report at 11.30am. The issue here is also regarding the mental health of all the students who have been studying for the past years and who have not taken a break from studying even in these Covid times. I am studying for around 8 to 10 hours daily and giving tests of NTA and other institutes, but now I am fed up with the studies due to prolonged sessions. It is difficult to concentrate on studies in these times of uncertainty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-5-k-students-to-appear-for-neet-exam-today/articleshow/78082390.cms||Mehak Jain
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ED raids Musaddilal promoters, ECIR filed||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted searches in Hyderabad on promoters of Musaddilal Jewellers in the Rs 88-crore bank loan fraud case. An enforcement case information report (ECIR) based on an FIR lodged by CBI, Bengaluru, was filed. ED sleuths carried out the searches on the premises owned by the promoters — Mohan Lal Gupta and Prashant Gupta. Laptops and mobile phones were seized and being analysed, sources said. Both Mohan Lal and Prashant are directors and guarantors of Musaddilal Jewellers based in King Koti. ED is investigating loan and stock diversions and source of funds to pay the one-time settlement (OTS) amount by Musaddilal, which closed the loan account thereby causing Rs 48 crore net loss to Indian Overseas Bank. The bank had detected fraud and diversion of stock in the audit reports and classified the account as fraud. ED officials said despite completing OTS, criminal liability of fraud would still be there. “Civil liability ceases on OTS. But, criminal liability will not go away even after OTS of loan if there is a fraud. IOB filed a complaint with CBI, which had registered the FIR in 2019,” an official said. In the FIR on July 28, 2019, CBI named the company and the two directors. During an inspection of the Musaddilal godown in 2017, it was found that there were no stocks. “Sale proceeds of the stocks and receivables were not credited to the bank with an intention to defraud it,” investigators explained. The FIR was lodged by CBI’s banking securities and fraud cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-raids-musaddilal-promoters-ecir-filed/articleshow/78083220.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 13, 2020||Goa||Incinerator at GMC working again, relief for Mapusa hospital||MARGAO/MAPUSA: The incinerator used for disposing bio-medical waste at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, that was out of order for the last several days has now become functional, GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar saidon Saturday. The incinerator is used for disposing bio-medical waste from several laboratories in North Goa, as well as from the ESI-Covid hospital and health care centres from South Goa. The bio-medical waste was stored in a room at the North Goa district hospital will be sent to GMC for disposal. Medical superintendent of the hospital, Mohandas Pednekar, said, “The issue of disposal of medical waste in this hospital has been resolved as the incinerator will be operational from Sunday.” “The Mapusa incinerator operating on land belonging to the Assagao comunidade is currently functioning on an experimental basis, and since the waste cannot be processed there at present, it was being sent to the GMC,” chief officer of Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), Kabir Shirgaonkar, had told reporters. Shirgaonkar said that since the GMC incinerator broke down, they were instructed to send the bio medical waste to the Ponda municipality, but the Ponda council had sent back MMC’s truck. Taking note of the breakdown of the incinerator at GMC, South Goa collector Ajit Roy wrote to the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) underscoring the need to set up a bio-medical waste storage facility in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/incinerator-at-gmc-working-again-relief-for-mapusa-hospital/articleshow/78083212.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro drives in hope, but business yet to rise much||NEW DELHI: The resumption of Delhi Metro services has made traders in major markets and trading hubs located along the network hopeful about an improved footfall and eventually better business. While some traders are saying they are already witnessing a 10% increase in consumer numbers, market associations report that the overall business stands at 35-40% of the pre-Covid levels. Most traders feel the picture will become clear only in the next week after all Metro lines start working full time. Delhi’s major markets, including Chandni Chowk, Connaught Place, Lajpat Nagar, Karol Bagh and South Extension, rely heavily on the Metro connectivity not only for consumers’ convenience but also as the primary mode of transport for their employees. The reopening of the Metro is seen as an important confidence-building measure, but many traders feel that the recent spurt in Covid cases are keeping customers away from public places due to the fear of catching novel coronavirus infections. Atul Bhargava, who heads New Delhi Traders Association, said people working in offices, commercial complexes and around 20% of the buyers at CP commuted by the Metro. “People get the message that we have to go out, take precautions and start learning to live with it. Our staff were also facing major problems in commuting,” Bhargava said. Business at CP, Bhargava admitted, has improved slightly but “unfortunately we have reached a level of 4,000 cases a day. If I can’t have confidence in the situation, how will customer have it”? Bajljeet Kohli of the PalIka Bazar association said the footfall had improved and hoped would get better after all lines opened by Sunday. Murali Mani of Ajmal Khan Road Market Association in Karol Bagh said the Metro was necessary as buses were still not a feasible mode of transport. “Compare to pre-Covid times, only 30% trade is happening. The recent spurt in Covid cases has again affected business slightly,” Mani said. Almost half of the customers reach the market using the Metro network, Mani pointed out. “It is critical for our operations,” he added. Across the city, in south Delhi, Vijay Kumar of the South Ex market association said that company staff, sales personnel, workers in shop found autos and cabs too costly. “We are running at 35-40% of the pre-Covid sales. The Metro opening has not changed the situation. The trade will resume only when people start having confidence in the system and cases do not shoot up,” Kumar said. Sanjay Bhargava of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal said 60-70% of the customers used to take the Metro earlier. “But we are now returning to June levels in terms of Covid case load. People are scared,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-drives-in-hope-but-business-yet-to-rise-much/articleshow/78083225.cms||Paras Singh
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||RU gears up for UG final-year exams||Jaipur: With the Rajasthan University announcing the time-table of undergraduate final year exam on Wednesday, preparations have begun to accommodate over 2.5 lakh students in the exam centres while maintaining social distance.Around 160 centres have been readied for the examinations starting September 18 till October 26, 2020. The examinations were supposed to end by April, but due to lockdown and ongoing pandemic, they were postponed. For a long time, the administration was in dilemma whether to conduct the examinations, but after the Supreme Court’s decision, the dates were released.RU vice-chancellor Rajiv Jain said, “Examination is our priority. We are following the state government’s guidelines while planning the entire process. In one room, not more than 15 students will be accommodated. We are planning to call students early to maintain social distancing while entering and exiting the exam centre premises. I have asked the administration to keep extra masks in case there is requirement. We are hopeful that everything will be as per schedule.”Exams for over 700 subjects will be conducted. The examination will be for final year students, while the rest were promoted without exams. The decision to promote students was taken because the administration didn’t find it feasible to conduct examinations of so many students while following Covid guidelines. Colleges in Jaipur and Dausa come under the jurisdiction of Rajasthan University.The university, however, is yet to release the time table of post-graduation, self-financing and law courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-gears-up-for-ug-final-year-exams/articleshow/78083238.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||With hiked VAT, natural gas to get costlier||Vijayawada: In a bid to fill the gap between revenue collections and expenditure, the Andhra Pradesh government has hiked Value Added Tax (VAT) on natural gas from 14.5% to 24.5%. The commercial taxes department issued a GO on Saturday notifying the amendment by increasing the tax slab on natural gas in APVAT Act. The state government cited fall in revenue collections due to Covid-19 lockdown and increased expenditure on various welfare programs as the reason behind the decision. - Srikanth Aluri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-hiked-vat-natural-gas-to-get-costlier/articleshow/78083242.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 13, 2020||Goa||AAP: BJP mismanaging Covid, Cong mute spectator||PANAJI: Aam Aadmi Party has accused BJP and Congress of having no intentions of working for the betterment of Goans. This is evident from their bid to oppose AAP Goa’s ‘Goans against Corona’ initiative, the party said. The recent initiative by AAP Goa saw the deployment of volunteers across the state, armed with pulse oximeters, to assist people for Covid-19 positive patients. “Every time we expose the BJP government’s inability to work for Goans, Congress starts targeting us as a BJP ally,” AAP spokesperson Surel Tilve said. “The truth is neither BJP nor Congress wants to work for the interest of Goans, but have problem if someone else does. Now they have realised that people are discontent with the way the government is mismanaging the corona situation and especially the way Congress has also been silent on this entire matter,” Tilve said. He lashed out at health minister Vishwajeet Rane for saying that the “storm is over” when there is a clear spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases and at chief minister, Pramod Sawant who said that he will open schools in a phased manner from September 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-bjp-mismanaging-covid-cong-mute-spectator/articleshow/78083237.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Look into overflowing sewage issue: Panel||NEW DELHI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) has directed South Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to rectify the problem of overflowing sewage into the Barapullah drain near Nizamuddin Basti. NGT stated that while the problem had been highlighted prior to the lockdown, no action had been taken by either agency to ensure that pollution stops. Both agencies have now been asked to prepare an SOP and fine polluting households. The YMC had carried out field visits in September 2019 and in February 2020 with representatives from the DJB, SDMC and the colony RWA, issuing directions after the last visit. In a meeting held recently, the committee said that not only has DJB not fined the households that were found to be not connected to sewer lines, but both agencies appear to not have made much headway into the problem either. “DJB should act as per provisions of Delhi Water Board Act-1998 and if householders do not act as directed, the jal board has sufficient authority to enforce compliance. It certainly cannot go on for nearly one year after the inspection was held,” the YMC said, according to the minutes of the meeting. “The spillover sewage is going into the storm water drain and polluting the water reaching the river. The urgent SOS from the RWA complaining about no response to the terrible conditions prevailing showed that nothing effective had been done by SDMC and DJB.” The two-member YMC has been working on the Barapullah and Kushak drains since last year, highlighting it as one of the major sources of pollution in the Yamuna river, owing to the large quantities of domestic sewage entering these drains. “Cleaning the manholes still leaves the polluting households free to allow deficient connections to pollute the area. What is needed is an SOP for acting against errant households,” the YMC has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/look-into-overflowing-sewage-issue-panel/articleshow/78083248.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 13, 2020||Delhi||No relief to Radha Soami founder in I-T returns: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of Radha Soami Satsang Beas (RSSB) founder Gurinder Singh Dhillon to exempt him and his family from filing income tax (I-T) returns and other bank statements. Justice Rekha Palli underlined that documents including I-T returns, bank statements and balance sheets are required to enable the court to “determine the merit in the stand” of Dhillons that they don’t owe money to RHC Holdings, owned by Malvinder Singh and his brother Shivinder. The court’s order came on Dhillon’s plea for exemption from filing these documents on the ground that it is personal information, which needs to remain confidential. Once the court made it clear he has to abide by its November 2019 order and furnish these documents, Dhillon’s lawyers sought time to explore if the same can be filed in sealed cover. Last year, the high court had sought details to enable it to determine if Dhillons had any liability towards RHC Holdings, after Singh, in an affidavit, also claimed that Dhillon owned him Rs 1,472.72 crore along with interest. He alleged that Dhillon and others siphoned off funds from the proceeds of the sale of Ranbaxy Laboratories, even big amounts nearing Rs 500 crore was transferred from Singh’s bank accounts to the Dhillons during 2006-10 period. The RSSB chief and his family members had approached the high court last year, saying they do not owe any money to RHC Holdings Pvt Ltd, promoted by Singh and Shivinder. They had filed an application following the court’s direction to deposit the amount owed to RHC Holdings Pvt Ltd in connection with the execution of Rs 3,500 crore arbitral award won by Japanese pharma major Daiichi Sankyo against former promoters of Ranbaxy Laboratories — Singh and Shivinder.The court has been hearing Daiichi’s petition seeking the implementation of Rs 3,500 crore Singapore tribunal arbitral award passed in its favour, against the Singh brothers — former promoters of Fortis Healthcare, in April 2016. Daiichi Sankyo had also urged the court to attach their assets, which may be used to recover the award. On 16 February, 2018, the Supreme Court had dismissed the Singh brothers’ appeal against the high court verdict upholding the international arbitral award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-relief-to-radha-soami-founder-in-i-t-returns-hc/articleshow/78084092.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 13, 2020||Goa||‘Work on sewerage stations to restart in Oct’||CALANGUTE: Work on the long-delayed pumping stations for the sewerage network in Calangute will begin by mid-October, said minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo on Saturday. Though work on the sewerage system had commenced in April 2013 and was to be completed within three years, it has been delayed due to a number of reasons, the primary one being objections raised by people due to the digging up of roads to lay the pipelines. While the pipeline network was completed last year, work on the two pumping stations was again delayed following objections by people residing in the vicinity of the land where the pumping stations are to be built. They claimed the sewerage pumping stations would pollute the air in the area. “The pumping stations will be ready in six months. These will pump the sewerage from Gauravaddo and Naikavaddo areas to the main sewerage treatment plant which has already been built at Baga,” said Lobo. However, he said the sewerage system will not be started until a ‘reverse pipeline’ is built from the sewerage treatment plant at Baga to the garbage treatment plant atop the Calangute plateau to take the treated water. The sewerage treatment plant at Baga, using the ‘bio-digester’ technology, will convert the sewage into water using microbes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-on-sewerage-stns-to-restart-in-oct/articleshow/78083230.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Hoteliers upbeat over expected guest count rise from September 21||LUDHIANA: In a big relief for hotels, banquet halls and marriage palaces the number of guests allowed per function is set to be revised to 100 from 30 in Punjab from September 21. According to hospitality industry representatives, the development has been confirmed to them by the group of ministers (GoM) and now only the formality of mere announcement is left on the part of the government. Earlier, Punjab cabinet was supposed to take a call on this issue but since no meeting of cabinet took place this week, so there was uncertainty over the issue. Confirming the development Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “During our recent conversation with the group of ministers we have got full assurance that the central government’s recommendations of allowing 100 guests per function will be followed by Punjab as well and it will be implemented from September 21.” He added that, “This is great news for the hospitality industry, which has been incurring huge losses due to the current ceiling of 30 guests per function in Punjab. We have already conveyed about this update to our members and all of us have started making arrangements for the same. We are hoping that by next month the limit of 100 guests will be removed and there will be no further restriction on the number of guests.” Amarjeet Singh, another hotelier from the city, added, “We are thankful to finance minister Manpreet Badal, housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Sarkaria and forests and printing and stationery minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for standing up for hospitality industry and taking up our issues with the chief minister. Biggest problem being faced by our industry right now is the capping on the number of guests per function. Biggest chunk of business of Ludhiana’s hospitality industry comes only from marriage and other functions and the capping of 30 persons per function has put our industry on ventilator as it is very tough for us to earn anything from a small functions. In addition to this, the fixed costs of electricity, labour and taxes is so high that it’s impossible to break even if the capping of 30 persons remain.” He added, “We are now looking forward to September 21 when the capping will be increased to 100 persons as that will be the day when our industry will get a little push after bleeding for months due to coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hoteliers-upbeat-over-expected-guest-count-rise-from-sept-21/articleshow/78082395.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Akhil Jain eyes top position in JEE-A, wants to join IIT-Bombay||Jaipur: State topper Akhil Jain of Kota scored AIR-11 on the basis of JEE Main paper 1 held in January. The rank was announced on Saturday taking the best of the two exam scores of candidates. Jain, who scored 100 percentile in paper 1, chose not to appear in paper 2 held in September. “I was pretty sure of getting a top rank since my score was 100 percentile. However, I expected my rank to be in top 10. But its fine as the difference among all 100 percentile holders is less than a fraction,” said Jain. He is eyeing AIR-1in JEE Advanced exam scheduled on September 27. “My aim is IIT-Bombay. I am very close to achieving my life’s goal. Once I achieve it, I will plan for the next part of my life,” said a confident Jain. Jain, in a bid to clear the exam, has come up with flying colours in several competitive exams and even won a gold medal in IJSO in 2017. Born and brought up in Kota, Jain was inspired by the success stories Kota has been churning on JEE and NEET. “It would have been unwise had we, the residents of Kota, not taken any benefit from the successful coaching industry next door,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/akhil-jain-eyes-top-position-in-jee-a-wants-to-join-iit-bombay/articleshow/78083246.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Free veterinary clinic in Ooty opens doors||Udhagamandalam: Ooty sub-collector Monica Rana inaugurated a veterinary clinic set up by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals’ (SPCA) Nilgiris chapter at Kandal on Saturday.SPCA had renovated a dilapidated building on a municipal land to set up the facility, thanks to Karthik Davey, an animal lover from Karnataka, who donated close to Rs 7 lakh to the cause.“My contribution to the building is in memory of my loved hounds Shaka and Jabu. It makes me happy that they will be remembered by other animal lovers also,” said Karthik.The Nilgiris SPCA has been active in the district for more than a decade. Stray animals, including horses, ponies and cows are captured and sent to an animal camp in Masinagudi for care, till the owners claim them.Headed by the Nilgiris collector, the society is working in coordination with the animal husbandry department and the Ooty municipality. “The free clinic will initially function three days a week,” SPCA nodal officer Nagina Reddy said. Veterinarians from the animal husbandry department will be deployed there.SPCA is drafting modalities to run the free clinic, which will also function as a study centre on animals for students, said Rama, steering committee member of Nilgiris SPCA. “We need to educate the younger generation about animal welfare. We are chalking out a draft on how the clinic can be taken forward as a study centre for animals, also keeping in mind its sustainability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/free-veterinary-clinic-in-ooty-opens-doors/articleshow/78083250.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ludhiana||City lad Anurag secures all India rank 411 in JEE Mains||Ludhiana: The National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the results of JEE Mains late on Friday, less than a week after the entrance test was conducted. In city, Anurag Gupta secured the AIR 411 and became the top scorer in the city after securing an impressive 99.9699 percentile (NTA score overall) in JEE Mains examination 2020. In an impressive result, 20 other students from the city have scored 99 percentile and above in the prestigious JEE Mains 2020 engineering competitive examinations. The meritorious students are Anurag Gupta, Rudhar Pratap Singh, Vinamr Jain, Yashank Agarwal, Anshul Gosain, Mehul Kaushal, Tanish Jain, Arijit Singh, Manjot Singh, Hritik Punj, Anushka Garg, Mohit Kumar, Mukul Gupta, Arshdeep, Paras, Pooja, Pranav Gupta, Vansh Preet Singh Kohli, Angad Singh Kwatra and Nitin Kapoor, who have scored over 99 percentile in the examination. Attendance Since 2019, JEE (Mains) is being conducted twice a year. The first cycle was held in January. The second cycle of the entrance test this year was delayed because of the Covid 19 pandemic. It was finally held in 12 shifts over six days from September 1 to 6. Attendance in the second cycle suffered because of the pandemic. Around 58% of the candidates took the JEE exam in Ludhiana as they braved odds due to the restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic while also following strict protocols on all six days. The attendance figures available for the first shift was 59% and for the second shift was 57%, indicating that the number of candidates taking the test had decreased when an estimated 80% candidates sat for the exam in January. Out of 2,906 students, 1,711 appeared for the JEE exam. In the first shift which started at 9am and went on till 12pm, 1,488 students were registered and 866 appeared in the first phase and in the second shift which kicked started at 3pm and continued till 6pm, 845 students out of 1,458 students appeared at TCS ION Digital Zone, Sherpur Chowk. Sunil Kumar, academic head in engineering at an institute, while speaking on the overall performance of students, said, “In general, this year students did not perform well as there was a lot of ambiguity due to normalisation technique. As students had to appear in sessions, thus there was difference in results. A fair chance should be given by conducting the test at the same time for all students. However, students have improved the score but have low percentile. The low performance can be due to Covid-19 as they have been disassociated with studies and as this has impacted the performances.  Now students over 90 percentiles will appear for JEE advance to be held in September 27. I want to become an IAS officer: City topper Anurag Gupta, a resident of Dugri Phase II, has topped the city with all-India rank (AIR) 411 in the JEE (Mains) by scoring 99.97 percentile. A student of Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Civil Lines, Anurag Gupta wants to pursue computer science engineering from IIT Delhi or Hyderabad. Now, he will be appearing for JEE advance to be held on September 27. His father Rajan Gupta works in a private firm and his mother Seema Mittal is a teacher of mathematics at N M Jain Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar. Fond of watching movies and running, he aims to be an IAS officer. He secured 98% grade in Class X and scored 96.8 in class XII and was never forced by parents to pursue this field. Sharing his success mantra, he said, “I used to study for around five hours with complete concentration. I put in my best efforts and coaching also helped as I got full support of my mentors. I have made the use of productive sources. Rather than solving a number of books, I focussed on a good book and anything my teachers recommended.” “Besides the basic classes for preparation helped me a lot, but keeping a watch on the gtimings to complete the test and planned strategies gave me an edge,” he added. His mother described him a self-motivated student. “But due to lockdown, the performance got affected. He was not in touch with teachers and he set goals and worked towards them. He never kept his homework pending and everything was on smartphone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-lad-anurag-secures-all-india-rank-411-in-jee-mains/articleshow/78082398.cms||Mehak Jain
September 13, 2020||Mysuru||Five Covid warriors to be Dasara chief guests||Mysuru: District minister S T Somashekar on Saturday said that five names will be suggested from different government departments as chief guests for the inauguration of the Dasara celebrations, and that chief minister B S Yediyurappa will finalise who will deliver the inaugural speech atop Chamundi Hills. Speaking after conducting the Dasara executive committee meeting at Mysuru Palace, Somashekar said that the Dasara celebrations will be inaugurated between 7.45 am to 8.15 am on October 17. “As per the high-power committee meeting, which was recently chaired by the CM in Bengaluru, five persons will be selected as chief guests. One each from the police department, a nurse, doctor and ASHA worker from the health department and pourakarmika from urban development department will be selected. The departments will select one person from each category, who has served exceptionally during the crisis, as chief guests,” he said. The committee also decided to felicitate a person who has given a dignified burial to a Covid-19 victim, during the inauguration ceremony. “We will send the list to the CM, who will finalise the chief guest who will be delivering the inaugural address,” Somashekar said. Somashekar said that elephants Abhimanyu, Vikrama, Gopi, Vijaya and Cauvery have been finalised for the procession, which will be held inside the Mysuru Palace, and that Abhimanyu will carry the golden howdah as Arjuna is above 60. “Abhimanyu is participating in the Dasara procession for more than 16 years, and is capable of carrying the 750 kg golden howdah,” he said, and added that there will be no gajapayana, and that the elephants will be welcomed at the Mysuru Palace with traditional pujas at 12.18 pm on October 2,” he said. At the meeting it was decided to hold only nine cultural programmes in nine days inside the Mysuru Palace, by national and international artistes. Similarly, nine programmes in nine days will be held at the temple atop Chamundi Hills. A committee headed by tourism minister C T Ravi will be formed, to select an artiste for the Sangeetha Vidwan award. Tourism minister C T Ravi said that it will be simple and traditional Dasara. “There are recommendations from various organisations for Dr Manjunath or Dr Ravi from Narayana Hrudayalaya Hospital to deliver the inaugural speech,” he said. Select Dr Yoganna as chief guest Meanwhile, writer Raghuram Vajpayee demanded that the state government select noted cardiologist and writer S P Yoganna for inaugurating the Dasara celebrations. Speaking during the press meet at the press club on Saturday, Vajpayee said that Dasara celebrations represent the rich culture, tradition, literature and heritage of the state. “Every year personalities who have served in literary fields are selected to inaugurate the Dasara, but as the country is affected by a pandemic, and there is a demand from the public for Covid warriors to inaugurate this year’s Dasara, we demand that the government select Yoganna to inaugurate Naada Habba,” he said. Wrestlers demand kushti event Wrestlers have urged the government to not cancel the Dasara kushti event which is held at Doddakere Maidan. The wrestlers said that they are practising for the event. “Every year wrestlers from various states used to participate in the annual event, but due to the pandemic, the government should only allow wrestlers from within the city to participate. Dasara kushti is the only event where we can showcase our skills and continue the tradition,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/five-covid-warriors-to-be-dasara-chief-guests/articleshow/78081886.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Unidentified miscreants desecrate idol in East Godavari||RAJAHMUNDRY: Unidentified miscreants desecrated an idol by applying human excreta on it at Venkatagiri village under Pidymgoyi panchayat in Rajahmundry rural mandal of East Godavari district in the early hours of Saturday. The desecration led to tension in the area as it comes close on the heels of a fire incident at Antarvedi village in which a chariot was gutted. Police have identified a few suspects and launched a search. The idol was sculpted in the compound of a house. East Zone DSP Ravi Kumar said some unidentified miscreants vandalised the idol sculpted on the compound wall of a house between 1 am and 4 am on Saturday. “After receiving a complaint from the house owner, we pressed the clues teams and dog squad into service. The forensic team has collected some samples. Six suspects, who were caught by CCTV loitering in the area, have been identified and will be nabbed soon,” Ravi Kumar said. He also warned of strict action against people spreading false rumours, adding that an FIR has been registered under sections 295 and 295 (A) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unidentified-miscreants-desecrate-idol-in-eg/articleshow/78083288.cms||Samson Raj
September 13, 2020||Ludhiana||BRS Nagar Market shopkeepers resent parking fee||Ludhiana: With the MC officials being told to start the process for hiring parking contractors again, the market association members of BRS Nagar market have shown resentment against parking fee being imposed there. The members of market association submitted their memorandum to cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday. The president of association, Dilbagh Singh said since the day the MC started charging money from the visitors in the market through private contractors, people have stopped coming to the market. He said, moreover, due to coronavirus business was already badly hit. He claimed that 90% shopkeepers in the market were using the premises at rental basis and in such a situation their business would be affected. He said there should not be paid parking in this market. After lockdown too when paid parking was resumed in the market the shopkeepers had expressed resentment but under MC pressure they could not do anything. The parking site contract came to end on August 31 and contractors were given one month extension so that process of hiring new contractors for another year could start. The association members have now started creating pressure before the MC could hand over the parking site to some contractor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/brs-nagar-market-shopkeepers-resent-parking-fee/articleshow/78082400.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Goa||Decide fate of sugar factory by Sept 25, demand farmers||Ponda: Annoyed with the passive response from the state goernment over the future of Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana - the state-run lone sugar factory, a total of 318 farmers from Sanguem taluka who are engaged in cultivating sugarcane have demanded that they should be compensated for the next ten years if the government decides to completely shut down the factory. This they said was to sustain them as it will be difficult to quickly bring about a change in crop cultivation. In a memorandum signed by all 318 cane farmers and addressed to chief minister Pramod Sawant, the farmers have requested him to respond by September 25. The memorandum was submitted to deputy chief minister agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar. “Since there is no favourable response from government, the Sanguem farmers who had met recently resolved to write to the chief minister to clear the government’s stand on the sugar factory by September 25,” said Francis Mascarenhas, a leading farmer from Vade-Sanguem. The farmers who gathered at Vade in Kurdi under the banner of ‘Kurdi Vividh Karyakari Sahakari Seva Society, Sanguem’ have also demanded that the compensation must be calculated at 30 tonne per acre of land under cultivation of sugarcane, at the current rate of Rs 3,600 per tonne. Goa has around 950 sugarcane farmers, with an area admeasuring 800ha (2,000 acres) under cultivation, with Sanguem taluka being the largest contributor of cane to the sugar factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decide-fate-of-sugar-factory-by-sept-25-demand-farmers/articleshow/78083244.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Raj, who ranked 13, enrols in US varsity||Jaipur: R Muhender Raj, who scored 100 percentile (AIR 13) in JEE Main examination and is eyeing to secure top rank in JEE Advanced, does not plan to get into an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) but to excel in the field of engineering. Raj has already enrolled for B. Tech in chemistry from the University of California in the US.“My online classes will begin from October 1. I am expecting physical classes by January next year,” said Raj over phone from Bangalore.Raj, who hails from Chennai, came to Kota two years ago with his mother and sister to prepare for JEE. “My decision to come to Kota has paid off. In the last two years, I have won a silver medal in International Chemistry Olympiad and set to represent India in the Astronomy Olympiad to be held online soon,” said Raj. He scored 99.98 percentile in the JEE Main paper I in January. “I was a little down to have missed 0.2 points and decided to appear in paper 2 with an aim to score cent per cent marks,” said Raj, who feels that the company of his mother and sister has helped him in adjusting fast in a culturally different place than Chennai. “Initially, language was a big barrier, but I overcame it by learning Hindi. I was lucky to have my mother with me who provided me with south Indian dishes,” said Raj. He left Kota in May due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-who-ranked-13-enrols-in-us-varsity/articleshow/78083251.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest dept forms committee to protect wild elephants||Coimbatore: Additional principal chief conservator of forests I Anwardeen has formed a technical advisory committee to protect wild elephants and to check human-elephant conflict in Coimbatore circle.The committee will support, assist and advise the forest veterinary team to deal with emerging wildlife health issues and wild animals in physical distress.Forest veterinary officer Dr A Sukumar is the convener of the committee that has 14 experts as members. The committee will guide and advise the forest veterinary officer while dealing with elephant rescue operations and treating ailing elephants. It will also guide the district forest officer.The committee will also look into procurement of essential and emergency equipment, medical aid and medicines to be kept ready for immediate action. On the request of the district forest officer or forest veterinary officer, any of the members can participate in the rescue mission.The committee will meet whenever required either in person or on social media. The Coimbatore forest division is notified as Coimbatore elephant reserve under Project Elephant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-dept-forms-committee-to-protect-wild-elephants/articleshow/78083241.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Pathways made to carry water from Selathampatty lake||Salem: Sivadhapuram residents in the city on Saturday breathed a sigh of relief after the district administration dug up pathways to carry excess water from the Selathampatty lake. The lake that was spread over 100 acres was filled after recent rains. Excess water from the lake inundated the area and entered houses there. Subsequently, the residents urged the district administration to look into the matter. Following this, district collector S A Raman inspected the lake on Saturday evening and directed revenue officials to make pathways to carry water from the lake.“Besides, there were some obstacles in water pathways. Two earthmovers were deployed to dig up pathways,” the collector said.The city police have halted vehicular movements between Salem and Elampillai during the work. The collector also ordered the officials to make permanent pathways by removing the encroachments and obstacles to ensure free water flow from the lake. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pathways-made-to-carry-water-from-selathampatty-lake/articleshow/78083254.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases in Nilgiris touch 509||Udhagamandalam: The active Covid-19 cases in the Nilgiris district crossed the 500-mark on Saturday, when 61 people tested positive for the virus. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 2,279, of which 509 are active cases.The toll went up to 17 on the day after a patient succumbed to the virus. While 1,753 patients have recovered from Covid-19 so far, the recent surge in new cases has brought down the recovery rate to 76.9 %. The new cases were reported from Coonoor, Kotagiri, Pandalur and Gudalur, and villages such as Manihatti, Bikkole, Melur, Sholur, Yedappali, and T.Oranalli, among other areas.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-in-nilgiris-touch-509/articleshow/78083247.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In Covid fight, industry battles twin woes||NEW DELHI: With migrants trickling back to the city, commuting becoming easier and demand slowly picking up, industry is gradually weathering the Covid-19 impact. In industrial areas in outer Delhi, 60-70% manufacturing units have resumed operations. However, as some factory owners pointed out, availability of skilled labour is still a problem, while complained of increased prices of raw materials such as steel, copper and plastic beads. And with Covid still raging across India, the inter-state component of trade remains impacted too. Bawana Chamber of Industries head Prakash Chand Jain, who recycles scrap iron into sheets for making fans in the outer Delhi industrial area, said, “We found that Delhi government’s job portal did not have people who could do the technical plastic-related work that 60% of the units here are involved with. Trained former workers are returning, but not quickly enough.” Jain added that the outstanding payments of the last quarter were a challenge. “The relief provided to us on fixed utility charges should be extended,” he suggested. In Naraina, the industrial association’s Rakesh Sachdeva admitted the labour situation there was relatively better. Of the 50,000 workers employed by the 1,000 or so units, over 60% had returned. “The rates paid to casual labourers have gone up, and we are mostly relying on our old workers,” said Sachdeva. “We are also facing problems about government approvals and licence renewal. We don’t understand, for instance, why light engineering work isn’t allowed on first floors in Naraina.” Manish Mangla of Wazirpur Industrial Area, the hub of stainless steel utensil manufacturing, listed labour shortage and increasing cases of Covid as two problematic factors affected a return to normal for industries. “Inter-state travel isn’t feasible for businessmen and this is impacting our trade, especially in south India,” Mangla said. The Apex Chamber of Commerce and Industries reported that around two-thirds of the industrial units are operating at 75% capacities. “Progress has been made in places like Wazirpur, Naraina, Narela, Mundka and Shalimar Bagh, though there is still a lot of progress to be achieved,” said Raghuvansh Arora, head of ACCI. He feared that the Bihar assembly election would slow down the return of migrants to Delhi. “The government must work on structural reforms instead of providing loans, which will only turn into non-performing assets,” said Arora. “The administration should focus on providing incentives in terms of GST, taxes and reduction of utility charges. When eight states have waived fixed charges completely, Delhi must also expand the scope of relief.” Brijesh Goyal, convener of Chamber of Trade and Industry and member of the Delhi government committee for recommending measures to help businesses recover, felt business would pick up around the festival time, but added that “it appears 2020 will not see normalcy return”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-covid-fight-industry-battles-twin-woes/articleshow/78083291.cms||Paras Singh
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Parth Dwivedi scores centum in both papers||Jaipur: Parth Dwivedi of Bharatpur is among the few students to have scored 100 percentile in both the January and September JEE Main exam, the results of which were announced late on Friday. Dwivedi secured AIR 14 in JEE Main result and missed all the top slots due to preferential marking system.At the time when 40,000 students were evacuated from Kota during the lockdown, Dwivedi chose his studies over his family in Bharatpur and stayed in the coaching town till August.“I was able to complete the course four times during the lockdown stay in Kota. My decision paid off well as I was able to focus more on my studies and started preparing for the JEE Advanced along with JEE Main paper 2. The repeated delay in exams was a cause of worry for the students, but I maintained my calm and didn’t lose my focus even for a minute,” an elated Dwivedi shared his views through his teachers. He is unwell since the past few days.He was among the few students who stayed back in Kota despite the state government providing travel facilities to all students. He, along with those who stayed back, received support from the coaching centres and local administration. Coincidentally, he was a batchmate of AIR 13 R Murudher Raj and both of them stayed together in Kota for two years.His teachers say that before coming here, he was scared of organic chemistry and now he has mastery over the subject. “All subjects are my favourite, but physics is my all-time favourite,” says Dwivedi. His mother Niti Dwivedi is an additional SP and father Vinit Dwivedi is a railway employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parth-dwivedi-scores-centum-in-both-papers/articleshow/78083269.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||PM Kisan scheme fraud case: 3 held in Krishnagiri district||Krishnagiri/Erode: The CB-CID officials arrested three persons, including two contract staff of the agricultural department and a computer centre owner, in connection with the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) scheme fraud case in Krishnagiri district on Friday night.District collector Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy said 8,408 ineligible beneficiaries were identified so far. “A total of Rs 1.15 crore was recovered from 3,007 ineligible beneficiaries till date. Revenue, agriculture and horticulture departments are working together to recover money from the remaining fraudsters,” the collector said, adding that criminal action will be taken against individuals who forged documents to join the scheme, touts, computer centre owners and others involved in the scam.Meanwhile, in Erode district, a total of Rs 13.1 lakh was recovered from 580 ineligible beneficiaries. Joint director of Erode district agriculture department S Chinnasamy said 97,898 people had joined the PM-Kisan scheme since February 2019.“We have checked 4,251 beneficiaries who had joined after April 2020. Of them, 580 did not have proper documents and details,” he said. Out of the 580 people, a few were retired government employees, he added. The department also froze bank accounts of 1,114 beneficiaries who own farmlands in other districts. “They did not own farmlands in Erode district, but have bank accounts here. A total of Rs 67.76 lakh was kept in the accounts,” the official said. The department is conducting inquiries on these beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-kisan-scheme-fraud-case-3-held-in-krishnagiri-district/articleshow/78083284.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jaipur||Kota’s class act: 35 students in top 100||JAIPUR: Kota coaching majors may have missed a slot in the top 10 All India Rank (AIR) of JEE Main, but they have managed to bag 35 slots in the top 100 AIR. The late Friday night result has brought cheers to the coaching town, which is waiting for its students to return. Leading the pack is Allen Career Institute, which claimed that 28 of its students made it to the top 100, with four scoring 100 percentile and managing ranks within top 20. Akhil Jain topped the list (AIR-11) followed by R Muhender Raj (AIR 13), Parth Dwivedi (AIR 14) and Akhil Agarwal (AIR 17). Institute’s director Brajesh Maheshwari said, “Kota has yet again proved its mettle in JEE Main. Our students have done phenomenally well and the selections to appear in JEE Advanced are in thousands.” He informed that their institutes have produced toppers in 10 states and girl toppers in nine states. Resonance Eduventures Pvt Ltd claimed 12,464 selections till the last reports came in. “Our top-performing candidates are Avi Kumar (AIR-37), Sankalp Parashar (AIR-74), Achintya Nath (AIR-87) and distance learning programme students Akash Sinha (AIR-53) and Aditya Tanwar (AIR-81),” said RK Verma, the managing director of the firm. Verma informed that there are 23 students in top 200, 61 in top 500 and 138 in top 1,000. According Vibrant Academy director Mahendra Singh Chouhan, in all 1,503 students were selected for JEE Advanced among 2,253 students who appeared in the exam. “Our selection percentage is 66.71% and 12 of our students got 99.90 percentile. All the selections are from the classroom programme only,” said Chouhan. Career Point students performed well in JEE Main 2020 (September attempt), the result of which was released by the National Testing Agency. Classroom student N. Siddik Ayyappa secured 99.92 percentile & Aniket Kumar secured 99.79 percentile as the top scorers. Career Point coaching institute academic director Shailendra Maheshwari said 64 students have scored above 99 percentile and 21 students scored above 99.50 percentile. Career Point’s managing director Pramod Maheshwari said the counselling session for all students of JEE Main will be available soon on the Career Point YouTube channel. The session will highlight the complete information related to branch and college selection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kotas-class-act-35-students-in-top-100/articleshow/78083290.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana civic body to verify documents of developers for regularising colonies||LUDHIANA: The MC officials will now start verification of the documents submitted by the developers who had applied under the regularisation of illegal colonies policy of 2018. This action has been taken after a city-based activist, Kuldeep Khaira, had sent a notice to additional chief secretary Vinny Mahajan while complaining against developers and civic body officials for their alleged nexus. He had alleged that developers were applying under the policy whereas their colonies were developed after the cut off date of the policy. The activist shared that on September 1 he had sent a notice to Vinny Mahajan where he had mentioned that developers were applying under this policy while showing that their colonies were developed before March 19, 2018, and supporting documents were being wrongly made to prove it. He said he had raised this matter with the MC commissioner as well but no action was taken against the developers. He said he had requested the ACS to dispose of the files of regularisation of colonies after verification of stamp papers from the treasury office. He claimed that FIRs should be lodged for submission of false information to government departments and for using fabricated stamp papers in the files submitted with the affidavits. He said construction work should be stopped immediately in illegal colonies. Khaira said he had threatened to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court over this issue in case he did not get a reply and this was the reason that the MC officials had now started this verification process. In the letter issued by municipal town planner it is mentioned that ATPs should cross check the documents submitted by developers with treasury branch and if the documents turned out to be fake then immediate action should be taken against that contractor. Mayor Balkar Sandhu has given an assurance that he would get an FIR registered against the developer. Also if any new illegal colony was coming up in any zone, then work should be stopped immediately and an FIR should be recommended against the developer. Municipal town planner of MC SS Bindra said, “Under the current policy 19 developers had applied while 113 applied under the previous policies. We have time for the verification of the documents till November end and all assistant town planners have been told to start verification of the documents.” He said in case there will be lapse on the part of ATPs, then action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-verify-documents-of-developers-for-regularising-colonies/articleshow/78082417.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||PM Kisan scam: 90% money recovered from ‘farmers’||Coimbatore: District collector K Rajamani on Saturday said there was no third-party involvement in the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) scheme fraud and the district administration has recovered 90% of the money that was transferred to ineligible beneficiaries so far.Pointing out that at least 2105 beneficiaries were included under the scheme since April this year and they were transferred Rs 2,000 each in two instalments, he said 543 of them were now found to be ineligible to avail the scheme.Rajamani said Rs 22 lakh was transferred to the bank accounts of those ineligible beneficiaries. “We have managed to recover Rs 21 lakh from them with support from the banks concerned.” Another 207 ineligible beneficiaries from other districts had also availed the scheme from the district. “We have identified them and the agriculture department is working to recover Rs 8.28 lakh that was transferred to their bank accounts under the scheme,” Rajamani said.He said some officers had violated the norms to add the beneficiaries and their details have been handed over to investigation officials. The Tirupur district administration has, meanwhile, identified 1,040 ineligible beneficiaries from that district under the PM Kisan scheme and recovered Rs 40 lakh that was transferred to them so far. Another 1,500 ineligible beneficiaries from other districts had registered in Tirupur to avail the scheme and authorities are in the process to recover the money from them.According to sources, some of the ineligible beneficiaries had received Rs 4,000 in two instalments and others just Rs 2,000 in the first instalment. Local body representatives, public representatives, doctors, lawyers, professionals, pensioners and people paying income tax are not eligible for the PM Kisan scheme.An agriculture department official said some farmers were having farmland at two different places in a district and they were getting more benefits by hiding the fact. Some families have more than one beneficiary under the scheme, the official said.“At least 1,500 ineligible beneficiaries from other districts have registered their names here to get money under the scheme. We have identified them and are working to recover the amount,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-kisan-scam-90-money-recovered-from-farmers/articleshow/78083287.cms||A Subburaj
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||10.6K students to write NEET in dist today||Coimbatore: At least 10,627 students would appear for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) at 16 exam centres in the district on Sunday.The centres are located in the city and outer regions such as Annur, Mettupalayam and Pollachi.Representatives of the CPM and Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), meanwhile, staged a protest in front of the Sivanandapuram post office near Sathy Road, where they released a pigeon in the sky asking prime minister Narendra Modi to cancel NEET.D Pandiarajan, a DYFI representative, said students in the state have committed suicide because of the mental stress caused by NEET.Members of the Coimbatore chapter of the Students Islamic Organisation of India, staged a protest at Aathupaalam, late in the day, seeking that the state get exemption from the exam. The demonstrators also urged students to overcome the fear of failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-6k-students-to-write-neet-in-dist-today/articleshow/78083292.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||RFCL likely to get operational in 2 mnths: Min||Hyderabad: Revival of the five defunct fertilizer units in the country, including Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemical Limited (RFCL), would lead to the country being self-sufficient and enhance indigenous production of urea, said the Union minister of state (independent charge) for shipping and chemical Mansukh Mandaviya. He added that this would also mean reduction of imports of fertilisers. Addressing a press conference with Union minister G Kishan Reddy, Mandaviya said that urea requirements of farmers of Telangana will be fulfilled once the RFCL plan gets operations. He expressed confidence in the plant being commissioned and production of neem-coated urea commencing in two months. Mandaviya also said that RFCL plan has generated employement opportunities for the local youth of Telangana. Earlier, RFCL officials had appraised the progress of the plant to the Union minister. During their visit, they inspected the the plant units, including the main control room, where the process of manufacturing of the neem-coated urea was explained to them by RFCL officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rfcl-likely-to-get-operational-in-2-mnths-min/articleshow/78083323.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Subsidy for transport, storage of perishable agricultural produce||Coimbatore: The department of agricultural marketing and agri business will implement the Centre’s subsidy scheme to transport and store farm produce.Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to reduce post-harvest losses of fruits and to save farmers from price fall during the lockdown period, Operation Green is being implemented till December, said a release from the district administration.Farmers producer organisations, traders, agents, food processing firms and cooperatives can get 50% subsidy for the cost of transporting produce to markets and 50% subsidy for storing produce for three months in state’s godowns and cold storage facilities.“The district has been allotted banana, papaya and tomato under the scheme. As there are issues in logistics and marketing during this pandemic time, farmers can benefit from this subsidy scheme,” an agri marketing department official said.The subsidy for goods truck transport is Rs 2.48 per metric tonne per kilometre and that for air-conditioned trucks is Rs 5. For rail and flight transport of produce, the rates are fixed by the state railways and airways. The minimum distance eligible for subsidy for farmer producer organistions, firms, co-operative firms, farmers, food processing firms, exporters and agents is 100km, and that for retailers and state co-operatives is 250km.Storage subsidy will be given for a maximum of three months. The minimum storage quantity for farmer producer organistions, firms, co-operatives, and farmers is 100 metric tonne, for food processing firms, exporters, and agents 500 metric tonne and that for retailers and state co-operatives 1,000 metric tonne. Those interested can register for the subsidy at https://sampada-mofpi.gov.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subsidy-for-transport-storage-of-perishable-agricultural-produce/articleshow/78083315.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||House panel summons senior Facebook official||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Legislative Assembly’s peace and harmony committee has summoned Facebook India’s vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan in connection with complaints received by the committee about the social media platform’s alleged deliberate and intentional inaction in containing hateful content. The committee, under the chairmanship of Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha, has sent a formal notice for appearance before the committee on September 15, with a view to carry out the relevant proceedings, the committee said in an official statement on Saturday, adding some complaints will also be examined on the same day. “The committee through its chairman Sh. Raghav Chadha has prima facie found Facebook complicit in northeast Delhi riots on the premise of incriminatory material produced on record by the witnesses as well as their scathing depositions before the committee,” the statement said. It said that the committee has also urged the need of an independent investigation leading to the filing of a supplementary chargesheet in the ongoing cases related to the February riots, on the basis of supportive and corroborative material found during investigation. Facebook spokesperson didn’t respond to phone calls and messages from TOI. The committee had received multiple complaints addressed to its chairman Raghav Chadha, alleging that despite its comprehensive policies and regulations on curbing unabated dissemination of hateful and offensive content in place, Facebook has been turning a blind eye to mass manufacturing and propagation of vile, hateful communal content, which are not only bad in taste but have potential to erupt violence and riot-like situation, the statement said. “Taking in account the gravity of the allegations put forth in the complaints and its possible repercussions, the committee had firmly decided to delve into the issue and apprehend any devious conspiracy and unholy nexus of rabble-rousers,” the committee said in the statement. In the statement, the committee said that keeping in mind the public importance involved in the issue at hand, it has been inviting media to attend the proceedings and also live-stream it to ensure transparency and instil public confidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-panel-summons-senior-fb-official/articleshow/78083317.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMR’s caseload above 2.2 lakh, recoveries at 1.74 lakh||PUNE: The Covid-19 case tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) jumped above 2.20 lakh on Saturday with the addition of 4,717 cases in the last 24 hours. The death tally also surged above 5,000-mark after the region reported 90 fatalities on Saturday. Among 5,059 deaths so far, as many as 2,896 have been recorded in the Pune municipal limits, while 1,026 in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas and 1,137 in the rural and Cantonment areas. As many as 3,827 patients were discharged on Saturday, after they were declared . These included 1,527 patients from the PCMC limits, 1,464 from the PMC limits and 836 from the rural as well Cantonment areas. With this, the total recoveries in PMR are now above 1.74 lakh. With the fresh cases staying above 4,000-mark for the last eight days, the active caseload has increased to 41,058, which included 23,607 patients admitted at various hospitals and 17,451 in home isolation. A report of district health officer Bhagwan Pawar said in the PMC limits, as many as 10,545 patients were in home isolation against 6,897 admitted in hospitals. In last one week, the region’s active caseload has gone up by 8,000. On September 5, the PMR had 33,050 active cases. The daily tests in the region surged to 17,222 on Saturday. So far, 9.27 lakh tests have been conducted in PMR. The PMC has conducted 5.27 lakh tests, while PCMC and rural administration have conducted 2.57 lakh and 1.42 lakh tests, respectively. A report released by the PMC stated that 910 patients were in critical stage, of whom 473 were on ventilator support and 437 were admitted in intensive care unit at various hospitals. As many as 3,293 patients were on oxygen support, the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-caseload-above-2-2l-recoveries-at-1-74l/articleshow/78083314.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Father, son arrested over private moneylending in Maharashtra's Sangli||KOLHAPUR: Sangli police have arrested a man and his son for allegedly threatening and hurling abuses at a family over a moneylending dispute. The incident occurred in Budhgaon village of Miraj tehsil. According to the complainant, her husband had borrowed Rs 1 lakh from the accused and the former had returned around Rs 1.40 lakh a few days ago. But the accused demanded more money. On Thursday, the father-son duo went to the victim’s house and threatened his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/father-son-arrested-over-private-moneylending-in-maharashtras-sangli/articleshow/78081673.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Positivity rate in PCMC limits stays unchanged||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Covid-19 positive count has stayed in the range of 24-26% for over a month in Pimpri Chinchwad on account of increased testing. Besides, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the area has remained in the range of 1.6-1.8% for over three-and-a-half months. “The primary reason for high positivity rate is increased testing. We have already tested over 10% of our population, so far. This is far higher than the state or national average,” Santosh Patil, additional municipal commissioner, PCMC, said. He said more testing was the reason why CFR in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas, with over 22 lakh population, was lower. With over 5 crore tests, the total testing is less than 4% of the population pan-India. In Maharashtra, the total tests is at just over 4% of its population. “But the concern is that many people are moving around without masks, there is inadequate social distancing and people are also spitting. We are imposing penalties but people have to incorporate self-discipline,” he said. PCMC’s plan to reduce the CFR to below 1% will depend a lot of how people act, civic officials said. “Besides, we cannot do much if people seek medical intervention late,” a health official said. The administration recently opened two jumbo facilities in the twin cities to free more beds in private hospitals. “We expect both the centres to be fully operational in two weeks. At that time, the discharge rate will also increase,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/positivity-rate-in-pcmc-limits-stays-unchanged/articleshow/78083318.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Muthannankulam bund facing encroachment again: Residents||Coimbatore: Nearly three months after the city corporation razed nearly 1,000 houses encroaching upon the Muthannankulam bund on Sundapalayam Road, the debris is yet to be cleared from the area.There are also 20 illegal houses yet to be demolished. They couldn’t be pulled down during the eviction drive as the occupants had obtained a stay order from court.Nearby residents, who had heaved a sigh of relief during the demolition drive, are now scared that encroachers might slowly return.The city corporation had removed most of the encroachments along the Muthannankulam bund in the first week of June. T Devarajan, a resident of PM Swamy Colony third street, said, “After that, Sundapalayam Road itself looked different and many of us chose the stretch for morning walks.” His wife Shanthini said that was something they couldn’t have dreamt of when encroachments were there. “Because in the mornings, there would a huge crowd of people waiting for pipe water, youngsters in lungi hanging around on bikes and not to mention people who defecate in the open.”T Sahayadri, a resident of Robertson Road, said children have now started cycling on the road early in the morning. However, as there is no move to remove the remaining 20 illegal houses and a temple in the area, many nearby residents are worried that those evicted might return. “Some people are visiting these houses and they don’t seem to leave. They will slowly start erecting huts or sheet tents again,” Shanthini said.K Manikandan, another resident, also expressed a similar concern. “It’s a matter of months before they returned.”When contacted, city corporation officials said the Madras high court had recently passed an order, stating people living in slums should not be displaced during the pandemic.City corporation commissioner Kumaravel Pandian said, “We would work with the slum clearance board to clear the remaining encroachments once the situation returns to normalcy. For now, we have put on hold the eviction drive because of the contagion and court order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/muthannankulam-bund-facing-encroachment-again-residents/articleshow/78083316.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt arts & science college for women to come up in city||Coimbatore: The city would soon get its first government arts and science college for women.Officials with the directorate of collegiate education officials said they have identified the premises of a corporation school at Puliyakulam in the city to set up the college and approached the city body for approval. “We have communicated the matter to the city corporation through district collector K Rajamani.”P Ponmuthuramalingam, regional joint director of collegiate education, said the process was expected to be completed within next month. “We need five classrooms and labs for science courses.”Presently, there are only aided and self-financing arts and science colleges for women in the district. Ponmuthuramalingam said the state decided to start the government arts and science college for women in the city as the district didn’t have one.In a communication on Thursday, the department of collegiate education had unveiled the plans to start seven new arts and science colleges, including the one for women in the district, to increase the enrolment ratio in higher education and benefit rural students. It said the colleges would start function in the current academic year (2020-2021) itself. “For this, steps should be taken to identify either a suitable government building or a private building.” The new colleges would offer five courses - BA Tamil, BA English, BCom, BSc Mathematics and BSc Computer Science. The fee in government colleges would be affordable for students from rural and underprivileged backgrounds.As per norms, arts courses could have 50 students and science 30. However, the number of seats would be decided by the university to which it would be affiliated, the official said.The other six colleges to come up in Ariyalur, Karur, Vizhuppuram, Virudhunagar, Nagapattinam and Ranipet would be co-education colleges, the communication said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-arts-science-college-for-women-to-come-up-in-city/articleshow/78083311.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid rising, 94% HC lawyers opt out of physical hearings||NEW DELHI: Courts across the city are prepared for physical hearings, although on a limited scale, but the overwhelming majority of lawyers continue to prefer virtual appearances in these Covid times. After a tepid response from Supreme Court advocates last month to physical hearings, it has now emerged that nearly 94% of Delhi high court lawyers sought virtual hearing of their cases during the first 10 days of physical functioning by the court since September 1. During the same period, the seven district courts in the city saw a lawyer turnout of just 13% for physical appearances, with most preferring to argue their matter through video conferencing. The data was collated by HC registry on the basis of daily requests logged on the court's website, where nearly 94% of advocates indicated their preferred mode of hearing as "virtual". Physical courtrooms down to 3Armed with these statistics, Delhi Chief Justice D N Patel and senior judges on Saturday decided to reduce physical courtrooms in the court to three from five, while also taking note of the “alarming” rise in Covid-19 cases in the capital. The high court was reviewing the working of courts after it deferred to what it termed “persistent demands” by various bar associations in the city and the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) to resume physical hearings. The bar leaders had insisted that courts must re-open as many lawyers, unable to afford computers/laptops and internet connections, have been left stranded without earnings due to the shutdown and virtual hearings. Late last month, similar demands from bar association leaders had prompted the Supreme Court to consider limited physical hearing of cases on a trial basis. However, a measly 0.87% of advocates agreed to appear in person to argue cases. The Supreme Court registry had displayed a list of 517 regular cases and 170 miscellaneous petitions and sought consent from counsel engaged by litigants for physical hearing. “Only in six of the total 687 cases, lawyers from both sides have consented for physical hearing,” a registry source had said. On Saturday, the court issued a note saying “most of the advocates, whose matters were listed before the benches constituted for physical hearing, expressed their inability, reluctance or unwillingness to appear physically and requests, in large number, were received for taking up the matters through video conferencing…. The physical appearances were largely before the single benches, exercising criminal jurisdiction whereas the appearance before the other benches was relatively low.” It said that the figures “emphatically revealed” that video-conferencing was the preferred mode of hearing for lawyers at present. Coupled with the spread of Covid-19, the judges decided that from September 15, only one division bench and two singlejudge benches on rotation will sit every day to take up cases in physical mode. High court’s data also revealed that single benches handling criminal cases had seen the maximum footfalls during the first 10 days of September. In these cases, around 43% lawyers and litigants came to court for a hearing. On Friday (September 11), out of more than 320 urgent hearing requests, lawyers in only 11 cases had agreed to physical hearings while the rest had opted for VC. The same day also saw 163 matters/applications filed where just five cases were those where lawyers agreed to appear physically. Till now, two division benches and three single-judge benches were holding physical courts on a rotational basis. The high court in its release also disclosed that regular medical camps were organised in the high court as well as district courts for Covid-19 testing where 45 officials of the court (including contractual and outsourced staff) and 192 officers/officials of district courts have already tested positive. The UCO Bank branch situated in the high court building has been shut after three of its officials tested positive. Despite the adverse circumstances, the full court decided not to discontinue the functioning of physical courts altogether, the note said. Meanwhile, in separate directions issued by the Chief Justice, all district judges have been asked to review the requirement of the number of physical courts in their districts and to send a report to the committee constituted for prepare a graded action plan. The committee headed by the most senior judge, Justice Hima Kohli, was set up by the Chief Justice in April to put in place a “phased/graded restoration to normalcy plan” for courts in Delhi. It had soon received representations from several quarters including the High Court Bar Association and from the bar associations of the district courts for resumption of physical functioning. In response to one such representation, the court registrar general had underlined that resuming physical functioning of courts in such times is not an easy decision, “since courts are places where a large body of people congregate, which includes litigants, advocates, clerks, court staff and judges.” Watch Delhi: Covid rising, 94% HC lawyers opt out of physical hearings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-covid-rising-94-hc-lawyers-opt-out-of-physical-hearings/articleshow/78084522.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 13, 2020||Mangaluru||DK to follow up on plaints related to cleanliness through app||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district administration has decided to redress grievances related to garbage and other cleanliness issues in urban areas through an app. The district has requested people to download the Swachhata-MoHUA app of the central government to report grievances related to cleanliness in areas under urban local bodies, including the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC). The app is available on the Google Play store. Deputy commissioner K V Rajendra asked people to upload pictures of garbage dumps or any other issues related to lack of cleanliness in their respective cities in the district, to alert the authorities. “People may register their complaints related to cleanliness in urban areas with pictures through the app launched by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. People may report it, if the waste collection vehicle does not come to their areas, using the app. One can also report it if roads are not cleaned regularly. The app allows residents to report any instance of animal carcass lying on the road or in public places. It also allows people to complain about irregularities in the supply of water and electricity in their respective areas. The app will update complainants on the status of their complaints,” the DC said, and requested people to join hands with the district administration to keep cities clean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-to-follow-up-on-plaints-related-to-cleanliness-through-app/articleshow/78081693.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||779 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Kolhapur district, 936 in Sangli||Kolhapur: As many as 779 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday, taking the tally of positive cases to 33,890 here. Moreover, 18 patients succumbed to the viral infection in the district on Saturday, taking the death toll to 1,028. So far, 22,111 patients have successfully recovered from the contagion. Currently, there are 10,751 active cases undergoing treatment. Kolhapur city has been reporting the highest number of cases over the last few days with as many as 239 cases being recorded on Saturday, taking the tally of positive case to 10,722. 265 patients from the city have succumbed so far. The number of patients taking treatment in home-isolation is also increasing. While 4,187 patients are in home-isolation in the city, 2,116 patients are taking treatment at home in the rural parts of the district. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 936 fresh Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally of positive cases to 22,306 and the death toll to 821. Currently, there are 9,109 active cases. Sangli district is currently facing a shortage of beds as the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 is much more than the number of patients getting discharge s everyday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/779-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-kolhapur-district-936-in-sangli/articleshow/78081699.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Agra||15-year-old boy hacked to death by cousin in Mainpuri||Agra: A 15-year-old boy was allegedly hacked to death with an axe by his cousin in Mainpuri’s Nagla Kondar village on Saturday over using the pump for irrigating their fields. An FIR has been registered and the main suspect detained for questioning.A student of Class XII, Robin Yadav, had gone to plough his field when he was attacked by his cousin, Rahul Yadav, 26. There is a dispute between their families over using the pumping set for irrigating their fields. While the farm land has been distributed between the two families, the ownership of the pump set is not clear, said police. Both families live under one roof. An FIR under IPC section 302 (murder) has been registered against three people, including Rahul Yadav, on a complaint filed by the deceased’s family members at Dannhar police station. Robin's father, Vinod Yadav, had died earlier.Ajay Kumar, SP, Mainpuri, said a clash between the two was reported two days ago, too. Police had to go to the spot to resolve the matter after intervention of both families. Police said on Saturday morning, Robin was attacked from behind. He was rushed to the district hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. The body has been sent for post-mortem, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/15-year-old-boy-hacked-to-death-by-cousin-in-mainpuri/articleshow/78081690.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||KG Basin holds massive reserves of methane fuel: ARI||New Delhi: The Krishna-Godavari (KG) basin holds a massive reserve of methane hydrate and a rich source of cleaner natural gas, claims a study by the Pune-based Agharkar Research Institute (ARI) of the science & technology ministry. Flagging the study, the ministry on Saturday said, “Even the lowest estimate of methane present in the methane hydrates in the KG basin is twice that of all fossil fuel reserves available worldwide.” Methane is a cleaner and economical fuel. Methane hydrate is formed when hydrogen-bonded water and methane gas come into contact at high pressures and low temperatures in oceans. It is estimated that one cubic meter of methane hydrate contains 160-180 cubic meters of methane. Researchers at ARI claimed to have found that the methane hydrate deposits located in the KG basin are of biogenic origin. “The massive methane hydrate deposits of biogenic origin in the KG basin and near the coast of Andaman and Mahanadi make it necessary to study the associated methanogenic community,” said Vikram B Lanjekar, principal investigator of the study. The study, using molecular and culturing techniques, revealed maximum methanogenic diversity in the KG basin, which is one of the prominent reasons to confirm it to be the extreme source of biogenic methane in comparison to the Andaman and Mahanadi basins. The sediment samples associated with methane hydrate deposits from KG, Andaman, and Mahanadi basin were provided to the ARI researchers for this study by the Gas Hydrate Research & Technology Centre (GHRTC), ONGC, Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kg-basin-holds-massive-reserves-of-methane-fuel-ari/articleshow/78083342.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||High CFR in Junnar tehsil a big concern for officials||Pune: Inadequate health infrastructure, lack of awareness among people and the tendency to ignore symptoms contributed to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Junnar tehsil, recording 3.71% case fatality rate (CFR) — the highest in district — in comparison to the overall Pune rural’s 2.66 %.Junnar block development officer Hemant Garibe said, “Lack of physicians, oxygen and ventilator beds, and the tendency among people to ignore symptoms for a long period are among the reasons behind the higher CFR here. This rate increased particularly in July and August. In these months, the movement of people had increased to cities like Pune and Mumbai, where they mainly got infected.”Ayush Prasad, CEO of Zilla Parishad, said, “We are currently focusing more on augmenting health infrastructure by adding oxygen beds and converting private hospitals to dedicated Covid care centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/high-cfr-in-junnar-tehsil-a-big-concern-for-officials/articleshow/78083334.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Southwest monsoon brings more rain to Nilgiris this yr||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district has received more rainfall than normal in the past three months of southwest monsoon, which is still active in the hill retreat. The amount of rain received in the hills from June to August alone is 1,018.62mm, compared to the average rainfall of 938mm that it receives from June to September. While the average rainfall that the district this year was 628mm, lower than last year’s 789mm, in June and July it had received more rainfall than the comparable periods last year. In June, the average rain fall was at 152.36mm against 125.7mm last year and in July it had gone up to 238.26mm from previous year’s 224.34mm. Last year, the Nilgiris had recorded 900mm rain on a single day at Avalanche, leading to landslides and largescale damage. Eight people had died. There was also loss of livestock due to the rain last year.This year too, the hills experienced heavy rain in the first week of August. In the heavy wind and rain, several electric posts and trees were uprooted and crops were damaged. The rain also triggered landslips. Two people have died in the rain related calamities. According to horticulture officials, the district had received more than sufficient rain this August too. “Though the southwest monsoon this year started late, the Nilgiris received a good amount of rain, which is favouring the tea gardens as well as vegetable fields,” said a horticulture department official.L Kumar, a farmer from Kotagiri said, “The hills experienced devastation owing to the severe monsoon rain and strong wind, but the damages were limited to four taluks of Ooty, Kundha, Gudalur and Pandalur.” He said farmlands and tea gardens in Coonoor and Kotagiri have received adequate rain during August-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/southwest-monsoon-brings-more-rain-to-nilgiris-this-yr/articleshow/78083335.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Paramedical students to join Covid duty||Chennai: The directorate of medical education has asked all institutions offering paramedical courses to direct students to report before the concerned heads of institutions immediately for Covid duty.A letter from director of medical education Dr Narayana Babu issued on September 8 to deans of all medical and paramedical colleges has directed deans and heads of institutions to engage students in Covid-related duties in government medical colleges and hospitals. “If they fail to rejoin in the present crisis, severe action will be taken against them and course completion will be delayed or postponed,” the letter said. Most patients with moderate and severe symptoms require various levels of paramedical care. “A patient in ICU may require passive physiotherapy. During his recovery in the ward, he may require active physiotherapy. We will need more paramedics who can help patients recover faster,” he said, adding that medical and nursing interns are posted to these wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/paramedical-students-to-join-covid-duty/articleshow/78083339.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid test results a touch away||Coimbatore: Now, Covid-19 testing results are just a touch away. The ESI Hospital said has started sending link to the test result to the registered mobile number as SMS and people could download the results by clicking on the same. This, they said, was done to reduce people’s anxiety, while waiting for their test results.Earlier, the ESI Hospital and the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) used to call and inform only the people who tested positive for the virus. People who tested negative would have to keep calling the helpline to know the results.The government hospitals also used to take 72 hours to communicate the result of testing done for a negative report. And the result, in this case, wasn’t even in a format that could be printed.A health officer said, “This led many patients opting for private laboratories, which charge around Rs 3,000 for testing, just to get results fast and a hard copy of the same.”However, the issues were resolved on Friday when the ESI Hospital introduced the system to SMS the test results, which could be downloaded and printed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-test-results-a-touch-away/articleshow/78083328.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Married woman commits suicide||Mangaluru: A married woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a fan at her house in Gurupura under Bajpe police station limits on Friday. She has left behind a suicide note. The woman is Shilpa, 28, a resident of Bhajana Mandir in Gurupura. Before Covid-19 struck, the native of Bajpe worked in Bengaluru and stayed with her husband. The couple has an 11-month-old child. After lockdown, Shilpa returned to Mangaluru along with her child and was working from home. On Friday morning, she allegedly committed suicide at her room. Police said that suicide note is not clear. A complaint has been registered at the jurisdictional police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/married-woman-commits-suicide/articleshow/78080984.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Home chefs in Pune offer special pop-up menus online to patrons||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Home chefs based in the city have decided to move online to offer special pop-up menus to their patrons. Avid traveller and home chef Richa Choudhary has launched a special menu inspired by world cuisine. “My husband and I love to travel and explore different foods across the world. Since we cannot travel because of the pandemic, we thought of experimenting with some of our favourite dishes from our trips and created a speciality menu,” she said. The Pali Cartel menu also offers a host of vegan dishes, such as the popular Spagetti Bolognese with vegan cheese. “Pre-ordering is the norm because everything on the menu takes a lot of time to prepare. Our Carpaccio, a Peruvian dish made with salmon, needs to be marinated for four hours to be denatured properly. The dishes are mostly sold out on weekends, so business has picked up well,” she said. Home chef Meera Tejwanew, who was keen to start a catering or restaurant business, was encouraged by her friends and relatives to finally take the plunge. “Everyone loves the food my mother-in-law makes. She’s always hoped to start her own food business. She has started a limited service of offering Dal Pakwan and Suji Halwa on Sundays. Customers can pre-order through the week and the food is delivered across the city,” said her daughter-in-law Poonam Tejwanew, who handles the online marketing. “We spread the word on WhatsApp groups and social media. We have got a great response as people are looking for items that are not on regular restaurant menus,” she added. Food blogger Christina Francis pointed out that home chefs offering limited and speciality menus are a relief from mundane food experiences. “With restaurants closed for dine-in service, people are seeking the thrill of new experiences at home. Home chefs offering specific menus is one such way. There is a world of difference in taste between dishes offered by home chefs and restaurants. I ordered food from a Bengali speciality menu offered by Chef Abhimanyu Sen called Breaking Basmati, which offers a variety of home-cooked vegetarian and non-vegetarian pulao, chutneys and Bengali favourites like Illish Rosha, Illish Bhaape, Dum Chingri, and so on, that sets the tone for the upcoming Durga Pujo,” she said. Home chefs say business has been a welcome change as people get into the festive spirit in spite of the pandemic. Since food plays an important part in any celebration, it helps people lift their spirits and is one of the things they don’t mind spending on. Every October, Gauri Apte, a home chef specializing in Saraswat cuisine, usually organized a pop-up at select restaurants across the city but she will be modifying her model this year. “I start in October because you get good quality fish, which is the main focus of the cuisine. But I won’t be packing the food in containers and sending it to be delivered because I feel that fish preparations give off a funny smell that way. Something like my signature pomfret which is stuffed with green chutney and fried, cannot be made ready and parcelled because it will lose its texture within five minutes. I will have to go to the clients homes with proper PPE for the final preparation before serving the food. I will be selective about the clients because of the pandemic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-chefs-offer-special-pop-up-menus-online-to-patrons/articleshow/78083345.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Civic staffer dies of Covid-19, 6-8 hours lost in securing bed||PUNE: A PMC employee succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Thursday after failing to secure a hospital bed during symptom onset, despite attempts from senior civic officials. The deceased, Amol Gaikwad, was working in the insect control department of the PMC. He had developed Covid-19 symptoms on Tuesday and was taken to a private hospital the same afternoon where he was given emergency treatment. As the hospital had no beds available, Gaikwad’s family members and colleagues spent around 6-8 hours in their bid to secure a bed in the nearby hospitals. He was eventually admitted in the PCMC-run jumbo Covid facility at Annasaheb Magar stadium late on Tuesday night. Gaikwad’s colleagues said senior civic officials also tried to secure a bed initially, but all in vain. “After discussion with his family members, he was taken to the jumbo facility in the PCMC limits. Though he was responding to the treatment at the facility, he succumbed to the infection on Thursday,” said a colleague of Gaikwad. Another colleague said Gaikwad had tested negative for Covid-19 in the last week of August. An official from the PMC’s labour department said, “He had been involved in fumigation duty during the pandemic. We have requested the family to give us details of his health and other documents.” The PMC employees’ union said they had demanded the PMC give special attention to the staffers who contract the infection during duty. PMC commissioner could not be reached despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-staffer-dies-of-ncov-6-8-hrs-lost-in-securing-bed/articleshow/78083344.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Agra||Neighbour held for killing 9-year-old boy||Agra: A man allegedly involved in murder of a 9-year-old boy, whose body was found near his house in Agra’s Dhaura village two days ago, was arrested after an encounter with the police on Saturday. According to police, Mohd Wahid had kidnapped his neighbour’s son with an intent to demand ransom of Rs 2 lakh from him. But the minor boy started crying before the accused could intoxicate him. Scared of getting caught, he strangulated the boy with shoe lace. Two other persons were also involved in the murder, said police. Agra SSP Babloo Kumar said that during checking at Bhagupur road, a police team intercepted two bike-borne youths, who opened fire at police in a bid to escape. In retaliation, police also fired at them in which they lost control of the bike and fell. Though the injured man was arrested, Arman, who was driving the motorcycle, managed to escape. The SSP said that the clothes, he was wearing at the time of committing the crime, and a small locket were recovered from his possession. Meanwhile, 11-year old boy Atul Sharma, who had been missing since Thursday, was found murdered in Aligarh’s Kawarsi area on Saturday. The body has been sent for post mortem. Talking to TOI, circle officer Anil Samaniya said that the boy had suddenly disappeared from outside his house in Dori Nagar on Thursday night. His family members lodged a police complaint on Friday after they failed to locate him. An FIR was registered under section 363 (kidnapping) of the IPC at Gandhi Park police station. Police said that prime facie it appears that the boy was strangulated, however, the exact cause of death will be revealed in the autopsy report. His family members suspect involvement of their neighbour who is an alcoholic. The matter is being investigated and accused will be nabbed soon, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/neighbour-held-for-killing-9-year-old-boy/articleshow/78081707.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Corporators for results in 24 hrs||Kolhapur: The corporators of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation have asked the administration to provide Covid test results within 24 hours. Currently, it takes around three to four days to get the results by the RT-PCR testing method. Once the throat swab samples are taken for testing, people are advised to stay at home. However, it has been observed that people hardly follow home isolation and unknowingly infect several others. Sharangdhar Deshmukh, a senior corporator of Congress, said it takes several days for the test results to arrive, this causes delay in starting the treatment. They have also demanded to ramp up testing facility. In the city, throat swabs are tested at Isolation Hospital and CPR Hospital, while swab collection centres have started at the 10 family welfare centres A senior official requesting anonymity said, “We are fitting in additional machines for RT-PCR testing. The orders for the machines and testing kits have been placed. We have also decided to increase antigen testing which gives results within half an hour.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/corporators-for-results-in-24-hrs/articleshow/78081712.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||PMC to create dashboard for ambulance availability||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in the process of creating an ambulance dashboard, on the lines of its bed availability dashboard for citizens, to ensure timely availability of these emergency vehicles for Covid-19 patients. The civic body has roped in a software agency and is also in talks with the regional transport office in this regard. “There are 3,000-odd public and private ambulances in Pune city,” a civic official said. Nitin Udas, head of PMC Vehicle Depot, told TOI, “Once the dashboard is up and running, the availability of all the ambulances will be visible on it with their location.” With recent additions in the ambulance network, Pune city also has around 61 ambulances for transporting Covid-19 patients. They were recently attached with the state government’s Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services (MEMS). PMC additional commissioner Kunal Khemnar told TOI, “Under this system, citizens will be able to avail an ambulance by dialling the toll free number ‘108’. These ambulances run 24x7 and we have connected 61 vehicles to this system solely for transporting Covid-19 patients in Pune city. While 30 of these are owned by PMC, the rest are operated by BVG, which manages MEMS. When a patient calls the number, his area and history is taken with details of a confirmed bed at a hospital/facility. The ambulance is then dispatched.” Khemnar said the number of ambulances attached to this system for Covid-19 patients will be increased futher soon. Head of PMC Vehicle Depot Udas said in many cases, citizens call hospitals and relatives when they need an ambulance urgently. “However, they should instead dial 108 and avail the service as this will save them more time in an emergency,” he said. Dnyaneshwar Shelke, chief operating officer at BVG India Ltd for MEMS, said, “BVG has been operating 82 ambulances for Pune district. Besides, there are additional patient transport ambulances owned by PMC and PCMC. These have now also been integrated with 108 service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-create-dashboard-for-ambulance-availability/articleshow/78083341.cms||Neha Madaan
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong groups clash over burqa remark||Hyderabad: A Congress meeting to discuss and prepare an election strategy for GHMC election was marred by a scuffle between leaders from the minority wing of the party on Friday evening. Followers of minority leaders Feroz Khan, Osman Al Hajri and Mohammed Ghouse pushed each other and almost came to blows over a remark on burqa-clad women. During his speech, Feroz Khan said there was a need to check bogus voting mainly by burqa-clad women and that face recognition technology should be demanded at every polling booth. Osman raised objection to the remark stating Feroz cannot generalise and dishonour all burqa-clad women and it was an insult to the community and the religion. Later, several minority leaders staged a walk out and others were pacified after which the meeting continued. Feroz Khan unsuccessfully contested from the Hyderabad parliamentary constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-groups-clash-over-burqa-remark/articleshow/78083346.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Protests on, but regular salaries still a mirage for civic staff||NEW DELHI: For five months Lalit Gupta, a section officer at North Delhi Municipal Corporation, has been struggling with his finances. Gupta has not been paid his salary for four months and his wife no longer takes tuition classes due to the pandemic. An ailing mother and two sons, both of whom lost money in a joint business and now depend on Gupta, have left his family’s future uncertain. Thousands of employees of the three municipal corporations are struggling to make ends meet because of irregular salary payments. Though they have struck work periodically to get the matter resolved, nothing concrete has come of them. This year too, the employee unions have got the employees to abstain from work from 11am to 1pm every day to press for salaries and pensions, which have not been paid for 4-5 months now. “The middle class meets basic needs from salaries. And when we are not paid regularly or in time, it is hard for us to survive or perform our duties,” said Riyasat Ali, a corporation worker of 35 years’ standing, now in the electrical department of the north corporation. The wary employees no longer hope for help from political parties. “We were approached to join one political party in a protest march against another, but we refused. We only want a solution, nothing else,” bristled Vibha Singh, senior vice-president, Municipal Corporation Teachers’ Association. “In EDMC, no salary has been disbursed for two months. The municipalities and the state government must understand that surviving without pay is very difficult.” The north corporation has around 56,000 employees, of whom 26,000 are sanitation workers. “The civic bodies well understand the repercussion of not paying the sanitation workers on time, so they are now paid without a murmur. It is the same with doctors and nurses, who went to court on the matter. Even the teachers’ association filed petitions in Delhi High Court leading to their salary for May being released, with payment for June also in the offing,” noted AP Khan, convenor, Confederation of Municipal Employee Unions. “But what about the others? Where will they go, especially the 24,000 pensioners who have no money to fight a court case?” Vikas Goel, AAP councillor and leader of the Opposition in the north body, alleged corruption as the reason for this malaise. “The problem has nothing to do with Delhi Government. AAP supports the demand of the agitating employees to be paid regularly. The mayor might be unwell, but why are BJP members silent?” asked Goel. In response, BJP councillor and leader of the House Yogesh Verma claimed that the salary of Class 4 employees would be released from Monday. “We are not a revenue generating corporation and the corona crisis has reduced our meagre revenues. If Delhi government pays our pending dues of Rs 1,054 crore, we can weather the situation,” he said. “As far as allegations of corruption are concerned, when the government is not releasing our share of funds, where is the money for misuse?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protests-on-but-regular-salaries-still-a-mirage-for-civic-staff/articleshow/78084143.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s Covid count past 95k-mark, deaths nearing 2,500||NAGPUR: Despite surge of 3,396 new Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha on Saturday, the recovery rate improved to 69% — state’s average recovery rate is 70% — as 3,109 patients recovered during the day. Increase in fatalities remains a major concern. The region recorded 75 deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 2,456. The total Covid count of the region has reached 95,004. New cases were reported from Nagpur (1,715), Amravati (319), Chandrapur (315), Yavatmal (202), Buldhana (177), Gondia (170), Wardha (128), Washim (114), Akola (100), Bhandara (94), and Gadchiroli (62). Nine of the 11 districts in the region reported three-figure increase in number of cases. A total of 65,589 patients have recovered till date. Recoveries on Saturday included 1,633 from Nagpur, Amravati (299), Yavatmal (263), Chandrapur (259), Buldhana (175), Bhandara (153), Gondia (118), Akola (100), Washim (75), Wardha (19), and Gadchiroli (15). For second consecutive day, recoveries surpassed the 3,000-mark in Vidarbha. Barring Washim, all other districts in Vidarbha reported deaths on Saturday. These include Nagpur (44), Yavatmal (7), Wardha (5), Chandrapur (5), Amravati (5), Bhandara (4), Akola (2), Gondia (1), Gadchiroli (1), and Buldhana (1). AMRAVATI: Posting its highest single-day spike of 319 patients, the district took its Covid count to 8,312 on Saturday while five more deaths took the toll to 196, just four short of the 200-mark. A record 436 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered patients to 6,334. Today’s spike was the second triple century score recorded since lockdown. The previous high was 305 cases posted on September 7. A civil surgeon office report said that the five deceased including a woman. Four men (68, 85, 60 and 70) who died were from Pathrot in Achalpur tehsil, Sainagar in the city, Mauli Jehangir and Nandgaon Khandeshwar towns while the 48-year-old female belonged to Chandur Railway town. The rural belt accounted for 148 of the 320 cases, taking its count to 2,599. Daryapur and Warud tehsils reported 26 cases each while Chandur Railway and Morshi reported 17 each. Bhatkuli reported 10 while Dhamangaon Railway reported seven. Six cases each came from Paratwada and Achalpur while Sawardi reported five. Anjangaon Surji reported four while Nandgaon Khandeshwar three.Two cases each came from Chandur Bazar, Pathrot, Mahuli Jehangir and Mozari. A case each was reported from 13 villages while three cases from outside district also tested positive here. Amravati city accounted for remaining 169 cases. YAVATMAL: Yavatmal recorded seven deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the toll to 147. Of the seven deceased, two each were from Pusad and Darwha while one each from Yavatmal, Wani and Arni. The district also registered 202 new positive patients (114 men and 85 women) on Saturday, taking the caseload to 5,449. According to sources, there are 1,467 patients under treatment, of whom 274 are in home isolation. The day saw 263 patients getting discharge, taking the number of total recoveries to 3,835. CHANDRAPUR: The district registered five Covid deaths, taking the toll to 66, and yet another spike of over 300 cases on Saturday. The caseload surged to 5,568 after 315 positive patients were detected. Total 259 patients were discharged during the day to take the number of cured patients to 3,086. There are now 2,416 patients under treatment. Three of the five deceased belonged to Chandrapur city, while two were from neighbouring Yavatmal who had came to the district for treatment. The deceased include 63-year-old person from Anchleshwar ward, 54-year-old person from Ghutkala ward and 45-year-old person from Jatpura ward in Chandrapur city. The two deceased from Yavatmal district came from Wani and Zari Jamni. All five victims had comorbidities and died at Chandrapur GMCH during treatment. WARDHA: The district recorded five Covid deaths, highest in a single-day so far, on Saturday, while 128 new patients were detected, taking the death toll to 44 and caseload to 2,437. The day also saw 19 patients getting discharge, taking the count of recovered patients to 1,201 . The deceased included three men (45, 78 and 65) and 94-year-old woman from Wardha. An 84-year-old man from Hinganghat also died during treatment. Total 614 test reports were received on Saturday. Highest 57 positive cases came from Wardha, followed by Hinganghat (34), Deoli (12), Samudrapur (9), Selu (8), Arvi (5) and Ashti (3). There are now 1,192 patients under treatment in the district. BHANDARA: Four patients died of Covid-19 in Bhandara district on Saturday, taking the toll to 51. For the first time this week, Bhandara reported more number of recovered patients than new patients. Total 153 patients recovered during a day taking their total to 1,400 while 94 new patients were detected, taking the Covid count to 2,698. Now, Bhandara has 1,247 patients under treatment. AKOLA: The district witnessed another three-figure spike with 100 new patients registered on Saturday. A 60-year-old man from ZP Colony, Shastri Nagar in Akola city, and a 47-year-old man from Jatharpeth in Akola died during treatment, taking the toll to 177. Now, the district has total 5,382 cases, of whom 4,117 have recovered. Total 1,088 patients are under treatment. BULDHANA: The district received 644 reports on Saturday, out of which 177 tested positive. Samples positivity rate in Buldhana is still above 27% which is alarming and a sign of community spread. The district also reported a death of 70-year-old man from Shegaon who was admitted to Covid-19 care centre. With this, Buldhana’s toll has reached 63. The district has registered total 4,774 patients, out of which 3,535 have recovered. Now, the district has 1,176 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: The administration added death of a Brahmapuri-based patient that happened four days ago in Gadchiroli in the toll of district on Saturday after reconciliation. This took the Covid toll from Gadchiroli to three. On Saturday, 62 new patients were detected while 15 got discharge. Highest 24 cases came from different parts of Gadchiroli city, while five are from Bihar, three from Telangana and others from different tehsils. Now, Gadchiroli has registered 1,565 cases, 1,191 recoveries, three deaths while 371 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: District witnessed 170 new cases while 118 patients defeated the disease. One patient died, taking the toll to 46. Of the new cases, 113 are from Gondia tehsil alone. Gondia now has total 3,078 cases and 1,635 recoveries while 1,397 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: With 114 new cases, Washim’s Covid count reached 2,690 on Saturday. Total 75 patients got discharge, taking their total to 1,884. Washim’s recovery rate is more than 70%. No Covid-19 death was reported here for the second consecutive day. After 50 deaths, the district has 756 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-covid-count-past-95k-mark-deaths-nearing-2500/articleshow/78083386.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 13, 2020||Delhi||With 4,321 Covid cases, Delhi sees its highest jump||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded its biggest single-day jump of 4,321 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the city’s tally to over 2.14 lakh. Death toll in Delhi mounted to 4,715 with 28 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. In the last four days when Delhi has recorded more than 4,000 new cases of Covid-19 daily, the number of tests carried out has been above 50,000. However, data shows tests conducted through RT-PCR, which is considered the gold standard for Covid testing, have remained between 14% and 20% of the total tests. Rapid antigen rest (RAT), which has lower sensitivity, constitutes the majority of the tests. Delhi conducted 60,076 Covid tests in the last 24 hours. Of them, 9,182 (15%) tests were done using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat while 50,894 (75%) tests were done using RAT. Earlier, from September 6 to September 11, the percentage of RT-PCR tests carried out in the city stood at 26%, 34%, 22%, 20%, 15% and 14%, respectively. Dr SK Sarin, the director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), said RAT has lower sensitivity and, therefore, over-dependence on it can lead to missing out positive and asymptomatic cases. Senior officials in the health department said RT-PCR is done when a patient who has symptoms goes to a doctor or lab to get Covid test done. “The government is going to people with RAT. We have opened a lot of camps in schools and dispensaries among others where we are encouraging people to get tested. Those people who have negative antigen tests but have symptoms are mandated to take RT-PCR,” said an official. RT-PCR detects the presence of infection by targeting specific genetic sequences of SARS CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It has 68% to 80% sensitivity (ability to correctly identify those with the disease). Rapid antigen test detects the presence of infection by targeting specific viral proteins present in the patient sample. Though it gives results faster, the test’s sensitivity is significantly lower, which means it throws up a high rate of false negative results. The owner of a private lab, which conducts 250 to 300 RT-PCR tests daily, said it is difficult to increase their capacity. “RT-PCR tests require advanced lab space for RNA extraction and amplification and trained manpower. It isn’t readily available,” he added. In Delhi, ICMR data shows, there are 68 labs that are conducting Covid-19 tests using RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat. Of them, 15 are in the public sector and 53 are private-run. Some of the public sector labs, for example AIIMS and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), also cater to test samples from other states. Recently, the Union health ministry urged all states and UTs to mandatorily retest all those found to be symptomatic negative in RAT. “The retests are to be done through the reliable RT-PCR method to ensure a positive case does not go undetected,” the ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-4321-cases-city-sees-its-highest-jump/articleshow/78084150.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 13, 2020||Pune||Puneites dance away the blues while staying safe||By: Anjali.Jhangiani PUNE: Dancing is a fun way to exercise while staying indoors and a number of people from the city have signed up for the workout over the last few months. “Bollywood workouts are fun and full of attitude that also help you sweat it out,” said Bollywood dance workout instructor Sahil Mahajan, adding, “It includes hip hop, bhangra and folk moves and they are suitable for all ages. We can call it an exercise in disguise because when participants hear Bollywood songs, they automatically want to dance.” He added that many women are signing up for the classes and he offers a separate women-only class online as well. “Working from home brings a lot of stress to the body, which may result in stiffness, muscle ache, and so on. Dancing makes you flexible without putting a lot of strain on your muscles and helps the body become agile,” he said. Zumba instructor Akriti Jain added, “Zumba aims at high calorie burn like a cardio workout. It gets the heart rate pumping, which is good for participants’ cardiovascular respiratory system. Zumba helps sculpt and tone the entire body.” She shared how conducting online classes has changed the game for workout instructors because they have to make do with guiding their clients through a small window on the laptop instead of being physically present. “The feel is different when you’re in class together with the students. The vibe is different and so is the energy, all of which are slightly lower in online classes. It takes more time for people to warm up and it becomes difficult to focus on all participants while leading the class,” she said. People, who have signed up for online Zumba classes, believe it to be liberating from their mundane indoor routine. “After the Zumba session, there is the satisfaction of knowing I can eat without any guilt. It is a real stress buster,” said interior designer Divya Vijay. Belly dancing is also gaining popularity as people have the time to pursue it as a hobby now, said instructor Anandi Narang. “The common perception is that belly dancing is a sensual dance form, but it was actually used to help women prepare for childbirth. Though it is not entirely a cardio workout and may not be very effective in losing weight, it does strengthen your core and improve flexibility. This form of working out has been gaining popularity in the country over the last decade but during the lockdown we had a 50 % increase in sign-ups because people had time to learn something,” she said. Dance is also therapeutic for the mind. “Movement is one of the primary ways in which we express ourselves. Researchers, practitioners and therapists have found that moving allows the body to take over and express what we consciously or subconsciously do not process. The body stores all our experiences. Movement allows these to surface and helps us process, release and heal various experiences that we may have had,” said Anubha Doshi, psychologist, mindfulness practitioner and arts-based therapist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-dance-away-the-blues-while-staying-safe/articleshow/78083356.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Employer chews off man’s finger during scuffle over work in Delhi||NEW DELHI: An insurance firm employee allegedly chewed off a finger of his 34-year-old employee in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar. The victim had to undergo a surgery to get his finger reattached. The accused has been identified as Hemant Siddharth, who allegedly attacked Mohit Kumar, a resident of Ghaziabad. Kumar alleged that on Thursday, he and Siddharth met in Akshardham in the afternoon related to some official work and travelled to Karol Bagh together in Siddharth’s car. Kumar said that in the evening, when he was ready to leave for home after office hours, Siddharth asked him to come along for some urgent office work. However, when they reached Mayur Vihar, an argument ensued between them over work. The argument escalated to a violent scuffle inside the car. “In his complaint, Kumar alleged that Siddharth started abusing him and he slapped him when he resisted. When Kumar tried to cover to face to save himself, Siddharth chewed his finger off. The finger got separated from his hand and fell on the ground,” said a senior police officer. Kumar then managed to escape the car and call the PCR. He was rushed to a hospital where he underwent a surgery to get his finger reattached. The officer said that an FIR has been registered. Watch Employer chews off man’s finger during scuffle over work in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/employer-chews-off-mans-finger-during-scuffle-over-work/articleshow/78083362.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Midday meal workers to be given jobs under MGNREGS||MYSURU: The indefinite closure of schools owing to the Covid-19 crisis has left the more than one lakh midday meal workers across Karnataka in dire straits. Taking cognisance of their grim situation, the rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR) department of the state government has decided to lend a helping hand by offering them jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). KG Jagadeesha, commissioner of the department of public instruction (DPI), intimated to the government the distress that the pandemic had plunged the midday meal workers in. By virtue of being paid a government honorarium, midday meal workers were earlier denied work under MGNREGS, a hurdle that a government order declaring them eligible has cleared. “Midday meal workers are not government employees. They receive an honorarium for their work. So, we decided to seek jobs for them under MGNREGS to help them out,” Jagadeesha told TOI. The rural development and panchayat raj department has written to all the chief executive officers (CEOs) of all the zilla panchayat (ZP) across Karnataka, instructing them to issue job cards to midday meal workers in their respective jurisdiction. Jagadeesha said that, with schools staying shut since April, midday meal workers had been struggling to find a means of subsistence, and MGNREGS is bound to help them tide over the crisis. “All panchayat development officers (PDOs) have been asked to ensure they obtain work under the central scheme once their addresses have been verified,” Jagadeesha said. A representative of the midday meal workers’ union S Varalakshmi said that jobs under MGNREGS had been one of their key demand following the closure of government schools. “We received no honorarium in April and May. All that midday meal workers get as honorarium is Rs 2,500 per month. Based on our request, the DPI commissioner wrote to the RDPR department, which has instructed ZP officers to ensure work for us under MGNREGS. We welcome the move,” Varalaskhmi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/midday-meal-workers-to-be-given-jobs-under-mgnregs/articleshow/78081724.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Agra||Soor Sarovar reopens, sees 50% drop in footfall from pre-Covid days||Agra: Soor Sarovar Bird Sanctuary in Agra, which reopened earlier this week with Covid restrictions, is witnessing a 50% drop in tourist footfall as against the number of visitors during pre-Covid days. Earlier, at least 250 tourists used to visit the sanctuary every day. The sanctuary was closed to public on March 17. Though the number of visitors is not encouraging, the authorities hope to see the footfall to go up in the days ahead with the opening of World Heritage sites, including Taj Mahal, later this month. The sanctuary authorities have yet not allowed boating or entry into the watch-tower and interpretation centre as they fear social distancing norms will be flouted by public. Many visitors also returned from the gate as they were not comfortable with providing their personal details, including name and mobile number, which are being collected by the authorities at the time of entry. Talking with TOI, wildlife warden, Agra’s National Chambal Sanctuary, Diwakar Srivastava said 80 people visited the site on the day of its reopening on Tuesday and since then, the number has been increasing with 110 visitors on September 9, 100 on September 10 and more than 105 on September 11. Srivastava said all precautionary measures are being taken. “No visitor is allowed without a mask and group entry is not allowed in order to maintain social distancing,” he said. Entry of visitors is allowed after thermal screening. Soor Sarovar Bird Sanctuary is home to more than 165 species of migratory and resident birds and spans an area of 7.97 sq km. Within the sanctuary, there is a l2.25 sq km lake with a depth between 4-8 metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/soor-sarovar-reopens-sees-50-drop-in-footfall-from-pre-covid-days/articleshow/78081714.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Pune||Potholes pose risk to riders on RTO-Pune station stretch||Pune: Uneven road surface and potholes have made commuting on the stretch between the Road Transport Office and the Pune railway station a bone-rattling experience.Potholes have popped up on the entire stretch following heavy and incessant rainfall. Patchwork repairs on this stretch have further worsened its condition, claim regular road users.At the moment, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) is undertaking Metro rail construction work on this stretch, leaving only one lane of road for traffic. Munna Shaikh, a regular commuter, said the authorities had resurfaced the road in a haphazard manner, increasing the risk of accidents. “The lids of drainage chambers have not been properly fixed at one or two places. Two-wheeler are more at risk as the chances of skidding on the uneven road surface are high, especially during rainfall, which leads to waterlogging,” Shaikh said. MahaMetro has barricaded parts where work in ongoing, and commuters said barriers further add to their woes.“Vehicles are left with a narrow carriageway and now, they have to deal with potholes and bad road conditions. Footpaths are out of bounds because of the Metro work. Authorities will have to constantly repair the roads and also clear the accumulated rainwater,” Dadasaheb Shinde, an autorickshaw driver, said. MahaMetro officials have said they have planned the repairs jointly with Pune Municipal Corporation and will carry them out at the earliest. “The repairs are being done on a continuous basis on all road stretches where Metro work is underway. All the bad spots on this particular stretch will be identified and repairs will be done jointly with PMC,”a MahaMetro official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/potholes-pose-risk-to-riders-on-rto-pune-station-stretch/articleshow/78083352.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sola police parade suspect through crowded area||AHMEDABAD: J P Jadeja, the police inspector of Sola police station alleged is in trouble after he and four of his subordinates allegedly tied up on Sanjay Dubey and took him through several localities of Chandlodia in a public shaming procession on Thursday. Dubey’s aunt, Asha Dubey, a resident of New Ranip, has moved court against Jadeja, PSI Jaydeepsinh Rana, head constable Veerbhadrasinh and constables Gopalsinh and Raghuveersinh, stating that they tied up Sanjay with rope and took him on a public shaming procession and some 600 people gathered to watch the spectacle. She told the court that no social distancing was maintained and few people were wearing masks. She stated that the area through which Sanjay was paraded has three Covid micro-containment zones. She submitted that police personnel are servants of the state and cannot act against the rules framed by the state. Jadeja denied the the allegations saying the accused is involved in serious offences and was taken to the crime scene for a spot panchnama and people had gathered around. “We could not take him there in a vehicle as there is a vegetable market at the spot,” added Jadeja. “We did not take out a procession but as he is notorious in the area, people gathered at the spot to see him,” said Jadeja. DCP Zone 1 Ravindra Patel said Dubey was arrested for allegedly assaulting police personnel about a fortnight ago. “There was another case pending against him in which Sola police had taken his custody from jail and had taken him to the spot for a panchnama, not for public shaming.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sola-police-parade-suspect-through-crowded-area/articleshow/78082437.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Agra||UPSRTC bus rams into dumper, driver dies, 11 hurt||Agra: A UPSRTC bus, on its way to Mainpuri, collided with a dumper on Agra-Kanpur highway near village Kothi under Shikohabad police jurisdiction of Firozabad district. While the bus driver died on the spot, the conductor got critically injured. Eleven passengers also sustained serious injuries. The dumper was parked near the divider of the highway and a JCB machine was involved in the maintenance work done by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The accident was so severe that the front part of the bus which hit the dumper got completely damaged. Labourers and villagers came forward to rescue people stuck inside the bus. UPSRTC assistant regional manager Raghvendra Singh said, “The accident took place around 12:30pm on Agra-Kanpur highway. The bus was ferrying 30 passengers from Agra to Mainpuri. Bus driver Hari Shankar (40) died in the accident. Conductor Tribhuvan Singh (35) got critically injured and was admitted to Firozabad Trauma Center. Eleven passengers who sustained injuries are being provided medical care.” Shikohabad circle officer Baldev Singh Khaneda said, “The body of bus driver, resident of Jaswant Nagar, Etawah district, has been sent for postmortem. Passengers have informed that the bus was moving at a high speed. It rammed into a stationary dumper. FIR will be registered after receiving a complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/upsrtc-bus-rams-into-dumper-driver-dies-11-hurt/articleshow/78081725.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 10k cases, tally at 5.57L||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,901 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 5,57,587. The toll increased to 4,846 as 67 more patients succumbed to the disease. As many as 10,292 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 95,733 active cases with 4,57,008 cumulative recoveries and 4,846 deaths. This translates to a recovery rate of 82%. East Godavari reported 1,398 fresh cases on Saturday, followed by Prakasam 1,146, West Godavari 1,069, and Chittoor 932. Of the 67 deaths registered on Saturday, nine are from Kadapa, eight each from Chittoor and Prakasam, seven from Nellore, six from Guntur, five each from Krishna, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, four from West Godavari, three each from Anantapur and East Godavari, and two each from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Anantapur crossed the 400 mark in Covid-19 deaths and Kadapa breached the 300 Covid death mark. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-10k-cases-tally-at-5-57l/articleshow/78083385.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur curfew: Response good in tehsils, tepid in city||Kolhapur: The janata curfew has found more takers in smaller towns and tehsils of the Kolhapur district than in the city, where most activities are continuing as usual. Kolhapur mayor has appealed to citizens to observe the janata curfew for 10 days to bring down the Covid-19 infection rate after similar measures were voluntarily adopted in several towns and tehsils of the district. In towns and tehsils, almost 80% shops stayed closed and the roads remained deserted most of the day. In Kolhapur city, however, most traders kept their extablishments open though the sales were sluggish. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar said: “We expected good response from the traders. But the response was poorer than expectation. It is clear that people do not want such an imposition. We have made the curfew voluntary.” One trader in the Bindu Chowk area said very few customers came to his shop in the past two days. Other vendors added that they get good business over the weekend and they cannot afford to keep the stores shut. Officials added there was little crowd at tourist places and open spaces. The consistent rains could also have played a role in keeping people indoors. The officials and local representatives claimed that they had hoped for a better response from citizens as the death toll due to Covid-19 had touched the 1,000-mark. Kagal and Gadhinglaj tehsils and Peth-vadgaon town too are observing janata curfew. Karvir tehsil is also likely to observe the janata curfew for 10 days. Earlier, when the voluntary curfew was announced, the traders, shopkeepers and petrol pumps in the Kolhapur city had said that they would like to conduct business as usual during the curfew. Traders from the Rajarampuri area had objected to the curfew. A similar sentiment was echoed by the shopkeepers in the Mahadwar road area. In addition, petrol pump owners said that they would operate normally in absence of any formal order, thus diluting the intensity of the curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-curfew-response-good-in-tehsils-tepid-in-city/articleshow/78081737.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Excess waste to be sent to Taloja plant||Kolhapur: Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has allowed a Taloja-based plant to process the excess biomedical waste as the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is unable to process the waste arriving at its Kasba Bawda plant. The KMC has worked out a brief agreement with the firm in Taloja called Mumbai Waste Management Company Limited. According to the agreement, the KMC has to pay Rs 85 per kg for the waste and the civic body will have to make transportation arrangements. Over the last couple of weeks, the hazardous waste had been piling up at the Kasba Bawda processing plant . The KMC’s plant has the capacity to process 2,400 kg of biomedical waste if the plant runs 24 hours. But due to maintenance issues it cannot run continuously. The plant receives waste from hospitals located from Kolhapur city and from hospitals in four tehsils. Vijay Patil, the in-charge of KMC’s waste management, said, “Most of the waste is from the Covid centres and hospitals. It includes masks, PPE kits, gloves, empty sachets etc. Most of which needs incineration. Our plant has limited capacity so upon our request, the MPCB has approved a Taloja based firm to process the daily excess waste.” On Friday, city-based activist shad alleged that the transportation of waste is taking place illegally but the documents accessed from the KMC and MPCB show no illegal transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/excess-waste-to-be-sent-to-taloja-plant/articleshow/78081731.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Camp Hanuman to stay closed till end of month||AHMEDABAD: The wait for devotees wanting to visit the famed Camp Hanuman temple in the Shahibaug cantonment area has got longer. The trustees on Friday announced that the temple would remain closed ‘at least till the end of September’. In a release from the Shree Hanumanji Mandir Camp Trust, where Parthivkumar Adhyaru is president and Arunkumar Shah is vice-president, officials said they had earlier planned to re-open the temple on July 21. ‘But after consultation with the Indian Army officials, it was decided not to open it. Later when the lockdown got lifted, we wanted to open it from September 18. But on September 10, the administrative commandant of the camp instructed us not to open it at least till end of the month,’ states the release. The trust officials said that compared to other temples, the spot is sensitive as it is located within an army cantonment area. Moreover, two Covid care centres for jawans have been set up on two sides of the temple where there are three or more active cases. Thus, the officials said it’s of utmost importance that cases don’t increase within the cantonment. Sources privy to the development said some of the priest’s family members have also come down with the Covid-19 infection. ‘The armed forces are also supportive of opening the temple at the soonest. We are trying our best to ensure that the online darshan of the deity can be started at the earliest. We are getting support from the cantonment board and BSNL for it,’ the release said, adding that the temple is likely to open next month or ‘till further orders.’ The trustees of the temple have appealed to the devotees to pray to the deity at home till then and refrain from any speculation. The temple used to see thousands of devotees thronging the premises on Tuesdays and Saturdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/camp-hanuman-to-stay-closed-till-end-of-month/articleshow/78082476.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid cases, Delhi govt tells 33 private hospitals||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government on Saturday directed 33 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU/ HDU beds for Covid-19 patients after a surge in the number of cases and the demands for ICU beds in the city. In May, all nursing homes and private hospitals, having 50 beds or more, were told to reserve at least 20% of their total beds for Covid patients. ‘Most patients rushing to hospitals in critical stage’Also certain private hospitals in the capital were turned into fully Covid-19 facilities and in some more than 40% beds were reserved for corona patients. Recently, there has been a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and it has been found that the majority of the ICU beds in private hospitals are fully occupied, according to the order of the Delhi government’s health and family welfare department. “However, if in some hospitals, non-coronavirus patients are already admitted in more than 20% of their ICU/HDU beds, then in such cases, once these non-Covid patients are discharged, the vacant ICU/HDU bed(s) shall thereafter be kept reserved for Covid-19 patients only,” the order stated. The number of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in the capital is more than 2,200. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also directed health authorities to increase the number of ICU beds in hospitals. Apart from the rising number of cases in the capital, many patients from neighbouring states come to Delhi for treatment, doctors said. “Several patients require ICU care. Influx of patients from other states is a major concern,” doctors said. As on Saturday, out of total 14,390 hospital beds in the capital, 6,294 were occupied. The number of active Covid-19 patients was 28,059, while 15,371 patients are recuperating in home isolation currently. Public health experts have expressed concern over rapid rise in new cases in the capital over the past few days. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 4,321new Covid-19 cases. According to a senior doctor of Lok Nayak hospital, the demand for general beds has gone down as most patients rush to hospitals only when their conditions get worsen, necessitating oxygen support. Watch Delhi govt tells 33 private hospitals to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reserve-80-icu-beds-for-covid-cases-delhi-govt-tells-33-private-hospitals/articleshow/78084525.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||No lockdown in Solapur, says collector||Kolhapur: Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar has rejected the possibility of another lockdown in the district and has appealed to people not to believe any rumours. Shambharkar’s appeal came after several messages were widely circulated on social media sparking confusion. Panic purchasing was also reported in some parts of the district. While appealing to the people not to believe such rumours, Shambharkar has warned of strict legal action against those who spread such wrong information. Solapur city, meanwhile, recorded 70 new patients, including 42 men and 28 women on Saturday. A 45-year-old woman, a resident of Nayi Zindagi, succumbed to Covid-19 infection. She was diabetic. The city has so far reported 7,448 positive cases, including 4,361 men and 3,079 women. As many as 6,194 of them have been discharged. The city has recorded deaths of 297 men and 143 women due to Covid-19. There are 804 active cases . Solapur rural also added 663 new patients on Saturday. Pandharpur and Barshi tehsils recorded 190 and 107 new patients, respectively. They have together recorded 13 deaths. Solapur rural has 5,454 active patients and with 481 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-lockdown-in-solapur-says-collector/articleshow/78081759.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Agra||97 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 97 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 3,933. A 48-year-old woman - a resident of Maruti estate - passed away in Agra. She was undergoing treatment at SN Medical College. The patient was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailment and pneumonia. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 113 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Also, 76 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 3,933 cases reported in the district, 3,037 [77.2%] have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 763 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/97-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78081749.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Colour on the street to offset Covid gloom||NEW DELHI: The last time most of them ventured out in public to create wall art was just before Holi. Soon after the dreaded news of the novel coronavirus entering India came, followed by the lockdown, and these artists had to find their own innovative ways to deal with the forced home stay. But obviously the creative urge cannot be kept bound for long, and Delhi Street Art (DSA) is back doing what it does best—adding colour to public spaces. "After observing the spread of Covid-19, we started taking small steps to explore the outdoors again," explains DSA chief Yogesh Saini. "For a start, we picked a location that was central, was an open space and a place where the local community of students and teachers had faced disruption much like everyone else." The selected spot was Harcourt Butler School on Mandir Marg, an institution that celebrated its centenary a couple of years ago and has an expansive campus with an abundance of neem, peepal and kikar trees. The small effort drew the artists back to the walls of Delhi, all careful to observe physical distancing and personal safety. The theme chosen was tribal and folklore inspired by the artistic style of well-known illustrator Sanjay Patel. Around 30 artists and some volunteers soon had the walls covered with beautiful Indian iconography, injecting a dab of bright colour into the gloom created by the coronavirus. Watch 30 Delhi artists give school makeover to offset COVID gloom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/colour-on-the-street-to-offset-covid-gloom/articleshow/78084169.cms||Anindya Chattopadhyay
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Faceless assessment will promote voluntary compliance: P C Mody||Ahmedabad: Faceless assessment of income tax returns is aimed at encouraging voluntary compliance and filing of accurate returns, said PC Mody, chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). He was delivering the keynote address for a panel discussion on faceless assessment, organized virtually as part of National Tax Conference 2020. “We would like to be perceived as tax facilitators. We want to bring in transparency and efficiency in all our efforts, be it tax collection or assessment, in a bid to encourage voluntary compliance and filing of accurate returns. Once this is achieved, there will be hardly an occasion for a case being picked up for scrutiny, which will also be done in a faceless manner, further ensuring utmost efficiency,” said Mody. “In the initial phase, we have picked up some 58,300 cases, of which so far, the assessment of some 12,000 cases has already been completed without a hitch. In about 300 cases, we had to review them due to certain risk parametres not being fulfilled. This indicates that it is a fair, just and objective assessment,” he further went on to say. Other panellists during the discussion included Mukesh Patel, member, Task Force on Income Tax Law, along with Dr Pushpinder Puniha, principal chief commissioner, Income Tax National E-Assessment Centre and Dr Kamlesh Varshney, joint secretary, TPL, CBDT, among others. One of the key announcements made by Mody was that a response box i.e. a feedback system will soon be introduced and be made part of the faceless assessment, so that taxpayers can confirm, deny or even amend specified transactions included in Form26 AS. Tax practitioners believe that this will help reduce the anxiety among taxpayers in event of a mistake in registering any transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/faceless-assessment-will-promote-voluntary-compliance-p-c-mody/articleshow/78082498.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Addicted to PUBG, BTech student ends life in Anantapur||Tirupati: An engineering student ended his life over not being able to play Player Unknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG), even as his parents searched in vain for their missing son for almost five days. The incident took place at the Revenue Colony in Anantapur. According to police, Kurkuri Kiran Kumar Reddy, who was addicted to PUBG, went missing from his home about five days ago. His parents initially thought he might have gone to his friend’s place without informing them, which was his usual habit. The parents panicked as their son’s whereabouts were not known even after two days. Late on Friday evening, the boy’s uncle, who searched the entire house, found Kiran dead in a small store room built on the first floor of the building recently. His family members said Kiran Kumar was pursuing his final year BTech at Chennai and had gotten addicted to PUBG. He used to play with Bitcoin and had invested nearly Rs 3.5 lakh, which he borrowed from his mother. Kiran Kumar had gradually pawned his laptop, phone and other personal properties to play the game. After his college closed down due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, Kiran returned to Anantapur and was staying with his grandparents. His grandparents grew restless after watching their grandson addicted to PUBG and asked his parents to take Kiran Kumar home. While Kiran returned to his parents at, he was very disturbed ever since PUBG was banned. His postmortem related formalities were completed at Anantapur GGH on Saturday. Anantapur police have registered a case and are further investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/addicted-to-pubg-btech-student-ends-life-in-anantapur/articleshow/78083409.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 13, 2020||Agra||Missing businessman's body fished out of drain in Etah, family suspects murder||Agra: The body of a 40-year-old businessman, who had been missing since Friday night, was fished out of a drain near his house in Jain Gully under Nagar kotwali jurisdiction in Etah district on Saturday morning. The body bore injury marks, said police, who sent the body for postmortem and launched a probe. Family members of the victim, Piyush Jain, a grocery trader, however, suspected it to be a murder. The victim’s cousin Rajiv Jain said Piyush had left the house around 9pm on Friday, saying he would be back in five minutes. “However, when Piyush did not return till late in the night, the family started searching for him. But, when they failed to find him, they informed police in the morning,” said Rajiv, adding: “Piyush was murdered.” Police said there was a cloth wrapped around Piyush’s neck when the body was fished out and there were bruises on his face and arms. Nagar kotwali station house officer Ashok Kumar Singh said, “The post-mortem report suggests that Piyush died from drowning, but the family suspects it to be a murder. We have, however, not received a written complaint from the family, so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/missing-businessmans-body-fished-out-of-drain-in-etah-family-suspects-murder/articleshow/78081741.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kitchen budget on fire, potato at Rs 45/kg in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Vegetable prices in the city are going through the roof. The rising price of greens has left homemakers fuming as even budget-friendly vegetables like brinjal and coccinea have joined the ‘Rs 100 Club’. Home budgets of the citizen, who are suffering from unemployment, pay cuts and infection risks during the Covid-19 pandemic, have gone for a toss as potato — the saviour in any kitchen —has also become ‘too hot to handle’ with its price floating around Rs 45 per kg. Onion, another kitchen essential, is being sold at Rs 35 per kg. Coccinea is priced at Rs 135-140 per kg in the retail market. The prices were expected to go south after trading began at Jamalpur APMC, but according to APMC officials, there is still shortage of vegetables in the market. Secretary Deepak Patel said that the heavy rain in the last week of August stopped farmers from collecting their vegetables and sending them to markets. A wholesale trader said that price of coccinea has dropped to Rs 50 per kg in the wholesale market but the retailers are still not willing to pass on the benefit to the customers. “A reduction of up to 30% does not reflect in the retail market,” he said. “It seems neither the state government nor the APMC has any control over vegetable prices. In big cities like Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat, the government should set up markets for farmers. This will be helpful for the retailers too,” said the trader. Another trader said that only 53 stalls are operational at the APMC. “Once all stalls become operational, probably in a month, the prices would definitely come down,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kitchen-budget-on-fire-potato-at-rs-45/kg/articleshow/78082508.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra among states with highest daily recoveries||PUNE: The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra reached the million mark on Friday, but the state has also emerged to become one among five with the highest number of daily recoveries. Data released by the Union health ministry showed that a record 81,533 patients went on recover between Friday and Saturday morning. That number takes total recoveries in the country to 36,24,196 (from a total caseload of 46,59,984). An impressive 60% of these recoveries are from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra alone contributed more than 14,000 discharged patients and Karnataka over 12,000 to the new single-day recovery tally, the health ministry’s dashboard showed on Saturday. The country’s 24-hour caseload also climbed with 97,570 infections. Out of this, Maharashtra had 24,000 of the additional cases and Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka both registered over 9,000 infections. Officials and experts who studied the data said the increase in recoveries is a “good sign”. “The state on Saturday registered a 70% recovery rate with 13,489 patients discharged,” stated one health official. The country's current recovery rate is at 77%. Public health expert R Jotkar said while the recovery rate is definitely a positive indicator, the death rate demands renewed attention. He said controlling mortality called for upgraded nation-wide case management practices. He said the confirmed case tally is the only entry point to pandemic history while exit entails two options: recovered or deaths. “Maharashtra state appears to top all these dimensions: the entry point and two exits, although percentage of contribution of deaths is a worry,” he said. Also on Saturday, India’s case fatality rate on Saturday dropped to 1.6% The country registered 1,201 deaths in 24 hours; 36% of the fatalities reported were from Maharashtra with 392 deaths — a case fatality rate at 2.81%. The case fatality rate is the proportion of people who die from a disease among all individuals infected by the disease over a certain period of time. Out of the total deaths (77,472 as of Saturday), 69% fatalities were concentrated in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, government data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-among-states-with-highest-daily-recoveries/articleshow/78083441.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Ward secretaries allay Covid fears||Kolhapur: Some of the ward secretaries have taken up the task of counselling the relatives of the Covid-19 patients and inform the locals about the dos and don’ts to keep the infection at bay. Milind Yadav, the secretary of a ward committee in Kolhapur, has taken up the task of counselling. He schedules the counselling sessions in advance and requests the residents to attend the session. “I provide scientific perspective to the contagion and ask people to follow simple rules. Staying at home all the time is not the solution,” says Yadav who is of the opinion that the KMC should train ward secretaries to hold such counselling sessions. The counselling sessions conducted by few such ward secretaries like Yadav have impressed the civic authorities. During the influx of people from the red zones, Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur city were few and the success was attributed to the efforts taken by the ward secretaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ward-secretaries-allay-covid-fears/articleshow/78081774.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Agra||Ex-DSP sentenced to life in Raja Maan Singh’s murder dies in Jaipur||AGRA: Former DSP of Rajasthan police, Kan Singh Bhati, who was recently sentenced to life imprisonment along with 10 other former policemen, for the murder of the royal scion of Bharatpur, Raja Man Singh, in a staged “encounter” 35 years ago, died at a Jaipur hospital on Friday night. Confirming this, Mathura District Jail's senior superintendent Shailendra Maitrey, told TOI that the 82-year-old convict was referred to district hospital in Mathura on September 8 after he complained of gastrointestinal issues and later he was referred to SN Medical College in Agra from where he was referred to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital in Jaipur where he died on Friday night. Maitrey said that his Covid-19 test was conducted before he was referred to the district hospital and it was found to be “negative”. His body will be handed over to his family members after a postmortem in Jaipur, he added. Sources said that blood clots were found in the MRI conducted at SMS hospital. Bhati was taken to district jail in Mathura after the verdict of life imprisonment was announced by District and Sessions judge Sadhna Rani on July 22. The judge held that the policemen, including then DSP Bhati and SHO Veerendra Singh, guilty under sections 302 (murder) and 148 (rioting) of the IPC. Three others — Hari Kishan, Kan Singh Sirvi and Govind Ram — booked under section 218 (public servant framing incorrect record or writing with intent to save a person from punishment) of the IPC were acquitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-dsp-sentenced-to-life-in-raja-maan-singhs-murder-dies-in-jaipur/articleshow/78081758.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 13, 2020||Delhi||Gang duping credit card holders in Delhi busted, 3 held||NEW DELHI: A gang of cheats, which had recently duped a constable by posing as customer care executives from a bank, was busted in south Delhi. The accused managed to procure customers’ data from a bank and later called them offering prizes against their credit cards for which the card holders would be asked to transfer some money. The men would later block the targeted customer’s number and disappear. The incident came to fore when the constable deputed to Central Bureau of Investigation approached the Lodhi Colony police station with a complaint of being duped by a “bank official” who offered a prize money on his credit card. The constable was asked to share an OTP to activate the offer after which a sum of money got deducted from his account. During the probe, the cops found that the money was transferred to an e-wallet account linked to a company named Fashion Pavitri. Its owner, Ashish, was tracked down and arrested. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said that during interrogation, Ashish revealed the role of his friends Manish Gupta and Abhishek in the crime. “We found they had cheated many people and nearly Rs six lakh was transferred to their accounts. Efforts are being made to track down the rest of the victims,” said Thakur. The cops have recovered 12 SIM cards issued on fake IDs that were being used to make the calls. Phones and laptops used to cheat people have also been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-duping-credit-card-holders-in-city-busted-3-held/articleshow/78084172.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hubballi||Ganja seized, seven peddlers held in Karnataka||HUBBALLI: Gajendragad police have arrested five men on charges of growing ganja and selling it illegally. The accused are Irappa Rathod, Wasim Bangargundi, Veeresh Pudur, Veeresh Dyavankondi, all residents of Gajendragad town, and Shivakumar Betageri, a resident of Gadag. About 470gram of ganja powder and 1.4kg of ganja plants have been seized from them. Police said 470gram ganja powder is worth Rs 94,000, while the plants cost Rs 10,000. Acting on a tip-off, police raided Irappa’s field and caught him with the banned crop, after which he confessed to selling the crop to the other accused. The raid was led by DSP Shivanand Katagi of Nargund sub-division, Ronn circle police inspector Sunil Savadi and Gadag PSI Gurushant Dashyal. Meanwhile, Kalghatagi police seized 500gram ganja and arrested two men near Galgingatti Cross on Friday evening. The accused are Mahadev Shilikyatar, 25, Shankarappa Shillikyatar, 45, both residents of Shinganhalli village of the taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ganja-seized-seven-peddlers-held/articleshow/78081757.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||GSI rules out settlements in Pettimudy||Idukki: A report submitted by Geological Survey of India (GSI) and accessed by TOI said inhabitations in Pettimudy should be kept at a safe distance. The report also pointed out that incessant and high-intensity rainfall over preceding days could have triggered the landslide. A national landslide-susceptibility mapping programme (NLSM) carried out by GSI in these parts of Idukki district had marked susceptibility status of the area as vulnerable with high and moderate susceptible class, the report said. The report stated that “It is inferred from the site conditions that the instability in the slope has been induced by reduction of strength on super saturation and increase in pore water pressure of the overburden material. The steep slope of the terrain and nature and thickness of the overburden material are the major factors owed for this.” The report also dismissed KDHP company-issued rainfall data on the landslide day. As per the KDHP data, Pettimudy received 61.22cm (24.26 inch) of rainfall on August 6. But the GSI report pointed that "the analysis of rainfall data received from Pettimudy division of Nyamakad Estate indicates that high-intensity rainfall was recorded in this area during the first week of August. The highest daily value of the same was recorded as 24.26cm during the event day," said the report. The report also recommended that as a safety concern, it is recommended that the inhabitations in the hill slope of Pettimudy should be kept at a safe distance from the streamlets and also from the main river so that the risk from slope failures as well as flooding can be avoided. With the uncertainty on the prevailing conditions in the scarp area, it is also recommended to shift the housing lines away from the flanks of the streamlets. No new construction shall be done or allowed in the mouth area or close to the stream flanks. The GSI report also said to take precautions over the construction works of the road construction work in the first tribal panchayat in Edamalakkudy. “As a correction measure at road-bench level, it is suggested to provide a proper drainage arrangement with provision of a culvert of suitable dimension at Edamalakkudi road juncture,” said the report. Idukki district geologist Biju Sebastian said, “District geology department has found that the extremely heavy rainfall caused the landslide. The GSI study report also agreed with our findings. The GSI-recommended safety measures will be helpful to prevent such tragedies in future" Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan told TOI "Based on the GSI findings, we will not allow human settlements in Pettimudy. The area under threat to repeated landslides and the allowing of human habitations in Pettimudy will be a threat to human life. The people in the area are also not willing to stay there."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gsi-rules-out-settlements-in-pettimudy/articleshow/78076725.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 13, 2020||Kolhapur||SID: Curb rumours, communal tensions||Aurangabad: Anticipating a violent reaction to the Supreme Court (SC) order imposing a stay on Maratha reservation, commissioner of the state intelligence department (SID) Ashutosh Dumbare has asked all the commissioners and superintendents of police to take precautionary measures to nullify rumours and ensure communal harmony is not disrupted. In a communication, the SID has asked the senior police officers to keep a close watch on Maratha outfits and ensure there is no disruption in law and order. The officers have also been told that intelligence gathered on all the places and events of significance, if any, should be sent to the SID commissioner’s office. Considering the fact that Aurangabad has played a crucial role in galvanizing the Maratha reservation movement, police authorities here are closely monitoring the situation. Policemen from the special branch are in touch with the activists who have remained at the forefront of the reservation movement. Since the SC ruling came, many meetings, including one by Maratha activists, have been held in Aurangabad. During the meeting, activists decided to stage ‘Dhol Bajao’ (beating of drums) agitation in front of the residences of people’s representatives from Monday onwards. Patrolling has been stepped up in the areas housing the residences of MLAs and MPs. Some incidents of stone-pelting at state transport busses and burning tyres on highway were reported from parts of Marathwada on Friday, forcing police to deploy extra bandobast. Now, with the SC ruling, community leaders have appealed to the youths to abstain from taking any extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sid-curb-rumours-communal-tensions/articleshow/78081789.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Direct off-label plasma use sans approval hints at racket||NAGPUR: Recovered Covid-19 patients and citizens volunteering to help critical patients may not be aware that they are unknowingly becoming part of alleged convalescent plasma racket. The off-label plasma use, authorized by Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) across India, has been permitted under strict supervision of a three-layered process involving the state’s Project Platina task force, dean’s committee and preliminary assessment officer, who is a doctor. The convalescent plasma of moderate recovered patients is assumed to carry antibodies which help in fighting the novel coronavirus. Seniors doctors at government medical colleges are worried about the growing trend of convalescent plasma being sought openly on social media citing it as matter of life and death. Many gullible donors are instantly responding to the seemingly emergency alerts bypassing the scrutiny. Of late, a lot of messages are being posted on social media giving requirements about the needy patient, blood group and contact number. When TOI posed queries to a couple of people sending such requests, they hung up saying they would call back later. TOI asked how and where the plasma is being collected and if DGCI, ICMR or Food and Drug Authority (FDA) had given permission to them. This paper also spoke to a couple of recovered patients soon after they donated their plasma at certain blood banks in the city on Saturday. Sources said some enterprising recovered patients are putting their plasma on sale as can be seen in many WhatsApp posts doing rounds with name and numbers. Amid this, calls have been made for regulation of plasma collection and donation which seemed to have gone unchecked. Project Platina task force officials referred TOI queries to FDA, which is the nodal agency for allowing plasma use as a drug under emergency authorization. FDA joint commissioner Mahesh Gadekar didn’t answer to TOI’s calls and messages. FDA officials confirmed that only GMCH and IGGMCH were permitted to collect convalescent plasma for Covid-19 treatment in the city. Stakeholders admitted there is lack of proper awareness regarding donation and how to make requests in emergencies which has led to the matter spilling on to social media. Sources said the convalescent plasma is being allegedly traded upwards of Rs10,000 per bag while it is collected for free from donors. A man, whose mother is admitted in a private hospital on Kamptee road, said he paid Rs7,700 on Saturday and Rs10,000 per bag around 10 days bag. The man was directly asked to bring the plasma. “The hospital asked me to bring it on my own. I circulated online appeals and approached a blood bank. The bank charged me and also asked to provide a donor,” he said, adding that he had to run pillar to post to arrange the life-saving resource. Another man said he read an appeal on WhatsApp for a doctor admitted in a private hospital in Ramdaspeth. The donor agreed he failed to ensure if his plasma would go to intended beneficiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/direct-off-label-plasma-use-sans-approval-hints-at-racket/articleshow/78083492.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pradeepsinh to get Z security||AHMEDABAD: The security of MoS home, Pradeepsinh Jadeja will be enhanced from “Y+” category to “Z” category. A top police official of Gujarat Police said that Intelligence Bureau (IB) had proposed enhancing security of Jadeja. “After proper assessment of the security threat to MoS home Pradeepsinh Jadeja, the state IB sent the proposal to enhance the security to the home department which gave the green signal,” said the official. According to top police sources, in “Y+” category security, the person gets one gunmen and one “watcher” while in “Z” category, the person is allotted half section of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans, a house guard, a watcher, a gunmen and an escort vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pradeepsinh-to-get-z-security/articleshow/78082520.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||IGPC to help set up bullion exchange||AHMEDABAD: The India Gold Policy Centre (IGPC) at Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) is all set to provide consultation services to help establish the International Bullion Exchange (IBE) at GIFT City in Gandhinagar. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was inked between International Financial Services Centre Authority (IFSCA) and IGPC, IIM-A on Saturday at Gandhinagar, regarding this. As part of the MoU, IGPC-IIMA, an independent think tank with in-house expertise in the area of gold markets shall be a knowledge partner to IFSCA to roll out the IBE. Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had announced the setting up of an IBE at GIFT City in Gandhinagar. The IFSCA was established in April this year, as a unified regulator by the government of India and will be overseeing the starting of the exchange. “IBE is expected facilitate market development through higher degree of compliance, traceability, and product innovation. India’s share of global gold consumption is about 20 to 25%. However, even after two decades of gold market opening up, we still do not have an infrastructure that connects India to the rest of the world. Creating a market that is connected to the rest of the world is an answer to most of the challenges that gold is said to bring to economy,” said professor Arvind Sahay, chairperson, IGPC, IIM-A. “IIM-A extended support to various strategic nation building initiatives in the past and this collaboration reasserts our commitment,” Sahay further said. “IBE is intended to strike an equilibrium to reduce the market inefficiencies that currently exist in the Indian bullion trade. Thus, this move would go on to integrate precious metals trade with financial markets and create a transparent platform for bullion trading. Through this, IBE aims to achieve efficient price discovery, quality and services that are at par with international standards,” said Injeti Srinivas, chairperson, IFSCA. “We are glad to have sectoral expertise within institutions like IIM-A for a project with a vision that has global reach,” he further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/igpc-to-guide-in-setting-up-intl-bullion-exchange-at-gift-city/articleshow/78082513.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kochi||Customs unearths duty-evasion cases||Kochi: Customs sleuths probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case have stumbled upon various other illegal collaborations between the consulate staff and the state government officials. A source in the Customs said that a consignment of dates weighing over 17,000kg, which arrived in 2017, has raised their suspicion. The state protocol office had provided an exemption certificate to this consignment. They suspect that the goods which came into the state, duty-free as diplomatic cargo, ultimately reached the hands of people outside the consulate and that it amounts to duty evasion. “We have found that an exemption certificate was issued in 2017 for importing dates. However, it is difficult to believe that this much of dates were for the consumption of the consulate alone,” said a senior official. He added that they are probing whether consignments like dates were distributed to other entities in the state and if the top brass of the state government was aware of it. Though the cargo reaching through the diplomatic channel is exempted from duty, it does not apply when the goods are for civilians here. “For instance, if a native person has contacts in the consulate and if he manages to get a gadget imported through the diplomatic channel, then he has received the said gadget duty free. However, this is illegal and a type of duty evasion,” said the source. Senior Customs officials said that they are also looking into the claims and Facebook posts made by some people, including minister K T Jaleel. “Several of the minister’s FB posts on receiving UAE aid itself show direct violation of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. We are probing if any of these contributions came through diplomatic cargo,” said a source. The exemptions provided by the state protocol office are also under lens. The protocol office had issued duty exemption certificate 11 times during 2016-18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-unearths-duty-evasion-cases/articleshow/78081786.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hubballi||Captain dies on board ship, vessel docks at Karwar||Karwar: The captain of a cargo ship, which left Chennai and was bound for the United Arab Emirates (UAE) died of a heart attack on board on Saturday just off the Karwar shore. The ship was subsequently diverted to the Karwar Port. The deceased captain, Jitendra Kumar, 48, was a resident of Gaya in Bihar state. The officials at the port had the postmortem of his body conducted at the Karwar Medical College. Officials at the port said that the ship, laden with asphalt, had sailed from Iran to Chennai, and was headed to UAE after unloading its cargo. Jitendra reportedly collapsed while in the bathroom on Saturday morning, and when the crew found him in that state, it was decided to divert the vessel to the nearest port, which was Karwar. However, Jitendra was declared dead when the ship docked in Karwar. Police said that Jitendra’s brother had reached Karwar via Goa, adding that the former’s body would be handed once all the formalities were concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/captain-dies-on-board-ship-vessel-docks-at-karwar/articleshow/78082516.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||Oraon visits Bermo as Cong gets ready for twin bypolls||Ranchi: Launching groundwork for the Bermo and Dumka bypolls, state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday reached Bokaro, part of Bermo constituency, on a two-day visit. The Election Commission has not yet announced the bypoll dates, but parties expected the announcement soon and have ramped up preparations. Before heading to Bokaro, Oraon inaugurated the new office of the party’s professional wing and said, “Congress is gearing up for the bypolls and we are more than sure that we will retain Bermo, which fell vacant after the demise of our MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh a couple of months ago. We have a strong cadre base in Bermo and Singh has left a glorious legacy of serving people of his constituency for decades. During my visit, I will hold meetings with block-level heads and other office bearers of the party and take feedback from the ground to shape our future course of activities.” Oraon remained tight-lipped about the prospective candidate, saying the party high command will formally announce the name at an appropriate time. Party sources in Ranchi, however, said the late MLA’s son Jai Mangal Singh is a frontrunner for the seat. “Although there are half a dozen claimants, the party is of the view that Singh’s son, who is a known face, should be given a chance. The party will try to cash in on the sympathy wave in the wake of Singh’s demise by fielding his son,” the source said. Party spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said Oraon had visited the constituency in July to assign work to the cadres for the bypoll. “The current visit is to review the assigned tasks and intensify our presence on the ground and strengthen mobile resources,” he said. Chief minister Hemant Soren is also expected to visit Bermo and Dumka next week. Sources close to the CM said Soren is first likely to visit Dumka on a two-day tour from September 14 and Bermo from September 19. “His schedule is being finalized but he wants to visit both the constituencies before the poll dates are announced. We are expecting an EC announcement by the month-end,” an aide of the CM said. Soren, the working president of JMM, had vacated the Dumka seat to retain Barhait after winning both in last year’s assembly election. Among the highly probable candidates for the seat is Soren’s younger brother Basant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oraon-visits-bermo-as-cong-gets-ready-for-twin-bypolls/articleshow/78082755.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||Bihar man arrested for threat call to Maha CM||Dumka: Police on Saturday arrested Krishna Kumar Singh from Purnea in Bihar for allegedly making threat calls to Maharastra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray a week ago. Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta said Mumbai Police had given them the mobile number from which the threat call was made. Kispotta said, “A team led by Barharwa sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) P K Mishra was sent to Purnea and they arrested Singh on Friday. A team of Mumbai Police has arrived and are interrogating him. The number from which the threat call was made was in regular contact with Singh. We traced the number and found it belonged to a Barharwa-based businessman who had been cheated by Singh.” Kispotta said Singh — who hails from Baliya in Uttar Pradesh and has houses in Barharwa (Sahibganj) and Purnea — had defrauded the trader of Rs 35,000, pretending to be the Delhi CID crime branch IG. The SP added that Singh had also cheated a few more businessmen and FIRs were lodged against him in Barharwa. “I am not sure when Singh made the call to the Maharastra CM. Mumbai Police was after him for quite some time before they approached us a week ago,” he said, adding Singh will be taken to Mumbai and produced before a local court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bihar-man-arrested-for-threat-call-to-maha-cm/articleshow/78082653.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||NGT halts construction of all buildings without green nod||RANCHI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Jharkhand government to immediately stop all ongoing construction work undertaken without obtaining environmental clearance. It has also asked has the “competent authority to assess the environmental compensation” for the lapses and recover the penalties from the appropriate authorities/persons/builders/project proponent as the case maybe within three months. On September 9, NGT’s eastern region bench in Kolkata, hearing a petition filed by environmentalist R K Singh last year, delivered the judgment which was uploaded on NGT’s website on Friday. Singh had cited lapses in the construction of 55 buildings belonging to commercial, government and housing societies underway in Ranchi, Bokaro, Deoghar and Jamshedpur. The Jharkhand high court, the new assembly building, and the smart city project is also on the list of offenders. The Jharkhand government has accepted before NGT that 35 major structures in the state have been constructed without environmental clearance. Delivering the judgment, the two-judge bench comprising S P Wangdi and Dr Nagin Nanda has ordered the construction of these buildings be stopped till they receive an environmental clearance and furnish a report on action taken report in next six months. The order also directed the state urban development department to ensure Environment Impact Assessment (EIS) is conducted on all the structures raised in the municipal areas in accordance with the procedure laid down in the EIA Notification, 2006. The order said, “Accordingly, the Environmental Management Plan must be prepared and mitigation measures proposed therein be implemented to address the environmental issues arising on account of such constructions without EC. Similar action shall be taken in respect of the structures falling within notified Nagarpalika areas and Gram Panchayats, if there be any.” The order also mandated the competent authority — Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) — to assess environmental compensation for all buildings that came up in violation of the laws and in respect of those which have already been assessed shall also be recovered within three months. It also snubbed authorities in the state dispensation and asked them to fix the accountability for the lapses. The order read, “Action shall be initiated under Section 19 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, by the State Pollution Control Board forthwith against those who are responsible for the violations. Since the violations were being committed under the gaze of the concerned authorities, we direct initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the concerned officers, the municipal commissioners and the State Pollution Control Board at the earliest.” Singh welcomed the order and reiterated that the penalty amount on state government in respect to the assembly building and high court building in tune of around Rs 130 crore. He said, “The penalty will be varying in nature with each passing day as the number of days is one of the crucial factor in calculating the penalties.” He added, “For assembly building, an amount in tune of Rs 49.34 crore was assessed by CPCB in the past till the state government sought post-factor approval from State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIA). However, in connection to the high court building, somewhere between Rs 76-81 crore was assessed by CPCB in the past. Since the EC has still not been received, the number of days pass will lead to hike in compensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ngt-halts-construction-of-all-buildings-without-green-nod/articleshow/78082689.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Jamshedpur||NGT halts construction of all buildings without green nod||RANCHI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Jharkhand government to immediately stop all ongoing construction work undertaken without obtaining environmental clearance. It has also asked has the “competent authority to assess the environmental compensation” for the lapses and recover the penalties from the appropriate authorities/persons/builders/project proponent as the case maybe within three months. On September 9, NGT’s eastern region bench in Kolkata, hearing a petition filed by environmentalist R K Singh last year, delivered the judgment which was uploaded on NGT’s website on Friday. Singh had cited lapses in the construction of 55 buildings belonging to commercial, government and housing societies underway in Ranchi, Bokaro, Deoghar and Jamshedpur. The Jharkhand high court, the new assembly building, and the smart city project is also on the list of offenders. The Jharkhand government has accepted before NGT that 35 major structures in the state have been constructed without environmental clearance. Delivering the judgment, the two-judge bench comprising S P Wangdi and Dr Nagin Nanda has ordered the construction of these buildings be stopped till they receive an environmental clearance and furnish a report on action taken report in next six months. The order also directed the state urban development department to ensure Environment Impact Assessment (EIS) is conducted on all the structures raised in the municipal areas in accordance with the procedure laid down in the EIA Notification, 2006. The order said, “Accordingly, the Environmental Management Plan must be prepared and mitigation measures proposed therein be implemented to address the environmental issues arising on account of such constructions without EC. Similar action shall be taken in respect of the structures falling within notified Nagarpalika areas and Gram Panchayats, if there be any.” The order also mandated the competent authority — Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) — to assess environmental compensation for all buildings that came up in violation of the laws and in respect of those which have already been assessed shall also be recovered within three months. It also snubbed authorities in the state dispensation and asked them to fix the accountability for the lapses. The order read, “Action shall be initiated under Section 19 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, by the State Pollution Control Board forthwith against those who are responsible for the violations. Since the violations were being committed under the gaze of the concerned authorities, we direct initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the concerned officers, the municipal commissioners and the State Pollution Control Board at the earliest.” Singh welcomed the order and reiterated that the penalty amount on state government in respect to the assembly building and high court building in tune of around Rs 130 crore. He said, “The penalty will be varying in nature with each passing day as the number of days is one of the crucial factor in calculating the penalties.” He added, “For assembly building, an amount in tune of Rs 49.34 crore was assessed by CPCB in the past till the state government sought post-factor approval from State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIA). However, in connection to the high court building, somewhere between Rs 76-81 crore was assessed by CPCB in the past. Since the EC has still not been received, the number of days pass will lead to hike in compensation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/ngt-halts-construction-of-all-buildings-without-green-nod/articleshow/78088622.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||CM meets Lalu for more than 1 hr, denies discussing politics||Ranchi: Days after magistrates were posted at Kelly’s Bungalow to stop political aspirants of Bihar from meeting jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad, chief minister Hemant Soren paid a “courtesy call” to Lalu which went on for at least an hour and half. Lalu was shifted to Kelly’s Bungalow, the official residence of the director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, after chances of contracting Covid-19 increased at the hospital. The RJD chief is undergoing treatment at Rims for multiple ailments and is also serving jail terms after being convicted in several fodder scam cases. Talking to the media after meeting Lalu, Hemant said, “It was long since I had last met him and my visit was just to ask about his wellbeing. Though doctors were not present at the bungalow, I could nto discuss in details about his health.” “I know you all want to know what discussions we had over Bihar elections, but political matters will be announced from an appropriate platform,” Hemant said, reiterating, “JMM will fight the Bihar polls along with RJD.” Asked about jail norms being violated, Hemant said no such matter has been brought to his notice. “I am hearing it from you that people are coming from Bihar to submit their biodata for the polls, but I have no information from official channels,” he said. JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya also described the meeting as a courtesy call. “Personal relationship is above politics. It is under proper norms of the jail manual that convicted prisoners are allowed to have visitors and there should not be objections if the visitor holds the post of the chief minister,” he said. Bhattacharya claimed that during personal meetings, people can discuss several things and not essentially politics. The BJP, however, took strong exception to the meeting. State unit spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said CM’s visit proves the state government is being run from the jail. “CM has violated the jail manual by driving into the bungalow with his pilot car, we expect him to be the custodian of law,” he said. Shahdeo added that it is unfortunate for the state that the CM has to seek advise from a jailed convict to run his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-meets-lalu-for-more-than-1-hr-denies-discussing-politics/articleshow/78082641.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||Pvt hosps refusing to treat Covid patients to face heat: Bokaro DC||Bokaro: With Covid cases rising, the district administration here on Saturday asked all private hospitals to not be reluctant in providing treatment to infected persons. This comes at a time when till Friday, the district recorded a total of 2,849 cases of which, 559 are still active, 2,273 have recovered and 17 have died of the viral infection. Action will be taken in cases of non-compliance, the district administration informed the hospitals. “No private hospitals should be reluctant to treat persons infected with Covid-19,” deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh told the hospitals in a meeting held on Saturday. Apart from representatives of a dozen private hospitals, owners of K M Memorial, Muskan Hospital, Neelam Nursing Home and Jain Hospital were also present during the meeting. Chas sub-divisional officer (SDO) Shashi Prakash Singh said, “No private hospitals should refuse admitting positive patients. If they do so, the administration will be bound to take legal action against them. Many private hospitals have agreed to provide Covid treatment.” Requirement of beds in hospitals has also gone up after the number of symptomatic and critical patients increased in the last few days. The only dedicated Covid hospital, Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), which is treating symptomatic and serious patients, has almost all its beds occupied. There is a crunch of facilities even in neighbouring districts of Ranchi and Dhanbad. Apart from BGH, the two institutional Covid Care Centres and three hotels-turned-isolation centres are only authorised to accommodate asymptomatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvt-hosps-refusing-to-treat-covid-patients-to-face-heat-bokaro-dc/articleshow/78082644.cms||Divy Khare
September 13, 2020||India||Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi go abroad for her check-up||NEW DELHI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday left on an overseas trip for her annual medical check-up, accompanied by son Rahul Gandhi. In a tweet, AICC said: “Congress president Sonia Gandhi is travelling today onwards for a routine follow up & medical check-up, which was deferred due to the pandemic. She is accompanied by Rahul Gandhi. We take this opportunity to thank everyone for their concern & good wishes.” The two will miss the opening part of the Parliament session starting Monday in which Congress is set to oppose three ordinances passed by the Narendra Modi government concerning agriculture and grain markets. Congress has accused the Modi government of using these legislations to defeat the “green revolution” and stangle the farmers. Addressing a press conference, AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that BJP’s actions have made it clear that it is setting up an “East India company” for its crony capitalists. Watch Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi go abroad for her check-up; to miss part of Monsoon Session||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-go-abroad-for-her-check-up/articleshow/78084552.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Veteran airport fire officer dies of Covid-19||BENGALURU: A senior member of the Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) team at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) has died of Covid-19. The 55-year-old fire officer is the first Bengaluru airport employee to succumb to the disease after it reopened on May 25. Some other members of the firefighting team have also tested positive, while the rest have been directed to undergo two-week quarantine, according to officials, who didn’t want to be named as they are not authorised to speak to the media. Medical leave has been granted accordingly. The veteran fire officer, who had served in the army, reportedly complained of headache, fever and uneasiness on September 7 and was admitted to a designated hospital for treatment. Tests confirmed he had Covid-19. His condition worsened and he breathed his last on Thursday, the officials said. The officer was well-respected and his demise shook co-workers, who immediately underwent tests. Three members have been reportedly diagnosed with the infection and are undergoing treatment. Their work areas at the airport have been sanitised, and the department is currently functioning with skeletal staff, the officials added. The ARFF office at KIA refused to comment on the officer. But a staff member said the officer had been a part of the team for the past few years and had settled in Bengaluru with his family. The officer’s identity is being withheld by STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/veteran-airport-fire-officer-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/78084538.cms||Petlee Peter
September 13, 2020||India||Real face of Jinnah: New book says he never wanted a united India||For quite some time now, a view has been taking root in India that puts the blame for Partition at the door of Congress, with Jinnah coming off favourably even as Jawaharlal Nehru is painted as the man who wanted to be prime minister by any means even if that meant dividing India on religious grounds. Now, a new book by Ishtiaq Ahmed, Swedish political scientist of Pakistani descent, has rubbished this theory, arguing that Jinnah, who is venerated as Quaid-e-Azam in Pakistan, was adamant about partitioning India even though the Congress led by Mahatma Gandhi and Nehru tried till the very last moment to change his mind and keep India united. “Jinnah spared no opportunity to communally attack Congress as a 'Hindu party' and Gandhi as a 'caste Hindu' and a 'totalitarian dictator',” Ahmed, the author of ‘Jinnah: His Successes, Failures and Role in History’, told TOI. “I have shown that from March 22, 1940, when Jinnah delivered his presidential address in Lahore, followed by the March 23, 1940 resolution passed on March 24, not even once did Jinnah or the Muslim League ever suggest their willingness to accept a united India, even with a loose federal system with most powers vested in the provinces.” This new perspective challenges Pakistani-American historian Prof Ayesha Jalal’s theory that has held since the mid-1980s that Jinnah did his bit to come to a power-sharing agreement with the Congress. “From the late 1930s his main concern was the arrangements by which power at the centre was to be shared once the British quit India,” Jalal wrote in her 1985 book, ‘The Sole Spokesman: Jinnah, the Muslim League and the Demand for Pakistan’. But Ahmed claims Jinnah did no such thing, and there isn’t a shred of evidence to support this theory. “There are ad infinitum speeches, statements and messages of Jinnah explicitly demanding the partition of India to create Pakistan. Also, Jinnah on scores of occasions said that it is nefarious Congress propaganda that he and the Muslim League were using the demand for Pakistan as a bargaining chip. He rejected such an insinuation saying he wanted the partition of India to create a separate and independent Pakistan,” Ahmed says. Ahmed also accepts the theory that says that the British agreed to partition India as they feared a Congress-led India wouldn’t further the British imperialist cause, which a Muslim League-led Pakistan would. He has relied on primary sources, including Transfer of Power documents, to show that the British really feared that with so many socialist leaders, including Nehru, Congress-led India might ally with the Soviet Union. Eventually when Partition happened, Jinnah complained about having received a “moth-eaten Pakistan”. But it appears that he wanted further division of India with a separate state for the Sikhs comprising the princely states in East Punjab and a separate Dravidistan in South India. “His main offer was to agree to substantial autonomy for Sikhs if they agreed to support his demand for partition. Similarly, he encouraged the Dravidian leaders to demand a separate state – this idea was originally of Rahmat Ali. However, in early March 1940 when Dr Ambedkar and Periyar met Jinnah at his Bombay house, no agreement was reached to form an alternative party to the Congress. Both Ambedkar and Periyar were disappointed with Jinnah. Ambedkar wrote against Islam using very strong words which up until then he used for Hinduism’s notorious caste system,” Ahmed says. The Stockholm University professor emeritus also rejects the claim that Jinnah wanted Pakistan to be a secular state: a view that arose from his August 11, 1947, speech to the Pakistan constituent assembly. “My theory is that the speech was to convince the Indian government not to expel the 35 million Muslims who were in India because Pakistan would prevent Hindus and Sikhs from leaving too by protecting them,” Ahmed says. This was in keeping with the League’s ‘hostage theory’. “The assumption was that there would be substantial minorities in both India and Pakistan. That would mean that if Indian Muslims were coerced by Hindus in India, then Hindus in Pakistan would be given a tough time,” Ahmed explains. “Interestingly, on March 30, 1941 he was asked to explain what the fate of Muslims left in India would be… Jinnah in a fit of anger told them that he would make 2 crore Muslims taste martyrdom and be smashed in order to liberate 7 crores. The actual numbers left in India were 35 million,” Ahmed says. He also says that Jinnah was no longer a secular Indian nationalist after 1920. From 1937, Jinnah was “a Muslim nationalist who described Hindus and Muslims as not only two separate and distinct political nations but also hostile and irreconcilable nations”. Ahmed also says that Nehru’s 1936 speech in Lucknow where he said that free India would abolish zamindari, secure peasants’ rights and introduce a Soviet model of development to establish a socialist state, seriously alarmed the Muslim landowners. This, coupled with Congress’s refusal to include Muslim Leaguers in the UP government unless they joined Congress, helped Jinnah expand Muslim League’s appeal. In fact, Jinnah hated all those Muslim leaders like Maulana Azad who subscribed to the Congress’s inclusive, territorial nationalism and rejected the Pakistan demand. Azad and Hussein Ahmad Madani had warned that sectarian divisions would come to haunt Pakistan. “Jinnah had no clear vision for Pakistan. Once Pakistan came into being and the question of constitution and law began to be discussed, the old sectarian conflicts flared. Jinnah had assured all the atypical sects that Pakistan will be a non-sectarian Muslim state, but if you establish a state for Muslims, the question who is a true Muslim emerging because of historical sectarian animosities should not be surprising,” Ahmed says. “In the 1950s it was the Ahmadis who faced the charges of holding beliefs subversive of true Islam. They were finally declared non-Muslims by Pakistan’s National Assembly in 1974. The Shia-Sunni conflict emerged in the wake of Gen Zia ul-Haq (Sunni) capturing power in Pakistan, the Ayatollahs in Iran and Saudi Arabia (extreme Sunni) challenging the Iranian bid to capture the leadership of the Muslim world. What followed was sectarian radicalisation of Shias and Sunnis. The so-called Afghan jihad was also an arena for anti-Shia violence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/real-face-of-jinnah-new-book-says-he-never-wanted-a-united-india/articleshow/78084562.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
September 13, 2020||India||CBI books two senior GST officials in Rs 5-crore bribery scam||NEW DELHI: The CBI lodged an FIR on Friday against two senior GST officials in a Rs 5 crore bribery scandal involving a Hyderabadbased manufacturer-exporter. The tax officials, who were probing a case against Infiniti Metal Products India Ltd for allegedly wrongfully availing input tax credit, have been accused of demanding the bribe for going soft on the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-books-two-senior-gst-officials-in-rs-5-crore-bribery-scam/articleshow/78084567.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada’s Swachh momentum falters soon after survey||VIJAYAWADA: The city which bagged India’s ‘cleanest big city’ award and secured the fourth rank in Swachh Survekhan 2020 is failing to keep up its momentum. The city’s civic body had taken up a number of cleanliness initiatives during the Swachch survey, many of which have lost steam since. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) had taken up several initiatives with its eye on Swachh Survekshan 2020. Since October 2019, the civic body started door-to-door garbage collection, focussed and extensively campaigned on garbage segregation, was attentive to maintenance of public urinals and online composting units. The VMC’s efforts saw widespread appreciation following the announcement of rankings. But only a few days later, the VMC is on the receiving end of criticism from the public for ignoring the cleanliness initiatives taken up during the survey. M Ragahava Rao, a retired teacher who lives at Ayodhyanagar, said, “We were very happy to see the city clean and green during Swacch Survekshan. Municipal authorities had deputed people to prevent open urination and sanitation workers would come door-to-door to collect garbage. But all of that has become irregular now.” “Open urination is going on along canal bunds and many other public places in the city. Public urinals have been in a bad shape for months. VMC must respond,” he said. A section of residents’ welfare associations and regular people have requested VMC to maintain the online composting plants properly. “VMC set up online composting units at rythu bazaars across the city. But these haven’t been functional for months,” said K Ravi Kumar, who works at a private organisation in the city. He further said: “Sanitation workers are turning a blind eye to garbage segregation. Public toilets are in very bad shape. VMC had attached feedback arrangements in the toilets. Those need to be maintained properly.” When TOI spoke to VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh on the issue, he accepted that there have been a few lapses in implementation of Swachh initiatives. “VMC authorities have been under severe pressure over the last seven months. Sanitation and containment measures for Covid-19 and the Krishna river floods affected the initiatives to an extent. But we will keep a special focus on these initiatives and try to improve the Swachh Survekshan rank of the city next year,” the VMC commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijs-swachh-momentum-falters-soon-after-survey/articleshow/78082153.cms||Venu Lanka
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI books 2 GST staff in Rs 5 crore bribery case in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: CBI on Friday lodged an FIR against two senior GST officials in a Rs 5 crore bribery scandal involving a Hyderabad-based manufacturer and exporter. The tax officials, who were investigating a case against Infiniti Metal Products India Limited for wrongfully availing input tax credit, have been accused of demanding the bribe for going soft on the company. The FIR was registered against deputy commissioner of service tax evasion Chilaka Sudha Rani and superintendent of service tax evasion Bollineni Sreenivas Gandhi. Gandhi was already under CBI scanner in July 2019 when the agency unearthed disporportionate assets worth Rs 3.7 crore during searches. Gandhi was then an investigating official in the Enforcement Directorate, looking into several high-profile cases. In the FIR, CBI said: "The duo (Rani and Gandhi) connived with other GST officials and demanded Rs 5 crore bribe from the group. They accepted Rs 10 lakh in advance on April 15, 2019." Director of private firm booked for offering bribeThe accused officials allegedly demanded the balance amount of the bribe in the form of open plots and land, it said. JS Sridhar Reddy, an accused in the GST tax evasion case who allegedly gave the bribe, was also booked as one of the accused in CBI’s FIR. He is one of the directors of Infiniti Metal Products and Hyderabad Steels, another company. A CBI official said: “Sridhar had failed to report the matter of two GST officials demanding the bribe to the CBI or any other law enforcement agency within a period of seven days as required under the law.” Interestingly, Rani and Gandhi had detected a fake invoice fraud of ₹1,289 crore in March 2019 and ₹224 crore illegal input tax credit involving eight companies linked to Sridhar Reddy and others. In their findings, the GST officials said these eight companies had raised invoices and availed input tax credit without showing the physical supply of goods — mostly steel bars and TMT bars — and services. While the GST officials were looking into this, CBI had registered a preliminary enquiry on October 31, 2019, following information that some officials of tax evasion wing of Hyderabad GST commissionarate had committed irregularities and that they had accepted bribes. Sridhar Reddy, who is also director of Bharani Commodities and Hindustan Ispat Private Limited, was arrested on March 6, 2019, by GST officials for tax evasion. He got bail and came out of jail on March 29. “After his release from jail, Sridhar Reddy allegedly paid ₹10 lakh on April 15. He bribed Sudha Rani and Gandhi as he was worried about the impending arrest of his wife J Raghavi Reddy, who is a partner in Hyderabad Steels,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-2-gst-staff-in-rs-5-crore-bribery-case-in-hyderabad/articleshow/78084569.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||VMC firm on garbage collection user charge||Vijayawada: Even as taxpayers’ and civic associations are gearing up to stage protests opposing user charges imposed by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), the civic body is urging residents to support its Swachh Initiatives and pay the charges. The VMC has set its sight on improving its ranking in the next edition of the Swachh Survekshan after the city ranked fourth at the all-India level and bagged India’s cleanest big city award in the Swachh Survekshan-2020. The civic body issued notices to residents to pay Rs 50 per month as a user charge for the door-to-door collection of segregated garbage. Households that put out unsegregated garbage have to pay a higher charge of Rs 100. Speaking to STOI, VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said, “Every city which participates in Swachh Survekshan survey should collect user charges and it is an important rule. We are implementing its as per the Council resolution made in February. Residents are aware of sucessfull implementation of Swachh initiatives in the city. Many residential welfare associations have welcomed user charges as the amount will be spent on sanitation in that area.” “We will not add burden on below poverty line families in slum areas,” Venkatesh added. Meanwhile, CPI(M) and Andhra Pradesh Pattana Pours Samakya on Saturday staged a protest at Durgapuram opposing the user charges on garbage collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-firm-on-garbage-collection-user-charge/articleshow/78082162.cms||Venu Lanka
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||BHEL to set up CoE for skill development||Amaravati: Industries minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy announced that Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) has agreed in principle to set up a Centre of Excellence (CoE) for skill development in the state. The minister met Nalin Singhal, CMD of BHEL, in New Delhi on Friday and requested him to partner in awarding skill development training for youth. Goutham requested BHEL to impart training to students, who completed school education, and issue skill certificates so that they will have an advantage in the job market. Responding positively to the request, Singhal assured to join hands with the state government. Later, Mekapati met Niti Aayog CEO Amitab Kant and sought cooperation in the upcoming 30 skill development colleges in the state. He explained that the main source for revenue in the state are agriculture and industries and sought cooperation of Niti Aayog in those sectors. Amitab Kant expressed his willingness to organise Digital Conclave in Visakhapatnam later in the year.Kant had complimented chief minister YS Jagan and industries minister Gautham Reddy for designing pro-industry policies. Mekapati also met DRDO chairman Gundra Satish Reddy and top officials of Navy and Air Force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bhel-to-set-up-coe-for-skill-development/articleshow/78082167.cms||Samdani MN
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||STP-treated water to cool NTTPS boiler chambers||Vijayawada: In its efforts to utilise water treated in sewage treatment plants (STP), the Vijyawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is eyeing to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Dr Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS). As per the agreement, around 63 MLD of treated water from the city’s STP will be utilised at the thermal power station to cool the boiler chambers. The VMC has been focusing on streamlining the use of STPs across the city and has started some initiatives to this effect. Overall, around 135 MLD of treated water is generated from STPs every day but the VMC is only able to use a small portion of it. The move to let STP-treated water be used for cooling boiler chambers is aimed at preventing dumping treated water into the Krishna river. A detailed project report (DPR) on the utilisation of this water has been prepared following which VMC decided to supply 63 MLD of treated water through special pipelines to NTTPS. “Proper utilisation of STP-treated water is an important factor in improving Swachh Survekshan rank. AP Genco came forward (with the plan) to utilise treated water at NTTPS following guidelines of Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB). The DPR for the project is ready and we are in negotiations with AP Genco over pipelines worth Rs 100 crore. Th NTTPS will pay user charges to VMC for supply of treated water,” said VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh. The commissioner said that four more STPs will come up in the city and that treated water will be used to nurture plants in parks across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/stp-treated-water-to-cool-nttps-boiler-chambers/articleshow/78082179.cms||Venu Lanka
September 13, 2020||India||ISI will rely on Haqqanis to counter India’s influence in Afghanistan||NEW DELHI: Amid the peace efforts in Afghanistan, the likely emergence of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) as a force multiplier of Haqqani Network, the hardcore Taliban wing that has allegedly been cultivated by ISI for long to expand Pakistan’s influence in Afghanistan, has emerged as a major concern for the Indian security establishment. Intelligence inputs reaching here warn that Pakistan’s agencies may be pushing the Haqqani Network to invest more in ISKP, linked to many brutal attacks in Afghanistan in the recent past including one on a Sikh gurdwara in Kabul that killed 25 persons. This will help Islamabad retain its leverage in Afghanistan notwithstanding the ongoing peace process, while also maintaining deniability for any future terror strikes in the Af-Pak region, said an official. Even as Haqqani Network and the Pakistani terror outfits it offers safe havens to, such as Lashker e Taiba, seek to launch these attacks, they would be fronted and claimed by ISKP, warn intelligence reports. This will enable Haqqani Network to distance itself, even as ISKP by owning up such attacks achieves its purposes of expanding influence in Afghanistan and boosting its appeal among potential recruits. There are no takers for Pakistan's claim of lacking any leverage with the notorious Haqqanis and, therefore, the plan to use ISKP as a front, said sources in the security establishment here. It is believed that the past attacks by ISKP in Afghanistan have also relied on Haqqani Network resources for successful execution. The nexus has been laid bare by recent developments. While ISKP leader Aslam Farooqi, a Pakistani linked to LeT and Tehrik-e-Taliban, was arrested by Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security with 19 other terrorists in April, an Afghan minister was recently quoted as saying that Shahab Almahajir, a former Haqqani Network terrorist, was now handling ISKP operations. A UN report released in July this year put the total number of ISKP fighters at around 2,200, with Kunar province as the main base. ISI considers the Haqqani Network – operating in FATA in northern Pakistan, southeastern Afghanistan and North Waziristan -- an asset to help expand its influence in Afghanistan and counter Indian influence. Indian officials say this policy is unlikely to change, despite US pressure. Haqqani Network has over the past decades set up huge business interests in Lahore, Karachi and Dubai The outfit running front businesses in Bhara Kahu, near Islamabad, and their front men maintaining residence in Rawalpindi has also been known. Only last month, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and Haqqani Network leader Sirajuddin Haqqani are said to have visited Pakistan to meet senior Pakistani officials for a discussion on Afghan Peace process. This was days after Pakistan invoked sanctions against the two, among others, ostensibly to avoid blacklisting by FATF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isi-will-rely-on-haqqanis-to-counter-indias-influence-in-afghanistan/articleshow/78084573.cms||Bharti Jain
September 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Much-awaited CSR block at KGH finally operational||Visakhapatnam: The much-awaited CSR block of King George Hospital (KGH) in Visakhapatnam started operations on Saturday. The 500-bedded block funded by various public sector companies will currently cater to Covid-19 patients. On the first day, 28 Covid-19 patients were admitted to the block. A brainchild of former Union minister T Subbirami Reddy, the block has five floors built at a cost of Rs 60 crore. Companies such as GAIL, BHEL, NPCIL, HPCL, NTPC, ONGC and RINL have contributed corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for the project which began in 2016. The block is intended for oncology and surgery wards although it will be used Covid-19 patients at the moment. In addition to the CSR funds, the state government has allotted Rs 10 crore worth of equipment including ventilators, monitors, dialysis machines and ICU cots to operationalize the CSR Block. Dr PV Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College and superintendent of KGH informed that the baby was delivered at the block by caesarean-section on Saturday. The mother, who has tested positive for Covid-19, hails from Laxmipuram in Vizianagaram. Meanwhile, a 20 kilolitre oxygen tank was inaugurated at the hospital on Saturday morning. The tank is being called the biggest oxygen plant at any hospital in AP. “Oxygen is the critical component for management of Covid-19 patients. This tank can take care of 500 patients,” said Dr Sudhakar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/much-awaited-csr-block-at-kgh-finally-operational/articleshow/78082185.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Why Hyderabad is the world’s vaccine capital||HYDERABAD: As international vaccine companies and academic institutions race the clock to deliver a safe Covid-19 vaccine, all eyes are on India that makes 60% of the world’s vaccines. And within India, if there is one destination that all of them are making a beeline for it is Hyderabad. The city has the capacity to churn out well over a third of the global vaccine supply. Be it India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin or Russia’s Sputnik V, Johnson & Johnson’s Ad26.Cov2.S, FluGen’s CoroFlu or even Sanofi’s under development vaccine candidates, all have a Hyderabad connect. Covid outbreak: Follow live updatesWhether a successful Covid-19 vaccine is developed in Hyderabad or not, a vaccine developed anywhere in the world will be churned out of Hyderabad, says Dr Varaprasad Reddy, founder & chairman, Shantha Biotechnics Ltd. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage“All Hyderabad vaccine companies are robust in manufacturing technology and have the capacity to manufacture millions of doses with good standards,” says Reddy, who is awaiting Sanofi’s own vaccine candidate in the first half of 2021, a chunk of which is expected to be manufactured in Hyderabad. Sanofi had acquired Shantha Biotechnics in 2009. Hyderabad will be an integral part of the Covid-19 solution just by the dint of the sheer vaccine manufacturing capacity it houses, feels Mahima Datla, managing director, Biological E Limited, which has a tieup with Baylor College of Medicine, Texas, to develop its own vaccine candidate and a tech collaboration to manufacture Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine here. ‘Hyderabad well poised to offer affordable Covid solution’Datla, who is also president of the Developing Countries Vaccine Manufacturers Network (DCVMN), points out that most of the Covid-19 vaccine candidates are being developed by academic laboratories or non-vaccine companies, who don’t have the requisite infrastructure and will have no choice but to partner with companies in India or China. In fact, most of Hyderabad’s vaccine manufacturers are in informal discussions for a manufacturing collaboration so that whenever a successful candidate is developed they can offer their manufacturing capabilities. For instance, Indian Immunologicals Ltd, a human and animal vaccines maker that was set up by NDDB, has a new 20 million single dose (200 million multi-dose) fill finish capacity coming up at Genome Valley on Hyderabad outskirts that it is ready to deploy for third-party Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing. The company is learnt to be in talks with Russians for making Sputnik V. “Our new facility will be ready by October-November. As our own vaccine candidate under development with Griffith University of Australia will take about 18 months, we are willing to make Covid-19 vaccines for others,” says K Anand Kumar, managing director, IIL. Datla points out that as no one knows whose vaccine candidate will be successful or by when, most manufacturers are open to offering their capacities to a successful candidate. Even Aurobindo Pharma has jumped onto the Covid-19 vaccine development bandwagon with the acquisition of a US-based R&D company earlier this year and hopes to have vaccine manufacturing capacities ready by March 2021. IIL deputy MD Prasanna Deshpande feels that as affordability will be the key in battling Covid-19 given its global spread, no one is better poised to offer this than Hyderabad given its scale of operations. The Telangana government too is gung-ho about Hyderabad’s role in the Covid-19 battle given. “Being the vaccine capital of the world, we are fully committed to playing an enabling role in global vaccination efforts against Covid-19 and proactively support our companies to quickly ramp up production to serve the world,” said Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, industries & ITE&C, Telangana. Watch Hyderabad: Why is 'City of Nizams' also known as world’s vaccine capital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-race-for-covid-19-cure-all-eyes-on-vaccine-capital-hyderabad/articleshow/78084566.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Youth starts brewing hooch after losing job||TIRUPATI: A youngster who lost his job abroad and returned to the country was caught distilling illicit liquor in Tirupati on Saturday. According to M Sudheer Babu, assistant excise superintendent, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB)-Tirupati, SEB sleuths raided a residence near Sri Padmavathi Women’s University in Tirupati after receiving credible information early Saturday. Excise sleuths seized 70 litres of illicitly-distilled liquor and 400 litres of fermented jaggery wash for distilling hooch, along with 44 one litre bottles of brandy smuggled in from Karnataka. A 29-year-old youth, identified as Mathavalam Vamsi Krishna Reddy, a native of Thotapalli village in Pakala mandal who relocated to Tirupati, was arrested. Sudheer Babu said, “Vamsi Krishna Reddy who was earlier working in Malaysia relocated to Tirupati after he recently lost his job. He was deep in debt. Besides working as a freelance techie, Vamsi Krishna took up the illicit brewing of liquor on rented premises near Mahila University. He told us that he developed his expertise in brewing by watching Youtube videos.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youth-starts-brewing-hooch-after-losing-job/articleshow/78082197.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Woman excise SI attempts suicide in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A woman excise sub-inspector attempted suicide, alleging sexual harassment by Guntur excise superintendent Balakrishna. The woman reportedly consumed some pills and has been admitted to Guntur GGH. Her condition is stated to be stable. Based on a complaint filed by the husband of the SI, an inquiry has been ordered by Vinit Brijlal, commissioner of special enforcement bureau. Brijlal said a three-member committee with woman officials has been formed to inquire into the allegations. “The superintendent has already been transferred from his current position. We are waiting for the inquiry report,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-excise-si-attempts-suicide/articleshow/78082208.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Contact tracing becomes harder as restrictions go||BENGALURU: Health officials say tracing contacts of Covid-19 patients is going to be more challenging, especially in Bengaluru, as most parts of the state economy, including public transport, have reopened in the Unlock 4.0 phase. In Bengaluru, at least 7 people are identified as primary and secondary contacts of every positive case. They are mostly family members, neighbours and colleagues. Tracing efforts are stronger in Davanagere, where 24 people per patient are identified as contacts. “There are no curbs on public movement now, so it won’t always be possible to track where patients went and whom they met. Often, patients themselves cannot recall these details. With cases increasing, our focus is on treating the patients,” said an official in the civic body BBMP. But Manjunath Prasad, the BBMP commissioner, said lifting of lockdown restrictions had not affected the contact tracing process. “Our officers have been collating the data of the primary and secondary contacts. In the past one week, the highest number of contacts were traced in the Bommanahalli zone,” he said. According to BBMP data, 9,330 primary contacts and 10,064 secondary ones were identified in the Bommanahalli zone. Effectively, nearly 10 contacts were traced per Covid positive patient. “It is the least in the West zone, where per person, six contacts were identified. Overall, contact tracing has been going on effectively,” Prasad said. Officials on the ground say their time and energy are spent on locating positive patients after their test reports arrive. “In many cases, patients provide the names of their relatives, friends and domestic helpers. But some claim they never stepped out of their homes or met anyone. They focus more on getting their family members tested between five and seven days,” an official said. “Once patients are hospitalised, it’s difficult to find their secondary contacts as not everyone answers our calls or shares the required information.” An ASHA worker gave the example of a 65-year-old man who tested positive near Mysuru Road recently. “He had made multiple visits to a temple, a grocery shop and a vegetable market. After the lockdown was lifted, he started going out to kill boredom. How do we trace all his contacts?” the worker said. “His wife and son were tested, and only the former turned positive.” Covid-19 patients STOI spoke to claimed that BBMP never pressed them for details like the people they met in the 15 days leading up to the positive diagnosis. A 43-year-old resident of south Bengaluru said after he tested positive, officials called and asked him to follow home isolation protocol. There were hardly any questions on his contacts. A week later, the man’s wife, son and daughter tested positive. Prasad said the need of the hour was to test targeted groups, vulnerable people such as the elderly and those with influenza like illness, severe acute respiratory infection and comorbidity. “We should not exhaust resources to test everyone. The positivity rate among primary contacts in Bengaluru is 10 per cent and nil among secondary contacts,” he added. Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson of the state expert committee on Covid-19, said its suggestion to stop sticking notices and leaflets outside the residences of Covid-19 patients had helped remove stigma and made people more confident about revealing details of their movements and interactions. “We hear that patients open up now and talk about the people they were in touch with. Contact tracing is easier when there are efforts to erase stigma,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-contact-tracing-gets-tougher-as-movement-curbs-go/articleshow/78084547.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Man kills mom over 1 acre land in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A man killed his 80-year-old mother over a property dispute at Annaram village at Rompicheral mandal on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Kondeti Tirupatamma. According to Rompicheral SI S Venkat Rao, Tirupatamma had one acre land in her name. She was staying with her grandson, the son of her elder son, and planned to give him the land parcel. However, her younger son Kondeti Yedukondalu was opposed to the proposal. On Saturday, Yedukondalu came to his mother’s residence in an inebriated state and hacked her with an axe. Tirupatamma fell to the ground and died at the spot. Yedukondalu fled. Police have launched a search operation. Meanwhile, another man was killed by his brother and other members of the family at Vinukonda. The deceased has been identified as Abraham. According to the police, Sambaiah, Abraham and Adam are three brothers. Abraham and his elder brother Sambaiah had a dispute over ancestral property. On Friday, Abraham received information that Sambaiah had attacked Adam. When Abraham reached the spot and tried to calm things down, Sambaiah and his two sons attacked him. Abraham was hospitalised and passed away on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-kills-mom-over-1-acre-land/articleshow/78082219.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 13, 2020||India||BSF finds arms cache near Pakistan border in Punjab||NEW DELHI: Border Security Force (BSF) thwarted an attempt by Pakistani narco-terrorists to push arms and ammunition into India on Saturday . According to an official release, a BSF patrolling party deployed in the Abohar sector of Amritsar recovered three AK-47 rifles, six magazines, 91 rounds of 7.62 mm, two M-16 rifles, four magazines, 57 rounds of 5.56 mm, two China-made pistols, four pistol magazines and 20 rounds of 7.63 mm. BSF sources said the arms cache and ammunition was found 10 metres inside Indian territory in a field of Dona Mattar village in Ferozpur district. They said the consignment could have been dropped by Pakistani smugglers and was to be retrieved by their Indian counterparts. “This is a huge consignment which can’t be concealed and was probably brought from across the border fence in a tractor,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bsf-finds-arms-cache-near-pakistan-border-in-punjab/articleshow/78084588.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Mumbai||Asymptomatic patients in Mumbai must now stay in home isolation||MUMBAI: With Covid cases rising in the city but deaths reducing, BMC on Saturday revised home isolation guidelines. Now, asymptomatic patients, irrespective of age, have to stay in home isolation and not seek a hospital bed. Sources said unnecessary hospitalisation had led to a shortage of beds in the city, prompting the directive. “More cases are coming from buildings, and as these patients don’t want to get admitted to public hospitals, they rush to private ones. This has led to a shortage of beds in private sector,’’ said a senior BMC doctor. A BMC official said the directive was also prompted as most asymptomatic patients coming from buildings have adequate space to isolate themselves at home. “Senior citizens will be more comfortable at home than in hospitals, with no near and dear ones around,’’ said an official. Last month, BMC, to reduce the high mortality rate, issued a directive that home isolation facilities would only be allowed for asymptomatic positive patients with no co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes, and those aged below 60. The directive said people over 60 would not be allowed home isolation. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Home isolation is only for asymptomatic patients. Our ward-level war-room expert will collect contact details of the family doctor of such patients and stay in contact with them to know changes in health and shift them to hospital if needed.” Mortality has been high (57%) among senior citizens, which was a major cause for concern. The fatality rate then was 5.5% of total cases, which has reduced to 4.8% now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/asymptomatic-patients-in-mumbai-must-now-stay-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78084592.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Private hospitals violating government norms on PPE cost, number||NAGPUR: Private hospitals are not only charging more for room rates fixed by the government for Covid-19 patients, they are also violating the norms for per patient price and number of PPE kits. A yet-to-be discharged patient has already received a bill of Rs9.12 lakh over nine days — Rs1 lakh per day — even though the government’s highest rate is Rs9,000 per day for ICU bed with ventilator in isolation. The government notification of August 31 has continued cap on charges for Covid and non-Covid patients by private hospitals. “Grievances regarding exorbitant money being charged by health care providers were received. Government notification issued earlier in this regard will be extended till November 30,” it said. Hospitals can charge Rs600 (maximum) per patient per day for PPE kit for stay in a ward, and Rs1,200 per patient per day for stay in ICU, as per the notification. Any charge more than this towards PPE kit need to be justified. TOI has bills of five patients from five different private hospitals. The bill of Rs9.12 lakh for 9 days shows the patient was charged Rs40,000 per day for bed in ICU for two days, and Rs20,000 per day for seven days, apart from consultation and other procedures. The government had fixed Rs9,000 per day for ICU bed, which includes bed, consultation, nursing, blood tests, other investigations like X-ray, Echo, USG, catheterization, meals etc The same patient was also charged for six PPE kits a day for a total of 54 over nine days at the rate of Rs1,200 per PPE kit. Another private hospital recovered Rs1,500 per PPE kit from a patient admitted in ward. They charged for 26 PPE kits over five days. Total bill was Rs1.12 lakh for five days, at the rate of Rs22,440 per day despite the government rate being Rs4,000 per day for normal ward, and Rs7,500 per day for ICU without ventilator with isolation, including all procedures. Another hospital charged for 72 PPE kits over 12 days, which means six per day. Here, the PPE kit rate was Rs600. Total bill was Rs4.55 lakh or Rs37,916 per day. A patient in another hospital had to pay for 42 PPE kits over 10 days at the rate of Rs700 per kit. Another hospital charged Rs600 per PPE kit, but levied bill for 42 PPE kits over 13 days. The hospital also charged for 28 N-95 masks at the rate of Rs200, and 28 face shields at the rate of Rs150. Total bill was Rs4.37 lakh, or Rs33,615 per day. In the notification, the government had named collector for rural areas and municipal commissioner for city, to monitor and take action for violations by hospitals under The Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act, Maharashtra Essential Service Maintenance Act, Mumbai Nursing Home Act, Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act and Bombay Public Trusts Act. Taking cognisance of TOI reports earlier, the then civic chief Tukaram Mundhe had taken action against three private hospitals. Chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja said, “Action will be taken if any hospital overcharges patients. It is not only violation but also an inhuman act in the pandemic.” Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar said, “Private hospitals are already going through difficult time, forced to function as Covid hospitals within capped charges. IMA and VHA had proposed a rate list to government through divisional commissioner. We are yet to receive a reply on that. Recent guidelines to bill only one PPE per day is unscientific. Does the government desire to force hospitals to limit entry of staff in wards?” Dr Marar added, “Staff members on duty have to change PPE kits whenever they go to the washroom or to have food etc. Additional specialist visits are required. We divide the PPEs used per day by number of patients.” He described the government order as irrational and unethical, wherein government is expecting hospitals to decrease quality of care by reducing usage of PPEs and reduce number of trips to Covid section. “This will boomerang on patients. VHA has already filed petition in high court. Hospitals cannot function with tied hands. Technical medical experts should be consulted and doctors should be free to treat their patients without any fear,” he said. Dr Marar said, “Medical fraternity is on defensive, and this is against the interest of patients. People believe in private hospitals, and rush here for quality care. Diluting quality in this manner is detrimental to society at large. Patients are still ignorant that even within government regulation, they are expected to shell out at least Rs2.5-Rs6 lakh in case of 14 days hospitalization.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-violating-govt-norms-on-ppe-cost-number/articleshow/78083016.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Study maps virus entry points to the brain||BENGALURU: SARS-CoV-2, the formal name of the virus that causes Covid-19, could enter the brain through neurons located in the nose, a group of Indo-French scientists has found. The study may provide new understanding on how to treat Covid-19 patients and control the pandemic, according to the department of science and technology. The study was conducted by professor Vincent Prevot, who was previously the principal investigator at the Indo-French Centre for the Promotion of Advanced Research, and a team of Indian and French scientists. They have showed that a specialised cell called tanycytes in hypothalamus, a small region at the base of the brain, and olfactory neurons, which detect and transmit odorant information to the central nervous system, could provide an opening to the virus. They also found that hypothalamic circuits could act as a hub for numerous risk factors and physiological effects of the viral infection. The findings have been published in the journal ‘bioRxiv’. While Covid-19 has been considered a respiratory disease, many of the reported symptoms could have a neurological origin. So far, most investigations have not found the virus in the brain or have found it only in the cerebrospinal fluid or blood vessels. The only confirmed molecule that the virus binds to on the host cell surface in order to enter the cell — angiotensin-converting enzyme 2, or ACE2 — has not been seen at high levels in the brain other than in capillary walls. The researchers, the science department said, found that in severe Covid-19 patients, affected functions such as temperature control, hydration, cardiorespiratory function and senses of smell and taste were coordinated or transmitted by hypothalamus. Besides, many risk factors, including obesity, diabetes and hypertension and even old age, also involve hypothalamic cell networks. “With funding from the European Research Council Synergy, the team stumbled upon multiple findings. Their bioinformatician and postdoctoral fellow, Sreekala Nampoothiri, found that both the hypothalamus and related regions involved in cardiorespiratory function, smell or taste expressed the viral receptor ACE2 and the most commonly used protease, transmembrane proteinase, serine 2,” the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/study-maps-virus-entry-points-to-the-brain/articleshow/78084549.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||Cap on urea purchase to curb black marketing||NEW DELHI: In a bid to tackle hoarding and black marketing of urea, the Union ministry of chemicals and fertilisers has restricted purchase of the farm nutrient to 100 bags from 999 bags per transaction. In a letter to state chief secretaries, the ministry sought their opinions on how many such transactions should be allowed per month to each purchaser. The letter by fertiliser secretary Chhabilendra Roul on August 27 also asked states to identify top 20 urea purchasers in each of their respective districts, citing the need to tackle diversion, hoarding and black marketing of the fertiliser. The states have been asked to submit their response by September 15, The letter read: “States had pointed out the need to put a maximum cap on purchase of subsidised fertilisers by any one purchaser per season or per month.” Urea constitutes half of India’s total fertiliser consumption. States have also been asked to collect details from buyers which include quantity of urea purchased, dates of purchase, point of sale such as retailers, agricultural land owned by buyer, land under cultivation, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cap-on-urea-purchase-to-curb-black-marketing/articleshow/78084598.cms||Rohan Dua
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘There can be no replacement of live audience, but online we are getting global exposure’||The pandemic-induced lockdown has forced even the arts and theatre industry to evolve. Right from the way they act, rehearse and ‘stage’ the play, there have been major changes that stakeholders are still adapting to. Vikash Khurana, founder of Stagecraft theare group, talks to TOI about the challenges the industry faces in a Covid-19 world and how they are adapting to the situation... It is said that performing before a live audience is what drives the theatre artist... We feed off the audience’s reaction. In our ancient texts, there is mention of ‘navras’. These nine emotions are, however, meaningless unless the performer gets a feedback. But for the time being, performing to the cameras is the new normal. At what point did you decide staging shows online commercially is the way to go? It started with us getting a one year contract to stage 50 shows at Mumbai’s NCPA. I had shifted base there and was working on the shows when the lockdown started in March. Once back home, I realized that waiting for everything to get back to normal won’t work. Then I saw how world renowned theatre groups in Europe were webcasting their plays. We discussed it internally with Stagecraft members and everyone agreed we too must try the online platform. But before staging the play, you need to have multiple rehersal sessions... That too shifted online with our script reading sessions. For Chehal Pehal, we all got together on Zoom and held our reading sessions. I also noticed that in online sessions you get more work done. Earlier, in three hours of practice, one hour would go in tea, samosa and some chit chats. But online, everyone was focused on the task at hand. How did the staging work? We tied up with a production company because the entire thing had to be filmed. Once permission for production were granted by government, we hired a local hall and on the stage, a multi-camera set up was done. There were cameras for wide shots, some for mid, while some solely for close up. But did that not lead to all actors gathering at one place No, that’s the unique part here. The production company divided all scenes based on how many people were in it. Everyone was given a ‘call sheet’, and had to be on the premises at a particular time. So at any given point, no more than four actors were present except for one shot later. So the play sequence was altered? For ease of filming, yes. It was a smart move that ensured the stage and actors were used most productively. That’s one part of the learning curve, because now we were filming a play just like a movie. What about actors, how did they adapt? There were a couple of things they had to re-learn. Most important one was to connect with the scenes being enacted, as there was no continuity. From Scene 5 we would go to Scene 2 and then to 6. So a bit of rehearsal on the spot, and then a final shot was the way we went ahead. Did that require changes to the way they acted? Not the change in sequence, but the camera set up resulted in some big changes in the way we emote. Since audiences sit at a bit of a distance, actors have to sometimes exaggerate their facial or vocal emotions. But with these close up cameras, you can’t really be too ‘theatrical’. All actors adapted to the reality that a camera was right there and the emoting had to be toned down. Is not having an audience a loss, as a theatre group? There are two sides to this now. First is that there can never be a replacement to a live audience. The instant feedback that artists get from a vibrant audience is irreplacable. On the other hand, right here from Nagpur we are staging to a global audience. And this I speak based on hard facts because the online ticket sales show purchases being made from Berlin, Dubai etc for our ‘Chehal Pehal’. So that puts our actors now within reach of global exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/there-can-be-no-replacement-of-live-audience-but-online-we-are-getting-global-exposure/articleshow/78083074.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Academics slam NU for ‘degrees on zero marks’||Nagpur: A day after TOI reported on how even a zero score in Nagpur University’s MCQ exams can assure a degree to its final year students, the academics slammed the administration terming the entire exercise as “farce”. Further flaying the government and NU officials, academics said they were conducting the exams as mere formality, but it would be detrimental for students in the long run. Some of them charged both of committing contempt of Supreme Court’s directives and also flouting rules set by University Grants Commission (UGC). “This is gravest contempt of collective conscience committed by the authorities. It will put sanctity of entire examination system in jeopardy. In the entire process, the quality would be sacrificed. They should have fixed at least have some passing marks in MCQ exams. Even if clicked on option ‘A’ in all 50 questions, you will get at least some marks due to theory of probability,” senior academic Dr Vedprakash Mishra said. On NU officials passing the buck on government’s directives, Dr Mishra said when they talked on autonomy of universities, they shouldn’t blindly follow what the government had advised. “The government can only direct universities on financial issues. On others, latter are independent to take the decisions,” he said. Stressing for having a separate passing percentage in MCQ tests, senate member Manmohan Bajpayee said the university shouldn’t make a mockery of exams just to complete formalities laden by the Supreme Court and UGC. “The NU authorities are playing with the future of lakhs of students by allowing even those scoring zero marks to get degrees. Taking precautions in pandemic and conducting MCQ tests can be considered. But passing all students who appear for online exams would be a big farce. The student should score at least 18/50 marks for clearing the papers, else NU degrees would have no relevance,” he said. A former Management Council member pointed out that UGC had made a provision of awarding 50% marks in internal assessment only for first and second years and not for final. The guidelines were issued by UGC on April 27. “The government is using this provision for its own convenience. At least, the NU authorities should have modified it and ensure separate passing marks for theory as per prevalent rules. This is completely unethical. More importantly, all students would be at a loss in future. They wouldn’t be able to compete with other universities or states students at higher levels,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/academics-slam-nu-for-degrees-on-zero-marks/articleshow/78083104.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 13, 2020||India||Devendra Darda new ABC chief||NEW DELHI: Lokmat Media Group managing director Devendra V Darda was elected chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulation (ABC) for the year 2020-21. Karunesh Bajaj of ITC Ltd, representing the advertiser category in the council, was unanimously elected deputy chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/devendra-darda-new-abc-chief/articleshow/78084601.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: No beds available for critical patients||NAGPUR: Saturday was the third dreadful day for the city when there were no beds available for critical Covid-19 patients. As per various complaints received by TOI, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation's helpline number was constantly busy, and people could not seek help from the administration. When few tried to contact the helpline number given by union minister Nitin Gadkari, they were told that no beds are available in any hospital. Citizen Manshika Vaikkath had to go through extreme hardship in finding a bed for her father who was advised immediate hospitalization. “We called the NMC helpline number, they assured to call us back but did not for over 6 hours. After trying persistently for hours, making frantic calls, we were fortunate enough to find a bed on our own,” she said, adding that what was the point of having a helpline number. As per NMC officials, at 9pm on Saturday, 46 beds were available in Mayo and 56 in GMCH. In private hospitals the number was 134.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-beds-available-for-critical-patients/articleshow/78083118.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||EPFO plans for payouts on retirement day||NEW DELHI: The retirement fund body Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) is making all efforts towards payment of provident fund and pension on the date of retirement to its subscribers. In order to achieve this target, a monthly list of retiring members attaining the age of superannuation is being generated three months in advance by the regional offices and communicated to the employers, an EPFO official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/epfo-plans-for-payouts-on-retirement-day/articleshow/78084604.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Nagpur||Aditya is probable Nagpur JEE topper, Araj and Indrayani next||NAGPUR: Aditya Kadoo is the probable city topper with 99.983 percentile in the JEE Main rankings which were compiled by coaching institutes in the city on Saturday. Kadoo’s batchmate at Allen Career Institute, Araj Khandelwal, took the second spot with 99.980 percentile. Indrayani Tayde, of ICAD Institute secured the third spot with 99.977 percentile. As reported by TOI on Friday, Indrayani is the state topper in woman category. The top three city rankings are based on inputs received from coaching institutes. The National Testing Agency (NTA) does not compile a city-wise toppers list hence these rankings are liable to change if new data is received later. Indrayani’s top position in female category however, has been confirmed by NTA itself. Aditya said that he is now focused on JEE Advanced which is scheduled in the last week of September. “I hope to fare well in the Advanced exam and get admission in IIT Bombay. I would like to pursue Computer Science there and later go for research in the field,” he said. Araj said, “Which institute I get is completely dependent on my JEE Advanced score. So right now I am not thinking too much about it,” he added. Post his BTech, Araj plans to pursue master’s degree in the same stream abroad. Indrayani said, “I am looking forward to a good performance in JEE Advanced and will then decide,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aditya-is-probable-city-jee-topper-araj-and-indrayani-next/articleshow/78083143.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 13, 2020||Mumbai||Covid task force recommends reopening of shrines in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state’s Covid task force has recommended opening up of all religious places that have been shut since the lockdown was imposed in March. “There is no reason to not open temples as long as social distancing norms are followed,” a task force member said on Saturday. There is a growing clamour for reopening places of worship from political parties as well as religious groups. Since August, courts have allowed Jain and Parsi communities to open religious places for specific festivals. The recommendation comes at a time when the state, including Mumbai, is witnessing a daily surge in Covid cases. Maharashtra has reported more than 10 lakh cases and 28,000 related fatalities. However, Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the task force, said due to the rapidly rising cases, it has been decided that the decision to reopen religious places, gyms and restaurants be put on hold for a few days. ‘Restaurants can start at 20% capacity, increase gradually’As far as religious places are concerned, it is crucial to ensure the place has an appropriate crowd-control mechanism and it is not poorly ventilated,” he added. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had called the task force on Wednesday to review the Covid-19 situation and discuss opening up further. Members were in sync with the CM’s decision not to open up railway services or restaurants completely. “While the frequency of trains that operate for essential workers can be increased, restaurants should start with merely 20% of their seating capacity. Both services can be increased gradually,” said a doctor. Officials said while the state was considering opening up temples and dine-in facilities inside restaurants, starting train services for all is not an option at this point. BMC additional municipal commissioner said opening of religious places was discussed at length. The consensus was that places that have adequate security measures to manage crowds should be allowed to open. The state government will take the final decision on opening up religious places. In August, SC allowed three derasars to stay open for two days in Mumbai for Paryushan. On September 2, HC allowed the Parsi community to offer Farvardiyan prayers at Doongerwadi tower of silence for a day after the state government had denied them permission. Maharashtra, however, has so far refused to open temples unlike some states that did so in June. “There is no reason why Maharashtra’s temples cannot follow the e-queue system popularized by Tirupati temple. People should learn to book a darshan,” said a task force member. Officials said the government will ask big temples to submit SOPs for reopening. Cooking and serving of prasad inside temples and touching of bells or donation boxes is unlikely to be allowed, said officials. Vitthal Joshi, executive officer at Pandharpur’s famous Sri Vitthal-Rukmini temple, said they have an online system where devotees can book slots. Sources said Siddhivinayak temple at Prabhadevi was working on using technology to ensure people with symptoms are not allowed inside and other steps for health protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-task-force-recommends-reopening-of-shrines-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78084600.cms||Malathy Iyer
September 13, 2020||India||PM’s principal secretary reviews preparedness as numbers rise||NEW DELHI: Amid rapidly increasing number of daily Covid-19 cases, principal secretary to the Prime Minister, P K Mishra on Saturday chaired a high-level meeting to comprehensively review the Covid-19 preparedness and response. The meeting focused on evidence-based learning on management of cases across the districts and states. The meeting also discussed the stage of vaccine development and vaccine distribution plan. The need for District Health Action Plans for long term management of various aspects of Covid was discussed at the meeting with Mishra emphasising on long term national level Covid action plan. The meeting was attended by cabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba, Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul, principal scientific adviser and all Covid Empowered Action Group Conveners and secretaries of departments concerned. The Centre also stressed on active participation of districts and states. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan briefed the meeting about ongoing strategic interventions in the five high burden states. He highlighted the status of states in terms of case trajectory, testing conducted, fatality and sample positivity mentioning the districts of concern. Based on the many projected scenarios, the principal secretary directed all concerned to build on the knowledge and analysis that has been developed over the last few months to work out the detailed action plan for the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pms-principal-secretary-reviews-preparedness-as-numbers-rise/articleshow/78084613.cms||---
September 13, 2020||India||JEE-M: AP students top the list, UP No. 2||MUMBAI: Andhra Pradesh took pole position this year in sending the maximum qualifying candidates through JEE (main) for the Advanced examination to enter the IITs. Maharashtra has jumped to the third spot below Uttar Pradesh, pushing large coaching hubs like Telangana and Rajasthan lower down. Unlike previous years, many candidates may not have registered this time for JEE in the state where they are being coached. For instance, hundreds of students from Mumbai would take the exam in Rajasthan. But the pandemic made it difficult this time. That may explain Maharashtra’s rise. It has probably recorded its best improvement in five years, said an IIT dean. However, the disparity between the more successful states and the ones that have fewer shortlisted candidates remains. The top five (AP, UP, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Telangana) contribute over 1.26 lakh of the 2.45 lakh students, or 50% of those who have qualified for JEE (Advanced). According to an National Testing Agency (NTA) official, a larger pool is still getting selected from states with large organised coaching centres like Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Kota and Sikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jee-m-ap-students-top-the-list-up-no-2/articleshow/78084624.cms||Hemali Chhapia
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||3-yr Russian ship drama ends, Port Trust receives Rs 20cr dues||Kolkata: A legal drama being played out at Kolkata Port Trust — now Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT) — over a Russian cargo ship for nearly three years has finally come to an end with the port receiving Rs 20 crore towards settlement of its dues from a Singapore-based company that purchased the vessel. In July 2019, TOI had reported that Calcutta High Court had granted permission to Kolkata port to sell MV Vsevolod Beletskiy to realise its dues. The ship was berthed at Haldia Dock Complex (HDC) of SPMPT since 2017 after the HC ordered its arrest for non-payment of dues. A senior SPMPT official said MV Vsevolod Beletskiy was a Russian flag vessel, which was arrested under the jurisdiction of the admiralty bench of the high court on the day of its sailing from Haldia in 2017. Thereafter, SPMPT arrested it under its own regulations because the ship had remained docked at Haldia for long without paying dues. “In May, the high court ordered that the ship be sold. There were certain legal complexities, but the vessel was finally purchased by M/s Glory Ship Management Pvt Ltd of Singapore on March 2 this year for Rs 40.73 crore. A special mooring system was developed at HDC for the ship to keep the berth free for normal cargo handling operations. After the Singapore-based firm paid the money to the HC registrar-general, all facilities were provided to the officers and crew,” the port official added. During lockdown, SPMPT had approached the high court for repayment of dues and received Rs 1.7 crore. Later, the HC released an additional Rs 18.74 crore, which was credited to the port’s account on Friday. “We are happy that the matter has finally been resolved, and thank the HC for considering our claim. Now, the ship will return to the seas,” SPMPT chairman Vinit Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-yr-russian-ship-drama-ends-port-trust-receives-rs-20cr-dues/articleshow/78084080.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic brings C-change in the life of Kolkata ‘doms’||KOLKATA: For 27-year-old Dhapa crematorium worker Dharmendra Mallick, Covid-induced social distancing has led to an emotional crisis that he has been struggling to come to terms with. Mallick, who started working at the Covid-designated crematorium as a dom in March, is yet to cradle his newborn daughter since he was forced to cut himself off from his family after taking up the high-risk job. He has only had a few glimpses of her from a distance, since his wife and elder daughter have shifted to his in-laws’ place Even as a substantial part of Kolkata has altered its daily routine to tackle the pandemic, it has dramatically altered the lives of a small community of workers — the doms — who cremate the dead. Used to a morbid life of handling bodies and being treated as social pariahs, Covid has changed their lives, perhaps for ever. It has brought health risks involved in handling infected bodies, but has also been financially rewarding, with the government offering monetary incentives to offset the risks and keep them going. In addition, they’ve got social recognition as ‘Covid warriors’ and feted by clubs in genteel neighbourhoods, something that none would have thought possible even in their wildest dreams. But, of course, everything comes at a price. “I am dying to take my daughter in my arms, but I don’t know when I will be able to do that,” says Dharmendra, who has worked at the Nimtola crematorium for six years. Dharmendra admits he was jittery, initially, while handling infected bodies. “My hands used to tremble; I used to be extremely tense and afraid of getting infected myself,” he tells TOI. “The first thing I did was shift my wife, Kajal, from the dom quarters in north Kolkata to her parents’ house in Phoolbagan. She was pregnant, and I was extremely scared for her.” And though the initial jitters are gone, he hasn’t had the courage yet to hold daughter Drishti, now two months old. From an entire lifetime of getting used to being treated as pariahs by ‘genteel’ society, the pandemic has forced several members of Kolkata’s dom community to impose this layer of isolation around themselves, even from their own families. Also, for a community, hardened by seeing and handling bodies for a living, they never thought they would experience fear. But the pandemic has changed that. Strangely, this fear has changed many things, including higher financial incentives from the government, to proper dressing-up for the job. “We had all along worn shorts and a sleeveless banyan at work,” Dharmendra recounts. “But, since May, we have been in PPE overalls, covered from head to toe in the protective suit, while at work. It’s extremely uncomfortable and very tiring but we don’t have an option,” says the man who has cremated more than 1,000 Covid bodies. “The pay is good but the job is hazardous,” said Puja Mallick, whose husband Sunny is a dom at Dhapa. “My friends and well-wishers repeatedly told me to move out and live separately, but I refused. We were always treated as untouchables by most people. Now, even those who were friends and family have distanced themselves.” The higher income has also led to lifestyle changes. Many can now afford to buy smartphones and even a motorbike. Most, however, view this “new normal” would end soon, so that they can go about their jobs without the constant fear and tension. In the initial days of the pandemic, only one furnace at Dhapa was functional. With bodies trickling in all day, that meant enormous pressure on the doms and extremely long hours. Dharmendra, along with Dinesh Mallick, 36, and Sunil Mallik, 40, would start work at noon and end at midnight. Puja, 22, was caught in a dilemma when Sunny, 24, was recruited as dom to undertake cremation of Covid-infected bodies at Nimtala. The couple had fallen in love and got married a year previously and they stayed at Belur, where Sunny worked as a temporary worker in the conservancy department. Once the Nimtola crematorium started functioning mid-June, Sunny joined as a contractual staff with substantially higher pay. Treated like a social outcast, Sunny shifted to Ahiritola near the Nimtala crematorium around June-end. “In any case, I had to shift out of the Belur residence because my elderly parents, who are vulnerable, stay there,” he says. The couple had the scare of their life a couple of weeks after Sunny began working in Nimtala. One morning, he developed fever. After five tense days, the fever was gone and they breathed easy. Shaken by the episode, the two have vowed not to think about planning a family till the Covid situation eases. In the past two months, Sunny has cremated more than 600 Covid bodies. Work usually starts at 10pm and continues till the 15-20 bodies are cremated. Sunny works with Sanjoy Mallick, 24, who is also a new recruit, and Santosh Mallick, 32, who is senior to them. “The most difficult part was wearing the PPE suit. We would sweat profusely and feel drained. But we’ve got used to it now,” says Sanjoy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-brings-c-change-in-the-life-of-city-doms/articleshow/78084178.cms||Sudipto Das
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||Intensified testing in Steel City after nudge from central team||Jamshedpur: Based on the suggestions made by the central team after its inspection here a few days ago, the district authorities have decided to intensify their testing and examine more and more Covid-19 suspects for early detection of cases. A few days ago, a three-member team from the Union ministry of health had visited Steel City to assess its management of the pandemic and point out its improvement areas. “Besides timely treatment, the central team has asked us to identify asymptomatic patients, conduct more swab sample tests and do proper contact tracing to prevent fatalities,” a senior health official on condition of anonymity said. Areas containment zones, buffer zones, Covid hotspots, market places, malls, bus and auto stands are the prime targets of the health department for carrying out the tests. DC Suraj Kumar has urged people to come forward and cooperate with the health officials in getting their tests done. Kumar has asked the officials concerned to take action against those not undergoing the test or creating obstacles in the smooth conduction of the testing drive. “Anyone found creating problems or refusing to conduct the test will be charged under section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” civil surgeon R N Jha said. In the last few weeks, the district administration has already carried out rapid antigen testing in camps organised in areas like Golmuri, Sidhgora, Telco, Burma mines, Baridih, Birsanagar and Sitaramdera where it has tested more than 5,000 samples. As of Saturday morning, the district had 10,275 cases, of which 3173 were active. As many as 238 patients have died and 6,864 have been cured. As per the health department’s data, 171 people above the age of 60, 62 in the 45-59 age group, 17 in the 30-44 age group and five in the 15-29 age group have died so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/intensified-testing-in-steel-city-after-nudge-from-central-team/articleshow/78082203.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal to submit affidavit in SC over Ayushman pullout||Kolkata: The Bengal government will file an affidavit in the Supreme Court explaining why it has pulled out of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in response to an apex court notice to four states, including Bengal, on why they had not implemented the national health insurance scheme. The reply is to be submitted within two weeks. The Supreme Court’s action came after a Hyderabad resident moved the apex court seeking a directive to let people of Telangana, Odisha, Delhi and Bengal choose between Ayushman Bharat or existing state health insurance schemes. The petitioner submitted that non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat in the four states was a breach of the Constitution’s Article 14 (equality before law) and Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty). Bengal minister of state for health and family welfare Chandrima Bhattacharya said: “The petitioner had sought an ex-parte interim order without serving notice to the four states. The Supreme Court issued notices to states and the Centre to submit their views. So what is wrong in it?” The state government had, in fact, explained the reason behind its “pullout” decision in a letter to the Ayushman Bharat CEO in in January 2019. “… The MoU of Jan Arogya Yojana signed between Government of West Bengal and Government of India clearly stipulated that since West Bengal already had a well-established scheme, Swasthya Sathi, the state government would like to retain the name Swasthya Sathi in the scheme… To our surprise the entitlement letter/card issued by your Ministry mentions the name of the scheme as PMJAY which is not only a violation of the stipulations of the said MoU but has created confusion at the grassroots level,” the then additional chief secretary Rajiva Sinha had said. The BJP, however, had seized the issue to slam the Mamata Banerjee government. BJP national president J P Nadda had on Thursday accused the state of depriving its people by blocking Ayushman Bharat. Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien pointed out that the state’s Swasthya Sathi scheme was introduced in 2016, two years before the Centre launched Ayushman Bharat. The state scheme, like Ayushman Bharat, has a Rs 5 lakh insurance cover and in addition provides cover for parents and spouses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-to-submit-affidavit-in-sc-over-ayushman-pullout/articleshow/78084132.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||UP contractor who faked gun attack held from Kolkata||Kolkata: A wanted railway contractor, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head for allegedly faking a shooting in Lucknow, UP, was nabbed by Kolkata Police from Jadavpur on Saturday. Surendra Kalia, who has more than 20 criminal cases pending against him, is accused of orchestrating the July 13 attack on himself in Lucknow’s Alambagh in order to frame a jailed don-turned-politician and seek police protection for himself in the process. On August 10, UP Police following a probe had labelled the Alambagh shooting as ‘fake’. Four associates of the contractor — Yashvendra Singh, Sachin Shukla, Sultan Ali and Ashish Kumar Dwivedi — were arrested from Sultanpur, UP, on August 11. Kalia, however, managed to flee to Madhya Pradesh from where he came to Kolkata and rented a flat in the city’s southern suburbs. A senior officer at Lalbazar said UP Police had sought their help. “We have sent Kalia to jail custody. Now, UP Police can seek his transit remand,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/up-contractor-who-faked-gun-attack-held-from-kolkata/articleshow/78084076.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||Rims security guard donates plasma, saves critically ill Covid patient||Ranchi: Suraj Kumar, a Covid-19 recovered security guard posted at the cardiothoracic & vascular surgery (CTVS) department of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), donated his plasma on Friday night for a critically ill patient getting treatment at a private hospital here. The 50-year-old Covid patient is now recovering, Rims authorities said on Saturday. Kumar (26) said he got infected on July 24 while on duty and had to spend more than a month away from work during his recovery till August 10 and the mandatory quarantine till August 24. A resident of Hussainabad in Palamu district, Kumar said he lost wages for 14 days during his treatment and donated the plasma after considering the hardships faced by coronavirus patients. He said, “I have requested my employers to pay me the full salary, but the agency did not agree. We are five siblings and I along with my father support my family but the last two months were very difficult to meet the expenses as I didn’t get my full salary.” However, his financial problems did not prevent Kumar from saving the life of another Covid patient. He said, “Soon after I came to know that doctors in my department were looking for a donor from an A +ve blood group for an ailing patient, I inquired with them if I could donate and whether there are any risks involved in it.” “CTVS head Dr Anshul Kumar and other doctors assured me that plasma donation is completely safe and any recovered patient, if found eligible after mandatory pathological tests, can donate it,” Kumar added. Doctors at the Rims blood bank declared him fit after which his plasma collected and administered to the patient. The wife of the patient said, “The doctors told me that my husband is improving and I am thankful to the donor.” So far, the Rims blood bank has collected 158 units of plasma from 79 recovered patients out of which 50% have come from policemen and other security personnel. A few doctors from Rims have also donated voluntarily. Kavita Deogharia, a counsellor at the blood bank, said, “Security personnel have helped us a lot in the plasma collection as more than 50% are either from CISF or the state police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-security-guard-donates-plasma-saves-critically-ill-covid-patient/articleshow/78082184.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||NTA asks +ve students to not sit for NEET, promises later date||Ranchi: The National Testing Agency (NTA) asked students who have tested positive for Covid-19 to not sit for NEET and said a separate date will be allotted for them. A letter to the co-ordinators of the examination to this tune was sent on Saturday. Principal of Delhi Public School and co-ordinator for NEET in Ranchi, Dr Ram Singh, said, “We have received a correspondence from NTA on Friday night which directs candidates who have tested positive to not take part in the examination on September 13. A separate date will be fixed for their examination later. A total of over 13,000 candidates are supposed to take the examinations at the 25 centres here on Sunday.” “Keeping in view the interest of the Covid-19 positive candidates and the safety of other candidates and exam personnel it has been decided that the covid-19 positive candidates will be allowed to take NEET (UG) 2020 at a later date which will be finalized after September 13, 2020,” read the directive issued by NTA. The infected candidates have been asked to submit their UG admit card and a certificate from a competent authority in support of his/her claim as a Covid-19 positive patient at ncov19@nta.ac.in. Meanwhile, the Ranchi district administration and the centre heads of all 25 centres made elaborate arrangements for the examination on Sunday in order to ensure social distancing at all times at all the centres. From deploying 75 magistrates along with sufficient police personnel to queue management, thermal scanning and arrangement of sanitization and masks for all students, the centres have also arranged isolation labs for candidates showing symptoms of the viral infection as per the advisory issued by NTA. Magistrates have been directed to ensure all safety norms are followed,” said Ranchi ADM (law and order) Akhilesh Sinha. The examination is scheduled between 2pm and 5pm, but candidates have been provided time slots starting at 11 am to reach the centres. Meanwhile, SDO (sadar) imposed prohibitory orders in 200m radius around all the centres in order to prevent gathering of people. Under the norms, barring personnel engaged in government works, five or more person will not be allowed to gather around these centres. Prohibition has also been imposed on use of loudspeakers, carrying of arms and ammunition and public meeting in the area. The order will be effective from 11am to 8pm at all the centres on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nta-asks-ve-students-to-not-sit-for-neet-promises-later-date/articleshow/78082196.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||10 more die, Covid tally breaches 60k-mark||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported 10 Covid casualties and 1,420 fresh cases in 24 hours until 10pm on Saturday, taking the total past the 60,000-mark. With 1,746 recoveries, the cumulative caseload stood at 60,460; of which 14,844 are active cases, 45,074 have recovered and 542 have died. Ranchi reported five deaths, Bokaro two and Dumka, Dhanbad and Ramgarh reporting one casualty each on Saturday. East Singhbhum, the worst affected district in terms of toll, did not report a death for the first time in 44 days (since July 28). The positivity rate in the state remained consistent with 6% of 22,238 samples testing positive. East Singhbhum and Ranchi continued to dominate the numbers on new cases with 270 and 231 testing positive. Bokaro (201) and Dhanbad (191) also reported big spikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10-more-die-covid-tally-breaches-60k-mark/articleshow/78082233.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Hemtabad MLA’s death: CID charges duo with abetment||Kolkata: The state CID has filed the chargesheet in the unnatural death of BJP MLA from Hemtabad, Debendranath Roy, concluding that it is a case of abetment to suicide. The agency has charged two accused with conspiracy and cheating. “Chargesheet filed under IPC 306 (abetment to suicide), 420 (cheating), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) and 34 against accused Niloy Sinha of English Bazar and Mabud Ali of Chanchal,” an officer said. The chargesheet — filed two months after Debendranath’s body was found hanging outside a closed shop on July 13 — is in line with the primary autopsy report which stated that the injury was “ante-mortem”. The CID stated that Debendranath’s wife Chandrima had written in the FIR how the two accused owed money after cheating her husband. She claimed that whenever her husband would want the money back, the duo would threaten him. The agency used call detail records and cash transactions from a few Grameen banks to build its case along with ownership of a few immovable properties. In early August, Calcutta High Court had turned down the plea for a CBI probe and asked the additional director-general of CID to monitor the investigation. Later in August, one Sashank Sekhar Jha moved a PIL in Supreme Court. The apex court admitted a Special Leave Petition seeking a CBI probe and a division bench led by Justice Arun Mishra directed the Bengal government to file an affidavit within six weeks. “We have been demanding a CBI probe into the incident. We have time and again voiced our concerns over a probe by state-run agencies. We do not agree with CID’s findings,” said Sayantan Basu, state general secretary of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hemtabad-mlas-death-cid-charges-duo-with-abetment/articleshow/78084047.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal Cong protests Rhea’s ‘media trial’||Kolkata: West Bengal Pradesh Congress held protest rallies against the “media trial” of Rhea Chakraborty as well as BJP’s “vendetta politics” on Saturday. State party president Adhir Chowdhury had two days earlier described Chakraborty as a “Bengali Brahmin lady” against BJP’s bid to turn Sushant Singh Rajput into a “Bihari actor”. Bengal Congress is the first party to have flagged the issue, days after social media was flooded with trolls against Bengali women. The Congress rally began from Bidhan Bhavan led by chief whip in assembly Manoj Chakraborty. Slogans were raised against BJP and Trinamool, calling Chowdhury the “future CM” of Bengal. Congress workers demonstrated at S N Banerjee Road and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road crossing. A similar rally was organized in Nadia. Lawyer and Congress leader Ritzu Ghosal criticized a section of the media for turning into “courtrooms”. Ghoshal said TV anchors were virtually conducting trials before the accused was tried in a court of law. “Rhea is being turned into a villain before her offence is proved. We want the law to take its course,” Ghoshal said, describing the Bengaluru-born Rhea as Bengali. “It doesn’t matter where a person is born or the language s/he speaks. One who resides in Bengal is a Bengali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-cong-protests-rheas-media-trial/articleshow/78084094.cms||---
September 13, 2020||Ranchi||Janshatabdi stopped, Jamshepur practically cut off from Kolkata||JAMSHEDPUR: Train travel between Jamshedpur and Kolkata has come to a complete halt after the Indian Railways suspended the Janshatabdi express — the only train connecting the two cities since the lockdown was relaxed — for an indefinite period as the low number of passengers made the service unviable. Now, travelling by road on a private or hired car is the only way to get to Kolkata as interstate bus services have not been allowed to resume in Jharkhand. It takes more than five hours to cover the 283km by road and costs more than Rs 6,000 to rent a car. A private taxi operator told TOI that he is charging as much as Rs 8,000 for a sedan for this trip due to the risk of infection. The Barbil-Howrah Janshatabdi that left Tatanagar platform late on Thursday evening was the last train between the two cities. Talking to TOI, senior divisional commercial manager of Chakradharpur division Manish Pathak said, “Railways cannot continue to keep running trains that incur losses. The number of passengers on this train was not sufficient for us to keep it operational. There is no plan to start any other train between Tatanagar and Howarh anytime soon.” Pathak said the Howrah-Ahmedabad express and Mumbai mail stopped halting at Tatanagar and Chakradharpur stations last month after the Jharkhand government raised objections saying it was leading to a surge in Covid cases. Train services between Jamshedpur and Patna were also stopped for the same reason. Passengers have voiced resentment over the decision to cut off all rail services between the two cities, especially with the festive season around the corner. Many of the passengers that arrived in the Steel City on the last train at 9.47pm on Thursday refused to undergo thermal scanning or register their names and addresses while stepping out of the station in protest, asking the railways to reconsider the decision. The sudden suspension of train services has came as a jolt to hundreds of Steel City residents who travel to Kolkata regularly. The business community is the worst affected as many purchase or place bulk orders for commodities at Burrabazar and other wholesale hubs in Kolkata. Frequent traveller Ravi Verma said: “The decision must be reconsidered. How can two biggest cities with a large Bengali population of this region remain disconnected ahead of Durga Puja.” Rohit Singh, who owns a garment shop in Sakchi area, said: “The Tata-Howrah Steel Express should have been restarted once the lockdown was relaxed. Forget that... they have now even stopped the Janshatabdi. How will the business community survive like this?” Namrata Banerjee, a schoolteacher, said: “A large number of patients from Jamshedpur travel to Kolkata for treatment. These people will suffer with no rail link between the cities.” Soubhik Kar, a cancer patient in his 70s who visits Tata Medical Centre in Kolkata regularly, said “I found out that there are no trains only when I logged in to a website to book a ticket. I just don’t know how to get my treatment here.” Meanwhile, Pathak said the Bhubaneswar Rajdhani and Puri-New Delhi Purushottam express — both via Tatanagar — are also running at 50% occupancy. Sources said if the passenger count does not increase in the coming days, the railways will consider stopping these as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/janshatabdi-stopped-jamshepur-practically-cut-off-from-kolkata/articleshow/78082218.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||Asansol civic body pic row: BJP MP held for protest, let off||Asansol: Bishnupur MP and Bengal BJP’s Yuva Morcha president Soumitra Khan was detained in Burdwan on Saturday for allegedly orchestrating a roadblock in front of the Asansol police commissioner’s office in protest against a party leader’s arrest. Khan was let off later in the day, but not before his detention and that of other Morcha activists triggered ripple roadblocks by BJP supporters in Bankura and Hooghly. BJP Yuva Morcha’s state secretary Bappa Chatterjee was arrested on Friday for allegedly uploading a “cropped image” of the Asansol Municipal Corporation signboard to suggest that the civic body’s name was written in English, Urdu and Hindi, but not in Bengali. The corporation lodged a police complaint against the “doctored photo”, leading to Chatterjee’s arrest under Section 153 IPC, among others, for “wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot”. An Asansol court on Saturday remanded Chatterjee in police custody for three days. BJP MP Khan said they organised a “peaceful sit-in” to press for the leader’s release. “Police used force to lift our dharna,” he said. In a tweet, junior Union minister and Asansol MP Babul Supriyo “strongly” condemned the “police atrocity” against Khan and others, and the “wr-ongful arrest” of Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asansol-civic-body-pic-row-bjp-mp-held-for-protest-let-off/articleshow/78084085.cms||Mohammad Asif
September 13, 2020||Kolkata||VB to hold final exams this month||Santiniketan: Visva-Bharati will be holding online examinations for final-semester students in September. The central university has decided to publish the results within a fortnight of the last exam, which will be held on September 30. VB authorities took stock of preparedness in a meeting held at Bangladesh Bhavan on Saturday. The university has left it to departments to arrange examination dates in line with UGC guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vb-to-hold-final-exams-this-month/articleshow/78084138.cms||Someswar Boral
September 13, 2020||Mumbai||Raut virtually defends assault on retired navyman, Rajnath calls it deplorable even as six accused get bail||MUMBAI: Six Shiv Sainiks arrested for the assault on retired navy man Madan Sharma in Kandivli were released on bail on Saturday, prompting the BJP to demand that non-bailable charges be invoked in the case. While defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that he had spoken to Sharma and called the attack “completely unacceptable and deplorable,” Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut virtually defended the assault, calling it an “angry and spontaneous reaction of Sainiks” to what he termed was a “defamatory cartoon” about CM Uddhav Thackeray. Raut said though the cartoon was “defamatory” and Sainiks had reacted spontaneously, the attackers had been immediately arrested, showing that rule of law prevailed in Maharashtra. "People lose their patience when those criticising holders of constitutional posts like PM, President, governor and CM do misconduct in the name of freedom of expression” and urged the opposition in the state “not to politicise the issue,” Raut added. Rajnath Singh tweeted, “Spoke to retired naval officer, Shri Madan Sharma who was attacked by hooligans in Mumbai and enquired about his health. Such attacks on Ex-Servicemen is completely unacceptable and deplorable. I wish Madanji a speedy recovery.” Sharma, 65, who lives at Thakur Complex in Kandivli, was attacked by the Sena workers on Friday for forwarding a cartoon featuring CM Thackeray on a WhatsApp group. On Friday, Sharma had received four phone calls asking where he lived and details about the image he had forwarded. Around noon he was summoned to the entrance of his society where about 8-10 men started to assault him, prompting Sharma to run back into the society. But some of the men followed him and dragged him out of the premises. “The men did not even have a conversation with me; they directly started to hit. With their release, I’m concerned for my safety and that of my family. The possibility of a retaliation cannot be ruled out. The police should grant me protection,” Sharma told TOI from a private hospital where he has been admitted. Sharma suffered an eye injury in the attack. After BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar tweeted about the incident, police made six arrests between Friday night and Saturday morning. Two of the accused--Kamlesh Kadam and Sanjay Manjre--are Sena shakha pramukhs. The others were identified as Rakesh Belnekar, Pratap Sund Vera, Sunil Desai and Rakesh Mulik. PTI reports said Sharma on Saturday demanded the CM apologise to him and the country. He said Thackeray should quit his post if he was unable to uphold law and order. Hours after the six men were released on bail, a delegation of BJP leaders staged a dharna at the regional additional commissioner’s office demanding non-bailable sections be invoked. “We have demanded that non-bailable charges -- Section 326 (grievous hurt) and 452 (trespass) of the IPC -- be applied in this case,” said MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar, who staged a demonstration with Pravin Darekar and other BJP workers at additional commissioner Dilip Sawant’s office. "We have arrested six people in connection with the case and applied serious charges but those sections are bailable and due to COVID-19 situation, it is mandatory to give bail. We are taking legal advice as to whether section 452 (trespassing) is applicable here. Section 326 (grievous hurt) cannot be applied; it is attracted if there is an assault with the sharp weapon," joint commissioner (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil told mediapersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/six-shiv-sainiks-who-beat-up-ex-navy-officer-in-mumbai-get-bail/articleshow/78084628.cms||Nitasha Natu
September 13, 2020||Mumbai||NCB nabs ‘peddler who got ganja’ for actors, celebrities||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday carried out raids in Mumbai and Goa and arrested seven persons including a Powai-based hotelier and the son of a builder, and seized ganja, charas and Rs 6.5 lakh from them. A team led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede arrested Karam Jeet Singh Anand alias KJ (23) a drug peddler who was allegedly supplying to Bollywood actors and celebrities. KJ’s name cropped up during the interrogation of Sushant Singh Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda. He procured marijuana for Rajput from KJ, through a friend named Suryadeep, NCB claimed. Anuj Keshwani, another key drug peddler also disclosed some links which led to the raids, officials said. Others caught include Dywan Anthony Fernandes, a resident of Shivaji Park, and Ankush Arenja (29), son of a builder, and a hotelier from Powai. The NCB found 500g of ganja with Dywan, recovered Rs 1.3 lakh from Arenja and Rs 5.5 lakh from KJ. NCB also arrested Chris Costa, a Goa resident who used to purchase ganja and charas from KJ and sold them to tourists there. Others arrested include Sanket Shah, Anwar Shaikh and auto rickshaw driver Sanjay Gupta, who were part of the group that used to ferry ganja and charas to various clients in Mumbai. NCB officials said all the suspects would be produced before the magistrate through video conferencing on Sunday to seek their custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-nabs-peddler-who-got-ganja-for-actors-celebrities/articleshow/78084646.cms||S Ahmed Ali
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rental housing policy kicks in with sops for corporates, developers||GANDHINAGAR: Corporates and industries will now be able to provide accommodation to their workers and employees and deduct rent from their salaries. This is one of the salient features of the affordable rental housing complex (ARHC) policy, which was notified by the Gujarat government on Friday. The state’s affordable rental housing policy is a corollary to the union government’s scheme for affordable rental housing for migrants launched in post Covid scenario in India. The union ministry of housing and urban affairs had released operational guidelines for the scheme in July this year. Industries can now avail of AHRC benefits by developing residential colonies for their work force. They will be authorised to deduct rent from the salaries of their workers. To ensure that poor and middle class workers can get affordable housing on rent, the government has allowed builders and developers of ARHCs to get an additional 50% Floor Space Index and other benefits. Attractive scheme for buildersLochan Sehra, secretary, housing & Nirmal Gujarat said, “There is a huge demand for affordable rental houses in the state. By this policy, the state government aims to provide maximum affordable homes to those who want the facility for a short period. Real estate developers will also find the policy attractive. Poor housing conditions for labourers is a major problem in the state and increases migration of workers. Standard of living for workforce will improve at lower cost in the state.’’ Under the new ARHC policy, municipal corporations, municipalities, urban development authorities (UDA), industrial development authorities like GIDC or any area notified by the government will have to keep provision of ARHC in their respective areas. The state government has set March 2020 as the date until which ARHC projects can be completed under the PM Awas Yojna (urban). Projects approved before March 2022 will be given a grace period of 18 months beyond the deadline and will be eligible for all other incentives under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-rental-housing-policy-kicks-in-with-sops-for-corporates-developers/articleshow/78084656.cms||Kapil Dave
September 13, 2020||Mumbai||Covid curbs bring down abortions in Mumbai by 50%||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 crisis, which has claimed over 8,000 lives and affected over 1.6 lakh people in the city so far, has also stopped thousands of women from accessing abortion services. Data obtained from the BMC public health department shows that abortion rate was down by half with only 7,865 women undergoing medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) in the five-month period from April to August. The city witnesses about 35,000 abortions every year. The Covid-19 lockdown began on March 25 and continues even today, albeit in a relaxed form with many restrictions lifted. From April 2019 to March 2020, Mumbai had registered 35,778 abortions, a small drop from the previous year’s figure of 36,315. ‘Pvt hospitals have failed women in last 5 months’RTI activist Chetan Kothari, who obtained the data from the BMC public health department, said: “The city has witnessed over 30,000 abortions annually for the last five years. Even if one considers that 2,500 to 3,000 women seek MTP every month, the number for the April-August period this year is low.’’ The BMC data is compiled by seeking details from each gynaecologist registered to offer MTP services. While the municipal wards in Andheri, K-West and K-East, usually register the maximum number of medical terminations, the wards counted 1,275 and 657 abortions in the April-August period. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said abortion services were available at public healthcare facilities throughout the Covid-19 lockdown period but transport could have been an issue for women. While local trains are not available for the general public, other public transport services were made sparingly available in April and May. “There also was widespread fear over Covid-19 in the initial lockdown period, resulting in very few people venturing out of their homes,” a doctor from the gynaecology department of a BMC hospital said. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said MTP services were available at almost every public set-up. “We have 28 maternity homes and just three were declared as Covid-only facility. Many of our suburban and superspecialty hospitals offered non-Covid services,” he said. Sangeeta Rege of Cehat, which helps with the running of Dilaasa crisis intervention centres in BMC hospitals, said that MTP was among the services declared essential by the Centre in mid-April. She felt while the public hospitals did their bit for Covid-19, the private sector failed to step in and help out. “Public hospitals bore the burden of Covid throughout these five months. Many healthcare providers were redeployed to other facilities and institutions and it became difficult for BMC hospitals to continue providing essential services. Despite this, three rape survivors who required MTP were provided services at public hospitals,” she said. “The private health sector failed women majorly even during these times. Not only did many private facilities shut shop, those that were open doubled the costs citing PPEs,” Rege said. In a research paper released a month ago, IPAS, an international NGO that focuses on increased access to safe abortion and contraception, estimated that 1.85 million abortions were compromised during the first phase of the lockdown in the country. IPAS estimates 15.6 million abortions happen nationwide every year, with 73% of these through medical abortion. “We estimate that in usual times, 3.9 million abortions would have taken place in the three-month period. Of these, access to 1.85 million abortions, or 47%, is likely to be compromised due to a combination of factors impacting the health system, supply chain of medical abortion drugs and mobility of women/their partners,'' the IPAS document said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-curbs-bring-down-abortions-in-mumbai-by-50/articleshow/78084661.cms||Malathy Iyer
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘NIRF rankings don’t consider research output’||AHMEDABAD: The muchfeted National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the Union education ministry does not consider research output before assigning the academic ranking to an institution. A recent study by researchers of library and information sciences of the 2018-19 NIRF ranking showed that among 20 IIMs of the country, number of research citations was not the criterion for the rankings. For instance, in the 2018-19 NIRF, IIM-Bangalore — which had 8,124 citations from the research produced by 28 authors — was ranked number one. IIM-Ahmedabad, which had 38,594 research citations out of 110 authors, was however ranked second. ‘Citation output did not correspond with rank’Similarly, IIM Lucknow had 32,095 citations of research produced by 75 authors, was ranked fourth, while IIM-Calcutta which had 21, 437 citations, a good 10,658 fewer citations than IIM-Lucknow, was ranked third. There was also no correlation between the score assigned by NIRF and the corresponding research citations for IIMs as well. For instance, research works out of IIM-Udaipur had 22,504 citations out of 13 authors, but their score was just 60.79, and ranked as 13, while IIM-Indore was ranked fifth with a score of 67.01 with just 7,164 citations with research works of 87 authors. “This indicates that there is no role for research output in deciding the NIRF ranking of the IIMs which is ironic to many major studies conducted previously,” claimed the study by C Vysakh, Rajendra Babu H and RL Spandana of the department of library and information sciences from Tumkur University in Karnataka. The public profile of each of the 20 IIMs was searched on the internet search engine where the number of authors and their corresponding citations were counted. The findings were also presented at the 4th National Conference on Management of Modern Libraries (NACML) held in Manipal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-nirf-rankings-dont-consider-research-output/articleshow/78084649.cms||Paul John
September 13, 2020||India||‘Infrastructure boost can avert crossovers’||NEW DELHI: Hours after five Arunachal youths detained by China’s People’s Liberation Army made it back to India, Union minister Kiren Rijiju, an MP from the state, said it is not uncommon for locals to move around border areas for hunting and foraging, but with the difficult terrain in mind, the Centre is ramping up infrastructure to improve accessibility. “The thing is that those areas are very difficult and topography is inaccessible. People from villages often go to the mountains and border areas for hunting and collecting herbs. On many occasions, the PLA also gets there and, unfortunately, our people are taken away,” Rijiju told TOI on Saturday. The minister had been the government interface since the case of the missing boys was reported last week. An Arunachal youth had posted on Facebook that his brother, Prasad Ringling, and four others — Tanu Bakar, Ngaru Diri, Dongtu Ebiya and Toch Singkam — had been “abducted” by the Chinese army. On Saturday, they made it back home. The five youths are from the Tagin community, traditional hunter-gatherers. In March, another youth from the community had also gone missing and released by China after a month. A recurring complaint in the remote areas of Arunachal Pradesh is that LAC borders are not demarcated, the areas are not well-connected and there are few livelihood options, TOI had reported on Saturday. Rijiju said the situation is improving gradually, with the Army and civic agencies working together to build more infrastructure for the region. “Things are looking better. The border area must not be left behind or unattended in terms of providing basic amenities. Villages are being connected with roads on a priority basis. I must thank the Army … Let’s hope that in the future, we have better connectivity so we can avoid such accidental crossovers.” As the sports and youth affairs minister, Rijiju said, he has been trying to engage youths from border regions like Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh. The 48-year-old lawmaker also said that his own ministry is now working to engage youth in the mountainous regions of Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh by bringing in new turfs for ice skating and contact sports while holding winter games more frequently. “We have just sanctioned synthetic tracking fields, indoor stadia for Ladakh. This is happening in Jammu and Kashmir too, where we today set up a new indoor stadium in Udhampur. As far as Arunachal Pradesh is concerned, we are in the process of identifying local schools which can be turned as centres of excellence. Our thrust is to also include and promote tribals in these regions” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/infra-boost-can-avert-crossovers/articleshow/78084667.cms||Rohan Dua
September 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ancient Gujarat temples make history with online darshan||AHMEDABAD: The Dwarka temple in Devbhumi Dwarka district dating back to the 16th century made history with devotees when it allowed live darshan of Lord Krishna online in April 2020. This was an unprecedented measure for the ancient temple in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic when the temple remained closed for months and followers insisted the temple facilitate online darshan in times of crisis. “The Dwarkadeesh darshan went digital in Covid, something that has never happened in the temple’s history. There was a flood of requests from devotees from all over India and abroad,” said collector Narendra Meena, a committee member of Shree Dwarkadhish Temple trust. The revered Ambaji Temple, one of the 52 Shakti Peeths , too made a departure from tradition as the darshan of Mataji was broadcast live during the Bhadarvi poonam week-long festivities. “Nearly 35 lakh devotees had visited Ambaji temple last year during Bhadarvi poonam. Even as the temple was closed to the public due to Covid, over 27 lakh devotees from across the world offered prayers to Ma Amba online,” said SJ Chavda of Shri Arasuri Ambaji Mata Devasthan Trust (SAAMDT). Chavda said that while online darshan has been suspended currently as the temple is open to people now, deliberations are on to go online again during Navratri which sees a flood of devotees. The Bahucharaji temple in Mehsana too went online in April as the pandemic forced the temple to shut its doors on the devotees. Currently, as the temple is open, online darshan has been suspended. Two temples Dakor and Somnath that had started online darshan some years back say going digital helped them in a big way in maintaining the divine connection between the Lord and devotees. “An average 50,000 devotees perform online darshan daily against 1,500 people who offer prayers at the temple premises,” said Ravindra Upadhyay, assistant manager of the Dakor Ranchhodrai Temple. The Somnath Temple witnessed over 15 crore clicks for online darshan during the holy month of Shravan. The temples had hosted 28 lakh devotees last shravan at the temple but this number was very low due to travel constraints and social distancing norms imposed during Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ancient-gujarat-temples-make-history-with-online-darshan/articleshow/78084668.cms||Bharat Yagnik
September 13, 2020||Mumbai||In the era of face masks, make-up tutorials thrive||MUMBAI: To go within, one doesn’t always have to close both eyes. Keeping one shut while underlining the other should also do the trick. Welcome to the world of online make-up tutorials, a sanctuary that is thriving in the age of work from home, face masks and uncertainty for reasons more to do with sanity than vanity. Beauty influencers across cities have not only noted a lockdown-induced spike in the demand for eye-make-up tutorials—the part of the face that’s visible above the mask —but also skincare routine videos to prevent dermatological issues caused by masks. For their audiences of urban women and men in the age group of 18 to 34 years, watching a face turn into a malleable canvas—squinting, priming, bronzing, highlighting, concealing, contouring and contorting—serves as a simultaneous lesson in art appreciation and meditation. Creative videos turn faces into canvases, offer calm amid chaosEvery time Mridha Desai's mother scolds her about the mess in her room, the 11-year-old Malad girl seeks out the silent therapist in her mirror. In slow motion, this “selfcounsellor” paints black wings around her eyelids the way her favourite online gurus Nikki and Shreya Jain do even as her head replays the heated mother-daughter conversation on a loop. At the end, both the face and the mind appear made up. “Either, she says sorry,” says Mridha’s mother and perpetual canvas, Sushmita, “or she points out where I was wrong.” Though she isn’t a fan of make-up herself, Sushmita-—who helped Mridha buy three eyeshadow and concealer palettes online during the lockdown—understands the grip of the trance-like tutorials on her daughter. This meditative undertone of beauty rituals, is largely why their heightened appetite in the age of work-fromhome, face covers and uncertainty, is not ironical. “People may not necessarily use make-up as much but simply watching a transformation online can be relaxing as well as entertaining,” says Hyderabad-based online fashion and beauty content creator Akanksha Kommirelly, whose audience bloated during the pandemic. Mumbai-based influencer Aashna Shroff finds that her “mismatched eye look” videos--embellished with fun music--are among the most requested. “Maybe it’s because masks give us more reason to experiment with our eyes,” guesses Shroff. Perhaps this is why eye makeup products have been selling like hot cakes. “Practically nobody is using a lipstick anymore,” says Natasha Patel, features director with a lifestyle portal, adding that different eyeliner colours are all the rage. If the bit above the mask needs highlighting, the skin under it needs concealing. “Many have even become skin conscious during the lockdown and have been investing in facial care products,” says Patel, adding that masks have been giving some people acne. “I know of people sticking pimple patches on their face under their masks,” reveals Patel. Tools like live streaming and Instagram Reels—short videos— have also given beauty influencers such as Delhi-based Srishti Bhatia and Mumbai’s Faby a windfall of new subscribers probably because “more people are investing more time in learning things on social media,” says Faby. In the course of learning things like contouring—“tricking people into believing you have cheekbones”—followers such as Mridha have chiselled their world view. A plaintiff surfaces in her voice each time the 11-year-old talks about her father who thinks “makeup is plastic” or about strangers online who hail prosthetics as high art while dismissing the act of enhancing features as self-indulgence. Make-up is serious business for Mridha, who is determined to brave even maths to give her dream of getting into an overseas college of beauty and science, wing-tips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-the-era-of-face-masks-make-up-tutorials-thrive/articleshow/78084685.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
September 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Scooterist dies as barricade falls, run over by dumper||MUMBAI: A scooterist was killed and the pillion rider was fighting for his life agyer they fell on the Western Express Highway (WEH) after a barricade hit them due to winds, and they were run over by a dumper speeding parallel to them on Saturday. Manoj Pawar (28) and Prashant Ambe (28) were returning home at Kranti Nagar around 3.30pm. Motorists passing by on Kandivli’s Akruli road informed police. Samta Nagar police registered a case against the dumper driver and MMRDA. Pawar died on the spot, while Ambe was seriously injured and in ICU at Shatabdi hospital. CCTV footage from the spot showed Pawar lose his balance after the barricade fell on them. The dumper driver and MMRDA have been booked, said senior inspector Raju Kasbe. But MMRDA spokesperson B G Pawar said the accident had nothing to do with Metro work. Work on a subway is being undertaken, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-scooterist-dies-as-barricade-falls-run-over-by-dumper/articleshow/78084694.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
