September 14, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 326 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||SHIMLA: The state reported four more Covid deaths and 326 positive cases on Sunday while 152 patients were also recovered from the infection. The state has now 9,555 positive cases of which 3,364 cases are active, 6,099 patients have been cured, 75 have died while 15 were migrated out of the state. In the state, two deaths have been reported from Solan district while one death each has been reported from Sirmaur and Kangra districts. Positive cases reported include 19 from Bilaspur district, 5 from Chamba, 47 from Kangra, 45 from Mandi, 21 from Shimla, 54 from Sirmaur, 97 from Solan and 38 from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-326-new-covid-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/78095188.cms||Anand Bodh
September 14, 2020||Business||Power ministry plans to make households shift to electric cooking||NEW DELHI: The government will not be content with India moving around in electric cars and buses by 2030. After providing power connections to all willing households in the country, the Centre is turning its focus on making them switch to electric cooking "in a big way". "Electricity is the future of India and most of its infrastructure will be powered by electricity including cooking completely on electricity, giving poor strata of society a cheaper medium of cooking," power minister R K Singh said inaugurating a slew of community-focused NTPC projects in Bihar on Sunday. A ‘Power Foundation’ is being set up under the ministry for the purpose he said, adding large-scale use of electric cooking will make the economy self-reliant and "give us independence" from imports. "This government is for the poor and this move (switching to electric cooking) will help the poor strata of the society." India is the world’s second-largest importer of LPG, which is main cooking fuel for nearly 28 crore households with a connection, followed by piped natural gas in several cities. The idea of switching to electric cooking was mooted by Niti Ayog in its 2017 ‘Three Year Action Agenda’, first reported by TOI on August 26 that year. Niti’s objective was to free up LPG connections for poor households by getting urban families switch to electric cooking. Niti’s plan did not get many takers at that point as the power supply was still patchy in rural parts and many rural households still did not have a connection. The situation is different today with 100% household electrification and surplus generation capacity. But even then it will be a long time before making litti, bharta or daal-bati on an electric device becomes a common practice. There are several reasons such as deep-rooted traditions and a common perception that electric cooking doesn’t work with Indian dishes. But the proponents of the idea say there are plenty of appliances available for Indian cooking and the switch will boost domestic manufacturing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/power-ministry-plans-to-make-households-shift-to-electric-cooking/articleshow/78095396.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 14, 2020||India||Ex-JNU student leader Umar Khalid arrested in connection with northeast Delhi riots||NEW DELHI: Former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid was arrested late on Sunday night for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots, sources said on Sunday. He was questioned by the Delhi police Crime Branch for a couple of hours on September 2 in connection with the riots. Khalid was earlier booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in another case related to the riots. He was also quizzed by the Special Cell of the Delhi police earlier regarding an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-jnu-student-leader-umar-khalid-arrested-in-connection-with-northeast-delhi-riots/articleshow/78095788.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||PM Modi’s ‘nudges’ got 1.3bn people to join Covid fight, says Cambridge study||LONDON: Using "nationalism" to "nudge" a country of 1.3 billion to treat the onset of the novel coronavirus as a juggernaut that would require a giant wall of public participation to stall, PM Narendra Modi's frequent public appearances and assurances in the initial days of the pandemic were critical to setting in motion India's response with an unprecedented 21-day lockdown, according to a Cambridge study that used machine learning and AI-based algorithms to identify the key interventions. The peer-reviewed research article published in the scientific journal PLOS One contains the findings of an in-depth look into how the Centre formulated reactive policies to fight Covid-19, backed by critical "nudges" from the PM, employing a concept that proposes positive reinforcement and indirect suggestions as ways to influence the behaviour and decision-making of groups or individuals. The article by Ramit Debnath and Ronita Bardhan, titled "India nudges to contain COVID-19 pandemic: A reactive public policy analysis using machine-learning based topic modelling", states that PM Modi's "nudging" was critical in creating "the herd effect". "India locked down 1.3 billion people on March 25, 2020. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on 24th March 2020, appealed to the nation that ‘… 21 days is critical to breaking the infection cycle… or else the country and your family could be set back 21 years…’. This nudge had critical public policy implications because it successfully convinced 1.3 billion people to abide by lockdown rules at high economic and social costs," the paper says. "The populist Prime Minister frequently nudged the nation on staying at home, adhering to lockdown rules, improving immunity through yoga and Ayurveda and contributing to the PM-CARES fund." The paper estimates the economic costs of Phase 1 of the lockdown (March 25 to April 14, 2020) at US$ 98 billion (Rs 720,000 crore). The social costs are "still unknown", it says. On Modi's bid to lessen the spiralling impact of the lockdown, the paper says, "The Prime Minister also nudged the business community and higher-income groups to look after the economic needs of those from lower-income groups, from whom they take various services, urging them not to cut their salary on the days they are unable to render the services due to inability to come to the workplace. PM stressed on the importance of humanity during such times."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modis-nudges-got-1-3bn-people-to-join-covid-fight-says-cambridge-study/articleshow/78095884.cms||NAOMI CANTON
September 14, 2020||India||MPs separated by plastic sheets, Parliament meets today||NEW DELHI: A unique session of Parliament will get underway on Monday with MPs sitting with plastic sheet separators and microphones on podiums in visitors’ galleries, where individual seats do not have mikes, while the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha main chambers will have a “proportionate” representation of political parties, including their leaders. This is the first time in the history of Indian Parliament that both chambers have been integrated for holding a session. Political parties have been allotted a certain number of seats in the main chambers and visitors’ galleries and it is up to them to nominate which of their MPs sit where. It may, however, not be a taxing problem as attendance may well be patchy as proceedings begin. Motions on question hour may pit government against oppositionThe immediate business are two medical related bills in Lok Sabha while the upper House will see the election of a deputy chairperson, with JD(U)’s Harivansh expected to canter home as the NDA nominee against RJD’s Manoj Jha, who is the candidate of Congress and some other non-NDA parties. The Parliament secretariat has facilitated MPs with the option to mark their attendance digitally through an app —Attendance Register — developed by the NIC. There will be 18 continuous sittings till October 1 during which 45 bills, two financial items and 11 ordinances are to taken up. There will be obituary references to the late Pranab Mukherjee, India's 13th President, after which the two Houses are expected to function though opposition parties plan to submit a host of adjournment notices on various issues. Both Houses will sit for four hours each every day without weekend breaks. The two Houses are to take up motions to allow them to run without question hour and discussion on private members’ bills which should draw protests from the opposition that an important part of Parliament is being scuttled. BJP managers have said answers to unstarred questions will be submitted and various state assemblies have also adopted similar practices. Parliament had last met for the budget session from January 31 to February 11. It was curtailed after an MP reported sick due to Covid-19 and raised concerns over the people he may have interacted with. Health minister Harsh Vardhan will make a statement on the Covid-19 situation in both Houses. Presiding officers will be dealing with MPs in a rather different way given the use of masks and face shields. It remains to be seen if the usual “rushing into the well” takes place as this is bound to violate social distancing norms. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla took stock of health and security measures on Sunday and instructed officials to provide sanitisers to every employee posted at the building gates. “All MPs and their family members have undergone Covid-19 test before the session and they have been given kits of sanitisers, masks, gloves and other health-related material,” Birla said after seeing the preparations. There will be sitting arrangements for 257 members in the Lok Sabha chamber and 172 MPs in the Lok Sabha galleries. Arrangements have been made for 60 members to sit in the Rajya Sabha chamber and 51 members will be seated in the galleries. Seats have been allotted in proportion to strengths like 32 of the 51 Congress MPs in the Lok Sabha chamber. Watch Monsoon session of Parliament: 11 ordinances, 45 bills to be taken up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mps-separated-by-plastic-sheets-parliament-meets-today/articleshow/78096243.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government allows gyms, yoga centers to open||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has permitted gyms and yoga institutes to open and extended permission to weekly markets to function till September 30, an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority late on Sunday evening stated. Gyms and yoga institutes can open from Monday provided they strictly follow all Covid guidelines and the standard operating procedure issued by the Union health ministry. “The Covid situation in Delhi has been reviewed and it has been decided that the present arrangement of opening of weekly markets on a trial basis, that is, one weekly market per day per zone in all three municipal corporations/NDMC/Delhi Cantonment Board (except in containment zones) may be continued till September 30,” said the order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, who is also chairman of DDMA’s state executive committee. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal heads the DDMA, which had so far been resisting the opening of gyms and yoga centres. The order added that gymnasiums and yoga institutes may also be allowed to open subject to strict compliance of the ministry’s SOP. As per the SOP, spas, steam baths and swimming pools will remain shut. “Vulnerable” people — those aged above 65 years, children under 10, people with comorbidities — are not allowed. Visitors must wear face covers all the time and maintain a distance of two yards. Gyms and yoga centres are also required to keep a gap of 15-30 minutes between batches and sanitise and disinfect the premises between shifts. No gym or yoga institute located within the containment zone will be allowed to open. Delhi currently has 1,488 containment zones spread across 11 districts. The district magistrates and other authorities concerned have been asked to ensure that the gyms and yoga institutes strictly adhere to the SOP. “In case of any violation, the owner and manager of the premises will be liable for prosecution under Delhi Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides sealing of such premises,” the order stated. The order has come as a big relief to more than 5,000 gyms and a large number of yoga institutes in the city, which have been closed for over five months since the Covid-19 lockdown. Most of these establishments are in deep financial distress. Under the various stages of unlocking, the DDMA had permitted markets, restaurants, hotels, bars and several other economic activities to resume but the gyms and yoga institutes were not permitted in Delhi despite the ministry of home affairs on July 29 allowing gyms and yoga institutes to open across the country. Gyms and yoga centres in neighboring NCR cities have been functioning since the first week of August. The continuing shutdown had led to protests by gym and yoga institute owners at different places in the city, including outside lieutenant governor Anil Baijal’s residence. The AAP government had been pushing for the reopening of these facilities but the DDMA – which is chaired by the LG – had not granted the permission due to fear of the coronavirus spreading through these places. Chirag Sethi of Delhi Gym Association said the permission has come as a major relief for gym owners and around 1 lakh people who are directly or indirectly connected to these centres for their livelihood. “All gyms will strictly follow the guidelines,” Sethi asserted. Watch Delhi government allows gyms and yoga centres to resume operations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-gyms-yoga-centres-get-government-nod-to-open-from-today/articleshow/78096340.cms||Alok KN Mishra
September 14, 2020||Goa||Three ISL teams pick own training ground in Goa||PANAJI: The Indian Super League (ISL) has finalised training grounds for all participating clubs, three of whom made their own arrangements. ISL had shortlisted 12 training grounds across the state and asked clubs to choose. Seven clubs noted their order of preference, while three clubs – FC Goa, Bengaluru FC and Hyderabad FC – finalised training grounds beyond the official list. FC Goa, for example, will train at the Panchayat ground at Salvador do Mundo after entering into a partnership with the panchayat. They have already developed the ground and will move there late October. Until the ground is ready, FC Goa will train at the Dempo academy ground at Ella in Old Goa. The Dempo academy ground will be the home of Bengaluru FC from November 1. The former champions will begin preparations for the season with a training stint at the JSW Sports Excellence Centre, Ballari, and then travel to Goa. Hyderabad FC is the third team who have arranged for their own training ground. According to sources, last season’s bottom-ranked side has reached an understanding with St Anthony’s High School to use their new ground at Monte de Guirim. From among the 12 grounds which were offered by the organisers, ATK Mohun Bagan have probably got the best of the lot. The ISL champions will train at the Trinity ground in Benaulim, one of just two training venues which has facilities to train under lights. The India team trained here while preparing for the Fifa U-17 World Cup in 2017. ISL finalists Chennaiyin FC have had to settle for the second-best option, SAG ground at Utorda, which also has floodlight facilities. Mumbai City FC, now a familiar side here with former FC Goa players like captain Mandar Rao Desai, Ahmed Jahouh, Mourtada Fall and Hugo Boumous, will train at the Panchayat ground, Nagoa, while Odisha FC sprang a surprise by opting for Betalbatim, ahead of established venues like Rosary ground, Navelim. According to sources, Odisha finalised their venue after careful consideration. “The decision was taken after having a close look at all grounds. Betalbatim has a newly-laid pitch, less than 18 months old. The surface will also hold together better than any other available option,” said one source. The hotel, too, is less than 10 minutes away. In the north, Kerala Blasters will train at the Peddem sports complex in Mapusa, Jamshedpur FC chose the Panchayat ground in Sangolda, while NorthEast United should be happy to train on the newly-laid turf at Candolim. Except for Bengaluru FC, clubs will start arriving in Goa between September 25 and 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-isl-teams-pick-own-training-ground-in-goa/articleshow/78094153.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 14, 2020||India||Post-recovery, monitor health, exercise: Government||NEW DELHI: Patients who recover from Covid-19 may continue to report a wide variety of signs and symptoms, including fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat and difficulty in breathing, according to a fresh protocol issued by the Union health ministry on Sunday for management of such patients. The recovery period is likely to be longer for patients who suffer from a more severe form of the disease and those with pre-existing illnesses, the protocol says. Patients are advised to constantly monitor their health and look for early warning signs, such as drop in oxygen level or unexplained chest pain. It also recommends physical exercise and immunity boosting medicines after recovery. The new protocol states that recovered patients should continue to practise “Covid-appropriate behaviour” at the individual level that includes wearing a mask, hand hygiene and following social distancing norms. There is a wide variation in recovery and in some cases, patients have taken several weeks to fully recoup. Doctors are also watching out for long-term effects. “Adequate amount of warm water”, if not indicated otherwise by doctor, and immunity boosting Ayush medicines, only on the advice of a qualified practitioner, have been suggested too. Besides, the guidelines also recommend one spoon of chawanprash in the morning with water or milk. The ministry said regular household work can be done “if health permits”, while professional work can be resumed “in graded manner”. Medicines to alleviate Covid-19 symptoms should also be continued, along with those for co-morbidities, if any. Patients have been asked to monitor their oxygen levels, temperature, blood pressure and, in case of diabetic patients, blood sugar too. For persistent cough, the guidelines recommend gargling with saline water and steam inhalation using herbs. Patients have been asked to look for signs of high grade fever, breathlessness and weakness. The government also suggested consultation with a doctor, either though a physical visit or online, within seven days of discharge from a hospital. Subsequent follow-up treatment can be done by any physician or Ayush practitioner, it said. Watch Government issues fresh protocols for post-recovery, asks patients to monitor health||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/post-recovery-monitor-health-exercise-government/articleshow/78096567.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 14, 2020||India||Umar Khalid held for Delhi riots ‘conspiracy’||NEW DELHI: Former JNU student Umar Khalid was arrested late on Sunday by the Delhi Police Special Cell and booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for alleged conspiracy in the riots that had rocked northeast Delhi this February, killing over 50 people. Police claimed to have found “crucial evidence”, including Khalid’s movement during the riots, after interrogating him about meeting members of ‘United Against Hate’ groups and the Popular Front of India. Khalid, who is already facing sedition charges for alleged anti-national sloganeering four years ago, will be produced before a court at noon on Monday. Watch Police arrest former JNU student Umar Khalid for Delhi riots 'conspiracy'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/umar-khalid-held-for-delhi-riots-conspiracy/articleshow/78096623.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||5 NEET special trains run with just 21 passengers||NEW DELHI: Officials at Dehradun railway station were taken aback on Sunday afternoon when an ‘exam special’ train, meant for NEET aspirants, arrived completely empty at the station from Moradabad. A team of doctors, government officials and other railway staffers deputed at the platform to check the students on arrival went back empty-handed. Sitaram Sonkar, station superintendent at Dehradun railway station, told TOI that “since there were over 18 centres for NEET in Dehradun and 12 in nearby Roorkee, the Railways had specially organised this train so that students could commute easily. “It came as a surprise to us that no one took the train,” he added. Interestingly, attendance at the exam centres in Dehradun and Roorkee was high and a large number of students could be seen queuing up to appear for the exam. A Railways official said that “perhaps due to the Covid threat, students preferred to make their own arrangements to reach the exam centres rather than opting for the special trains.” The fate of several other ‘exam specials’ operated by the Moradabad, Prayagraj and Agra divisions was no better. According to Railways sources, the special NEET train that ran from Bareilly to Ghaziabad had just one passenger while the one from Bareillyto Lucknow had five. In all, the five special trains that the Moradabad railway division organised for NEET exam aspirants for travel to and from Dehradun, Roorkee, Lucknow and Moradabad got a total of 21 passengers. And the Railways, which spent lakhs on operating these trains, made a princely sum of Rs 1040. Anuj Singh, assistant commercial manager (ACM), Moradabad division, said, “The Bareilly to Ghaziabad train got one passenger and earned Rs 65 while the Bareilly to Lucknow exam special got five passengers and had earnings of Rs 230. Train no. 04305 — Bulandshahr to Bareilly — got three passengers and we have earned Rs145 from it. Maximum 12 passengers boarded the exam special from Haridwar to Bareilly, providing earnings of Rs 600.” Keshav Tripathi, PRO, Prayagraj division, said that the response of NEET aspirants to the exam special trains operated by their division was also “quite dull.” “The special train that ran from Aligarh to Delhi --- which was operated by our division -- was boarded by five people only, incurring a total income of around Rs 250 for the Railways,” he said. In Agra division, too, the exam special that ran from Kosi Kalan (Mathura) to Delhi, was boarded by just 10 passengers. Similarly, a 10-coach NEET special train travelled 400 km from Neemuchto Bhopal, carrying only 15 candidates. Sources said that 27 students had registered for the 720-seater special, but a dozen didn’t turn up allegedly due to Covid fear. Nine of the 10 coaches came to Bhopal completely empty. Another NEET special, from Anuppur, fared somewhat better as 270 students took it, but most of its 18 coaches were empty. Some of the students felt more of them would have taken the special if the Railways had announced it earlier. “The exam date was fixed long ago, but the train was announced only a day in advance. Very few students would ignore their travel plans this late,” said Prashant Nema, an aspirant. Another candidate, Anuj Shastri, said many students found it more convenient to travel by a hired vehicle. “It was not clear if there would be any transport available for the exam centre after we arrived at Bhopal station. So, many of us pooled cars,” he said. (With inputs from Ramendra Singh in Bhopal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-neet-special-trains-run-with-just-21-passengers/articleshow/78096635.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Metro motormen: Happy and confident getting back to work||After having worked as a motorman in Kolkata Metro for more than 15 years, Tapash Bhattacharya had a sudden moment of realisation in 2000. As he pressed the button to close the Metro doors at Dum Dum station, he saw a little girl rushing towards the train with her father. Seeing it already in motion, the girl started sobbing and the last thing Tapash could hear was that she’d be scolded again for reporting late to school. “She reminded me of my daughter and I requested the chief operation manager to schedule the next train from Dum Dum earlier than its scheduled time. He kept my request. That day I realised that besides being a huge responsibility, there’s something noble about my profession,” Tapash told us on Sunday. Happy and proud yet anxious Tapash and his fellow colleagues – who missed being on duty for the last six months – are not just happy to resume work from today, but also looking forward to serving crowds of passengers after the quiet months of lockdown. Tapash thinks timely and safe ferrying of people is a huge responsibility and he is proud of what he does. “From ensuring students reach their exam halls on time to saving employees from getting late for work and sometimes making a father meet his newborn as soon as possible – it is a matter of pride and I’m very satisfied with what I do,” he said. However, the challenges of working in the COVID era have led to a sense of anxiety as well. Asim Ghosh, another motorman, is worried about how to maintain social distancing. “As long as I am in the driver’s cabin, there’s no problem. But what if the train malfunctions? In that case, the driver will have to go to the compartment. How will we save ourselves from being exposed to the crowd then? That’s my only concern,” shared Asim. For Gautam Bose – who has been working in Metro Railway since 2001 – the main concern now is crowd management. Despite the special courses on hygiene and avoiding exposure conducted for them, he thinks that passengers will have a major role to play in ensuring safety. “The authorities have provided us with all the protective gears and trained us to use them. Now it’s up to the passengers to follow the rules and behave responsibly,” he said. Practice in the lockdown Great concentration, acute precision and quick reflexes are some of the prerequisites for a motorman’s job. To make sure they stay in their top forms despite Metro services being on halt, the drivers continued to practise in the lockdown. “Besides special online courses, we had to go for practical lessons once a week. So, I’m very confident that I’ll be able to do my job perfectly well,” said Gautam. Asim, on the other hand, thinks that his anxieties will be over once he is back to work on Monday. “I’m feeling exactly how Sachin Tendulkar would have felt before a high-voltage match. I’m sure it will be alright once I drive across a couple of stations," he said, adding, “Like a good swimmer never forgets how to swim, I can’t forget all that I have learnt over the years by staying away from work for just six months.” Ever since he joined in 2001, Gautam has not seen empty stations and driving the train from one empty station to another was painful for him. “Thousands of people used the train and we know many of them by their faces. When I drove through the empty stations, I couldn’t help but feel the pain. Seeing the crowd from Monday will surely cheer us up,” he added. Indrani Banerjee, metro spokesperson, said "During these five and a half months of lockdown Metro Rly has been doing thorough maintenance of its assets particularly the ones related to passenger amenities. Our motormen have been running our staff specials for the past two and a half months and are always in readiness. Let us now start our commercial services under the new normal with the cooperation of our commuters".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-motormen-happy-and-confident-getting-back-to-work/articleshow/78095082.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
September 14, 2020||India||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who rolled out rural job scheme, dead||NEW DELHI: Veteran socialist Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who had presided over the rollout of MGNREG as rural development minister in UPA-1, died in New Delhi on Sunday. He was 74. Just three days ago, Singh had written a letter to RJD chief Lalu Prasad, saying he was quitting the party. He had been admitted to AIIMS, Patna, after testing positive for Covid-19 nearly three months ago. Two weeks ago, Singh was shifted to AIIMS, Delhi, after his condition did not improve. His health deteriorated on Friday night and he was put on ventilator support. Singh had represented Bihar’s Vaishali Lok Sabha seat for five terms and had served as a minister in the Karpoori Thakur government in 1977. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar said Singh’s last rites would be performed with full state honours. President Ramnath Kovind, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were among the leaders who mourned Singh’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/raghuvansh-prasad-singh-who-rolled-out-rural-job-scheme-dead/articleshow/78096651.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Business||Lockdown forces shift from credit to debit cards||MUMBAI: There has been a shift in spending from credit cards to debit cards during the first quarter of the current fiscal as Indians held back on discretionary purchases and went digital while paying for utilities and groceries. According to data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), spending under credit cards in June 2020 was Rs 42,818 crore, which was 36% lower than Rs 67,000 crore in January 2020. On the other hand, debit card spends stood at Rs 47,252 crore, which was only 24% lower than Rs 62,153 pre-Covid. In terms of the number of transactions, credit cards were used 12.5 crore times in June as compared to 20.3 crore transactions in January this year. Debit cards were used 45.8 crore times in January and 30.2 crore times in June. The average spend per credit card in January was almost Rs 12,000, which fell sharply to Rs 7,474 in June, while the average debit card spend fell from Rs 761 to Rs 558 during the same period. The average debit card spend is a fraction of transaction value in credit cards. But the sheer number of debit cards has resulted in the debit transaction outstripping credit by Rs 4,434 crore in June. For every credit card in the country, there are 15 debit cards. Incidentally in January credit card spends outstripped debit cards by Rs 24,000 crore. “In metros, credit card spending has taken a hit as malls and travel was completely shut during the lockdown. While conventional spending in big retail was impacted, we have seen an excellent pickup in digital spending in smaller retail outlets in metros and in small cities. In all these small-ticket transactions, it is largely the debit cards that were used,” said Pine Labs CEO Amrish Rau. In addition to debit cards, there has been a big shift from cash to UPI as well, which has seen over 150 crore transactions in August. According to SBI Cards CEO Ashwini Kumar Tewari, credit card spending has improved since the ‘unlockdown’ and is back to 80% of pre-Covid levels. Also, the absence of spending using the physical card in certain categories has been compensated by online spending. “While there has been a drop in discretionary spending compared to the pre-Covid period, we are actually seeing a growth in EMI on card payment, which is used for the purchase of electronics, when we compare numbers with the year-ago period,” said Rau. Another unusual aspect of cardholder behaviour is the tendency to bring down outstanding dues. Since March 27, customers have brought down card dues from Rs 1,08,094 crore to Rs 1,01,391 crore on July 31. This is despite a moratorium being available to borrowers during this period. As cardholders became aware that interest charges would continue, they reduced their dues. Instead, they have availed cheaper secured loans offering shares and bonds where the outstanding has gone up 20% to Rs 6,392 crore. Watch Spending habits shift from credit to debit in post-COVID era||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lockdown-forces-shift-from-credit-to-debit-cards/articleshow/78096686.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 14, 2020||Business||More women than men left jobless post-lockdown||NEW DELHI: The adverse impact of the pandemic-induced lockdowns and restrictions on livelihood of women is reflected in the responses of 3,221 women workers from the informal sector in a new survey report covering 20 states. More women (79.23% of sample) were out of work post-lockdown compared to men, with 51.6% of the women also reporting no wages during the lockdown period. The informal workers’ survey steered by civil society organisation, ActionAid Association was conducted between May-June covering 11,537 respondents of which 28% (3,221) were women. Among domestic workers, the survey found that 85% lost their livelihoods after the lockdown. In the absence of wages, many of them had to reduce their consumption and rely on savings with almost all (99%) dipping into them. Nearly 68% said they had incurred debts in order to meet their expenses during the lockdown. Over 88% domestic workers live in urban areas as against only 11.5% in rural areas. Also, 40% of them said they had migrated for work. On the whole, prior to the lockdown 90% of the women surveyed were working as compared to 85% of men. However, by mid-May, 79% women reported that they were unemployed compared to 75% of men. As many as 1,788 women workers revealed their exact occupation during the survey. Specific challenges faced by 401 domestic workers and 409 agricultural workers, including weeding workers and farm labour, are highlighted in the report along with those of women beedi makers and waste workers. Around 52% of women workers reported that they had not received any wages as compared to 46% of men, implying that women workers were at a greater risk of wage penalty after the lockdown. Around 16% of men and women received partial wages after the lockdown, while 32% of female workers and 37% of male workers received full wages. Though almost all domestic workers had an Aadhaar card, the survey found that enrolment of these workers in government schemes is quite low. Overall, 60% have ration cards. Their enrolment in other schemes was found to be negligible — only 10% were beneficiaries of the Ujjwala Yojana, 19% under Jan Dhan Yojana. Notably, out of those who have Jan Dhan accounts, almost 79% reported having accessed the money provided under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. Watch Post-lockdown, more women than men left jobless||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/more-women-than-men-left-jobless-post-lockdown/articleshow/78099060.cms||Ambika Pandit
September 14, 2020||India||More women than men left jobless post-lockdown||NEW DELHI: The adverse impact of the pandemic-induced lockdowns and restrictions on livelihood of women is reflected in the responses of 3,221 women workers from the informal sector in a new survey report covering 20 states. More women (79.23% of sample) were out of work post-lockdown compared to men, with 51.6% of the women also reporting no wages during the lockdown period. The informal workers’ survey steered by civil society organisation, ActionAid Association was conducted between May-June covering 11,537 respondents of which 28% (3,221) were women. Among domestic workers, the survey found that 85% lost their livelihoods after the lockdown. In the absence of wages, many of them had to reduce their consumption and rely on savings with almost all (99%) dipping into them. Nearly 68% said they had incurred debts in order to meet their expenses during the lockdown. Over 88% domestic workers live in urban areas as against only 11.5% in rural areas. Also, 40% of them said they had migrated for work. On the whole, prior to the lockdown 90% of the women surveyed were working as compared to 85% of men. However, by mid-May, 79% women reported that they were unemployed compared to 75% of men. As many as 1,788 women workers revealed their exact occupation during the survey. Specific challenges faced by 401 domestic workers and 409 agricultural workers, including weeding workers and farm labour, are highlighted in the report along with those of women beedi makers and waste workers. Around 52% of women workers reported that they had not received any wages as compared to 46% of men, implying that women workers were at a greater risk of wage penalty after the lockdown. Around 16% of men and women received partial wages after the lockdown, while 32% of female workers and 37% of male workers received full wages. Though almost all domestic workers had an Aadhaar card, the survey found that enrolment of these workers in government schemes is quite low. Overall, 60% have ration cards. Their enrolment in other schemes was found to be negligible — only 10% were beneficiaries of the Ujjwala Yojana, 19% under Jan Dhan Yojana. Notably, out of those who have Jan Dhan accounts, almost 79% reported having accessed the money provided under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. Watch Post-lockdown, more women than men left jobless||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-women-than-men-left-jobless-post-lockdown/articleshow/78096703.cms||Ambika Pandit
September 14, 2020||Patna||62,000 appear for NEET in Patna||PATNA: Of the 72,361 medical aspirants, who had registered for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), 88% or nearly 62,000 appeared for the exam at 178 examination centres in Patna district on Sunday. The exam was organised by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the exam was conducted amid precautionary measures due to Covid-19 pandemic. “Magistrates and police officers were deployed at exam centres to ensure maintenance of social distancing,” he said, adding no untoward incident was reported from any exam centre. Azra Jasmin, an examinee, said NTA organised the exam in a very well manner. “There were separate gates for boys and girls. Only 15 candidates were allowed to sit in each classroom. The question paper was balanced. Questions were mainly asked mainly from NCERT books.” Ananya Singh, another examinee, was happy with her performance. “The biology paper was piece of cake. The chemistry paper was also good. However, the physics paper was tricky and lengthy, but it was not tough,” said Singh, who appeared for the exam at DAV Public School, BSEB Colony. Abha Chaudhary, a chemistry teacher at Notre Dame Academy, said the questions in chemistry paper were concept-based and evenly divided in physical, organic and inorganic sections. R S Pandey, a teacher at St Michael’s High School, said the physics paper was slightly tough, but the other two papers – biology and chemistry – were easy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/62k-appear-for-neet-in-patna/articleshow/78093965.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 14, 2020||Patna||NDA to win Bihar polls hands down: Devendra Fadnavis||GAYA: The Mahagathbandhan is a rudderless ship and the NDA under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar will win the coming state assembly elections hands down, Maharashtra’s former CM and BJP Bihar election incharge Devendra Fadnavis said here on Sunday. Talking to media in Bodh Gaya, he alleged that the Maharashtra government was obsessed with Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut. “At a time when Covid cases in Maharashtra are showing alarming trends, the state government has been fighting against the film actress,” he said. While replying to a question, Fadnavis ruled out any possibility of Kangana campaigning for BJP in the Bihar elections. Earlier, addressing BJP workers, Fadnavis expressed confidence that like previous elections, the party workers will leave no stone unturned this time also to ensure a historic win for NDA candidates. The BJP workers meeting was presided over by party’s district chief Dhanraj Sharma. State agriculture minister Prem Kumar was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fadnavis-nda-to-win-state-polls-hands-down/articleshow/78094739.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 14, 2020||Patna||167 international flights bring back 25,000 Bihar, Jharkhand natives||GAYA: Altogether 25,170 natives of Bihar and Jharkhand stranded abroad due to Covid-19 lockdown have been brought back to Gaya by special international flights under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and chartered flight operations till Saturday evening. No less than 15 airlines, 11 of them foreign airliners have participated in the operation. The foreign airlines that operated special flights include Fly Dubai, Salam Airways and Jazeera Airways. The four national airlines that operated special flights are Indigo, Air India, Spice jet and GoAir. As per statistics made available by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), Indigo has operated the maximum number of flights since the operations began on May 18, 2020. Indigo has so far operated 70 flights followed by Air India, the national carrier that operated 28 flights. Altogether 10,677 Bihar-Jharkhand natives have been brought back by Indigo. Though separate figures have not been issued for Jharkhand returnees, as per informed sources about 90% of the 25,000 plus returnees are from Bihar. Majority of them have lost their jobs. The foreign returnees have to remain in week-long institutional quarantine in Bodh Gaya followed by another week of home quarantine. Earlier, the Union Home ministry notified Gaya airport as the destination point for foreign returnees from Bihar and Jharkhand. Country-wise break up of foreign returnees show that the maximum number of returnees are from Middle East countries like Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. The number of returnees from Qatar, as per official figures is 4,684. While the number of returnees from Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia stood at 4342, 3434 and 1931 respectively. The minimum number of returnees is from UK and Myanmar. Only 41 returnees came from UK while the number of returnees from Myanmar is marginally higher i.e. 45. Nearly 234 Bihar-Jharkhand natives returned from Russia while another 130 returned from Ukraine. More people are likely to return as the special flights continue to operate. Meanwhile, despite repeated demands made by Gaya air users including the Grand Chord Passengers’ Association that besides, rail travellers from Magadh region, also represents the air travellers, resumption of domestic flights remains a far cry. Asked about the resumption of domestic flights, Gaya Airport director Dilip Kumar said that permission has been granted to Air India and Indigo to operate domestic flights. Both the airlines have proposed to resume the flight from October 24, 2020. Whereas Air India sought clearance for operating flights on the Gaya -Varanasi- Delhi route, Indigo applied for Gaya -Delhi, Gaya - Bangalore and Varanasi - Gaya - Kolkata routes. “AAI has accorded its approval,” said the airport director. However, according to Dr Farasat Hussain, a regular flier on Gaya-Delhi route, the airlines have not started bookings for the proposed domestic flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/167-international-flights-bring-back-25k-bihar-jkhand-natives/articleshow/78094227.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 105 phone booths set up in jails for inmates||PATNA: The prisons department has provided telephone facility to the jail inmates to communicate with their family members in order to ease psychological stress due to restrictions on their visit to the jails amid Covid-19 pandemic. IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra said visitors or family are not allowed to meet inmates in jails due to the pandemic. “The jail inmates have not been getting a chance to breath in open space and interact with family members as they are also not going out even for production before courts,” he said. That’s why, the IG said, 105 telephone booths have been set up inside 59 jails across the state for the inmates to interact with their family members. “At least 1,000 calls per month are being made by prisoners from these booths to their family members,” he said. Mishra said the number of calls has been increasing exponentially with each passing month and the department has decided to hold a review meeting on Monday to discuss the situation. “Further, many after arrest are being taken to interim jails for 14 days quarantine as a precautionary step amid pandemic before being sent to the jail concerned. In many cases, male and female prisoners are being transported to interim jails in other districts,” he said. The IG said all these factors lead to increased psychological stress of prisoners, who requires some sort of mental relaxation. “The decision to ban visitors and take those arrested to interim jails first was taken initially as short-term measures, but it’s now clear that these provisions will stay as Covid-19 is going to continue,” he said. Mishra said jail authorities are encouraging inmates to interact with their families in such a situation. “Inmates provide jail authorities a contact number in their families. After verifying the number and the person handling it, jail superintendent allows the prisoner to make a call under security check,” Mishra said. He said though prisons department also introduced video calling facility, but many people in villages still don’t use smartphones. “We tell jail inmates to inform their families about the video calling facility too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/105-phone-booths-set-up-in-jails-for-inmates/articleshow/78094142.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 14, 2020||Madurai||Rajini fans put up posters comparing him with MGR, seek his entry into politics||MADURAI: With another year passing and Rajinikanth not showing any signs of launching his much-awaited political party, his fans in Madurai have come out with a variety of posters comparing him with MGR and also calling him “Spiritual Periyar’’. It is “now or never’’, thundered another poster, echoing the eagerness of his fans to see his entry. Huge posters can be seen in many parts of the city, at Periyar bus stand and Simmakkal among other places, urging their hero to launch the party soon. In an interview, Rajini had said that he did not wish to become chief minister of the state as it was a position that would have suited him at the age of 45. Madurai Urban district assistant secretary of Rajinikanth Makkal Mandram P Alagarsamy said they were celebrating in anticipation of their leader’s political entry in October or November. ``It will be us in power in 2021. We are calling him MGR in our posters because he made a similar statement about a year ago, while unveiling the statue of MGR,’’ he said. ``Mark my words, we are 200% sure that he will fulfil our wish and launch the party and also win the ensuing elections,’’ he said. Members from Ramanathapuram have called Rajni the “Spiritual Periyar’’. They went to town with the posters, even brought them to Madurai and put them up prominently. Former Rajni Fans club secretary of Ramanathapuram, R P Balanamachivayam, the man behind the poster, said, ``Dravidian parties are calling Periyar so because of his atheism though it is not his registered name. Similarly, we are calling our leader Periyar because he is promoting the importance of spiritualism and god.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rajini-fans-put-up-posters-comparing-him-with-mgr-seek-his-entry-into-politics/articleshow/78096434.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
September 14, 2020||Kochi||‘85% parents, teachers unaware of cybercrimes’||KOCHI: Hacking of online platforms that are used to deliver classes has become a cause of worry for teachers and parents but they are reluctant to come forward and report such incidents. This is because either they are not aware of the risk or they do not want to disrupt the studies, say cybersecurity officials. “Several teachers and parents have called me over such incidents. But when I request access to their gadgets they refuse because I would need a couple of days to check the programmes in them,” said Dhanya Menon, a cybercrime investigator. Recently, an online student’s meet was bombarded with abuses and when the administrators tried to remove the intruders, they continued popping up in other names. Similarly, students of a city school got a lesson in the drawbacks of online learning when a video of a woman drinking in a pub popped up on their phones even as the teacher was taking lessons for them. She continued talking to each one of them though they told her to get out of the class. Though schools have jumped into the online bandwagon teachers, parents and children seem to be unaware that problems with online security and privacy are expected to grow. “You need a faculty that can teach the children and even parents on cyber safety,” says Dhanya. Kochi police say they have not been notified of any such incidents. “Until somebody informs us, we will not be able to take action,” said an officer. More than 85% of parents and teachers don’t know about data protection and cybercrimes, the officer added. But not all schools agree. “We have conducted online training for teachers,” says T P M Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE schools management association. IT experts say most people don’t realize that they could be exposed to the danger of data theft while giving their smartphones to kids for online classes. Santhosh Kumar, professor, and director, Center for Information Management, Cochin University of Science and Technology, suggested that children’s smartphones must not have any other apps except those for school needs. “Don’t allow them to install any other apps. There are many browsers that steal data. Also, teachers should get their software for safety tools,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/85-parents-teachers-unaware-of-cybercrimes/articleshow/78095114.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 14, 2020||Kozhikode||‘85% parents, teachers unaware of cybercrimes’||KOCHI: Hacking of online platforms that are used to deliver classes has become a cause of worry for teachers and parents but they are reluctant to come forward and report such incidents. This is because either they are not aware of the risk or they do not want to disrupt the studies, say cybersecurity officials. “Several teachers and parents have called me over such incidents. But when I request access to their gadgets they refuse because I would need a couple of days to check the programmes in them,” said Dhanya Menon, a cybercrime investigator. Recently, an online student’s meet was bombarded with abuses and when the administrators tried to remove the intruders, they continued popping up in other names. Similarly, students of a city school got a lesson in the drawbacks of online learning when a video of a woman drinking in a pub popped up on their phones even as the teacher was taking lessons for them. She continued talking to each one of them though they told her to get out of the class. Though schools have jumped into the online bandwagon teachers, parents and children seem to be unaware that problems with online security and privacy are expected to grow. “You need a faculty that can teach the children and even parents on cyber safety,” says Dhanya. Kochi police say they have not been notified of any such incidents. “Until somebody informs us, we will not be able to take action,” said an officer. More than 85% of parents and teachers don’t know about data protection and cybercrimes, the officer added. But not all schools agree. “We have conducted online training for teachers,” says T P M Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE schools management association. IT experts say most people don’t realize that they could be exposed to the danger of data theft while giving their smartphones to kids for online classes. Santhosh Kumar, professor, and director, Center for Information Management, Cochin University of Science and Technology, suggested that children’s smartphones must not have any other apps except those for school needs. “Don’t allow them to install any other apps. There are many browsers that steal data. Also, teachers should get their software for safety tools,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/85-parents-teachers-unaware-of-cybercrimes/articleshow/78098973.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 14, 2020||Patna||LJP netas keep mum on PM’s praise for Nitish||PATNA: The effusive praise of CM Nitish Kumar by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on governance at the launch of natural gas pipeline and LPG bottling plant projects for Bihar on Sunday has clearly sent the message that for BJP, there is no room for second thought on alliance with JD(U). It has also clearly sent another message to the LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who has increasingly been critical of Nitish of late, that things should not be stretched too far in the NDA ahead of the assembly polls in the state due for October-November. Though LJP leaders preferred not to make any direct comment on PM’s praise for Nitish, they admitted that the party has been keeping a close watch on political developments taking place in poll-bound Bihar. “All relevant issues will be discussed threadbare at the meeting of the party MPs scheduled to be held in New Delhi on September 16. The parliamentary board of the party has already authorised Chirag to take decisions on party affairs,” LJP spokesperson Asaraf Ansari told this newspaper over the phone on Sunday. Ansari, who is also the state president of the minority cell of the LJP, said Chirag has made it clear on several occasions that LJP is in alliance with BJP and not JD(U) despite the fact they all are part of the NDA in the state. “Our leader is likely to meet senior BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Sah to discuss matters related to the forthcoming election,” he added. Another LJP leader said on the condition of anonymity that Nitish’s popularity has substantially decreased due to inept handling of Covid-19 pandemic and floods. “PM ka ashirwad hone se kya hoga, jantantra mein janata hi malik hai. Janata ka ashirwad chahiye,” another LJP leader said. On Friday, Union minister and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan had patted his son Chirag for smartly handling the affairs of the party as its chief and also dealing with family affairs such as taking proper care of his health (senior Pawan) during Covid-19 pandemic. Sources in the LJP said Chirag softened his stance on Nitish after BJP president J P Nadda called on the CM at his residence in Patna. Nadda had reiterated on Saturday that the NDA was intact and its allies would fight the election unitedly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-netas-keep-mum-on-pms-praise-for-nitish/articleshow/78094699.cms||Ramashankar
September 14, 2020||Business||Why Silver Lake is making bold bets in India||BENGALURU: Silver Lake — one of the most prominent investors in the global technology industry — kept mostly away from India over the last decade. But in a span of three months, the firm has pumped in about $2.5 billion across three Indian companies — Mukesh Ambani’s telco-to-internet biz Jio and Reliance Retail, along with education technology startup Byju’s, valued at close to $11 billion. The rapid dealmaking has put it on a par with Japan’s SoftBank and US-based Tiger Global Management & DST Global, who have poured billions into the country since 2014, backing multiple startups as India emerged as the hottest investment market in the world. The move also indicates that India has prominently figured on the radar of the relatively media-shy Silver Lake, which does not have a direct presence in the country, and it has just been waiting for the right time. And unlike most active technology investors who back companies that are yet to start generating cash, Silver Lake has bet on already profitable and more mature companies. “Silver Lake has focused more on mature companies around the world as well. So it is not surprising that they are following the same strategy in India. I doubt they will be investing a lot in early stage startups. Even if you look at US markets, technology companies are valued the most and getting Silver Lake gives a technology edge and sets a tone unlike other PE firms,” said PwC India partner Sanjeev Krishan. The deals in the two RIL companies accounts for most of its exposure to India of about $2.5 billion. Both the deals have been led by its Silicon Valley-based co-CEO Egon Durban, considered one of the top dealmakers in the global technology landscape. The PE firm has led investments in online travel companies Airbnb and Expedia at a critical time when their businesses were hit at the start of the Covid-19 crisis. In March, it infused $1 billion in Twitter, which helped Jack Dorsey buy peace with activist investor Elliott Management, which was asking for the founder-CEO’s removal. Because of several of these deals, Durban has been compared to Warren Buffett in media and the role Berkshire Hathaway played during the 2008 financial crisis, backing companies like Goldman Sachs and General Electric. But the investment in Reliance Retail and Jio is not the first time that Silver Lake and Ambani have sat across the table for a deal. The PE firm owns a large stake in sports event and talent management company IMG, which has a joint venture with Reliance since 2010. More recently, Silver Lake had backed football club Manchester City, which acquired majority stake in Ambani family-owned Mumbai City FC earlier this year. In the past as well, Silver Lake has made a fortune betting on retail with Alibaba’s initial public offer (IPO). The firm invested $500 million in 2011 and 2012, a stake which was worth over $4 billion during the Chinese e-commerce major’s IPO in 2014. Silver Lake is also expected to make big returns on its investment in Alibaba’s financial services affiliate Ant, which is planning one of the world’s biggest IPOs this year. But Silver Lake’s most well-known investment is online video communication company Skype, which it acquired for $2.5 billion in 2009 and sold it to Microsoft for $8.5 billion after 18 months. The deal was also led by Durban, a former Morgan Stanley banker who joined Silver Lake as one of the first employees and was named co-CEO at the end of 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/why-silver-lake-is-making-bold-bets-in-india/articleshow/78096204.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Patna||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had old friend Lalu Prasad close to his heart till end||PATNA: Once considered the man Friday of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Rahguvansh Prasad Singh remained concerned about his old friend even while undergoing treatment in intensive care unit (ICU). He died at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday. “Lalu ke bail bhelai (did Lalu get bail)?” Raghuvansh asked Kedar, his close associate, in the ICU of AIIMS-Delhi on September 11, a day after shooting a letter to the RJD chief from his ICU bed saying sorry for his inability to remain by his side anymore. “Since the death of Jannayak Karpoori Thakur, I have stood behind you for 32 years. But no more. I am sorry,” the five-term MP from Vaishali wrote to Lalu, who is serving jail term in Ranchi in fodder scam cases. “When told that Lalu did not get bail, sir became restless and sad and went to sleep”, Kedar told TOI over the phone after the demise of the socialist stalwart at AIIMS-Delhi where he was admitted on August 4 for the treatment of pneumonia after recovering from Covid infection in July. The Jharkhand high court has deferred the hearing on Lalu’s bail plea to October 9 in a fodder scam case. Raghuvansh Babu, as people fondly called him, was respected by one and all for his simple living, plain speaking, highest degree of integrity, erudition and excellent parliamentary career. The former professor of mathematics was a politically disillusioned man in his fag end of life, but remained conscious of the public decorum despite his poor health as he wrote to Lalu in personal capacity on a plain paper but his subsequent letters, including the one to CM Nitish Kumar the same day, on his letter pad as a politician concerned over the falling standards of politics and showing love for his home constituency Vaishali and its development. Asking Lalu without naming him that what was happening now, Raghuvansh reminded the RJD chief of the socialist slogans like “Rani ke pet se nahi, ballot ke box se raja paida hota hai (now, king is not born out of a queen’s womb but from ballot box) and ‘Sawdhan, pud aur paise se hona hai gumrah nahi, seene pe goli khakar nikle munh se aah nahi (Don’t get swayed by post and money, face bullet on chest but never say uff),” the man who visualised MGNREGA and implemented it as the Union minister in the UPA-1 government in the country, expressed his pain over the present day politics. PM Narendra Modi, before inaugurating the three petroleum projects in Bihar, remembered Raghuvansh Babu as a man firmly rooted to his ground and ideology with a good understanding of the poor and poverty. “There had been a churning going on inside Raghuvansh Babu for the last 3-4 days and he expressed his feelings in his letters. He has left a void in national politics,” the PM said in his condolence. “Jin adarsho ko lekar aur jinke saath chale the, ab sambhav nahi ho pa raha tha,” the PM said about Raghuvansh in a veiled reference to Lalu. He also urged CM Nitish Kumar to fulfil Raghuvansh’s last wishes which he had mentioned in his letter, requesting him (Nitish) to implement MGNREGA programme in farm sector in state as well, among other things, specifically for Vaishali. “Raghuvansh Babu belonged to the extinct species of politician. His character in public life was an example for us. He was so erudite that he never used written statements while speaking in Parliament. His son Satya Prakash told me over the phone that Raghuvansh Babu had asked him to bring his letter pad in the ICU and circulate the letters written by him,” recalled senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvansh-had-old-friend-lalu-close-to-his-heart-till-end/articleshow/78094588.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
September 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Shahpur villagers on fast for son of soil||PATNA: A pall of gloom descended on Shahpur village under Paharpur Bisanpur panchayat in Vaishali district following the death of former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday. Raghuvansh’s college mates, childhood friends, neighbours and others gathered at his ancestral house in the village soon after the news about his demise spread. Shahpur village is located around 5km northeast of Mahnar sub-divisional headquarters town. Most residents of the village observed fast as a mark of respect for son of the soil. “Everybody is saddened by the demise of the leader of national repute. The kitchen in every house in the village will remain closed till the body is cermated. It will be a real tribute to him,” said G P Singh, a retired sub-inspector of police and Raghuvansh’s former classmate. Gandhi Prasad Singh (74), who had studied with Raghuvansh at L S College, Muzaffarpur, said, “I had not imagined that it was our last meeting when he was leaving for Delhi for treatment of his lung infection after recovering coronavirus. He had promised to return soon. But he never returned.” Jitendra Singh (36), a neighbour of Raghuvansh, said, “Hardly a day passed when Raghuvansh Babu didn’t share morning tea with my father, his college mate and the president of Mahnar Sarpanch Sangh. His rustic style of living had influenced one and all at the village. He was so simple that nobody could believe that he was a former Union minister and a five-term MP.” Another resident of the village, Ram Kishore Singh (51), a finance department employee posted in Patna, said it was hard to believe that Raghuvansh Babu is no more. “We are proud of the son of the soil. He was so popular that even political rivals respected him. He was a true socialist,” he added. For the residents of the village, Raghuvansh was like ‘Braham Baba’ who never compromised with his political ideologies and always thought about development of rural masses. “India can’t develop without the support of people living in villages,” the residents quoted Raghuvansh as saying at a village ‘chaupal’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shahpur-villagers-on-fast-for-son-of-soil/articleshow/78094635.cms||Ramashankar
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||A faster, safer route to the exam centre||Since we stay on Surya Sen Street, the nearest Metro station is MG Road, from where we took the first Metro on Sunday. I was accompanying my daughter Pratyusha to the exam centre at the Indus Valley World School. She had to show her admit card to enter the station and I was allowed in with her. I am very impressed with how well the police were keeping watch. Inside the station, there were arrangements for spraying sanitizers on the passengers’ hands after thermal screening and there was no crowd at the ticket counters, where we got our paper tickets. It was clean inside the train too. It had been my daughter’s idea to take the Metro to reach the venue as quickly as possible and without spending too much. It was indeed much easier for us to reach Kavi Subhas by Metro and we returned home the same way. It was not only time saving and cheap, but it was safe as well. (Jana spoke to Debashis Konar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-faster-safer-route-to-the-exam-centre/articleshow/78094952.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada awaits govt nod to start KSRTC services to Kasaragod||Mangaluru: On the one hand, the district administration in Kasaragod is all set to operate inter-state buses to Dakshina Kannada, while the coastal district in Karnataka is awaiting the state government’s nod to recommence operations between Mangaluru and Kasaragod. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Rajendra KV told TOI that the district administration would write to the state government seeking approval to run Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses to Kasaragod via Talapady. “It is a decision that needs to be taken by the state government. But we will send a report seeking approval to start KSRTC services between Mangaluru and Kasaragod,” the DC said. KSRTC Mangaluru division operated as many as 40 buses to Kasaragod on a daily basis prior to the Covid-19 crisis, and as many buses travelled to the coastal city from the neighbouring district. Sources in the Kasaragod district administration said that a decision had been made to run KSRTC buses on the Mangaluru route via Talapady from September 21. A decision to the effect had been taken at the Covid-19 core committee meeting. However, the district administration there is keen on restricting the number of passengers on each bus to 40. A large number of people in Kasaragod visit Mangaluru for medical treatment, and many residents visit the coastal city for work each day. Consequently, a very large section of the populace in Kasaragod is eagerly awaiting the recommencement of operations of the KSRTC buses, which were suspended following the enforcement of the lockdown in March. At the moment, there is no restriction on the movement of private vehicles between Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-awaits-govt-nod-to-start-ksrtc-services-to-kasaragod/articleshow/78094495.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Business||LVB employees call for 3 day strike on wage revision issues||LVB employees call for three days strike as the bank withdraws consent for periodical wage revision this year. LVB employees have announced to go on a one-day token strike on September, 28 and thereafter two days on October 12 and 13, 2020. The bank, which is under RBI’s prompt corrective action, had unilaterally withdrawn the mandate it had made with the Indian Bank Association under the 11th bipartite settlement to make any provisions to cover revised wages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-employees-call-for-3-day-strike-on-wage-revision-issues/articleshow/78094855.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||19 farmers’ assns close ranks against ordinances||Jind: Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana), in a meeting presided over by its president Gurnam Singh Charuni, said that 19 farmers’ organisations have joined hands on the issue of agri ordinances. If their demands are not accepted, they said they would block roads for three hours on September 20. A Haryana yatra would also be started from September 27 to mobilise farmers and people, he said. On September 15, members of all Kisan Sabha units will burn copies of the three ordinances across the state, demanding withdrawal of the legislations. He urged all farmers’ organisations, agricultural workers and small traders to come together in the struggle to defend their livelihood and democratic rights. Meanwhile, farmers of Hisar will hold a mahapanchayat in Balsamand village to press for special girdawari of the damaged crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-farmers-assns-close-ranks-against-ordinances/articleshow/78095994.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘Covid patients may face neurological problems’||PATNA: As Covid-19 is considered a respiratory disease, researchers say it invades the brain cells of some patients. “The virus seems to suck up all the oxygen nearby, starving neighbouring cells to death,” a new study conducted by the Yale University said. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said SARS-Cov-2, the virus that caused Covid-19, can damage brain causing cerebral vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessel wall) involving brain and occasionally the spinal cord or thrombus in blood vessels which obstructs blood supply to brain tissues. “Thrombus leads to ischemic changes in brain tissues, which may cause brain stroke. This can also result in weakness of upper and lower limb or even paralysis. However, there are less than 1% of cured patients, who suffered from cerebral vasculitis or thrombus. Because the chances of virus crossing the blood brain barrier are very less. But Covid patients also suffered from other neurological problems like insomnia, anxiety and depression,” Dr Sanjeev said. “The recent study, however, does not make it clear how the virus gets into the brain,” he said. Dr Santosh Kumar, deputy superintendent of NMCH-Patna, said some of the severe Covid patients, whose oxygen saturation level went down, often experienced confusion or delirium when put on ventilator support, BiPAP or CPAP machines. “Anxiety, depressive syndrome, anticipatory anxiety and insomnia are very common in those who recovered from the virus,” he said. He emphasized that coronavirus causes neurological involvement, as several patients experienced distress post-Covid recovery. “When the virus enters the blood streams, it doesn’t spare the central nervous system. There are also low chances of cerebral vasculitis, thrombus and brain stroke,” he said. Neurosurgeon Dr Brajesh Kumar said there are instances about brain stroke or haemorrhage in Covid patients. However, it was not clear whether the virus caused these problems. “The Covid recovered patients, who suffered from thrombus, should take blood thinner on doctor’s prescription to prevent blood clotting. Diabetic and hypertension patients should keep it under control,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-patients-may-face-neurological-problems/articleshow/78094182.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 14, 2020||Madurai||EPS, OPS are like banks of river: Min||Madurai: EPS and OPS are as important for the AIADMK as the banks are for a river, said minister for co-operatives Sellur K Raju while speaking at the party’s IT wing meeting here on Sunday. “Cadres are the strength of any party, but DMK continues to be a family party. DMK president M K Stalin had said that he would be the last person to come into the DMK from his family, but now his son Udhayanidhi has followed in his footsteps,” he added. “But in AIADMK, led by organisers Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, any person who is true to the party can come to any position. The AIADMK is a party that has MGR as its guarantee. It was a party which kept DMK from coming to power in the state for 13 years” he added Madurai IT wing secretary V V Raj Satyan among others participated. The meeting discussed ways to expose the fake propaganda by DMK on NEET, among other crucial issues. “Jayalalithaa was a leader who was against moving education from the state to concurrent list. DMK could have prevented this if they wanted to. Now, without doing it, Udayanidhi Stalin is condoling the deaths of students who committed suicide due to NEET,” he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-ops-are-like-banks-of-river-min/articleshow/78096447.cms||---
September 14, 2020||---||LJP netas keep mum on PM’s praise for Nitish||PATNA: The effusive praise of CM Nitish Kumar by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on governance at the launch of natural gas pipeline and LPG bottling plant projects for Bihar on Sunday has clearly sent the message that for BJP, there is no room for second thought on alliance with JD(U). It has also clearly sent another message to the LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who has increasingly been critical of Nitish of late, that things should not be stretched too far in the NDA ahead of the assembly polls in the state due for October-November. Though LJP leaders preferred not to make any direct comment on PM’s praise for Nitish, they admitted that the party has been keeping a close watch on political developments taking place in poll-bound Bihar. “All relevant issues will be discussed threadbare at the meeting of the party MPs scheduled to be held in New Delhi on September 16. The parliamentary board of the party has already authorised Chirag to take decisions on party affairs,” LJP spokesperson Asaraf Ansari told this newspaper over the phone on Sunday. Ansari, who is also the state president of the minority cell of the LJP, said Chirag has made it clear on several occasions that LJP is in alliance with BJP and not JD(U) despite the fact they all are part of the NDA in the state. “Our leader is likely to meet senior BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Sah to discuss matters related to the forthcoming election,” he added. Another LJP leader said on the condition of anonymity that Nitish’s popularity has substantially decreased due to inept handling of Covid-19 pandemic and floods. “PM ka ashirwad hone se kya hoga, jantantra mein janata hi malik hai. Janata ka ashirwad chahiye,” another LJP leader said. On Friday, Union minister and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan had patted his son Chirag for smartly handling the affairs of the party as its chief and also dealing with family affairs such as taking proper care of his health (senior Pawan) during Covid-19 pandemic. Sources in the LJP said Chirag softened his stance on Nitish after BJP president J P Nadda called on the CM at his residence in Patna. Nadda had reiterated on Saturday that the NDA was intact and its allies would fight the election unitedly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ljp-netas-keep-mum-on-pms-praise-for-nitish/articleshow/78101617.cms||Ramashankar
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Now, get a bird’s-eye view of statue, Narmada Dam||VADODARA: Tourists visiting the Statue of Unity (SoU) will now get a bird’s eye view of the world’s tallest statue in Narmada district. The Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd (SSNL) has commenced a project to install a ropeway across the Narmada River. This passenger ropeway will carry tourists from one end of the river to the other end. The tourists will be able to see the SoU on the one side and Sardar Sarovar Dam on the other side while travelling in the ropeway. Sources in the SoU said that the ropeway will be operational within the next two years and it is expected to boost tourism in Kevadia. “It will be a breath-taking view for the tourists as they would get to see the massive dam, world’s tallest statue and Narmada River at one go,” said an SOU official. SSNL authorities recently issued a tender for the project which will be executed on build, finance, operate and maintenance and transfer. The project cost has been touted at about Rs 62 crores. Initially, over a dozen cabins with a capacity of 10 persons each will become operational and later the number may be increased. The 182-metre tall statue of India’s first home minister, Sardar Patel has already become one of the top tourist spots in the country. Inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi on October 31, 2018, it witnessed tourist influx soon after. Additional tourist attractions like jungle safari, butterfly park, cactus garden, river rafting and boating have led to a sharp increase in the number of tourists. In November last year, SoU surpassed the USA’s Statue of Liberty in terms of daily footfall. While Statue of Liberty gets around 10,000 visitors daily, SoU witnessed an average of 15,036 visitors daily in November 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/now-get-a-birds-eye-view-of-statue-narmada-dam/articleshow/78093825.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mangaluru||M-Friends enters 1,000th day of feeding poor at Wenlock hosp||Mangaluru: M-Friends Charitable Trust, which has been serving the poor in Dakshina Kannada district, is completing 1,000 days of its ‘Karunya’ scheme on Monday. The scheme involves serving food to the attendants of poor patients at Government Wenlock District Hospital in the city. Trust general secretary Rasheed Vitla told TOI that M-Friends, aka Mercy Friends, has been serving poor patients and economically backward people in the district for more than seven years. “We have been serving food not only to patients’ attendants, but also to the relatives who visit the patients. We have continued our service uninterrupted even during the days when the city witnessed curfew, bandhs and Covid-19 lockdown, with the help of donors,” he added. “Wenlock Hospital, which has 1,000 beds, gets patients from villages of Many districts in the state as well as from Kasaragod of Kerala. A majority are poor and some of them must depend on the hospital for prolonged treatment spanning months. Though the hospital serves food to patients, those accompanying them get food from our Karunya programme,” Rasheed said, adding that the trust spends Rs 2.25 lakh per month for the Karunya scheme. Rasheed said, “We have noticed relatives of many poor patients begging on streets. Hence, members of M-Friends decided to start Karunya project and it was launched on December 18, 2017. M-Friends volunteers in association with the physiotherapy unit of the hospital distribute food near the Burns Centre every day at 6pm.” “We distribute food coupons inside the hospital ward in advance as part of our discipline. An average of 400 – 500 persons benefit from our scheme regularly. Chapati – gasi, idli – tove or semige – sambar are in the menu. In addition, biryani, sweets and fruits are also distributed on special occasions. Since the hospital is also a designated Covid Hospital, we are currently handing over the food directly to the hospital kitchen,” said Rashid. M-Friends has 55 like-minded people as its members, and it was started with a WhatsApp group created on January 23, 2013. Later, a trust was formed. M-Friends will celebrate its 1,000 days of Karunya programme at IMA Hall at 4.30pm on Monday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/m-friends-enters-1000th-day-of-feeding-poor-at-wenlock-hosp/articleshow/78094777.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Patna||Recovery rate crosses 90% in Bihar, tally mounts to 1.58 lakh||PATNA: Altogether 1,523 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,58,389 in the state. The state health department said 14 more coronavirus patients died in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 822. Patna and Madhubani had four deaths each. Among the other deceased, two were from Katihar and one each from Araria, Kishanganj, Purnea and Saharsa. Total 1,43,053 patients have recovered so far, taking the state recovery rate to 90.32%, which is 12.6% higher than the national average of 77.7%. The number of active cases in state stood at 14,514. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 1,895 patients defeated the virus infection in the past 24 hours. “Total 1,10,500 samples were tested in a single day and 1,523 of them were found positive for the virus. So far, 48,84,417 samples have been tested in the state,” he said. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said the positivity rate has been declining and recovery rate increasing in the state. With 173 more Covid cases reported in Patna, the active cases in the district stood at 1,804. Patna’s recovery rate is now at 91.6%. Araria reported 94 new Covid cases, closely followed by Saharsa (90), Muzaffarpur (89), Bhagalpur (73) and Purnea (68). Meanwhile, two persons succumbed to Covid at AIIMS-Patna on Sunday. One of them was a 70-year-old woman from Muzaffarpur and another was 68-year-old man from Saran. NMCH also reported one 60-year-old man’s death due to Covid on Sunday. NMCH nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said four Covid patients were admitted and two discharged on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/recovery-rate-crosses-90-in-state-tally-mounts-to-1-58-lakh/articleshow/78093984.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 14, 2020||Business||UPI market share cap not a good idea: PhonePe||BENGALURU: Regulators eventually just have to reverse the proposal of capping market share on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in its current form by individual third-party payments apps. That is because it would not make sense for companies to invest further if they get penalised for having more customers, especially when it doesn’t happen with any other banking products, said PhonePe’s co-founder and CEO Sameer Nigam. Walmart-owned PhonePe is the second-largest UPI app with a 35% market share after Google Pay. Nigam’s comments, during an exclusive interview to TOI, come at a time when the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) is working on the proposal to limit the market share an individual app can have. The first-year limit for the maximum share would be 50% as of March 2021. None of the leading UPI apps are near the mark yet, but it has been a pressing issue with the steady rise in UPI payments accelerated by the pandemic. In August, UPI saw 1.6 billion payments and it’s expected to grow further this year. The long-pending entry of WhatsApp Pay could accelerate that. “With zero merchant discount rate, or MDR, a lot of smaller players are walking away to Visa, Mastercard or e-wallets. The only people left behind here, ironically, are those who have an appetite to play the long game. Why would anyone play in a game when you know that leadership of the category is going to get you punished? I have never seen this in my life. RuPay, Visa, Mastercard, e-wallets, IMPS, banking or banks on UPI don’t have it (market share caps),” said Nigam. According to him, PhonePe is already bound by multiple local regulations, including localisation and audits. “If you are fully compliant, why are the rules different just because you are the application player? The whole idea of UPI was an open application programming interface (API) architecture,” Nigam added. NPCI, which manages UPI, hasn’t yet told the top players what the criteria would be for triggering a limit on market share and what further steps will be followed, in case an app surpasses the limit. According to early proposals, the market share limit would gradually be lowered to 30% from 2023 onwards. “They will have to figure out an ingenious way to implement it. Should I be worried about my IPL campaign taking off and I can get punished with no new customer acquisition? I don’t think that’s a good way to think about it,” he added. Meanwhile, the ongoing pandemic has also accelerated its break-even timeline by one year to 2022-23 as digital payments continue to soar. PhonePe has started seeing revenues from its financial services business (mutual funds, insurance, gold) and super-app platform — which hosts 220 apps across shopping, food, travel and other sectors. The company clocked 660 million transactions last month with a current run-rate of around 700 million transactions for September, with 70% payments from non-tier I cities. “Hopefully, the timeline for break-even gets accelerated by a year. Whether we become profitable or keep investing for further growth or expand in new dimension, that’s still a discussion with the board,” Nigam said. He added the overall climate in payments business has improved with PhonePe’s monthly burn going down, while it has a steady line of capital coming in from parent Flipkart, owned by US-based Walmart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/upi-mkt-share-cap-not-a-good-idea-phonepe/articleshow/78096244.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro Railway warns passengers against card recharge fraud||KOLKATA: Metro Railway has alerted people against hoax calls seeking bank account details on the pretext of charging Metro smartcards. “It has come to our knowledge that some commuters are receiving hoax calls with the fraudsters posing as Metro Railway employees help with recharging of smartcards. Apparently, after the victims share their bank details, money is being siphoned from their accounts. It should be clarified that none from Metro Railway has made any such call and commuters should report it to the cyber crime department of Lalbazar if they receive similar calls. Please note that all commuters willing to recharge their smartcards should do so only from the link provided in the Metro Railway App or from the Metro Railway website, or from the station booking counters,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO, Metro Railway. Several citizens have reported that they have been getting calls since the last week, offering discounts or asking them to recharge through unverified websites. Kolkata Police has nabbed two persons in a case where they had duped app cab passengers in a similar way and have found that other members of this gang based out of Kolkata, Jamtara and Asansol are carrying out this new form of cyber fraud. Kolkata Police has also warned passengers against these fraudsters. However, several passengers have not approached cops since they did not end up investing in these fake websites. “We have come across social media posts warning of such incidents, and we are investigating. Usually, such gangs pick up the current talking point and use that to dupe citizens. But no one has lodged a formal complaint so far in this matter,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-warns-passengers-against-card-recharge-fraud/articleshow/78094949.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Looking forward to reduced travel cost||I was busy typing out https://pathadisha.com/metro all morning on Sunday and now I think I have got the hang of it and can get an e-pass. The last time I rode the Metro was on March 22 and I can’t wait to go back to taking it from Monday again. It has always been my transport of choice since I live in Swiss Park, near Rabindra Sarobar Metro station. Though things eased when unlocking resumed, it has still been extremely difficult without the Metro. I need to travel across the city for work and the app cabs are very expensive. I was tired of overspending, commuting up and down in app cabs every day. I would continuously compare the Rs 250 or Rs 300 I paid for a single cab ride to the Rs 15 Metro ticket and feel miserable. I even ended up avoiding some client visits thinking of the travel cost. The Metro will ensure I’m saving money on transport now. Yes, some may think it is a challenge to generate an e-pass, especially when it depends on whether there is a vacant slot, but I think it’s worth the trouble. The regulated passenger count will ensure protection against disease transmission. The social distancing norms are reassuring. I have been told that elaborate measures are being taken for crowd management and ensuring hygiene to check the spread of the virus. I hope people get used to the new normal in the Metro and behave responsibly. (Das, an entrepreneur, spoke to Ajanta Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/looking-forward-to-reduced-travel-cost/articleshow/78094961.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Patna||Leaders across party lines condole death of Raghuvansh||PATNA: Leaders cutting across party lines condoled the death of former Union minister and RJD veteran Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Sunday. JD(U) state president Vashishtha Narayan Singh said Raghuvansh’s death had caused a void that would be difficult to fill. He recalled Raghuvansh’s simplicity and described him as a natural leader of the people who gave weightage to socialist politics and continued to struggle for the benefit of people. The JD(U) leader said that MNREGA, which has been benefitting the poor people of the country, was framed by the Centre when Raghuvansh was Union rural development minister. State BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said Raghuvansh dedicated his entire life to the development of the poor sections as he understood their plight. “His death symbolises the end of an era,” Jaiswal said. Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi said in Raghuvansh’s death, the state and the country has lost a leader of principles. Congress leader Sadanand Singh said Raghuvansh was an immensely popular leader. The feeling was the same in RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family. His younger son and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said, “After my father went to jail, Raghuvanshji was among the few who were my source of energy and inspiration. He has left me alone now.” Lalu’s elder son and former minister Tej Pratap Yadav, who had once said the exit of Raghuvansh from the party would not make much difference to the “sea-like” presence of the RJD, tweeted, “I feel hurt at the death of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. It is like the shadow of the guardian has been removed.” Lalu’s eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti tweeted, “God can snatch away your perishable body. However, your soul will continue to remain with the party (RJD).” CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey described Raghuvansh as a unique leader who had affable nature and was also accessible to the people of the state. Former minister Shyam Rajak, who recently joined RJD, described Raghuvansh like his guardian who was accessible for all and always gave right advice. Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahani described Raghuvansh as a voice of the poor. Former state Congress president Ramjatan Sinha said Raghuvansh was “last link to the practice of principled politics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/leaders-across-party-lines-condole-death-of-raghuvansh/articleshow/78094657.cms||Abhay Singh
September 14, 2020||Mysuru||Volunteers start learning centre to teach underprivileged kids||Mysuru: Although technology has come to the aid of both students and schools in ensuring continuity in learning despite the protracted closure of schools owing to the Covid-19 crisis, children from underprivileged sections of society, most of whom attend government educational institutions, are being left behind owing to the lack of means to participate in online classes. Taking cognisance of their plight, four students pursuing Master of Social Work launched a learning centre for 40 children at the Ekalavyanagar Slum in Shyadanalli in Mysuru city. Children from classes I to X are being imparted lessons by the four youngsters at a small shed in the locality. The MSW students are planning on running the centre till the schools reopen. Teja Nayaka, a final year MSW student at Vidya Vikas First Grade College, along with Poornuma J, Sujatha and Tejaswini N, who are students of Pooja Bhagavat Memorial Mahajana Postgraduate Centre teamed up to start the learning centre, and classes are conducted daily between 10.30am and 3pm. In addition to imparting classes, the four of them engage the children in a host of activities to keep them engaged. “We have divided the students into three groups: Primary, higher primary and secondary school students. We engage them in activities such as singing, dancing and games,” said Teja Nayaka. Sujatha said that many of the students whom they were teaching had forgotten most of their lessons. “We were able to teach them basics of all subjects in a week,” she said. Ekalavyanagar resident Mallesh, whose four children are attending the centre, said that he was pleased that, owing to the volunteers’ efforts, the kids in the locality were keeping in touch with their lessons. Satheesh Metri, Mysuru district coordinator for Youth for Seva, said that this was the second learning centre that student volunteers had launched in the city. “We are planning to set up two more centres, all of which will stay functional till the schools resume normal operations,” Metri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/volunteers-start-learning-centre-to-teach-underprivileged-kids/articleshow/78094639.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Now, EOU bid to protect pupils from cybercrime||PATNA: With students getting freedom to use WhatsApp and different videoconferencing applications for online studies due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state police’s Economic Offences Unit (EOU) has launched an awareness drive and targeted to involve thousands of school and college students as well as teachers in a bid to protect them from cybercrime. EOU is the nodal agency for tackling cybercrime in the state. It is already running a large number of WhatsApp groups, christened ‘Cyber Senani’, with police officers and common people as their members. Contents are posted daily in these groups on specific topics in order to tackle cybercrime like duping, blackmailing, bullying and harassment via fake social media profiles, ATM and banking frauds, phishing and running fake job rackets using websites. EOU ADG Jitendra Singh Gangwar said, “We will send e-posters and other digital contents to principals, teachers and students in a bid to create awareness against cybercrime. Gangwar said two to three teachers from each educational institution would be made nodal officers of ‘Cyber Senani’ group. “The various Cyber Senani groups run by EOU have at least 2.2 lakh members,” he added. The ADG said EOU’s e-posters, being released everyday on multiple topics, is aimed at making common people aware about dos and don’ts to avoid falling victim of cybercrime. “Local and simple language is used to spread awareness with attractive diagrams. Taglines like ‘think before you post’ and ‘comment with care’ are used in e-posters,” he said. Gangwar said there are around 1,500 Cyber Senani WhatsApp groups in the state, linking around 1,400 police stations and outposts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-eou-bid-to-protect-pupils-from-cybercrime/articleshow/78094204.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Buses fear revenue cut, autos plan to make most of last-mile link needs||KOLKATA: With Metro services restarting, bus owners have expressed concerns over the possibility of the trains eating into their ‘meagre’ revenue. Autorickshaw operators, however, hope to rake in the moolah by catering to the last-mile connectivity needs. Come Monday, Metro services will resume along the 27km span of the north-south corridor and the 5km stretch between Sector V and Salt Lake stadium stations. Buses plying along the Metro’s north-south corridor and those operating on EM Bypass and Salt Lake routes are bracing for more losses when services start. Tapan Banerjee, secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates, the umbrella organization for 90% of Kolkata’s buses, said, “In the absence of the Metro, buses had become the alternative for intra-city travel. But from Monday, our revenue will be hit. Buses have been feeding local trains to a great extent. “Unless suburban trains start, we can’t go back to the original chain.” Especially worried are operators along the EM Bypass-Salt Lake routes, Garia-bound buses, those from Hazra, the Kudghat- and Naktala-bound routes, and the ones plying north and south via CR Avenue. Banerjee’s calculations are simple — the 40 seats versus Metro’s one-time 400 occupancy, which, in dynamic calculation, should go up to 1,000 for an eight-coach train. “So Metro’s daily count can be more than a lakh. So can imagine our dire straits,” sighed Banerjee. However, autos that provide last-mile connectivity for Metro commuters are looking forward to the resumption of Kolkata’s lifeline. “We shall operate as per the new timetable to optimize the connectivity,” said Pradip Saha, representative, Calcutta Autorickshaw Operators’ Union. “Even if there are matching bus routes, autos are preferred for feeder trips, since they are considered easier for boarding and disembarking. Also, the city is full of narrow roads where autos can negotiate better,” said Papri Das, an office-goer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buses-fear-revenue-cut-autos-plan-to-make-most-of-last-mile-link-needs/articleshow/78095015.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 14, 2020||Goa||Dempo: Restructure, innovate businesses during pandemic||PANAJI: Entrepreneurs should use the slowdown brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic to restructure their businesses and improve the skills of their employees, said chairman and managing director of the Dempo Group, Shrinivas Dempo on Sunday. As part of an online series in the Covid context, Dempo said that along with the challenges brought about by the pandemic, there are immense opportunities too. “Every businessman and trader must understand that when such hurdles come, there are quite a few opportunities too. Many businessmen have been operating these businesses for years so the first thing to do is introspect. Look at the processes, the systems,” Dempo said. Instead of letting workers go, Dempo urged entrepreneurs to help their workers improve and increase their skills. “You can reskill them. This is something that we need to stress on,” said Dempo. Dempo also asked entrepreneurs and traders to digitise their business processes. “We must look at IT or the digital medium to see how we can improve our efficiency, our business profits. This pandemic has showed the importance of IT,” Dempo said. The use of IT and digital systems is not just for large companies but for small scale industries too, the industrialist said. Dempo also said that because of the slowdown, industries have the opportunity to conserve cash, which can then be deployed in new avenues, to scale up or diversify. “Instead of looking behind, look ahead at the opportunities that are coming. For example, textile industries have started making PPEs, alcohol units, distilleries which were shut started making sanitisers. We need to innovate our processes for the new opportunities,” Dempo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restructure-innovate-businesses-during-pandemic-dempo/articleshow/78096073.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Local org adopts century-old tank in Korattur, to restore it||Chennai: An irrigation tank in Korattur is being restored by activists. Korattur Yeri Padhukappu Makkal Iyakkam founder C Sekharan, who is leading the rejuvenation project, said the tank, popular as kandigai, had been classified as ‘grama natham’ land in revenue department records some years ago, mainly to encroach upon it. Admitting this, a senior government official said the handiwork of the land mafia, with the collusion of a few revenue department officials, had led to destruction of the more than 100-year-old tank. In 2018, following a petition from members of the Iyakkam, then Chennai collector Shanmuga Sundaram ordered that the tank be reclassified as a water body and the revenue authorities agreed to revert it to its original status in the records, Sekharan said. A natural spring, at a depth of five feet, is one of the main sources of water for the tank, said an official. There are more than 500 houses around the tank. Once the desilting and cleaning are completed, it will help in rejuvenating the groundwater table in the surrounding areas. Improvement in the groundwater table will benefit more than 5,000 people in the vicinity, said the official. The neglect of the tank meant that the groundwater table steadily declined and people were affected, he added. Desilting and deepening, to be taken up with funding from the Lions Club of Korattur, is expected to be completed within a month, said Sekharan. The tank, which was under the control of Greater Chennai Corporation, was in February handed over to the Iyakkam. “Our organisation signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the civic body only after which the civic body had handed it over to us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/local-org-adopts-century-old-tank-in-korattur-to-restore-it/articleshow/78095109.cms||P Oppili
September 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘85% parents, teachers unaware of cybercrimes’||KOCHI: Hacking of online platforms that are used to deliver classes has become a cause of worry for teachers and parents but they are reluctant to come forward and report such incidents. This is because either they are not aware of the risk or they do not want to disrupt the studies, say cybersecurity officials. “Several teachers and parents have called me over such incidents. But when I request access to their gadgets they refuse because I would need a couple of days to check the programmes in them,” said Dhanya Menon, a cybercrime investigator. Recently, an online student’s meet was bombarded with abuses and when the administrators tried to remove the intruders, they continued popping up in other names. Similarly, students of a city school got a lesson in the drawbacks of online learning when a video of a woman drinking in a pub popped up on their phones even as the teacher was taking lessons for them. She continued talking to each one of them though they told her to get out of the class. Though schools have jumped into the online bandwagon teachers, parents and children seem to be unaware that problems with online security and privacy are expected to grow. “You need a faculty that can teach the children and even parents on cyber safety,” says Dhanya. Kochi police say they have not been notified of any such incidents. “Until somebody informs us, we will not be able to take action,” said an officer. More than 85% of parents and teachers don’t know about data protection and cybercrimes, the officer added. But not all schools agree. “We have conducted online training for teachers,” says T P M Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE schools management association. IT experts say most people don’t realize that they could be exposed to the danger of data theft while giving their smartphones to kids for online classes. Santhosh Kumar, professor, and director, Center for Information Management, Cochin University of Science and Technology, suggested that children’s smartphones must not have any other apps except those for school needs. “Don’t allow them to install any other apps. There are many browsers that steal data. Also, teachers should get their software for safety tools,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/85-parents-teachers-unaware-of-cybercrimes/articleshow/78098976.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 14, 2020||Business||Sebi, MFs to discuss multi-caps’ rejig||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi on Sunday evening said it was open to discussions with the mutual fund (MF) industry for a smooth transition for multi-cap funds to rejig their portfolio so that these schemes “achieve the desired objective of true to label and appropriate benchmarking”. The market regulator’s clarification came on the back of its Friday order that said, by January 2021, all multi-cap funds should have at least 75% of its corpus in equities — up from 65% earlier — to be equally invested in large-, mid- and small-cap stocks. Sebi’s Friday directive had sent the fund industry into action as they were weighing various options to comply with the new rule. These included merging existing well-performing funds with another, which could have hurt investor interest, and then launching another fund in the multi-cap space that would be in line with the regulatory directives. The other option that officials at fund houses considered was to merge small-cap funds with multi-caps. According to an analysis by domestic financial services house Edelweiss, 35 multi-cap funds are currently managing assets worth nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Of the total assets, about 65% is invested in large-cap stocks, 16-18% in mid-caps, 8-9% in small-caps and the balance in cash. So in about four and half months, around Rs 12,000 crore should be shifted from large-caps to mid-caps and about Rs 24,000 crore from large caps to small caps. This translates into about Rs 300 crore worth of transfers daily, from large-caps to mid- and small-caps combined. In the stock trading space, market experts saw huge rush for small- and mid-cap stocks — a fallout of the Sebi order. They said, knowing well that multi-cap fund managers will be forced to buy small- and mid-cap stocks before the January deadline, a section of traders and investors are expected to front-run these stocks now and sell these at profit, when the fund managers come in to buy. Sebi’s directive would “lead to forced inflows into mid- and small-caps over the next four months, especially small-caps, given the sizeable gap between existing and proposed holdings across most schemes”, an HDFC Securities report said. However, Sebi’s clarification is now expected to limit such a rush for these stocks in coming weeks, market players said. On Saturday, industry body Amfi’s chairman and Kotak Mutual Fund MD Nilesh Shah had said on an investor call that the fund house “will explore all options to ensure that its time-tested and successful investment process is carried forward with minimum disturbance.” Kotak MF’s Standard Multi-cap, with a corpus of about Rs 29,700 crore, is the largest multi-cap fund in the country. Some of the options that Kotak MF could have considered included returning money to clients, requesting for a switch to other equity funds with the help of partners, merging multi-cap fund with large-cap or large- and mid-cap fund to maintain investment process and portfolio quality, and converting multi-cap fund to thematic fund like ESG (environmental, social and governance) fund for the same reason. Several other fund houses were also considering such options, industry officials said. These considerations, however, are now expected to be delayed after the Sebi clarification. They could even be completely shelved if something positive comes out of consultations between Sebi and the fund houses, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-mfs-to-discuss-multi-caps-rejig/articleshow/78096138.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Joy underground: Country’s oldest metro set to run again||KOLKATA: After days of apprehension over crowd control in the country’s oldest Metro, which caters to the highest passenger density, a unique solution emerged from meetings between state and Metro officials and the city’s lifeline is finally back on tracks. Talking TOI on August 31, Metro Railway GM Manoj Joshi had said, “Metro will start operations with regulated entry of commuters and we will need enormous support from the state for that.” On September 2, a team led by Metro railway AGM Sharad Srivastava joined a meeting convened by home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and other state officials at Nabanna to come up with a way to regulate crowd in Covid times — make commuters self-generate a QR-coded e-pass on phones or take prints to show the waiting Kolkata Police personnel before entering a station. The state appointed Sanjoy Chatterjee, director of Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the transport department, to develop the ‘Pathadisha Metro e-pass’. Valid for only an hour, the pass will be issued only if a slot is free. Only 400 passengers can take the Metro at a time — 128 seated and 274 standing. Only 50 passengers are allowed in each of the eight coaches, keeping social distance rules in mind. However, no e-pass will be needed for the East-West line because few people use it at present. Metro officials said it was a challenge to control the air circulation inside the 18km underground Dum Dum-Mahanayak Uttam Kumar stretch. Excess fresh air will now be circulated inside the tunnels and high-grade air filters, capable of capturing small particles and releasing pure air, have been installed in the underground stations. Also, the ACs’ “maximum fresh air intake” provision will be turned on to pump fresh air into the trains. But all eyes will be on how efficient crowd management turns out to be. Passengers must download the e-pass, show it at the station gate to enter only during the designated slot denoted by one of the 12 colour codes. According to dynamic calculation, around one lakh passengers can ride the Metro daily, given that only 110 of 288 trains will be plying between 8am and 8pm. The pre-Covid daily count was over 6.5 lakh. The ministry of home affairs (MHA), in its Unlock 4 guidelines, said modalities in Covid times would be formulated by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA). “But most of the SOP for our Metro is completely our own, unique to our city,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/joy-underground-countrys-oldest-metro-set-to-run-again/articleshow/78094866.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 14, 2020||India||DRDO plans Star Wars-style weapons for battles of future||NEW DELHI: The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is now planning a national programme on directed energy weapons (DEWs) like high-energy lasers and high-powered microwaves, which are increasingly being considered crucial around the world for the contactless conflicts of the future. The national programme will have short, medium and long-term goals, with the eventual aim being to develop different DEW variants of up to 100 kilowatt power, in collaboration with the domestic industry, sources said. The DRDO has been working on several DEW projects for long, ranging from ‘chemical oxygen iodine’ and ‘high-power fibre’ lasers to a secretive ‘Kali’ particle-beam weapon for ‘soft-kills’ against incoming missiles and aircraft.\ But they are nowhere near becoming operational. The need for a focussed approach on DEWs has now gained urgency amid the ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh. DRDO has so far developed two anti-drone DEW systems, which will now be productionised in large numbers with the help of the industry. While one is a trailer-mounted DEW, with a 10 kilowatt laser to engage aerial targets at 2-km range, the other is a compact tripod-mounted one with a 2 kilowatt laser for a 1-km range. Successfully demonstrated to the armed forces, intelligence agencies and police forces in field operations, the two systems can bring down micro drones by either jamming their command and control links or damaging their electronics through the laser-based DEW, officials said. These indigenous systems, however, are extremely modest compared to the much more powerful DEWs developed by countries like the US, Russia, China, Germany and Israel to destroy multiple drones, vehicles and boats. The US, for instance, tested a 33 kilowatt laser weapon from a warship to shoot down drones several years ago. More recently, in May, the US Navy tested a new ‘high-energy solid-state laser’ to disable a drone aircraft in mid-air. The US, in fact, may be just four to five years away from deploying 300 to 500 kilowatt DEWs capable of shooting down cruise missiles. The Indian defence establishment’s technological roadmap for the next decade says the Army and IAF need at least 20 ‘tactical high-energy laser systems’ that can destroy ‘small aerial targets’, electronic warfare and radars systems at a range of 6-8 km in Phase-I. In Phase-II, the laser systems should have a range of over 20 km to take on ‘soft-skinned’ vehicles and troops from ground and aerial platforms. Similarly, at least 20 high-power electromagnetic weapon systems are required for the forces, with 6-8 km range in Phase-I and over 15-km in Phase-II. As reported by TOI last month, the ongoing Army study on ‘niche and disruptive warfare technologies’ has identified DEWs as one of the focus areas, with General M M Naravane stressing the need to invest heavily in such futuristic tools. But it will take a lot for such concentrated energy weapons to become an operational reality. Watch DRDO plans futuristic weapons programme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/drdo-plans-star-wars-style-weapons-for-battles-of-future/articleshow/78096712.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Corporation clears squatters from Alappakkam lake||CHENNAI: Restoration of the Alappakkam lake near Maduravoyal in the western suburbs is on, with the city corporation removing more than 100 temporary structures over the past few weeks. Removing the permanent encroachments will be the next step in the long-term plan to turn the water body into a water source for the city, say officials. Greater Chennai Corporation last year took control of the lake, which once sprawled over 100 acres and which now is spread over just 11 acres, from the public works department (PWD). In November 2019, the revenue authorities conducted a survey that revealed the extent of the lake. Demarcating the boundary brought the encroachments came to light. The revenue authorities then began identifying the encroachments. The process includes issuing eviction notices to the squatters before they are evacuated. A suitable rehabilitation package also had to be developed. A senior PWD official said more than 3,000 permanent structures were found to be occupying large portions of the lake, including several concrete structures on the eastern and western sides. The ‘occupation’ began more than 25 years ago, said the official. A case is pending with the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal in this regard, said the PWD official.  While the lake was handed over to the civic body in December last year, the project of deepening and desilting was to be taken up early this year when the lockdown was imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, with the lockdown almost completely lifted, the corporation authorities have started deepening work. It has been proposed to deepen the lake bed by 7.5 metres, or about 25 feet, that will considerably increase the water holding capacity of the lake, a corporation official said. The restoration work is scheduled to be completed in 18 months, he added. Once completed, the lake, which was once a drinking water source for people in surrounding areas before unregulated development took a toll, would be restored to its past glory, say residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-clears-squatters-from-alappakkam-lake/articleshow/78095115.cms||P Oppili
September 14, 2020||Varanasi||Dist admin gears up for upcoming festive season amid Covid outbreak||Varanasi: While the next guidelines of the state government are awaited to clear how the festivals of Navratra, Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Dev Deepawali will be celebrated amidst Covid-19 menace, the district administration and police have started making preparations to meet the challenges of handling the festive season crowd. At a time when the district is getting new 1,000 Covid-19 positive patients added to its tally in every 5-7 days, the officials are worried as the city, famous as mini-Bengal, indulges in Durga Puja celebrations in a grand style. Navratra and Durga Puja celebrations will start from October 17 and conclude on Dussehra falling on October 25. Major Ramlilas are also staged during the same period. Talking to TOI on Sunday, the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma admitted that, “In view of the continuing trend of sharp rise in Covid-19 graph, ground realities of the city and the gatherings which take place in the city during festival period, we had convened a joint meeting of administration and police officials on Saturday evening. We are waiting for the next guideline of the government expected on September 21 as it will clear how the forthcoming festivals will be observed.” The officials are worried as most temples of Goddess Durga, where devotees throng in a large number on particular days of Navratra, and also the Durga Puja pandals are located in congested lanes. The DM said that grand scale celebration like past years will be difficult to hold in the city this year while other major reason to wait for the next guideline of the government is to take decisions about how to give permissions for staging of traditional Ramlilas in the city. Another reason of worry for the officials is the rush of buyers in the markets during the festival season as people from adjoining districts also reach the city for festiveal shopping. The DM said that all the magistrates and circle officers of police had been asked to finalise traffic plans in advance to avoid crowding at any place during festivities. During Dev Deepawali celebrations in 2019, chaotic scenes took place, he said adding that the officials were directed to take lessons from past incidents while finalising a traffic plan for the festival period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dist-admin-gears-up-for-upcoming-festive-season-amid-covid-outbreak/articleshow/78094410.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Agra||Two people booked for insulting national flag, following BJP MLA's plaint||Agra: Aligarh police on Sunday booked two people for allegedly insulting the Indian national flag by putting eight spokes in the chakra instead of 24, while making an inscription on a foundation stone in Arabic on hand pumps being installed in village Dubhia. Two people — Shamsher and Warik Ali — were booked under Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act 1971 and Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC, based on a complaint filed by Aligarh BJP MLA Chhara Ravendra Pal Singh at Akrabad police station. According to the complaint, the accused had tried to mislead the local population while installing hand pumps in the village, by putting two flags — one of Kuwait, the other of India — on the foundation stone, along with inscription in Arabic. The MLA also alleged the hand pumps were installed at 60 ft depth, making them unfit for drinking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-people-booked-for-insulting-national-flag-following-bjp-mlas-plaint/articleshow/78094080.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Madurai||Reconsider online exam plan for final yr: MKU pvt colleges||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) private colleges’ management association, on Saturday, wrote to MKU vice chancellor (VC) Dr M Krishnan and the principal secretary, higher education seeking to reconsider the decision to hold online exams for final year students. According to the statement signed by the association’s general secretary Dr S Rajagopal, it was mentioned that on September 11, after a meeting of the principal secretary with vice chancellors of various universities, including MKU, it had been decided to hold the exams online for final year students before September 30. The association said that it is stated that students should be informed to access internet facilities and question papers will be sent to their WhatsApp or emails for them to write the exam from their homes and submit it. “We wish to represent that in case of such online exams, there are more chances of malpractices, like copying, consulting with others, referring websites for correct answers etc., Further, it is possible for impersonation to also happen in such exams. There will also be chaos if there are cases where internet connectivity fails or there are power cuts,” they said. The association also pointed out that NEET exam is being held for thousands of students in offline mode with all safety precautions for Covid-19 and sought to reconsider the decision to hold only online exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/reconsider-online-exam-plan-for-final-yr-mku-pvt-colleges/articleshow/78096457.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Madurai||Woman found dead with stabs||Madurai: An 18-year-old woman from a village near Peraiyur in Madurai district, who went missing on Friday night, was found dead with multiple injuries on her body. The deceased was identified as T Jayasakthibala, from V Ammapatti village. He body was found in a dry waterbody near Ayyanar Temple in the same village on Saturday. The T Kallupatti police have registered a murder case and are looking for perpetrators. Police sources said that Jayasakthibala got married to T Muthupandi from Mathiyasenai in Virudhunagar district in October last year. Muthupandi is a worker in a match industry and allegedly had an extra-marital relationship with a girl working with him. The couple often fought over it after Jayasakthibala found out about it, and in June 2020 she returned to her parents’ place. While her parents were planning to reunite her with Muthupandi on Saturday, she went missing on Friday night. Her father G Thavidan searched for her with the help of his two sons, when they got information from a villager that her body was found in the waterbody. They found she had multiple stab injuries on her body including hand, waist and back. The police have said that they have got a lead in the murder and are searching for the accused. The murderer would be arrested soon, a police officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-found-dead-with-stabs/articleshow/78096456.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Agra||Agra faces 70% shortage of ventilators as Covid-19 cases rise||AGRA: With increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Agra district, all Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds in Covid care facilities are occupied. It is not possible to increase ICU beds due to shortage of ventilators. This has started affecting treatment of Covid patients in critical condition. According to an official estimate, the Covid facilities are facing a 70% shortage. There is a requirement for at least 200 ventilators at Covid care centres whereas only 60 ventilators are available at government and private centres. Meanwhile, SN Medical College (SNMC) authorities have claimed that a 34-bed ICU equipped with ventilators will be set up for Covid-19 patients in the next two days. The Covid-19 tally crossed 4,000 mark in Agra district on Sunday. As many as 951 new cases were reported in the first 12 days of September. With this, the number of patients in critical condition also increased, resulting in occupation of all the ICU beds at private and government Covid treatment facilities. At present, there are 24 ICU beds with ventilator facility at SNMC, six at the district hospital and a total of 30 at three private hospitals designated for Covid-19 treatment. SNMC authorities claimed that they have made alternate arrangements for 12 ICU beds (without ventilators) for Covid-19 patients. Agra district chief medical officer, Dr RC Pandey, said, “With the increase in number of Covid-19 patients being admitted in critical condition, we have started making arrangements for additional ICU beds and ventilators. Twenty bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) and 25 high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machines have been arranged by SNMC administration to address patients with respiratory issues. Besides, a 34-bed ICU will be operational at the medical college in next two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-faces-70-shortage-of-ventilators-as-covid-19-cases-rise/articleshow/78094067.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Agra||Three accused of minor boy’s murder in Agra to be booked under NSA||AGRA: Police have decided to slap the stringent National Security Act on the alleged killers of a nine-year-old boy, who was found dead near his house in village Dhaura three days ago. The SHO of Etmadpur police station has been suspended for negligence in conducting timely investigations after a complaint was lodged by the missing boy’s parents. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered against him. Talking to TOI, SSP Babloo Kumar said that the NSA will be slapped on all three accused – Mohd Wahid, Arman and Ayub –for committing the heinous crime. He said, “The directions in this regard have been issued to the circle officer.” The SSP said that the deceased’s family members have been given a cheque of Rs 5 lakh from the CM’s relief fund on Sunday. The minor boy disappeared from outside his house on September 8. The deceased’s father lodged a police complaint at Etmaddulah police station the following day after they failed to locate him. The family members claimed that they suspected the involvement of their neighbours, but police did not question them. When the boy’s body was recovered on September 10 and the family blamed the local police for their inaction, officials immediately attached the SHO to Police Lines.One of the accused, Mohd Wahid, was arrested on Saturday morning after an encounter with the police. Two other accused were also arrested later. According to police, Mohd Wahid had kidnapped his neighbour’s son with an intent to demand a ransom of Rs 2 lakh from them with the help of his two accomplices. But the minor boy started crying before the accused could intoxicate him. Scared of getting caught, he strangled the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-accused-of-minor-boys-murder-in-agra-to-be-booked-under-nsa/articleshow/78094090.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 14, 2020||Rajkot||Killer jumps parole, turns thief; nabbed||Rajkot: A murder convict who had jumped parole and had gone absconding had taken to stealing and chain snatching. Police said Rasik Parmar (33) was arrested along with his accomplice Yogesh Arambhadia (37) from Godhaniya College Road in Porbandar on Sunday. “The duo was arrested on the basis of a tip-off about them going on two two-wheelers to sell off stolen gold and silver jewellery. We seized jewellery worth Rs 1.67 lakh, the two-wheelers and two cellphones from the accused,” said K I Jadeja, inspector with Porbandar special operation group. During their interrogation, the accused duo confessed of their involvment in eight thefts and four chain snatching cases in Porbandar. Parmar had jumped parole in 2018 after he was lodged in Rajkot Central Jail in a double murder case. He had committed two murders in Jamnagar. Arambhadia, too, is a history-sheeter, having been involved in 17 house break-ins. Before being convicted in the murder case, Parmar was booked for five chain snatching and two physical assault cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/killer-jumps-parole-turns-thief-nabbed/articleshow/78094100.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kanpur||13k fake complaints, extortion and threat calls||Kanpur.................3 Faiz.Siddiqui@timesgroup.com Kanpur:A man claiming himself to be a resident of Bikru, few days ago gave a written complaint at local police station pleading authorities to register an FIR against a man, accusing him to be a close aide of slain gangster -Vikas Dubey and who had grabbed a land in the village. “He is an aide of slain gangster -Vikas Dubey, and terrorise poor villagers and grab their land,” says the man, also providing the complete detailed address of the ‘aide of gangster - Vikas Dubey’ to the police seeking stern and quick action against the man. The police in order to initiate investigation rushed to the village to locate the whereabouts of the applicant. However, they found that none with the name given in the application exist in the village. Even the telephone numbers mentioned in the application was found to be false. Further inquiry revealed that the plaint was filed only to settle personal score. This is not an isolate case. “A large number of such complaints from within the jurisdiction of Chaubeypur and Billhaur police stations, have been pouring in at the offices of IG range, DIG and Circle officer Billhaur. People are now encashing the situation and filing complaints against their rivals, and most of them are turning out to be false,” informed police sources. The police have since the Bikru incident received more than 100 plaints. “However, one third of such complaints during probe turn out to be false,” said a police official. The complaints are not only limited to settle personal scores, other SOS calls are on extortion threats by newbie goons, trying to fill the don’s vacuum and trying to invoke Dubey’s name, which still spells terror not only across the vast swathes of villages around Bikru. Recently, an Army personnel posted in Nagaland, who had come to his native home in the City, and who was not in good terms with his wife, in his complaint had alleged that he got the call from a man who introduced himself to be a friend of slain gangster -Vikas Dubey, and threatened him to take care of his wife and take her along with him to his posting place in Nagaland. The caller further warned that if he did not pay heed to his demand, he would eliminate him. Army personnel also alleged that that the caller also said that slain gangster Vikas Dubey, was his friend. He also said that once he had excecuted a killing of an official inside the court. Earlier, a computer institute owner was threatened of dire consequences by an extortionist in the name of Vikas Dubey. A police official in Crime branch said, “Dealing with such cases is a new challenge. The frequency of such cases is on the rise.” The department is making a list of such complainants and trying to zero in on them and thereafter book them as per the law. “The initiative, will curb unnecessary cases being filed at stations, DIG, and IG offices, save the time and energy of the department and help them to focus on other critical duties,” said IG range Mohit Agarwal, who added,”We have already initiated action in connection with extortion threat calls. One such person was arrested from Barra South area. Identified as Ram Thakur, a High School passout and a worker in a private factory, told us that as he was running short of money, he decided to extort money from the same institute, where he had pursued a diploma course in 2017,” he said. The police further said that he told the investigators that he took the name of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, because he was famous and in order to cause terror and pressure on the institute owner. “In reality, however, he said that he neither knew and not even met once Vikas Dubey or any of his aides. He further told cops that he did a diploma course from the institute in 2017 by paying a fee of Rs 11,000. He said that he he had asked computer institute employee to convey his owner to arrange cash worth Rs 22,000 or else would be eliminated,” the police said further. -----------eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/13k-fake-complaints-extortion-and-threat-calls/articleshow/78094428.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||Attacked by neighbours, 65-year-old woman succumbs to injuries, four booked||Pilibhit: Four people were booked for allegedly beating 65-year-old Jamuna Devi of Bankati village under Neuria police station on Friday night. The woman succumbed to her injuries early Sunday when she was being shifted to a higher medical facility from the district government hospital in Pilibhit. According to the victim’s son Dharmendra Kumar, he was assaulted by four of his neighbours — Umesh, Chatur Bihari, Vijaypal and Shakuntala Devi — in the ensuing dispute over the ownership of land adjacent to his house and when his mother came to his rescue, they beat up his mother, too. SHO Kheem Singh Jalal said, “The accused was earlier booked under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) on Friday night, but after the death of Jamuna Devi, IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) would be added to the FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/attacked-by-neighbours-65-year-old-woman-succumbs-to-injuries-four-booked/articleshow/78093348.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Agra||109 new Covid-19 +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 109 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 4,042. A 67-year-old man also died while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College. The man was a resident of Kirti Nagar and was suffering from cardiovascular disorder and acute renal failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 114 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Also, 95 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 4,042 cases reported in the district, 4,042 [77.5%] have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 796 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/109-new-covid-19-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78094085.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Madurai||Fresh cases fall further to 640 in south Tamil Nadu, touch 750 in central region; deaths 6 each||MADURAI/TRICHY: South Tamil Nadu hit a new low in fresh Covid-19 cases after months on Sunday as the region recorded 640 Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Sunday, the lowest number of fresh cases reported in a single day since June 30. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 750 fresh cases on Sunday taking the tally to 40,932, which included 5,126 active cases. The region also recorded six deaths taking the toll to 602. The total Covid-19 cases in the southern region has climbed to 1,00,982, which include 6,398 active cases and 1,746 deaths. The most number of cases on Sunday were reported in Tirunelveli (126), which currently has the most number of active cases in the southern region (1,072). During the last month, both Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have been consistently reporting 100 new Covid-19 cases or more every day, whereas cases are showing decline in many other districts. Though Kanyakumari saw 110 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the active cases in the district remained at 736. The district also crosses 10,000 recoveries on Sunday. Currently, the overall district tally is at 10,0958 and 207 deaths. Ramanathapuram reported only 16 new cases. Ramanathapuram has the second least number of active cases in the southern region with 244 cases, behind Sivaganga (236). Four more districts, Sivaganga (46), Tuticorin (45), Virudhunagar (35), and Tenkasi (28) also reported less than 50 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. For the fifth day in a row, with 78 cases, Madurai district reported less than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases. Out of the six deaths in the region, four were reported in Madurai, taking the district toll to 375. Kanyakumari and Dindigul reported one death each. The overall death rate in the southern region is at 1.72%. A total of 154 positive cases were reported in Nagapattinam taking the district tally to 4,075. Thanjavur recorded 151 fresh positive cases, taking the total count of the district to 8,340. Tiruvarur and Pudukottai recorded 143 and 134 fresh positive cases. The total counts of the districts were 5,267 and 7,427. Pudukottai district reported three deaths on Sunday. A total of 86 positive cases and one death were reported in Trichy on Sunday. With this, the total count of the district has climbed to 8,846. With 48 new cases, the tally of Karur district has touched 2,161. Ariyalur district reported 11 fresh cases taking the tally to 3,271. Perambalur district reported 23 positive cases and the total number of cases in the district has climbed to 1,545.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-cases-fall-further-to-640-in-southtn-touch-750-in-central-region-deaths-6-each/articleshow/78096458.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||In highest single day spike, Uttarakhand sees 1,637 cases||DEHRADUN: In the highest single day spike of Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand reported 1,637 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Sunday taking the state’s tally to 31,973. With rising cases, the infection rate reached 6.4% in the Himalayan state. The state capital alone reported 623 fresh cases becoming the district with maximum active cases in Uttarakhand. Dehradun reported 200 deaths among 414 total deaths in the state. Apart from the highest single day spike in fresh cases, even recoveries touched a new record on Sunday with 1,009 people getting recovered from the infection. Total 21,040 people have won the fight against the deadly Covid-19 in Uttarakhand. Maximum recovery of 4,661 people was reported from Udham Singh Nagar followed by 4,521 people recovering in Haridwar and 4,173 in Dehradun. Abhishek Tripathi, from Covid-19 control room, said that 12 deaths were also reported in Uttarakhand on Sunday – eight of them in Dehradun and four in Haldwani. “Among the 414 deaths of Covid patients in the state, 200 died in the state capital alone followed by 75 in Nainital, 66 in Haridwar and 46 in Udham Singh Nagar,” said Tripathi. Among the fresh cases, 318 were reported from Haridwar, followed by 240 in Udham Singh Nagar and 211 in Nainital. In hill districts, Pauri reported 57 cases, Uttarkashi 47, Pithoragarh 34, Champawat 32, Tehri 37, Almora 16, Bageshwar 13, Rudraprayag 12 and Chamoli 7. With an average of around 800 to 900 cases per day, the state witnessed over 10,000 cases in September so far. The officials feel that the rise in cases is because of aggressive testing. “Not just the cases are rising but even testing has increased drastically. We have tested around a lakh people in the last 13 days with samples sent to labs crossing the 5 lakh mark,” Tripathi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-highest-single-day-spike-ukhand-sees-1637-cases/articleshow/78094093.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||Times NIE offers chance to go to NASA||DEHRADUN: The annual School Super League, a school-level quiz competition conducted by edu-tech company BYJU’s and powered by Times Newspaper In Education (NIE), is going on with much enthusiasm at a national level. The quiz this year includes many subjects and is aimed to recognise the acumen of students in different subjects. The quiz aims to test the scientific, mathematical, and social aptitude of students. Lots of exciting prizes are up for grabs for the winners this year. The national finalists will win a trip along with their school principal to NASA, USA. Notably, the entry for students is still open and they just have to contact their respective schools to participate. The league is expected to culminate by month-end. Currently, the rounds are taking place at school-level. Subsequently, the competition will move to state and national level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/times-nie-offers-chance-to-go-to-nasa/articleshow/78094089.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP first state to conduct 75 lakh Covid tests||LUCKNOW: UP achieved yet another benchmark of completing 75 lakh Covid-19 tests, the highest in the country, since the outbreak of the pandemic in March earlier this year. The record was set with the state government achieving the target of conducting approximately 1.5 lakh tests per day, which is now targeted to be increased to 2 lakh per day. Additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Awasthi said that the state government would achieve the target of conducting 1 crore tests by the month-end. “UP is the most populous state and therefore the number of tests was expected to be much more than in other states,” he said.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); As against UP’s 75 lakh, Maharashhtra has conducted 51.6 lakh tests and Andhra Pradesh 45.3 lakh tests so far. Likewise, Tamil Nadu has conducted 58 lakh test, Karnataka 37 lakh, Delhi 20 lakh, West Bengal 24 lakh and Bihar 47.7 lakh tests. Awasthi said that the state government sought to put in place a robust medical infrastructure in its battle against Corona. He said that the death rate because of the Corona in the state was lesser than other states and below than the national average. He said that the total confirmed cases till date was 3.05 lakh against a population of 22.5 crores. Awasthi said that the Corona cases could be arrested by following various safety protocols and launching a campaign for wearing masks and maintaining the requisite distance to avoid contracting the virus. The recovery rate in UP was 76% which is higher than many other states. “The state government was trying to better the recovery rate in the days to come,” he said. The CM, he said, reiterated on laying emphasis on cities like Lucknow, Kanpur, Meerut, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur which have a higher case burden. Awasthi said that the CM has pressed for making people aware about the protocols by making public announcements through the use of loudspeakers. According to the plan, the state government would put in place a public address system that would play songs appealing people to follow protocols and precautions to avoid contracting Corona. The CM also underlined the need of distributing masks among the people. The ACS home said that CM has also pitched for completing the work of under construction testing laboratories in the state. Also, the usage of newly constituted Covid hospitals -- like the newly constructed 320-bed Covid hospital in Lucknow– be expedited. The CM also laid thrust on training of paramedics in more numbers to strengthen the man power dealing with the pandemic. Better PPE kitsThe state government also plans to expedite the purchase of better quality Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, masks, gloves and sanitizers through the GEM portal at a very competitive price. UP CM Yogi Adityanath has specially given directions to arrest the chances of black marketing of oxygen and setting up new oxygen plants in the state. Various companies have already come forward with proposals to install oxygen plants in cities like Lucknow, Ghaziabad and Meerut. Post-Covid careThe Centre has issued the guidelines pertaining to post-Covid care which need to be followed by patients who have recovered from Corona. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the guidelines focus on various protocols including repeated washing of hands, regular use of face masks and maintaining social distance. The recovered patients also need to practise yoga, exercise and begin daily work. Watch Uttar Pradesh becomes first state to conduct 75 lakh Covid-19 tests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-first-state-to-conduct-75l-covid-tests/articleshow/78096466.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||5-day janata curfew from Tuesday, decide traders in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: While the administration on Sunday ordered seven private hospitals to reserve 20% beds for Covid-19 patients, traders in the city have unanimously resolved to observe five-day janata curfew starting Tuesday to salvage the situation on pandemic front. The hospitals are Sanjeevan Hospital, Datta Hospital, Criticare Hospital and Sai Shraddha Hospital in Yavatmal, Lifeline Hospital and Medicare Multispeciality Hospital in Pusad and Dr Lodha’s Hospital in Wani. Shaw Hospital will also continue to function as a Covid-19 Care Centre in addition to the seven hospitals. District Chamber of Commerce and Industries (DCCI) vice-president Arun Pobaru, through a press release on Sunday, announced the decision of various unions of traders and grocers to observe five-day janata curfew in the city. Similar meetings are being held to observe janata curfew in other cities also, he said. Meanwhile, guardian minister Sanjay Rathod has directed civil surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Warey to expedite the work on new building of ladies hospital here and ready at least 300-bed facility for Covid treatment at the earliest. The new building is being constructed on 5,000 square metre area having estimated cost of Rs37.40 crore and is nearing completion. Rathod had earlier ordered GMCH dean Dr RP Singh to arrange 250 beds for Covid-19 patients in Super Speciality Hospital on the GMC premises. “We are prepared to meet the demand for beds and hence the arrangement for additional beds in advance,” Rathod told TOI on Sunday. He urged people to follow preventive measures like Covid distancing, wearing mask in public and also avoid unnecessary movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-day-janata-curfew-from-tue-decide-traders-in-ytl/articleshow/78096470.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Rajkot||Heavy rains wreak havoc on crops in Amreli||Rajkot: Heavy rains pounded Rajula, Jafrabad and Khambha talukas of Amreli district on Sunday, wreaking havoc on standing crops of farmers in the region. While Khambha taluka recorded more than 75 mm of rainfall on the day, Rayadi Dam in the district overflowed for the 10th time during this monsoon season due to the heavy downpour. After the gates of the dam had to be opened, low lying villages of Mota Barman, Nageshri and Nana Barman were put on high flood alert. “Heavy rains are feared to have caused massive crop destruction in Amreli district. Apart from Rajula, Jafrabad and Khambha, heavy rains have also occurred in Timbi, Lothpur, Bhakodar, Dudhala and Vandh,” said an official from the Amreli district administration. Meanwhile, photographs and video clips of a bolt of lightning that struck a tower in Hemal village of Jafrabad have gone viral on social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/heavy-rains-wreak-havoc-on-crops-in-amreli/articleshow/78094132.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||‘CAs will be booked for ignoring fake data, embezzlement, while auditing sugar mills’||Pilibhit: Principal secretary, sugar industry and cane development, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has warned chartered accountants (CA) that FIRs will be filed against them if they are found to have glossed over fake data, instances of theft, financial losses and embezzlement while auditing the state’s cooperative sugar mills. There are 24 functional sugar mills under the UP cooperative sugar factories federation and one under UP state sugar corporation limited. Bhoosreddy said CAs have also been asked to complete their audit work for the crushing year 2019-20 and file the reports within a month. He said under Section 44 of the IT Act, 1961, it would be imperative forCAs to file tax and annual audit reports of cooperative sugar mills to the income tax department online. “Most importantly, details related to the status of sugar mills’ compliance with the government order for tagging of the sale price of sugar, molasses and bagasse, in addition to the amount accrued on auction of scrap, are to be made integral parts of the annual audit report,” Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cas-will-be-booked-for-ignoring-fake-data-embezzlement-while-auditing-sugar-mills/articleshow/78091538.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||Handcuffed accused escapes from custody of police in Kheri district, video goes viral||Bareilly: Within a few hours after a handcuffed accused booked under the POCSO Act for allegedly attempting to rape a minor girl in Mitauli area in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district escaped from the custody of police with the handcuffs on, CCTV footage of the incident splattered across social media on Sunday. Two policemen, who were shifting the accused, Hiralal, to Lakhimpur district jail on a bike, had stopped at a petrol pump for refuelling when the accused escaped with the handcuffs on, said police, adding several police teams were searching for the accused. Mitauli police station SHO Anil Kumar said, “Hiralal was booked under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act. He somehow managed to escape from the custody of police. We have deployed several teams and he will be nabbed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/handcuffed-accused-escapes-from-custody-of-police-in-kheri-district-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78093359.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unusual tour: Ahmedabad museums go to visitors in virtual avatar||AHMEDABAD: An LD Museum curator takes a group through intriguing objects — dating back from 4th century to 15th century CE — explaining the materials, sculpting techniques, history, and religious significance. It is, however, not a usual tour. Only the curator is present on the premises and all the ‘visitors,’ in this case Class VI students, are touring the museum from the comfort of their homes! Radhika Lalbhai, the managing trustee of LD Museum, said that when visitors cannot come to the museum, the museum must reach out to them. Sujata Parsai, who recently took charge as the museum’s director, said that the Covid era has prompted all to think out of the box. “Earlier, we had guided tours for children and college students,” Parsai said. “Over the past couple of months, we have started virtual tours which are tailor-made for students based on their curriculum.” Parsai went on to say: “We also got active on social media platforms, introducing interactive puzzles, colouring activities, the object of the month with detailed description of the artefact.” It’s the beginning of change for city-based museums and exhibition spaces. Lilavati Lalbhai Library (LLL) — the first exhibition space for architectural projects in Ahmedabad — in June organized its maiden online exhibition of an eminent artist from the city, Amit Ambalal. His recent works, ‘Wild and Wonderful in Ahmedabad,’ were featured. The ‘gates’ opened at 5pm, a virtual lamp was lit, and a tour of the exhibition followed with commentary by the artist. Jay Thakkar, the executive director of DICRC at Cept University and head of LLL, said that the current situation has opened up new vistas. “The exhibitions are not bound by space now. We can collaborate with institutions from across the globe for temporary exhibitions and digital walk-throughs,” he said. “We have a few upcoming virtual projects at LLL.” But several experts believe that the digital cannot wholly replace the real. Dr Narottam Sahoo, advisor to GUJCOST, said that their exhibits are hands-on. “We have integrated several elements of our vast exhibition in our online events, but it would take some time to get acclimatized to the hybrid model,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unusual-tour-city-museums-go-to-visitors-in-virtual-avatar/articleshow/78095130.cms||Parth Shastri
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||Body of Jammu & Kashmir student, who drowned in Yamuna, recovered by SDRF||DEHRADUN: The body of a 22-year-old student from Jammu and Kashmir was recovered from Yamuna river near Kata Pathar in Vikasnagar area on the outskirts of Dehradun by a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) on Sunday morning. The victim, identified as Khalid, had drowned and was swept away in the river while he was on a picnic with three of his friends. According to officials, Khalid had gone to Kata Pathar to celebrate the birthday of one of his friends. “After the search operation that lasted for more than two days, a team of divers from SDRF recovered the body of the student from Dakpathar barrage. The body has been handed over to the police for further formalities. Subsequently, it will be handed over to the family members who reached Vikasnagar on September 12,” said Praveen Alok, spokesperson, SDRF. According to police, Khalid was studying hospital administration from a private institute in Dehradun and was in the final year of the course. He was staying in a rented accomodation at Mothrowala in Dehradun while his permanent residence is at Gujjar Nagar in Jammu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-jk-student-who-drowned-in-yamuna-recovered-by-sdrf/articleshow/78094109.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||Landslides on Janki Chatti-Yamunotri trek route||DEHRADUN: The yatra to the Yamunotri shrine in Uttarkashi district was stopped following a landslide on the Janki Chatti-Yamunotri trek route on Sunday. Officials said that the removal of the debris from the route will take at least a few days and till then, the yatra is likely to remain stalled. Meanwhile, the pilgrims on their way to the pilgrimage were asked to return by the administration till an alternative trek route is not prepared by the Public Work Department (PWD) personnel. The pilgrims who were already on the trek route were safely taken to Janki Chatti by a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and police. On the other hand, light-to-moderate showers lashed a few places in Uttarakhand, including state capital Dehradun. The regional meteorological centre on Sunday issued a forecast of light-to-moderate rainfall and thunderstorm activity at many places in Dehradun, Pauri, and Nainital districts on September 14. The rest of the places are also expected to experience light showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslides-on-janki-chatti-yamunotri-trek-route-disrupts-yatra-to-yamunotri-shrine/articleshow/78094113.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||Ex-CMs’ dues: Special leave petition filed in Supreme Court||NAINITAL: Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash has informed the Nainital high court (HC) that its special leave petition (SLP) challenging the division bench’s judgement in June this year is before the Supreme Court (SC). The disclosure has been made by the chief secretary through an affidavit filed before the court in the civil contempt petition. The petition was filed by Dehradun-based NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK). The single judge bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma had, last month, issued show cause notices to the former CMs as well as the chief secretary. According to the affidavit, an SLP was filed before the apex court on September 8 challenging the judgement of the court (dated June, 2020) that declared the provisions of the government’s Act unconstitutional. Meanwhile, a separate petition was also filed on September 9 against the court’s order of May 2019 directing the state to recover dues. “That on receipt of the judgement and order dated 09.06.2020, the state government has taken a decision to prefer SLP before the Honourable Supreme Court… That the state government was also advised to challenge the judgement and order dated 03.05.2019 of this Honourable Court, before the Honourable Apex Court…,” read the affidavit. As reported by TOI earlier, the Uttarakhand HC, through its May 2019 order, had directed the former CMs to pay the dues they owed for availing facilities like bungalows, cars, subsidised electricity, among others. However, the state government brought an ordinance effectively giving the former CMs a relief, and the ordinance was also ratified by the state assembly. The division bench of the HC headed by the then-Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan, however, struck down the provisions of the Act on the ground that it violated Article 14 of the Constitution as well as the doctrine of separation of powers. The affidavit has also revealed that following the HC’s order of May 2019, the government had issued notices to the former CMs – in case of late ND Tiwari, notice was issued to his legal heirs — directing them to pay the money they owed. This was, however, done based on the provisions of the ordinance that the government had introduced by then. The chief secretary has further said that as the ordinance by the state government was ratified as an Act, notices were again served to the former chief ministers asking them to pay the dues after deduction of the amount already deposited. The affidavit adds that three former Uttarakhand CMs – Bhagat Singh Koshyari, BC Khanduri and Vijay Bahuguna – have paid the adequate rent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-cms-dues-special-leave-petition-filed-in-sc/articleshow/78093354.cms||Prashant Jha
September 14, 2020||Agra||Bajra crop faces threat, agri dept sounds alert||Agra: After locusts, farmers in Agra district are facing attacks by Fall Armyworm (FAW) on bajra (pearl millet) crops. With the pest attacks being reported from Bah and Khergarh blocks of Agra district, the agriculture department has issued an alert, asking the farmers to take preventive measures to save their crop. Bajra is a major crop cultivated over one lakh hectares in the district. The Fall Armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda) is a lepidopteran pest that feeds in large numbers on leaves and stems of more than 80 plant species, not only causing damages to bajra, jowar (sorghum), wheat, maize, rice and sugarcane, but also affecting vegetable and fruit crops. The FAW was first spotted in Africa in 2016 and soon spread to 40 countries in the continent within a year. In India, it was first sighted in May 2018 in Karnataka and infested almost all the states within a year. According to agriculture department officials, the FAW has a dark head capsule with a light inverted ‘Y’ marking, while the larvae vary from light tan to black with three light yellow stripes down the back. There are a wide dark stripe and a wavy yellow-red blotched stripe on each side. District agriculture officer Rampravesh Verma said, “FAW is capable of eating more than its body weight in a day. Besides, its reproductive capacity is also dangerous. A single female can lay as many as 1,000 eggs in her lifespan. Armyworm moths are active during the evening, feeding on nectar, mating, and searching for oviposition sites. Eggs are deposited in rows or clusters on the lower leaves of grasses or at the base of plants.” “The lifecycle of the worm can range from 30 to 45 days. In winter, the cycle can extend even up to 90 days. With continuous overlapping generations, the worm can be seen in all stages at the same time. This makes it difficult to manage the pest,” said Verma. When the FAW infestation is severe, agriculture department officials recommend the use of Emamectin Benzoate and Chlorantraniliprole (0.4 grams per litre of water) and when it is mild, they recommend neem formulations. “The pest can be controlled if timely management is initiated. Our teams are spreading awareness among farmers for the prevention of crop loss by the FAW attack. Farmers can send photographs of affected plants with their queries and address on WhatsApp numbers 9452247111 or 9452257111 and the required assistance will be provided to them in 48 hours,” added Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bajra-crop-faces-threat-agri-dept-sounds-alert/articleshow/78094116.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Fisheries graduates set up seabass hatchery||Mangaluru: Three graduates from the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, have launched a startup in seed production of Asian seabass in Kumta. The initiative was launched with the technical support of the ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA), Chennai. This is probably the first of its kind initiative in the private sector on a startup mode. An MoU was signed between CIBA and Canares Aquaculture to ensure the transfer of CIBA’s technology on seabass seed production to the latter. Entrepreneurs Karthik Gowda V S, Kaushik Alike and Sachin V Savan, as students, had visited CIBA’s seabass hatchery at Muttukadu experimental station. When they expressed their startup plan to the CIBA authorities, the institute provided them technical guidance and field training in seabass nursery rearing. CIBA helped the startup which enabled them to get funding to start the firm. Dr K K Vijayan, director, CIBA called the initiative a milestone in brackishwater aquaculture. “It is a pathbreaking development in the country’s aquaculture sector with youngsters coming to this field with startup ventures which will pave the way for a resurgence and growth in the brackishwater aquaculture, especially Asian seabass farming in the country,” he said. Emphasising the need for boosting the production of quality seeds of Asian seabass, Dr Vijayan said that it is equally important to use indigenous technologies in both hatchery-reared seeds and formulated feeds for development of scientific seabass farming in the country. With the farmed Asian seabass having a huge commercial value, there is a huge demand for its quality seeds among aqua-farmers. Presence of a well-established value chain for the seabass is very evident from spawn to harvest size, where huge demand exists among the farmers for the range of hatchery and farm-produced seeds. According to the CIBA, in the seabass value chain, on tier wise rearing mode for fry, fingerlings, advanced fingerlings and subadults, a net profit of Rs 1-Rs1.5, Rs 10-Rs15, Rs 30-Rs50 and Rs 140-Rs190, can be made respectively, and the final grow-out seabass above one kg fetches a market price in the range of Rs 450 to Rs 750.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fisheries-graduates-set-up-seabass-hatchery/articleshow/78094125.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||Man accused of eloping with girl, dies in police custody on way to Haridwar||ROORKEE: A 34-year-old man from Haridwar, who was being brought to the city by a local police team from Chandigarh after allegedly eloping with a 17-year-old girl, died in police custody near Roorkee on Saturday. His autopsy is now being conducted at AIIMS-Rishikesh, on his family's request. The man identified as Akhilesh Dixit - a father of two from Kankhal locality - went missing from his house on September 4 after leaving behind a suicide note. Notably, the 17-year-old girl also went missing from the same locality on September 6. After examining both the "missing" cases, it was found that the man had an affair with the girl and the duo had fled to Chandigarh. A three-member district police team then picked them up from Chandigarh and while on their way to Haridwar on Saturday, Dixit started vomiting near Roorkee and reportedly collapsed. "The death occurred under police custody. We demand justice," said Alok Kumar Shukla, brother-in-law of Dixit. According to police sources, the man died after vomiting a few times near Roorkee and was taken to a hospital where he was declared as brought dead. Dixit's body was taken to Roorkee's Civil Hospital for autopsy on Sunday. However, authorities there referred to AIIMS-Rishikesh. Roorkee's joint magistrate, Namami Bansal, said, "We have got the inquest done. If directed by a district magistrate we will have a magisterial or judicial probe in the matter, following a request from a kin of the deceased."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-accused-of-eloping-with-girl-dies-in-police-custody-on-way-to-haridwar/articleshow/78094121.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH forensics department conducts autopsy on Covid +ve murder victim||NAGPUR: Sohankumar Prasad’s murder on Saturday was the second case at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) where a post mortem was conducted on a Covid-19 positive body, with utmost care and precaution. In August, the first post mortem of a Covid positive murder victim from Hudkeshwar too was performed at GMCH. The 24-year-old victim had been stabbed on Saturday with a sharp weapon by a minor, who was later rounded up by MIDC police and handed over to the government remand home meant for lodging juveniles in conflict with law. During a scuffle, Prasad was stabbed near the gate of Priyadarshini College at Hingna on the road behind the shrine of Takiawale Baba. He was declared dead at Mayo Hospital. It’s learnt the minor accused was consuming liquor with friends when he spotted Prasad passing by. He demanded for some money from Prasad. As the victim refused to part with any cash, the minor stabbed him with a sharp object, which the cops are yet to identify. It’s learnt Prasad was grievously injured when cops reached him. He could only faintly state that the assailant had used a pair of scissors to stab him. The cops said the accused claimed to have used a knife and not scissors to attack Prasad. During the ongoing pandemic, there have been a number of instances where victims of suicide and accidental deaths were found to be Covid positive, and their post mortems were waived off. However, the homicidal nature of Prasad’s death forced the cops to insist on an autopsy. Sources in GMCH said forensic staffers performed the post mortem clad in PPE kit, N95 masks and faceshields too. The instruments were later sanitized as per the norms in sodium hypochlorite solution. “The body is yet to be disposed off as the family members of the victim are yet to reach here from Bihar,” said investigation officer sub-inspector Nitin Madankar of MIDC police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-forensics-dept-conducts-autopsy-on-covid-ve-murder-victim/articleshow/78096472.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 14, 2020||Kanpur||Ankur Verma tops JEE Main exam in city||Kanpur: Ankur Verma topped the city with 99.99 percentile in JEE Main. The results were declared by National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Friday night. Parinay Singh Chauhan scored 99.84 percentile while Vineet Kumar Pathak scored 99.81 percentile. Students who wish to study in IITs have to clear JEE Main as a pre-requisite. The result of JEE Main also help students take admission in National Institute of Technology (NIT). Several city students did well in JEE Main and scored high percentile. Ayush Srivastava, a resident of Anand Bagh, scored 99.75 percentile while Ayush Goyal scored 99.71 percentile, Tanushree Pandey scored 99.71 percentile. Akshay Kumar Verma and Saksham Tripathi scored 99.68 and 99.60 percentile respectively. Another student Tanishq Kakkar secured 99.57 percentile. All these brilliant students would now appear for JEE Advanced to be conducted by IIT-Delhi later this month for admission in IITs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ankur-verma-tops-jee-main-exam-in-city/articleshow/78094435.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Fossilised wood hints at pre-historic story||Chennai: A two-metre-long petrified (fossilised) wood has been found by a group of farmers in Karambiyum village in the Kunnum taluk of Perambalur district. The discovery points to the ancient geological shifts in the region. Millions of years ago, in the Cretaceous period, this region was under water. The Indo-Pacific Sea had transgressed between today’s Puducherry and Karaikal regions and after some 80 million years had regressed, leaving millions of creatures dead in the dry sea-bed. Even though fossils of sea animals and pieces of petrified woods are found in the region, this is the first time such a long piece of fossilised wood has been found. Since the fossilised wood represents the remains of ancient forests, the team that found it informed the Geological Survey of India which maintains the fossil wood park in Sathanur. “We have informed the officials of the GSI. We are yet to get a reply from the officials,” said agriculture activist Ramesh Karuppaiya, a member in the group that found the petrified wood.  Ramesh said since the petrified wood in Karambiyum is attached to a stone, it would be difficult to remove. “In 2015, we had formed special groups to conserve the petrified woods found in Perambalur. The villagers are aware of the importance of petrified wood today as the fossils help us understand the history and evolution of our earth. It’s better if the government can install a steel gauge around it to preserve it,” he said. There are two wood fossil parks in Tamil Nadu in Tiruvakkarai and Sathanur, “The one found in Karambiyum looks old, but one has to study it in detail to know its exact age,” said M N Ramanujam, a retired geology professor based in Trichy. The villagers said they have informed the officials of the GSI with the photographs of the petrified wood. “It’s good villagers have notified such discoveries. We are yet to decide on when to visit the spot,” said an official from the GSI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fossilised-wood-hints-at-pre-historic-story/articleshow/78096086.cms||M T Saju
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand minority department starts scholarship programme||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s minority department has started the procedure to award scholarships to meritorious students from minority communities. The scholarship is meant for those students who have either cleared their high school or intermediate exams, and based on their performance in it, the amount of scholarship will be decided. The state minority welfare department said that the programme has been developed to assist minority students in availing higher education. In order to avail the scholarship, the student’s annual family income should be lesser than Rs 81,000 if they are residing in rural areas while for the ones residing in urban areas, it needs to be lesser than Rs 1,03,000. The last date to apply for the scholarship is October 15 and the forms can be availed from the state minority welfare office in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-minority-dept-starts-scholarship-programme-for-meritorious-students-of-minority-communities/articleshow/78094134.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: After a week, drop in Covid deaths, infections||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 toll rose to 290 with four deaths reported on Sunday. The state’s total active cases dropped to 5,173 as recoveries for the day exceeded the number of new cases detected. As many as 553 patients were cured and 407 new cases were detected. All four deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. Three men —a 75-year-old from Pernem, a 73-year-old from Arpora, a 72-year-old from Assagao and an 88-year-old woman from Sakhali—were given full treatment as per the protocol for an average period of seven to 11 days, Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean said. All four had comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, ischaemic heart disease and chronic pulmonary disease. It is almost after a week that the state has seen a drop in Covid-related deaths. On Saturday, 10 Covid-19 fatalities were reported. Porvorim hasn’t seen a dip in new infections, and on Sunday, its active count rose to 322 while the caseload of Sakhali reached 316. Panaji reported 20 new cases from Ribandar, Mala, Caranzalem, St Inez and Bhatlem and has 272 active ones. Mapusa’s cases rose to 188. In South Goa, Vasco, Margao and Ponda also haven’t had much respite in terms of new infections. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that doctors and health officials are working overtime to convert the South Goa district hospital to a Covid-19 hospital and they expect to commission it by next Saturday. “The team is working to finish some arrangements, after which we shall be ready to commission it,” he said. Two weeks ago, the government decided to commission a new Covid hospital in South Goa as beds in all facilities, government as well as private, were filled to capacity. GMC has also opened more wards for Covid patients. If the spike continues at the present pace, it will make things difficult for the government to manage the pandemic, said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-after-a-week-drop-in-covid-deaths-infections/articleshow/78096106.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Fire in SSG’s neurosurgery ward meter triggers panic||Vadodara: In less than a week’s time, panic gripped the state-run SSG Hospital again when a short-circuit took place in one of the buildings located on the hospital premises.Wires in an electric meter at the neurosurgery department caught fire late on Saturday night resulting in some anxious moments. However, stepping up to the occasion, a security guard posted near the department, immediately prevented further damage by controlling the fire with an extinguisher.“I was about to leave for home when I smelt something burning. When I checked the meter room, I saw sparks in the fuse box so informed my higher-ups. I also doused the spark using a fire extinguisher before it could escalate,” the security guard told TOI.The fire department, however, was not informed about the incident as the situation was controlled by the hospital staff within a few minutes.“There was a kind of spark in the fuse near the meter box. Our security personnel who was posted there noticed it and immediately took out an extinguisher used for dousing spot fires kept near a hub of electric wires and cables. It was controlled within two minutes,” said a security personnel. An electrician working with the hospital’s civil department soon fixed the fault in the fuse. “It happened at around 10.45 pm on Saturday night. As the fire incident inside ICU-1 has kept everybody on the alert, such small incidents are immediately brought under control,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fire-in-ssgs-neurosurgery-ward-meter-triggers-panic/articleshow/78093834.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kanpur||‘Community participation to boost digital infra in schools’||Prayagraj: The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered District Magistrates (DMs) and basic education department officials to explore the options of community participation to deal with the lack of digital infrastructure in the government-run primary and upper primary schools. The step was taken after realising the challenges which are being faced by the students and the administration of about 1.60 lakh government-run primary and upper primary schools of the state during the ongoing pandemic. There is a large number of schools which lack required digital infrastructure to ensure education to students through online learning. The officials have been asked to contact NGOs, social organizations and even individuals and corporate houses interested in adopting particular schools and help in providing them computers and Wi-Fi connectivity for the benefit of the students. Even Gram Panchayat funds can be used for the upgradation of the schools as centres of digital learning, informed officials. The instructions of the additional chief secretary (basic education) Renuka Kumar (dated September 2), copy of which has been sent to all district magistrates with copies marked to all divisional commissioners, director general (school education) and director (basic education), clearly specified the items and their technical specifications needed to boost the digital infrastructure of these institutions. “Acting on the orders, we have asked all block education officers to approach and invite individuals, NGOs and firms who could contribute in this noble mission,” said Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA)- Prayagraj Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha. The plan is to rope in community members even firms which wish to contribute by way of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives in this regard. The lists comprises computers, mouse, keyboard, USB ports, Wifi devices, speakers, projectors and screens. The officials strive to procure all these essential items for the schools. The order acknowledges that a large number of students of these schools were still unable to access and use the digital academic content that was being made available for them through different educational portals, YouTube videos, WhatsApp groups besides programmes being made available through Doordarshan and Akashwani. The additional chief secretary has asked officials to tap trader organizations, private trusts to even industrial organisations for making available the digital infrastructure including setting up smart classrooms in these 1.60 lakh schools having over 1.8 crore kids enrolled in them across 75 districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/community-participation-to-boost-digital-infra-in-schools/articleshow/78095793.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Bar elections to be conducted through mobile app||Ludhiana: The voting for electing the office-bearers of the District Bar Association (DBA) slated for September 30 is to be conducted through a mobile app, revealed an election official. These elections were to be held for various posts, including president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, finance secretary and executive members, on April 3 earlier, but were postponed to April 17 and then indefinitely. Returning officer Surinder Khakh said that the trials for conducting elections online were held on August 16, though the previous trials had not succeeded. He added that the elections for the post of president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary and finance secretary would be held through an app developed by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana on September 30. He further said a voter would put his bar registration enrolment number in the app and then get a one-time password (OTP) on the registered mobile number. He added that after submitting that the voter would get a list of candidates of each post and would have to click their choice for various posts before submitting the same. Returning officer said that since there were many steps involved, the voter would have to do it on his own. He added that once elected the term of the elected representatives would last until December 2021. Election officials said that the returning officers (ROs) for DBA elections include Surinder Khakh, Jagmohan Singh Waraich and Amardeep Bhatia. They added that the ARO for the elections include Lalita Jain, Avtar Singh Chopra, L S Rai, Ravinder Singh Arora, Vikas Gupta, Gurpreet Singh Arora, Adarsh Sharma, Mandeep Singh Sidhu and Roopali Molri. ARO Lalita Jain said that they had come up with the list of the candidates after a proper process and list of the voters was being finalised as certain corrections needed to be made in that. She added that while there were three candidates in the fray for president post, an equal number of candidates were contesting the vice-president election. She added that for secretary post there were three candidates whereas for joint and finance secretaries, two candidates each were in the fray. She added that there were more than 2,800 voters who were expected to vote in the elections. Meanwhile, Harjot Singh Harikay, one of the candidates for the post of president, has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court in the matter. Harikay said that the bar council, Chandigarh, has no power to regulate the elections process of the bar association, Ludhiana, through its notification dated September 9, 2020. Referring to an earlier judgment, he mentioned that in the order dated March 25, 2015, the court had clarified that the bar council would not regulate the process of elections of bar associations and the notification for conducting elections by the bar council unilaterally was against the estoppel created by the same bench which had ordered them to make uniform rules. In response, a short reply was filed by the bar council and the court had fixed the date of hearing for October 3. “Now that the bar council has announced the date of elections on September 30, we have requested for early hearing through mentioning process. The writ will likely be taken up on September 14,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bar-elections-to-be-conducted-through-mobile-app/articleshow/78095173.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 14, 2020||Allahabad||Atiq’s gang lost Rs 300 crore in crackdown since August||Prayagraj: The crackdown against jailed mafia don and ex-MP Atiq Ahmad by police, district administration and Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), especially since August month, has resulted in loss of over Rs 300 crore for him and his henchmen. Police have severely dented the don’s economic empire and hit his armoury through suspension or cancellation of arm licences. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh told TOI on Sunday, “The crackdown against jailed mafia don-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad’s properties accumulated through illegal means is continuing.” “Till now, we have demolished seven properties owned or constructed by Atiq or his henchmen. We also attached 13 properties worth over Rs 300 crore in the district,” he added. The action against gangs and gangsters to check organized crime will go on against all the men on radar, especially Atiq Ahmad and Dilip Mishra. Police had also attached 12 properties of gangster Dilip Mishra in the trans-Yamuna area. After investigating and compiling documents that expose the wealth accumulated by Atiq and his henchmen in Civil Lines, Mehdauri, Kareli, Khuldabad, Lukerganj, Andhawa Crossing road, Roshan Bagh, Kareli, Chakia, Jhalwa, police have further chalked out a plan to attach properties and demolish illegal structures besides initiating their confiscation under Gangsters Act, the SP said. Many illegal constructions by Atiq’s henchmen in Mehdauri and Bajupur were razed and government land freed. We have also smashed the networking of jailed don, Singh added. In 2007, police had razed Atiq’s office in Khuldabad area. On Sunday, a joint team of police, district administration and Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) freed two plots of 4350.22 square metres and 2680.95 square metres in Lukerganj.  It was nazul land that had been grabbed by the Atiq gang. On September 11, police, district administration and PDA teams had razed five illegal structures on 5,000 square-metre land at Mehdauri in Shivkuti police station area. The houses were built by Atiq’s close relative Hamza Usman. On September 10, police had attached three properties of Atiq at Khuldabad worth crores of rupees after a probe found they were allegedly accumulated through illegal means. Illegal properties of Atiq and his henchmen were also targeted on September 5, 7 and 8. “We have identified over two dozen properties accumulated by Atiq through illegal means. Majority of them are in the city's west locality. We have been taking concrete steps of seizure, demolition and attachment of the properties.We have also taken steps to attach the cold storage owned by the jailed don at Andhawa in the trans-Ganga area,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/atiqs-gang-lost-rs-300-crore-in-crackdown-since-august/articleshow/78095754.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Allahabad||Online classes spark surge in eye ailments||Prayagraj: Online classes sessions seem to have left adverse impact on the eye-sight of children. Majority of children aged between 6 to 18 years are approaching ophthalmologists, and complaining about convergence insufficiency, computer vision syndrome and reflective errors and other eye sight problems in Sangam City. As children are spending adequate time on computers screen and smart phones for online classes as schools are shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, noted ophthalmologists rued that due to long hours studies on computers\laptops and smart phones, over 40 percent children have complained various eye and vision related problems and weakening of eye muscles. Noted eye surgeon, Dr Atul Kumar Dubey told TOI that, “Majority of children diagnosed with convergence insufficiency are unable to work when looking at nearby objects,” added Dr Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/online-classes-spark-surge-in-eye-ailments/articleshow/78095767.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Scheduled caste man run over with tractor for urinating in farm||AHMEDABAD: A 60-year-old man from the scheduled caste (SC) community was run over by a tractor allegedly by an upper caste man in Chandigarh village in Dholka taluka of Ahmedabad district on Sunday. The victim’s fault was that that his son allegedly urinated in the farm owned by the accused. Dholka rural police station registered a case of attempt to murder against the accused, Ranjitsinh Sisodia, who crushed the victim, Limba Rathod, a small farmer and an electrician, with his tractor. According to the FIR filed by Limba’s son Mukesh Rathod, an MBA student, Sisodia was chasing his younger brother Vishal with his tractor after he saw him urinate in his farm. Mukesh and Limba both ran towards Vishal to save him. “When Sisodia saw Limba running towards his tractor, he turned his tractor towards Limba, who fell while running. Then Sisodia allegedly ran the tractor over Limba, severely injuring him. Sisodia also hurled casteist slurs at Limba and his sons,” said A B Asari, inspector with Dholka rural police station, quoting from the FIR. Hearing the cries, other villagers ran towards an injured Limba and his sons. Seeing the crowd, Sisodia fled from the spot. But before that he threatened Vishal and Limba that he would kill them. The locals called up 108 ambulance which took Limba to a nearby hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Dholka rural police station booked Sisodia under the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act and the investigation was handed over to a DySP of SC/ST cell of Ahmedabad rural police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-man-run-over-with-tractor-for-urinating-in-farm/articleshow/78095178.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s special force to have power to arrest sans warrant||LUCKNOW: The state government has rolled out a blueprint of UP Special Security Force (UPSSF) to protect key establishments, besides providing security cover to the VIPs. It will work on the pattern of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). The force will be given special powers and its members would be able to make arrests or search without a warrant issued by a magistrate. The government may frame rules through an ordinance to run this force. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, said the government has asked DGP HC Awasthy to prepare a detailed plan in this regard. The development comes after the Allahabad high court directed the state government to constitute a specialised force to protect civil courts, upcoming airports, Metro rails besides providing security to VIPs and VVIPs. Awasthi said the security force may be provided to the banks, too, if required. The force will remain under the jurisdiction of UP DGP and led by an additional director general- rank officer. As per the plan, the government will recruit 9,919 security personnel in five battalions of the special force. An estimated Rs 1,747 crore is expected to be spent per year on these battalions. Awasthi said in the first phase, the government will take the help of PAC in putting in place the requisite infrastructure and manpower. Initially, PAC jawans will be inducted while the special force will be constituted over the next one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-special-force-to-havepower-to-arrest-sans-warrant/articleshow/78096483.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Fake FB profiles of CoP, other senior cops keep cybercell busy||Chennai: Miscreants who had recently created fake Facebook profiles of assistant commissioners have now targeted the commissioner of city police and additional commissioner. Photos from the original FB accounts of CoP Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and additional commissioner (South) R Dhinakaran were downloaded and used for creating these fake profiles, and friend requests were sent to their original contacts. The two senior police officers have appealed to their contacts not to accept any friend requests sent from profiles bearing their name and photos. Sources in the cyber security department said the miscreants have created fake profiles of at least seven officers in the rank of DGP and ADGP with the state police. Following complaints from the affected officers, police began tracking down the miscreants and traced the IP addresses to Rajasthan and Odisha. “We will nab them. We suspect that they might also be targeting police officers in other states,” said a police official. On Friday, it came to light that miscreants using fake accounts of assistant commissioners Arul Santhosha Muthu and Christin Jayasil had sought money from Facebook friends of the officers. The cyber criminals in that case too were traced to Odisha and are yet to be nabbed. People were cautious and none have lost any money so far to the conmen, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fake-fb-profiles-of-cop-other-senior-cops-keep-cybercell-busy/articleshow/78095183.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Rajkot||Five children drown in Gujarat's Kalavad village||RAJKOT: Five children drowned in two separate incidents reported from Kalmeghda village of Kalavad taluka of Jamnagar district in 24 hours ending Sunday. Rahul Thakor (10), his sister Kiran and cousin Riya, both aged five, fell into the deep water-filled pit on Saturday. They were trying to escape from cattle that were running amok. “The cattle grazing nearby got agitated due to some reason and started running towards them. The children who were playing near-by got scared and started running to save themselves and fell into the deep accidentally and drowned,” said an official from Kalavad taluka police station. In another incident on Sunday, a nine-year-old boy and his six-year-old sister were swept away in flood water flowing over a low-level bridge over a stream in the village. Police said the victims, Alpesh Shataji (9) and his sister Puna (6), were riding pillion on a bike being driven by Vikram Adivasi. “Though the flood water was flowing over the bridge, Vikram decided to drive through it, resulting in the accident. The bike overturned in the middle of the bridge and the brother-sister duo fell into the water and got swept away,” said police. The parents of the victims are farm labourers who had migrated to Kalmeghada village from Patan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-children-drown-in-kalavad-village/articleshow/78094158.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Navaratras, Dussehra celebrations come under Covid shadow||Ludhiana: Due to ongoing situation in the times of Covid-19, clouds of suspicion are already hovering over the celebrations during Navaratras and Dussehra. The organisers of various Dussehra committees are in a dilemma whether they should move ahead with any preparation or not because there is no clarity whether permissions will be granted and moreover, gatherings are not favourable at the moment. Usually preparations for the Dusshera fair almost two months in advance because lots of formalities are to be followed for getting required permissions from different departments. However, this year not even a single organiser has even thought in this directions. Brij Mohan Kalia, one of the organisers of Rajguru Nagar Dusshera and Ram Leela Committee, said, “It is not possible to even think about gathering public at one place when so many cases of coronavirus are being reported.” He said though there is one month break between shradhs and Navaratras this time and Dussehra is on October 25 but when the situation is grim in September it is difficult to expect that the disease will disappear anywhere and they will be allowed to organise the fair. He said even for burning the effigy of Ravana they will have to wait and watch because it will become difficult to control people if they organise ‘Ravana dehan’. Pawan Garg of Aggar Nagar Dusshera Committee said, “We have not even started discussion about it because of the ongoing scenario. If cases come under control even then the administration will not allow to organise such fairs where thousands of people participate.” He said this time it would become difficult to organise the Dussehra fair, whereas usually they were organising the fair for at least 20 days before Dusshera. Meanwhile, Anil Bassi of Sarabha Nagar Dusshera Committee said, “We will not get the permission from the administration for organising Ramlila or even one day fair as in Sarabha Nagar fair is only for one day but Ramlila is organised on all days.” He said for Ravana effigies too artists come two months in advance and prepare the effigies but this year they have not even called up anybody. “We are thinking to decorate Navdurga Temple for Navaratras and play Ramlila at TV screen outside the temple,” he added. The organisers of Sri Ram Leela Dussehra Committee at Daresi are also not organising anything this year. This fair usually starts one month in advance of Dussehra but this year organisers are silent about the fair. No plans to organise Dola Yatra One of the oldest rituals being performed in the city is Dola Yatra, which is carried out from Thakur Dwara in old city area. Mahant Gaurav Das Bawa from Thakur Dwara shared that Dola Yatra would be given a miss this year and they would organise only simple rituals and Ganesh Puja on the premises. Plans to organise online Ramlila The organisers of Ramlila and Dusshera celebrations in Machhiwara claimed that they are going to seek permission from the SDM, Machhiwara, to allow them to organise Ramlila at the Dussehra ground with only artists and committee members. They will go live on FB or they can also tie up with local cable operators for live telecast. The organisers claimed if they got permission they would start practice for the event. Similarly, on Dusshera too effigies of Ravan, Meghnath and Kumbhkaran can burnt on a similar pattern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/navaratras-dussehra-celebrations-come-under-covid-shadow/articleshow/78095185.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur among 8 UP cities to have e-charging points||Prayagraj: Planning to own an electric bike or an electric car in the near future? Residents of Prayagraj can go ahead with the plan as their city is one of the eight cities of the state which have been identified for having e-charging facility for two/three/four wheelers. With the aim of promoting electric vehicles, the roads of the Sangam city will have electronic charging points at 25 places across the city. This facility will be developed under the Smart City project. Besides, a huge bus charging station will be built on an area of 6,000 metre square under the new Yamuna bridge in Naini, where as many as 25 buses can be parked and charged at a time. The electric buses will start plying in the city by next year. UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has been nominated as the state nodal agency by the Uttar Pradesh government for implementing the electric vehicle mobility initiative of the central government. The Central government is setting up more than 1,000 charging points for the electric vehicle stations in 45 cities across the country, out of which eight cities are in UP.The cities from the state include Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Kanpur, Aligarh, Saharanpur, Bareilly and Jhansi. Barring Lucknow, all the seven cities will have only slow charging stations for two, three and four wheelers. With respect to the Sangam city, there will be 25 slow charging stations spread across the city. Varanasi and Kanpur too will have 25 such stations. Lucknow will have 10 slow charging and 27 fast charging stations, while rest of the selected Uttar Pradesh cities in the list will have 10 slow charging stations each. Elaborating on the 6,000-metre square-wide electric bus station to be constructed, regional manager of UP State Roadways Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), T K S Bisen, said, “We have surveyed the land, and once the transfer of land from the government level is done, construction of the charging station will start. Soon after , we will acquire the electric buses and commuters could easily use them.”Sources informed that earlier, a nodal officer was appointed by the UPSRTC headquarters to transfer the land from Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) for the stations, but he was soon transferred. Since then, no replacement has been made to expedite the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-among-8-up-cities-to-have-e-charging-points/articleshow/78095800.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mumbai||Debit card spend beats credit card in lockdown||Mumbai: There has been a shift in spending from credit cards to debit cards during the first quarter of the current fiscal, as Indians held back on discretionary purchases and went digital while paying for utilities and groceries.According to data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), spending under credit cards in June 2020 was Rs 42,818 crore, which was 36% lower than Rs 67,000 crore in January 2020. On the other hand, debit card spends stood at Rs 47,252 crore, which was only 24% lower than Rs 62,153 crore pre-Covid.In terms of transactions, credit cards were used 12.5 crore times in June as compared to 20.3 crore transactions in January, while debit cards were used 45.8 crore times in January and 30.2 crore times in June. The average spend per credit card in January was almost Rs 12,000, which fell sharply to Rs 7,474 in June, while the average debit card spend fell from Rs 761 to Rs 558 during the same period.The average debit card spend is a fraction of transaction value in credit cards. But the sheer number of debit cards has resulted in the debit transaction outstripping credit by Rs 4,434 crore in June. For every credit card in the country, there are 15 debit cards. Incidentally in January credit card spends outstripped debit cards by Rs 24,000 crore.“In metros, credit card spending has taken a hit as malls and travel was completely shut during the lockdown. While conventional spending in big retail was impacted, we have seen an excellent pickup in digital spending in smaller retail outlets in metros and in small cities. In all these small-ticket transactions, it is largely the debit cards that were used,” said Pine Labs CEO Amrish Rau.In addition to debit cards, there has been a big shift from cash to UPI as well, which has seen over 150 crore transactions in August.According to SBI Cards CEO Ashwini Kumar Tewari, credit card spending has improved since the ‘unlockdown’ and is back to 80% of pre-Covid levels. Also, the absence of spending using the physical card in certain categories has been compensated by online spending. “While there has been a drop in discretionary spending compared to the pre-Covid period, we are actually seeing a growth in EMI on card payment, which is used for the purchase of electronics, when we compare numbers with the year-ago period,” said Rau.Another unusual aspect of cardholder behaviour is the tendency to bring down outstanding dues. Since March 27, customers have brought down card dues from Rs 1,08,094 crore to Rs 1,01,391 crore on July 31. This is despite a moratorium being available to borrowers during this period. As cardholders became aware that interest charges would continue, they reduced their dues. Instead, they have availed cheaper secured loans offering shares and bonds where the outstanding has gone up 20% to Rs 6,392 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/debit-card-spend-beats-credit-card-in-lockdown/articleshow/78096498.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Getting nanoparticles through nanosheets||AHMEDABAD: A PhD scholar at IIT Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) has developed a novel method where nanosheets made of boron can be used to obtain nanoparticles of gold, silver and platinum. The simple process can give nanoparticle-nanosheet hybrids, says Asha Liza James, who was awarded her doctoral degree in the recently-held virtual convocation of the institute. “Nanoscience is making a rapid progress, and we are finding a new usage of these ‘2D’ structures. In the case of our discovery, we believe that it can have applications ranging from hydrogen storage and rechargeable batteries to catalysis and photovoltaics,” says Asha, who worked in a research group at IIT-Gn headed by Prof Kabeer Jasuja in Chemical Engineering department. “We believe that one day, these nanomaterials will have an impact on our everyday technologies,” she averes. Experts said that the nanosheets are typically 10,000 times thinner than a regular sheet of paper. In her doctoral research, Asha developed a method to remove magnesium atoms from magnesium diboride nanosheets, using the chemistry of chelation. “Getting the nanoparticles involves serious chemistry, but with our method, we can simplify it in such a way that we don’t need much resources. In fact, it was as simple as mixing the nanosheets and metal salts in a test tube. The biggest takeaway for me was that that the conventional ‘material’ could act as a ‘chemical,’ something which was not thought about earlier,” she says. The team will work on synthesizing nanosheets from other materials including titanium diboride which is known for its super-hardness and strength. Initial experiments have shown encouraging results towards using these nanosheets for the degradation of organic pollutants in waste water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/getting-nanoparticles-through-nanosheets/articleshow/78095195.cms||Parth Shastri
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||‘35 doctors Covid positive in Chanda’||Chandrapur: As many as 35 doctors serving Covid-19 patients have contracted the infection in Chandrapur. Confirming this, president elect, IMA Chandrapur, Dr Mangesh Gulwade said that the infected doctors are under treatment either in home isolation or at hospitals. Dr Gulwade further said that while many are private doctors, some of them are from government hospitals. He claimed there is community spread of Covid-19 and the infection is growing very rapidly. “It is high time to guard oneself against the infection. Use mask, maintain Covid distancing and repeatedly wash hands. The fight against the pandemic will need patience and coordination,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/35-doctors-covid-positive-in-chanda/articleshow/78106416.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||70 new cases take Nilgiris’ tally to 2,349||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 70 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, even as 30 patients were cured and discharged from treatment centres. The total number of novel coronavirus cases in the hill district now stands at 2,349, of which 549 are active cases. At least 1,783 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far. The recovery rate has, meanwhile, dipped to 75.9% from 85.7% a month ago. The new cases were reported from Coonoor and Ooty, and villages such as Thuneri, Koderi, M.Palada, Kannerimukku, B.Manihatti, Mulligoor and Manjoor, among other areas. While nine people were tested positive for the virus from Mulligoor village alone, seven cases were reported from Ooty town. Among the 70, three had symptoms and another eight had been to places such as Coimbatore, Mettupalayam and Erode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/70-new-cases-take-nilgiris-tally-to-2349/articleshow/78096122.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Industrial units gasp as oxygen diverted for medical use||MUMBAI: Industrial units across Navi Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad are facing an acute shortage of oxygen and argon for use in manufacturing as the state government has diverted oxygen production for medical use keeping in view the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, FDA officials visited the Thane Trans Creek MIDC Estate to ensure that the new directives were being followed. “Since yesterday there is no supply of industrial oxygen. I am personally affected by the non-availability of industrial oxygen,” said Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad Small Industries Association. The price of industrial oxygen shot up after the public health department issued a notification on September 7 directing that 80% of the supply be diverted to medical facilities across the state. The notification makes it clear that the priority now is hospital use even if industrial demand is beyond the newly set 20% limit. Sandeep Parikh, vice-president, Confederation of Small Scale Industries Association, said industrial oxygen, earlier available at Rs 25 per cubic metre, now comes for Rs 40 per cubic metre. To ensure that manufacturers comply with the notification, the FDA has appointed nodal officers for every division. Their job is to visit units in various MIDC Estates and ensure they provide oxygen to hospitals on priority. “We have somehow managed to resume operations. Oxygen is an essential material for several engineering units. If it is not available, many manufacturing units will have to simply shut down. The government must ensure that at least 20% of manufactured oxygen continues to be available to industry,” said K R Gopi, president, Thane Trans Creek MIDC Industries Association (TMIA). The Pimpri-Chinchwad Small Industries Association has already shot off a letter to various government departments urging resumption of industrial supply. “Oxygen is required for the cutting of materials and is used in the fabrication, automobile, rubber and plastic industries. Several jobs are dependent on these industries and operations have resumed after a long period. The government must end the blackmarketing of industrial oxygen and ensure adequate supply,” reads the letter, sent to the chief minister, deputy chief minister, and the industries and public health ministers. Belsare said that there were talks of increased requirement of oxygen for hospitals as early as June-July. “The public health department should have prepared for such exigencies and ensured an increase in supply. Now, we will all have to suffer for the lack of planning on the part of the administration,” he said. Parikh, who owns a fabrication unit at Wagle Estate, Thane, said, “Prior to the lockdown, we would use 50 cylinders a month. When we resumed operations, our consumption was down to 30 cylinders. Our production is already down and non-availability of oxygen would mean the shutting down of operations completely, at least for the fabrication units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/indl-units-gasp-as-o2-diverted-for-medical-use/articleshow/78096509.cms||Clara Lewis
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Tent house owners, caterers call for 2-day strike on Sept 15||Ludhiana: Tent house owners and caterers have called for a statewide two-day strike on September 15 and 16 owing to heavy losses being incurred by them due to restrictions in place due to coronavirus. The businessmen are demanding that the state government brings out a special relief package for their industry as not only tent house owners and caterers but others like florists, DJs, photoraphers, etc., who are totally dependant on marriage and other functions for earning their livelihood have now been pushed into misery because of the present situation. According to businessmen, a huge number of people in their industry have gone unemployed and several of those who had come to Ludhiana from other cities for business and job have even went back permanently. Giving an insight into the problems, SS Rai, general secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association, said, “On every marriage function, livelihood of many people and their workforce is dependent. Not only a tent house owner or caterer, but there are manpower contractors, florists, DJ, music band, electrician, valet parking, etc. and other such persons who are dependant only on marriages and other functions for their earnings. Imagine the combined losses incurred by our industry during the last six months when the number of functions conducted were just one tenth as compared to previous years. Moreover, there were restrictions on the number of guests. Hundreds of people have become unemployed due to the places where they used to work remaining shut for months while there is a large number of people who had returned to their home states as they had come to Ludhiana to work in our industry.” Rai added, “With every day passing the losses of businessmen in this sector are rising and more and more people getting unemployed. If the government does not wake up to our problems the results will be disastrous for us and with one tent house or caterer shutting business, many others will automatically have to shut down their businesses. The need of the hour is a comprehensive relief package.” According to Sanjiv Sharma, a caterer from Model Gram, “The situation for catering industry is getting from bad to worse as without any business in hand and shrinking revenues per function we are facing huge financial problems. It is becoming difficult to pay for the fixed expenses like power bills, salaries of staff and the EMIs of our loans. If the government does not step in the entire tent house and catering industry will collapse.” Uday, a florist and a native of Bihar, said, “Ever since coronavirus pandemic, I got work of only 10 functions, which otherwise in previous year was more than 50. Moreover, due to very less guests being allowed to attend the functions, the entire business has become very low budget and as a result I could not even make enough money to pay for my and my family’s expenses and we had to seek help from my parents back home. The future of our industry does not looks bright and as a result I am now trying to find out a job for me in some factory or elsewhere.” Alimuddin, who does the work of fancy and decorative lightings in marriages, said, “Me and my boys are totally out of work for the past five months. Now, when the restrictions have been lifted capping was put on the number of persons allowed for weddings & other functions due to which more than 90% of the total functions were held only indoor in banquet halls, where no such fancy lighting is required. Due to no work in hand I have been even unable to pay rent of my accommodation but thanks to my landlord who is supporting me till now. I think government should take notice of our problems and give financial help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tent-house-owners-caterers-call-for-2-day-strike-on-sept-15/articleshow/78095202.cms||Mohit Behl
September 14, 2020||Goa||With labourers returning, Bicholim contractors heave sigh of relief||BICHOLIM: Following Unlock 4.0, and with no restrictions for those coming into Goa, thousands of labourers from Karnataka have started entering the state through the Keri border and this has led to resolving the scarcity of labour in Bicholim. Labourers from various parts of Karnataka have been coming by buses and other modes of transport via the Chorla Ghat and alighting in Bicholim. The sharp scarcity of labourers during the lockdown period had severely affected agriculture, including the cashew harvesting season. It may be recalled that around 8,000 labourers who were engaged in different kinds of work in Bicholim and Sakhali towns, and in the villages of Mayem, Narvem, Pilgao, Bordem, Nanora, Mulgao, Shirgao and other areas of Bicholim taluka had returned to their native places following the panic situation during the lockdown declared on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of them were repatriated by the district administration under the guidance of Bicholim mamlatdar’s office by specially arranged buses. Only a handful of labourers stayed back owing to some difficulties, including the fact that their wards had to answer the SSC board examinations. Sources said that so far about more than 1,500 labourers have resumed work across Bicholim taluka with different contractors. Similarly, it has been noticed that the labourers who could not go to their native places during lockdown period are now returning to Karnataka. Deelip Kelgimani, a masonry contractor, said, “With the labourers returning, I can now take up contracts. The past five months were very difficult and all masonry work had come to a standstill.” Another contractor, Praveen Teli from Bhaili Peth in Bicholim, said that he was constantly in touch with his workers and helped some of them to come back quickly. Locals have also started making trips to various places in Karnataka, especially Belagavi, despite a spike in coronavirus cases in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-labourers-returning-bicholim-contractors-heave-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/78096132.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Surat||MIND MATTERS MOST WHEN PANDEMIC STRIKES||Surat: After being admitted to SMIMER Hospital, 68-year-old Maya Patel kept crying inconsolably, refused to eat anything and remained sleepless. Without actually dialling the number, she kept calling her husband several times a day, asking him to take her home immediately. Psychiatric intervention revealed that she couldn’t take the trauma of sudden separation from family. Along with counselling and medicines, doctors made a special provision to allow her husband and daughter to meet her by wearing PPE kits.Maya is just one of 2,300 Covid-19 patients who were exhaustively screened in a study which has revealed the deep psychological impact that the pandemic has left on their minds. Insomnia, deliriums, anxiety attacks, phobia and severe behavioural issues were some of the common problems that these patients are facing.The study was carried out at SMIMER Hospital, which has been dedicated for Covid-19 .“Patients are besieged by several fears including that of getting stigmatized, sudden isolation and spreading the infection to their loved ones,” ' Dr. Parag Shah, professor and head, Department of Psychiatry, SMIMER, told TOI. Sarita Panchal, 48, is another such case. She started hallucinating, attacked a nurse and threw away all medicines; adamant that she be allowed to go home. She reported hearing bhajans (in absence of any source). “Ultimately, we found that she used to remove the oxygen mask and as a result started having deliriums as oxygen supply to the brain reduced. She was immediately intubated and next morning she was fine,” Dr Shah said.Dr Falguni Chaudhari, associate professor at the psychiatry department, said, “The very thought of getting infected and fear of possible dreaded consequences is severe in the elderly even with mild symptoms at the time of admission. Parting with the family at the time of admission is looked upon as their last meeting by the patient, as well as the family.” “Generating hope, trust and optimism is the most challenging yet important task for all healthcare workers,” added Dr Nidhi Doshi, assistant professor at the department.SMIMER has initiated ‘mass calling’ activity once in a day in which the treating doctor, after examining the patient, right from the patient’s bed, calls the family to discuss their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mind-matters-most-when-pandemic-strikes/articleshow/78094245.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 14, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Industrial units gasp as oxygen diverted for medical use||MUMBAI: Industrial units across Navi Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad are facing an acute shortage of oxygen and argon for use in manufacturing as the state government has diverted oxygen production for medical use keeping in view the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, FDA officials visited the Thane Trans Creek MIDC Estate to ensure that the new directives were being followed. “Since yesterday there is no supply of industrial oxygen. I am personally affected by the non-availability of industrial oxygen,” said Sandeep Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad Small Industries Association. The price of industrial oxygen shot up after the public health department issued a notification on September 7 directing that 80% of the supply be diverted to medical facilities across the state. The notification makes it clear that the priority now is hospital use even if industrial demand is beyond the newly set 20% limit. Sandeep Parikh, vice-president, Confederation of Small Scale Industries Association, said industrial oxygen, earlier available at Rs 25 per cubic metre, now comes for Rs 40 per cubic metre. To ensure that manufacturers comply with the notification, the FDA has appointed nodal officers for every division. Their job is to visit units in various MIDC Estates and ensure they provide oxygen to hospitals on priority. “We have somehow managed to resume operations. Oxygen is an essential material for several engineering units. If it is not available, many manufacturing units will have to simply shut down. The government must ensure that at least 20% of manufactured oxygen continues to be available to industry,” said K R Gopi, president, Thane Trans Creek MIDC Industries Association (TMIA). The Pimpri-Chinchwad Small Industries Association has already shot off a letter to various government departments urging resumption of industrial supply. “Oxygen is required for the cutting of materials and is used in the fabrication, automobile, rubber and plastic industries. Several jobs are dependent on these industries and operations have resumed after a long period. The government must end the blackmarketing of industrial oxygen and ensure adequate supply,” reads the letter, sent to the chief minister, deputy chief minister, and the industries and public health ministers. Belsare said that there were talks of increased requirement of oxygen for hospitals as early as June-July. “The public health department should have prepared for such exigencies and ensured an increase in supply. Now, we will all have to suffer for the lack of planning on the part of the administration,” he said. Parikh, who owns a fabrication unit at Wagle Estate, Thane, said, “Prior to the lockdown, we would use 50 cylinders a month. When we resumed operations, our consumption was down to 30 cylinders. Our production is already down and non-availability of oxygen would mean the shutting down of operations completely, at least for the fabrication units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/indl-units-gasp-as-o2-diverted-for-medical-use/articleshow/78097002.cms||Clara Lewis
September 14, 2020||Delhi||80% go for online mode as Delhi University exams kick off today||NEW DELHI: A majority of undergraduate students have opted to appear online for the second phase of examination at Delhi University in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Just about 20 per cent of the students will be physically appearing for the exam, which begins from Monday. Most of the students appearing for the blended exam are from School of Open Learning (SOL). Out of the 13,815 students from SOL who have registered for the exam, just 3,035 have opted to appear physically. This includes six with physical disability and 11 with visual impairment. Only 285 students have opted for the physical exam from regular colleges and Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB). Most colleges did not even have to prepare themselves for holding the physical exam. Ramanujan College principal SP Agarwal said, “From our college, 14 students have registered for the second phase. But all of them have opted for online open book exam.” Similarly at Aryabhatta College, all 11 of the candidates have decided to appear for the online exam. “The numbers are so less that colleges can easily conduct the exam by placing one or two students in each classroom,” said Manoj Sinha, principal of the college. At Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma, one of the students had opted for the physical exam but later he also changed his option. At Ramjas College, however, there are three students who have opted for the physical exam. Shubham Kumar, a student with visual impairment who will be appearing for the physical exam at Rajdhani College, has arranged a private car for himself. “A relative of mine has allowed me to use his car on the exam day,” Kumar said. Visually impaired students from outside Delhi have also opted for the online exam as they did not want to risk their lives by travelling. Students appearing for the online exam will receive question paper on their registered e-mail IDs. After finishing the paper, they will have to send back the scanned images/photos of the answer scripts via e-mail itself. Those physically appearing for the exam will have to submit a self-declaration before entering the examination centre. Students for both the modes of examination shall answer the questions on plain/ruled A4 size paper and shall use their own papers for writing their answers. All required stationery will have to be arranged by students themselves. Electronic gazettes shall be permissible during the exam. Watch Delhi University exams kick off today with 80% opting for online mode||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/80-go-for-online-mode-as-du-exams-kick-off-todayphase-ii-visually-impaired-students-too-prefer-it-to-avoid-travel/articleshow/78096131.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||MC all set to implement waste mgmt bylaws||Ludhiana: With chances of Punjab solid waste management and cleanliness and sanitation bylaws being notified soon, the civic body has started preparations to implement the same. The MC officials have started an awareness and training programme for the staff and they are imparting knowledge to create awareness among the public. In the coming week the officials will start implementation of bylaws strictly These bylaws have given the power to the MC to issue challans to defaulters for not doing source segregation or littering in open and officials have started the process to take strict measures against the defaulters. Also, under these bylaws the charges for the door to door garbage collection are fixed. But still there are certain challenges in front of the civic body in implementation of these bylaws. Source segregation Under these bylaws the source segregation of dry and wet waste is mandatory. Every household in the city will have to keep its waste in segregated form and hand it over to the waste collectors in segregated form. The residents welfare associations, market associations, gated localities having area more than 5,000 sq m, hotels, restaurants, etc. will not only ensure source segregation but also start doing composting of wet waste at the site and dry waste will be given to the rag pickers. Under the bylaws there is provision of imposing penalty worth Rs 250 in residential areas while Rs 5,000 penalty will be for commercial violators. Similarly, for spitting on road or at some other place Rs 250 penalty will be imposed. The shopkeepers will have to keep separate dustbins outside their shops or establishments for avoiding littering or face Rs 500 penalty. For the dumping of solid waste in water bodies/sewerage also Rs 5000 penalty will be imposed on defaulters. The person found manufacturing, storing, selling and usage of prohibited plastic carry bags will be liable to pay penalty between Rs 2,000 to Rs 20,000 on the basis of quantity recovered from defaulter. As per bylaws the officials can also give community service punishment to the violators. While for households spread over 50-500 sq yds and above the door to door garbage collection will be done for a fee ranging from Rs 50 to Rs 200. And if garbage is being collected through informal sector, then the MC will either charge Rs 25 or 25% share, which ever is the highest as maintenance charges. The charges are fixed for hotels, restaurants, rest houses, marriage halls, exhibition centres, commercial establishments, factories, educational institutions, health facilities, etc. In case people organise any event or procession, prior permission will be required and a security fee will have to be deposited with the civic body, which will be refundable and after management of the waste being generated after the event it will be returned. The charges are fixed on the basis of number of people participating in the event. The security fee will vary from Rs 5,000 to Rs 40,000. Challenges for civic body The first and most important challenge for the civic body in managing things is to keep the collected garbage in segregated form. Unless the civic body will not get the static compactors installed at garbage dump sites, garbage collected from households cannot be kept in segregated form. Though at the secondary collection points officials are trying to get it happen, for complete implementation of rules they will require static compactors. Secondly, the informal sector is handling door to door garbage collection and charges fixed under bylaws are not going to be implemented in the city. Meanwhile, secretary of MC Neeraj Jain said, “The notification has arrived and we are going through it. First source segregation will be implemented in the city and now we will take strict steps.” He said they were keeping check and regular monitoring at dumps to ensure dry and wet waste segregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-all-set-to-implement-waste-mgmt-bylaws/articleshow/78095206.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Rain adds to difficulties of getting to NEET exam centre||Mangaluru: In addition to the slew of safety measures put in place owing to the pandemic, students attending the National Eligibility Entrance Test-Undergraduate (NEET-UG) in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday had to brave the heavy showers that have been lashing the coastal district relentlessly for the past week. But regardless of the difficulties that the circumstances posed, there was a collective sigh of relief from the students, many of whom travelled from Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and neighbouring Kerala, who appeared for the examination in Mangaluru. The examination had already been deferred twice in the past. A PU lecturer from Bhadravathi in Shivamogga, who accompanied his son who appeared for the NEET-UG exam at Sharada PU College in Mangaluru, opined that the government, taking cognisance of the Covid-19 crisis, ought to have ensured more local venues for the key test, which would have eliminated the need for them to travel long distances. Maurya, a student at Alva’s PU College and a native of Mysuru, said that he came to the NEET examination centre from the Alva’s Ayurveda Hospital in Moodbidri, where he was undergoing treatment for his fractured ankle. He, however, said that the distance did not deter him from travelling to the venue. “I have been waiting and preparing for the test for the past two years. My mother suggested I do not write the test after I sustained a fracture, but I refused,” Maurya added. Kasaragod resident Riza, a student of Student of St Agnes PU College in Mangaluru, said that she was just pleased that the exam was not behind her. “I studied a lot for the test, which kept getting postponed,” said Riza. On writing the exam with masks and gloves, the students said that, they had practiced it beforehand, and the new set-up did not pose a problem. The NEET-UG test had been scheduled on May 3, and was postponed first July 26, after which it was deferred to September 13. More importantly, most of the examination centres were located on the outskirts of cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rain-adds-to-difficulties-of-getting-to-neet-exam-centre/articleshow/78094215.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Salem||Relatives of medical aspirant, 20, who ended life protest against NEET||Dharmapuri/Namakkal: Tension prevailed for a while on the premises of the Dharmapuri government medical college and hospital on Sunday when kin of the 20-year-old medical aspirant, who committed suicide by hanging at his house on Saturday evening, protested demanding cancelation of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Parents and other relative of the deceased, M Aadithya, squatted on the hospital premises and raised slogans against the central and state governments. They also refused to accept the body after postmortem. Following this, collector Malarvizhi, district superintendent of police Pravesh Kumar and other officials held talks with them and pacified them. They later withdrew the protest and agreed to receive the body. Aadithya’s relatives said he was an above average student. “He had secured 422 marks out of 500 in Class X and 595 out of 1,200 in Class XII. He had scored 720 out of 720 marks in a NEET model exam that was conducted online by a coaching centre in Bengaluru,” said K Suresh, a relative. Despite scoring low marks in Class XII, it was his parents Manivannan and Jayachitra who persuaded Aadithya to try for medicine, he added. “They had borrowed several lakhs of rupees for his studies,” Suresh said. Aadithya’s body was buried later on the day. Higher education minister K P Anbalagan and collector Malarvizhi had paid their tributes to Aadithya. Similarly, the body of 21-year-old M Mothilal, another medical aspirant who ended his life on Saturday evening over exam anxiety at Tiruchengode in Namakkal district, was also buried on Sunday. Mothilal had secured 476 out of 500 in Class X and 1,081 out of 1,200 in Class XII. After paying tribute to Mothilal, electricity minister P Thangamani said the state government was firm on its stand against holding NEET for medical admission. “That was Amma’s stand and we stick to that.” He said they were considering the option of providing counselling to medical aspirants preparing for NEET. “We will take a call on this after discussing with chief minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/relatives-of-medical-aspirant-20-who-ended-life-protest-against-neet/articleshow/78096126.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Local politician, 4 others booked for molesting woman||BAREILLY: Moradabad police have booked a local leader of a political party, his brother-in-law and three others for allegedly molesting a woman in UP’s Moradabad. Station house officer (SHO) of Galshaheed police station, Ajeet Roria said, “FIR has been registered against five people under section 147 (punishment for rioting), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).” The woman, a resident of Galshaheed area, had lodged a complaint alleging that Qureshi and his aides barged into her house and assaulted her following a dispute. Later, an FIR was registered against Congress’ mahanagar president Haji Rizwan Qureshi, his brother-in-law Farhan Qureshi and three others. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/local-politician-4-others-booked-for-molesting-woman/articleshow/78094225.cms||Maria Khan
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Israel to help UP set up forensic science varsity||LUCKNOW: In order to check the rise in cyber crime, Uttar Pradesh will establish a world-class forensic science university in Lucknow. With a campus spread over 35 acres, the Forensic Science University will come up at Piparsand village in Sarojini Nagar area of the state capital. “An MoU will be signed for technical assistance with Israel and Gujarat Forensic University,” Additional CS (home) Awanish Awasthi said, adding a provision of Rs 20 crore has already been made for setting it up. It will also have agreements done with other countries while students from the sub-continent will also be allowed to study at the university. Additional Director General of police, technical services, will be be the nodal head for the establishment of the university. The university will help prepare a pool of forensic experts who will be used by the police department as well as other public sector organisations. The posts of vice-chancellor, registrar and finance officer have been created. There will be 10 departments in the university, the additional chief secretary added. In all, 496 posts, including 14 professors, 12 associate professors and 42 assistant professors, are proposed, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/israel-to-help-up-set-up-forensic-science-varsity/articleshow/78096510.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chennai||AG-DMS metro station to sport fresh, blue look||Chennai: After the red walls of the Nandanam metro station grabbed the attention of motorists on Anna Salai, the AG-DMS station, also on the arterial road, is to go all blue. A few other metro stations in the city will soon follow suit as Chennai Metro Rail Limited has awarded semi-naming rights to city firms. Semi-naming rights, where popular brands can prefix their brand name next to the station’s and utilise the stations’ space for promotional activities, is one of the avenues CMRL generates additional revenue from. In the past few days, the dark blue outer walls of AG-DMS metro station’s street-level structures have been grabbing the attention of motorists stopping at the traffic signal near DMS complex on the busy Anna Salai. Metro rail officials said the station’s name will soon include a popular brand. A metro rail official said so far, they have awarded semi-naming rights for six of the 32 stations in phase-1 corridors. It includes Nandanam, Teynampet, AG-DMS and Saidapet on Anna Salai, Koyambedu and Ekkatuthangal. While the semi-naming rights for the four stations on Anna Salai was given to an advertising company, a construction company was given the right for Koyambedu metro and an IT park for Ekkatuthangal. “Many brands are already showing interest for our phase-2 stations,” a metro rail official said. R Anandakrishnan, managing partner of Mark Metro, which took the rights for the four Anna Salai stations, said, “In about two or three months, each of these stations will sport a different colour based on different brands. The rights have been given for a period of three years.” CMRL also rents out space inside and outside stations to retails outlets, restaurants and ATMs, puts up advertisements inside stations on the concourse and platform level as well as inside and on the exterior of metro trains to generate non-ticketing revenue. An official had earlier said maximising options to generate non-fare revenue helps in keeping the ticket fares low and operating efficiently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ag-dms-metro-station-to-sport-fresh-blue-look/articleshow/78095208.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Students tested before NEET as centre change creates chaos||HYDERABAD: G Paul Meghana almost missed her National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 exam on Sunday as she was asked to go to a centre in Rajendranagar from Yosufguda at around 1.15 pm, 15 minutes before the closure of gates. Meghana covered 20 km in less than 20 minutes to appear for one of the important exams of her life for which she has been preparing for the last two years. “I was quite certain that we won’t reach the exam hall on time. But my father did not want me to give up. We somehow reached the centre exactly at 2 pm. Fortunately, I was allowed inside,” Meghana told TOI. Elsewhere in Warangal, a student who travelled all the way from Hyderabad for the exam realised that the institute given on her hall ticket was not a NEET centre. Exam centre officials confirmed receiving dozens of complaints from aggrieved parents and candidates, who said they received a message to download the latest hall ticket, but nothing on change in centres. All candidates received their hall tickets in August and most downloaded it immediately and kept a hard copy ready. But the exam centres were changed three days before the exam on September 10, to maintain social distancing norms and largely about 1, 200 students had their centres changed. They blamed the National Testing Agency (NTA) for not sending a clear message, with most of them saying that they did not receive any message intimating them about a centre change. “Who would expect that their centres will be changed three days before the exam,” questioned S Narsing Rao, whose daughter Geetanjali had to reach Maharishi Vidya Mandir, Kondapur, which is over 10 km away from her old centre, at the last minute. Geetanjali said she took a gap year to crack NEET and added she couldn’t afford to miss the exam. “I was allowed inside, but I couldn’t give my best,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-tested-before-neet-as-centre-change-creates-chaos/articleshow/78096537.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt cancels NOCs, permits of big-ticket ventures in Tellapur||HYDERABAD: Irrigation and revenue officials have cancelled no objection certificates (NOCs) and Non-Agricultural Land Assessment (NALA) Act permissions given for several big-ticket projects, including Indus Crest and Aliens Space Station, builders NCC and Aparna Constructions and several housing societies in Tellapur. The action came after a joint committee, comprising HMDA commissioner, Sangareddy district collector and irrigation department officials, found that these constructions and layouts came up in full tank level (FTL) or buffer zones of three lakes — Vanamcheruvu , Medlacheruvu and Chelikunta. The committee also submitted its report to the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Government had constituted the committee on February 29, 2020, for verification of encroachments in FTL and buffer zone of the water bodies and their channels in connection with two cases before the NGT Chennai bench. HMDA had given permissions to several builders, including Indus Crest, based on NOC and NALA permission and now with these cancelled, the government is awaiting NGT order on the issue. Activist Thakur Raj Kumar Singh of Human Rights & Consumer Protection Cell Trust said, “With irrigation and revenue cancelling permissions, HMDA has to withdraw permissions it has given. The illegal structures should be removed.” Thakur Rajkumar Singh had filed cases in the NGT, Chennai, seeking removal of encroachments in Vanamcheruvu, Medlacheruvu and Chelikunta, their nalas (channels) and buffer zone for the inlet and outlet channels of the three water bodies in Tellapur of Ramachandrapuram mandal in 2015 and 2016. In Osman Nagar village, Indus Crest had built an apartment complex of 14 floors and a compound wall in an extent of 0.15 acres abutting Chelikunta, the petitioner alleged. Then Sangareddy RDO had issued NALA permission in January 2009 to the extent of five acres to Software Engineers, Employees’ Housing & Welfare Association. The committee found there was encroachment by developer Indus Crest in the FTL area/buffer area and Sangareddy RDO had recommended cancellation of NALA permission, which was issued for the extent covered by FTL/buffer zone for 1.36 acres. The petitioner also alleged NCC Company too had constructed a compound wall and a multi-storied apartment complex in Osman Nagar abutting Chelikunta. NALA permission was given to land owners and Cyber Employees’ Welfare Society and Software Engineers’ Employee Housing and Welfare Association in 2008. The committee said, “RDO, Sangareddy, stated that the encroachments mentioned are covered in NALA permissions issued above they are covered under FTL/buffer zone of Chelikunta and as such recommended for cancellation of NALA permission.” Meanwhile, the advocate commissioner’s report in November 2019 had stated that land under FTL of Tellapur was shown as nine acres, while buffer area was 1.30 acres. However, in the NOC issued to Aparna Constructions & Estates Private Ltd, the executive engineer, irrigation department, Sangareddy, stated that only 0.38 acres was in FTL. The RDO report stated no NALA permission was issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-cancels-nocs-permits-of-big-ticket-ventures-in-tellapur/articleshow/78095212.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 14, 2020||Salem||Udhayanidhi gives Rs 5L to kin of med aspirant who killed himself||Namakkal: DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin has announced a solatium of Rs 5 lakh for the family of a medical aspirant who killed himself. Udhayanidhi announced the relief after he met Mothilal’s family in Tiruchengode in Namakkal district on Sunday night. “Both BJP and AIADMK governments have murdered 13 students in the last three years,” he said. He added that the DMK always opposed NEET. Even former CM J Jayalalithaa had opposed the exam.  He advised students not to fear NEET as it is just an exam and not the end of their lives. “DMK government will face any legal battle to abolish NEET exam in the state,” he assured. He said people will teach a lesson to these governments in the upcoming election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/udhayanidhi-gives-rs-5l-to-kin-of-med-aspirant-who-killed-himself/articleshow/78096136.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Rajkot||Murder convict’s family members attacked||Rajkot: Family members of Wasim Khaiber, a murder convict lodged in Rajkot Central Jail, were attacked at their house in Lakhajiraj Labour Colony on Dhudhsagar Road in Rajkot on Saturday night by kin of victim, Arif Chavda.A group of a dozen-odd assailants led by Chavda’s cousin Raju Modan and his aides — Aizaz Payak and Tiger Rikshawala — attacked Khaiber’s wife Reshma (35) and other family members when they had come to collect belonging in their house. After Khaiber was jailed, his family members had abandoned their house and moved to live in a rented house in Raiyagam in Rajkot. The fallout between Khaibers and Chavdas started over the poweful stench from rotting milk in Khaiber family’s milk shop. Unable to bear the smell, the Chavdas took up the issue with the Khaiber family, that resulted in frequent fracas between the two families. On that fateful night of August 2, when Chavda’s brothers — Mustaq and Iqbal — picked up a fight with the Khaibers again, the deceased intervened and escorted his brothers away. However, as the Chavdas were reaching home, members of the Khaiber family led by father Abdul Khaiber, brother Iqbal and latter’s son Rameez, launched an attack on them, resulting in Arif’s death from grievous injuries at a private hospital in Rajkot. Wasim was arrested on charges of murder. An official from Thorala police station said that when they came to know about the murderer’s family visiting their old house, the accused charged towards the house armed with swords and scyhets and pelted stones at the house. “They allegedly warned the Khaiber family not to come back to their house again and even threatened of dire consequences,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murder-convicts-family-members-attacked/articleshow/78094252.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||5,541 students appear for NEET 2020 in Vadodara||Vadodara: Over 5,500 students appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 in the city on Sunday. The National Testing Agency (NTA) had implemented a comprehensive plan to hold the NEET, the entrance exam for the admission to MBBS/ BDS and other undergraduate medical courses, at 13 exam centres in the city. Of the 7,040 students who were supposed to appear in the undergraduate exam, 5,541 students remained present, while 1,499 students were absent in the undergraduate examination. For conducting the examination in a hassle-free manner, a majority of the centres in the city, which were school premises, stringent checks and protocols in view of the Covid-19 pandemic were adopted. The exam centre gates closed for entry after 1.30 pm, while the exam started at 2 pm. The centres were equipped with disposable masks and gloves, sanitizers, thermal guns and jammers. The contactless frisking of all candidates was carried out at the centres. The arrangements were made to ensure that only 12 students could sit in one classroom to maintain social distance and avoid crowding. A majority of students found biology a bit lengthy but physics was the toughest of all the three sections. Chemistry, on the other hand, was moderate, the students said, adding that a majority of questions of all the three sections were NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training) based only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5541-students-appear-for-neet-2020-in-vadodara/articleshow/78093853.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||City women lead the way home composting||Ludhiana: Even as the civic body is finding measures to inculcate the habit of home composting among city residents in the coming days, there are a few residents who are already practising the same without any problem in their homes. These residents have resolved the problem of garbage produced from their households and composting is helping them generate manure. The home composting has helped them in getting rid of garbage and producing manure to be used as manure for plants. Three housewives who have tried to change the misconceptions among people that for composting one needs large investment and houses. Three of them are doing composting in a simple manner on their terrace or backside of the houses. Sushil Sharma, who is a resident of New Amar Nagar and is a housewife, has been doing home composting for a long time at her home. Describing her efforts, she said, “I am in love with plants and greenery. Whenever I move out of my house, I keep an eye for different varieties of plants.” She said it was due to her love for plants that she decided to produce the manure at home because the kind of manure available in the market is not good for the plants. She said she watched some online videos to learn technical know how about the composting and her husband brought a drum, which she has kept on the terrace. She further elaborated that she did not throw kitchen waste in the garbage and kept it separate and then it goes into the drum, where a layer of sand covers the waste. She said it takes time for the kitchen waste to turn into manure but once it is made a cycle starts. “I have various plants at my home and I have grown spinach, coriander, green chilies, methi and various other vegetables at home,” she said while adding that for an entire season she has these vegetables at her home. “Now, I have planted various varieties of chrysanthemum and there will be beautiful flowers in the coming winter. This is not all as I keep on turning waste into manure, “she said. While giving a tip she said banana peel and curd both are good for plants and she puts these into that drum so that its effect should come in the manure and plants should grow like anything. Another resident from Joshi Nagar Poonam Jain is also a homemaker and is doing composting for a long time on her terrace. “The basic garbage which creates problems for any household is always wet waste and if this waste is tackled properly then the entire tension comes to an end,” shared Poonam. She said she has kept containers on her terrace in which she keeps on throwing kitchen waste and to turn it into manure she has also thrown earthworms along with some cow dung. She said it is a time-consuming process but in summer and rainy season its pace is quite fast. She said first time she had brought earthworms but second time those worms were born on their own. Jain further shared that she has grown various vegetables like bottlegourd, tomatoes, bittergourd, brinjals and various varieties of flowers. She said it was because of these vegetables at home that she did not need to purchase the same from the market, especially when there were doubts whether they should buy vegetables from outside. A resident of Vishkarmapuri, Kamaljit Kaur, who has been doing home composting for over two years, said, “Since I have started doing home composting I never throw kitchen waste outside. I mix cow dung with kitchen waste and manure thus made is very good for the plants. Not only kitchen waste, if pulses in the house are old, I grind those pulses and put them with other waste. There is iron and calcium in the pulses and it is good for the plants. Similarly, in the winter season I grind the shell of groundnuts and put those with waste to turn it into manure.” While sharing about her plants she said in the summer season she need not to buy any vegetable from outside as she had grown brinjal, bottle gourd, bitter gourd, lady fingers etc and now in winter season she will grow spinach, mustard leaves and other seasonal vegetables. She said composting gives double benefits as person gets rid of garbage woes and manure is also generated for plantation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-women-lead-the-way-home-composting/articleshow/78095213.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Surat||Surat: Was the Thai woman killed?||SURAT: In the weird death case of Wanida Bousorn, 27, the Thai woman who had burnt to death on September 6, cops suspect it to be a case of murder and have cast aspersions on the involvement of her friend and neighbour, Aida (28), another Thai national. However, cops are yet to confirm Aida’s involvement though they claim that the woman was present with the deceased till early hours that night. Aida had come to Bousorn’s room at around 9.30 pm on September 5 and both drank vodka, whisky and also smoked hookah as cops discovered an empty bottle of vodka, whisky-laced cold drinks and freshly-used hookah ash. She had left at 3.45 am and returned at 4.45 am, CCTV footage shows. Police sent all the evidences to the FSL for detailed report. Investigations have revealed that Aida, who is addicted to online gambling was debt-ridden and had borrowed around Rs 6 lakh from her acquaintances in the city. She had even deposited her passport to a man for Rs 1 lakh as loan. “It is possible that Aida killed Bousorn after the latter refused her money. Bousorn was to return to Thailand as her visa was going to expire. Suspecting her of having savings, Aida could have killed her,” said cops. “It is also yet not clear why Bousorn did not shout for help. We are, therefore, working on other angles as well,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/was-the-thai-woman-killed/articleshow/78094577.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Surat||Bizman suicide: DVR from Rander police station seized||Surat: In the case of abetment to suicide by businessman Durlabh Patel, 73, police seized the digital video recorder (DVR) of CCTV cameras of Rander police station. The CCTV footage can play an crucial role in the case as the deceased had been called to the police station multiple times at odd hours by the accused cops. Harassed over a land dispute, Patel allegedly jumped to death in a water-filled pit in his stone quarry at Khanjroli village within Mandvi police station limits of Surat district during early hours on September 7. According to the complaint by Patel’s son Dharmesh, the then police inspector of Rander police station, L P Bodana, had summoned the deceased to the police station multiple times and also harassed Patel by sending police teams to fetch him at odd hours. The deceased was a cooperative leader and also a well known leader of the Kanbi Patel community. Police recorded the statement of the notary who had notarized an agreement on which Patel was forced to sign in the police station in January. The notary confirmed the details described by the complainant. Earlier on Saturday, the investigation team registered statements of a police sub inspector and two constables of Rander police station. The PSI and the constables went to Patel’s home to take him along to the police station. A hand written letter by Patel was also found in his residence after he took his life, wherein he left a message about his family members. “In his letter, Patel had informed his sons that he is leaving behind enough wealth asking them to take proper care of their younger sister. He also instructed us to pay the debt of an elderly relative woman,” said a police officer. While claiming that the letter is not important from investigation point of view, police said that they recovered it as it was his last written notes. Police will get its hand writing verified by the FSL Police have also started a procedure to issue lookout notice for one of the accused Kanaiyalal Rarola, a diamond and realty businessman, who is out of the country. After gathering details of Visa and passport police will issue the notice. Ten people have been booked in the case, including several cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-suicide-dvr-from-rander-police-station-seized/articleshow/78094395.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Social distancing goes for a toss in BRTS, AMTS buses||AHMEDABAD: Social distancing in the buses of Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) and Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service (AMTS) seems to have been crushed. In order to maintain social distancing norms in the buses, the authorities of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) have decided to keep extra buses in reserve during peak hours at major stations like Shivranjani, RTO, Naroda and Anjali among other areas. The BRTS officials said that after two days of experience, the feedback received from the drivers and the staff at the BRTS stations showed that the passengers were standing and sitting next to each other. The officials said that despite the denial from the drivers, the passengers were just violating the norms and this was observed especially in the peak hours in the morning and evening when there was a rush to reach in time or to get back home. “Despite being stopped by the security staff, people are pushing them aside and entering the buses. And hence, we have kept 17 buses, especially during the peak hours, to ensure that no social distancing norm is violated. If required, we can push extra buses from that very destination,” said a BRTS official. These buses are kept at strategic locations. Also, the authorities have conducted a detailed survey of traffic during peak hours so as to reduce the rush. The officials said that since this was a conductor less bus, the driver could not enforce the norm and he had to halt at each station despite the bus having adequate passengers. In the AMTS buses, also at some of the places, especially in the eastern part, the social distancing norm was reported to have been violated. The AMTS and BRTS officials feared that if this continued then the city transport could once again come to a halt, compelling the passengers to travel in shared autorickshaws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-brts-amts-buses/articleshow/78095250.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Not so NEET: Crowding at some centres as candidates arrive early||NEW DELHI: Most of the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) candidates in the capital had to take private cabs to reach their examination centres well ahead of time along with their parents. But they were relieved that the test was finally held. Naina Singh, who travelled to Tughlaqabad from Najafgarh, said, “I am glad that the exam is finally happening. How much could one prepare for one exam? Though my parents were worried about writing the exam during Covid-19, I was not scared after seeing the JEE preparations.” Another candidate, who came from Dwarka with her parents, said, “I had reached a stage that I just wanted to give the exam and get done with it. Now that I am going to write it, I am just worried about the question paper and not Covid-19.” Aspirants said the standard operating procedure (SOP) was well followed inside centres. However, outside, a large number of accompanying parents meant there was hardly any social distancing. The situation became worse when the test got over. With a large number of aspirants appearing for medical college berths, there were long queues outside each centre. At Patparganj, boxes were drawn on the road outside a centre to maintain social distancing. Most candidates said the NEET paper was not very difficult and was as per their preparations. “I had prepared well, so I found the paper easy,” said Deepak. Just like during JEE, the candidates were provided with three-layered masks at the entrance for safety and to prevent cheating. Each classroom had around 12 aspirants and nobody was allowed to enter it wearing shoes. At a centre in Mayur Vihar, one of the students with blood sugar issues were not allowed to carry sweets and was told that she would be provided with everything inside. This year, around 59,137 candidates registered for the test from Delhi, an increase from 53,993 last year. In view of Covid-19, the number of centres was increased to 115 from last year’s 98.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-so-neet-crowding-at-some-centres-as-candidates-arrive-early/articleshow/78096148.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||No demolition till slum dwellers rehabilitated: CM||New Delhi: Speaking for the first time since the Supreme Court ordered removal of 48,000 houses in various slums along railway tracks in the capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that the slums would not be demolished before giving the inhabitants pucca houses. Speaking on a resolution moved by MLA Raghav Chadha in the assembly to seek protection for the slum dwellers from eviction unless they are rehabilitated, Kejriwal said, “I assure all dwellers that I am alive, your homes will not be demolished. We will ensure pucca houses to all 48,000 slum dwellers before they are moved. Even if I have to touch someone’s feet, even if I have to struggle, I will provide a house to you.” During the Covid pandemic, the chief minister said, it is not advisable to remove these people. “We should not proceed in this direction till corona subsides; so that these areas do not become infection hotspots and start spreading the disease in other parts of the city.” Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said around 50,000 houses were ready in Bapraula, Bawana, Ghogha, Savada, Bhalswa, Sultanpuri and other places. “Land for these houses was made available by the lieutenant governor, who is the representative of the central government, while the Centre bore 50% expenses of construction,” Bidhuri said, wondering why the inhabitants of these 48,000 dwellings hadn’t been shifted to these pucca houses till now.The chief minister said that according to law, for any such removal, the affected inhabitants should first get permanent houses. “Central Provisions Act, passed by the central government, DUSIB Act, DUSIB Policy and DUSIB Protocol, all these four laws clearly state” this, Kejriwal said. Permanent houses for rehabilitation should be in the vicinity, he added.Underlining the importance of slum dwellers in running Delhi, Kejriwal blamed different governments in the past 70 years for the current state of affairs with regards to the slums in the capital. “In the last 70 years, different governments came and did not plan the city of Delhi properly or the agencies who had to plan and build houses for the poor did not do their job properly,” Kejriwal said.“I assure you that either the central government will give you a permanent house or else Delhi government will do that,” Kejriwal said, welcoming the affidavit filed by the central government in the Supreme Court on Monday. According to the Centre’s affidavit, Delhi government, the railways and the Union housing and urban development ministry will jointly find a solution to this problem in the next four weeks. “The central and Delhi government will work together so that our 48,000 Delhiites can get their legal rights,” the chief minister said. The resolution moved by AAP legislator Chadha was passed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-demolition-till-slum-dwellers-rehabilitated-cm/articleshow/78115515.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||In late night move, UP govt shifts 7 dist police chiefs||Lucknow: In a late night reshuffle, the government shifted 10 IPS officers, including police chiefs of seven districts. Mau got the second SP in a month with Dhule Sushil Chandrabhan being given the charge on Sunday night. He was SP Kasganj till now. The outgoing Mau SP, Manoj Sonkar, has been sent to Kasganj. Sonkar had taken charge of Mau on August 18, replacing Anurag Arya, who was shifted to Pratapgarh. Among other reshuffles, Maharajganj SP Rohit Singh Sajwan was made new Bareilly SSP, while Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey was made sent to Gonda in the same capacity. Sajwan has served as ASP in Bareilly during the erstwhile SP government. Outgoing Gonda SP Raj Karan Nayyar has been made the new police chief of Jaunpur. SP Jaunpur SP Ashok Kumar has been shifted to EOW in the same capacity. Meanwhile, SP, vigilance establishment, Pradeep Gupta, has been made the new SP of Maharajganj. Similarly, Shravasti SP Anup Singh was shifted to PAC 23 Bn in Moradabad as a commandant while Arvind Kumar Maurya who was attached to the DGP headquarters will take over as the Shravasti SP. Commandant PAC 23 Bn in Moradabad, Kuwar Anupam Singh, was posted in Vigilance establishment as SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-late-night-move-up-govt-shifts-7-dist-police-chiefs/articleshow/78096538.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||40 attend plasma screening camp at Vasco||VASCO: A team from the sub-district hospital, Chicalim, on Sunday conducted a health check-up camp for plasma screening at Ravindra Bhavan, Baina-Vasco, for the Covid-19 patients who had recovered. As per the list of recovered patients provided by the health department, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida asked the councillors to approach the people accordingly. In all, 40 people attended the health check-up camp and their samples were collected for screening for donation of plasma. “Almeida really fought for his people and especially for those in the Mangor Hill area. He even wrote a letter to the government highlighting the issues of the people staying in the containmnet zone,”said Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar, who was present at the screening camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/40-attend-plasma-screening-camp-at-vasco/articleshow/78096150.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Surat||650 salon workers tested in Surat, one positive||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) closed down 29 shops, two textile units, five paan kiosks, five vegetable markets and 98 street vendors found to be violating Covid-19 guidelines in the city on Sunday. The civic body started mass testing of people engaged in various professions to find possible super spreaders. On Sunday it tested 650 salon operators in the city, of whom one person was found Covid positive. Earlier, SMC had conducted similar testing for auto and taxi drivers, accountants and cashiers among other professionals. Mass testing of auto garage workers will be carried out on Monday, it stated. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/650-salon-workers-tested-in-surat-one-positive/articleshow/78094338.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Mumbai man booked for teen’s rape||SURAT: Athwalines police station booked a Mumbai resident for allegedly raping his former fiancée a 16-year-old girl, and sharing her objectionable photos and videos on social media. The accused, Murtuza Mustali Vohra of Pathanwadi in Malad suburb of Mumbai, resorted to the social media shaming of the girl after their engagement was called off by her parents recently. He developed friendship with the girl during his visit to the city for a religious event in January. As they were from the same community, their parents got them engaged. Vohra used to often visit the girl and her family during lockdown and had even stayed at their house. They developed a physical relationship and Vohra allegedly shot objectionable videos of the girl as well. Meanwhile, due to some dispute, the girl’s father called off their engagement. On returning to Mumbai, Vohra allegedly shared her videos and photos on Instagram. The girl’s family then lodged a complaint. Vohra has been booked under sections of Information Technology Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mumbai-man-booked-for-teens-rape/articleshow/78094424.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Posters proclaiming EPS as CM candidate pop up in Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Even as the turf war in the ruling AIADMK over the next chief minister (CM) candidate appeared to have reached a ceasefire, posters have sprung up in the district, touting the party join coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS) as the CM candidate for the next assembly elections. Put up by Nethaji Subash Senai, the posters chose not to proclaim EPS as CM candidate overtly. Instead, they read “we need Edappadi, again.” The posters, which listed out various government projects as achievements of EPS, called him the “people’s chief minister.” “Let people who backbite Edappadiyar change at least after reading this,” the poster said before listing the mega projects launched by EPS. The posters, however, had the image of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam (OPS) too, along with party founder M G Ramachandran, the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa and dairy development minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji. Meanwhile, cooperation minister Sellur K Raju has likened EPS and OPS to the two banks of a river and two eyelids of an eye. “They are as important for the AIADMK as the two banks of a river,” he said while speaking at the party’s IT wing meeting in Madurai on Sunday. The meeting discussed how the IT wing should work to expose the fake propaganda by the DMK in the NEET issue, among other crucial issues. The minister lauded the IT wing for being one of the best of its kind. “The AIADMK is a banyan tree that could be strengthened only if all its 17 wings are strong.”Pointing out that cadres are the strength of any party, he took a dig at the DMK, which he said continued to be a family party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/posters-proclaiming-eps-as-cm-candidate-pop-up-in-coimbatore/articleshow/78096142.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors perform complex liver transplant operation||HYDERABAD: Transplant surgeons from the city have successfully conducted mismatched blood group liver transplantation on 19-year-old patient, who was suffering from a rare liver disease. G Soumya, a resident of Warangal, was suffering from a condition called Budd-Chiari syndrome usually caused by blood clots that completely or partially block blood flow from the liver. Although none of her family members had a matching blood group and due to unavailability of cadaver organ, doctors decided to collect a slice of her mother’s liver and take up ABO incompatible Living Donor Liver Transplant. The transplant surgery which was performed on August 11 lasted 15 hours. “The patient and her mother have recovered and are doing well. One month into the surgery, the patient’s liver is doing fine,” said Dr Manish Varma, senior consultant and HoD, Liver Transplant and HPB surgery, Apollo Hospitals. “Incompatible living donor liver transplantation is a ray of hope for liver cirrhosis patients who struggle to get a matching slice of liver,” he added. Before the surgery, the teen was put on medication and underwent multiple sessions of plasmapheresis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-perform-complex-liver-transplant-op/articleshow/78095235.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mysuru||Two die as bus hits bike||Mysuru: Two bike riders died after a KSRTC bus hit their vehicle in Yashodapura village on Mysuru - Madikeri road under Hunsur rural police limits on Saturday night. The deceased are Shivaraj Gowda, 30, and Karthik, 20. While Gowda died on the spot, Karthik breathed his last while locals were rushing him to hospital. The villagers alleged that speeding was the reason for the accident. However, police said the reason for the accident will be known only after an investigation. According to police, the bus was on its way to Madikeri from Mysuru while, the bike riders were on their way to Hunsur. “The accident happened near Yashodapura bus station,” police said. The bodies of the victims were handed over to their respective families after autopsy in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-die-as-bus-hits-bike/articleshow/78094300.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||HC demands quick solution to GK-II basement flooding||New Delhi: Taking note of the trouble faced by residents of Greater Kailash-II due to flooding of basements, Delhi High Court on Monday asked South Delhi Municipal Corporation and the AAP government’s PWD to act immediately.“A resident can’t be expected to run from one agency to another to get problems resolved. Solution has to be found right away to prevent the spread of diseases,” justice Najmi Waziri said, while directing the agencies to put in place measures to remove excess water.The court also directed the municipal corporation to install water suction pumps and underground pipes to draw out the extra water. It asked the executive engineer in charge of the area to install extensive systems and file a compliance affidavit with photographs showing the work done.It was hearing a plea by some residents seeking court’s intervention, since the agencies simply passed the buck, blaming each other.“Petitioners need immediate relief. How can we find a solution? We don’t want a blame game. Solution has to be found primarily by the municipal corporation,” said justice Waziri when the agency said Central Ground Water Authority had found construction by Delhi Metro as a possible reason for the sudden rise in water levels and seepage. The court further directed PWD to clean up the choked drains in the zone so that there was no obstruction to the water supply.In their plea filed by advocate Shaan Mohan and Tushar Gupta, the residents said they had been facing the problem since August. When they approached south corporation, Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Metro, they adopted a “hands off approach by simply shifting the responsibility on other departments/authorities.”“The petitioners are some of the residents of Greater Kailash-II, who are victims of a peculiar situation whereby the basement of the buildings is getting repeatedly flooded with water,” the plea stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-demands-quick-solution-to-gk-ii-basement-flooding/articleshow/78115522.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 14, 2020||Rajkot||Alert trackers save lion from electrocution in Gujarat||RAJKOT: Two lion trackers of the forest department saved a lion from getting electrocuted after a live wires snapped on the spot where it had preyed upon a cow. The incident happened in Nageshri village of Jafrabad taluka in Amreli district on Saturday night “The main wire from an electric pole had got snapped and had fallen near the spot where the lion was feasting on the cow. Two trackers - Vijay Varu and Ajay Kotila - showed their presence of mind and pulled away the prey from the wire and took it at a safe distance,” Nisha Raj, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), Shetrunji division told TOI. “We were woken up by the sound of moaning of the cow and roaring by the lion. As the main wire got snapped, darkness had covered the entire village. In the torch light, we saw that the big cat was feeding on the cow,” said Varu. “All the villagers started yelling and clapping in unison and drove the lion away from the spot. We also put aside the live wire with the help of a wooden stick,” narrated Kanu Varu, a villager. On Sunday morning, the villagers alerted the officials of Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Limited (PGVCL) who repaired the wire and restored electricity in the village. Nageshri is a coastal village where a pride consisting of a dozen-odd lions has been camping for the past several months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/alert-trackers-save-lion-from-electrocution/articleshow/78094306.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Surat||62 people found violating home isolation norms||Surat: On Saturday, total 434 people in eight civic zones under Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) were advised home isolation after they came into contact with Covid-19 positive people. SMC conducted a surprise check on home isolated people and during the checking, 62 people were found to be violating isolation rules and they were warned by the civic body that they would be booked if they violate the home isolation norms once again. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/62-people-found-violating-home-isolation-norms/articleshow/78094320.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Yadadri temple set to get gold dome, doors||HYDERABAD: The temple dome (Rajagopuram) and the main doors of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in Yadadri will be coated with gold, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Sunday after visiting the temple premises. Expert goldsmiths from Pembarthy in Jangaon will carry out the 60-kg gold plating project, estimated to cost Rs 50 crore. The overall cost of temple and temple-town project, including its development as a major religious-tourist destination is estimated to be about Rs 1,200 crore. Over 2,000 acres have been allocated for the project to turn Yadadri into a major religious-cum-tourist destination in Telangana, after TTD went to AP. KCR, who has been personally monitoring the project which has been taken up after the formation of Telangana, spent over six-hours inspecting the ongoing work on Sunday and offered special pujas. The CM suggested that specialist goldsmiths from Pembarthy should be engaged to provide gold cover to the temple tower and the main gates. KCR instructed principal secretary (finance) Ramakrishna Rao over phone to release in next three weeks Rs 75 crore for the temple. As the Yadadri temple is famous for Satyanarayana Swamy Vratham, the CM directed officials to make provision and facilities in the temple for 4,000 people to perform it at one go. The parking lots will have provision to park 5,000 cars and 10,000 two-wheelers. The tank adjacent to the temple complex would be filled up every two months by drawing water from Kaleshwaram project. Expert architects will work on beautification of Gandipet tank and its periphery as a tourist spot, the CM said. The temple ring road would be developed like a necklace with provisions for walking and cycling tracks, greenery and illumination. Work for construction of 365 quarters and cottages in 200 acres will be speeded up. Contractors not doing work in time would be removed, he said, adding that TSRTC officials would provide free bus service to devotees from the bus stand to the temple. The CM said work should not be taken up in haste and that the temple should reflect and epitomise beauty and spirituality, adding that all the Agama Sastra guidelines and traditions should be followed strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yadadri-temple-set-to-get-gold-dome-doors/articleshow/78096544.cms||Roushan Ali
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rainfall forecast for Telangana||HYDERABAD: Many districts across the state are set to experience heavy rainfall over the next few days as the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, issued a thunderstorm warning for many parts of the state till September 17. The IMD-H has issued a red alert for Monday for 21 of the 31 districts, including Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy. As per its impact based heavy rainfall warning, massive flooding/water logging is expected in many parts of low lying area in districts. “Massive falling of tree and electric pole over different road leading to total disruption of transport in the some areas of the districts for some hours to few days. Reservoirs over flow/great danger level reach. Agriculture lands submerged/crop damage,” reads the impact based report issued by IMD-H. Heavy rains are being attributed to the vigorous southwest monsoon. “Heavy rains are occurring under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over Bay of Bengal off AP coast,” said Naga Ratna, director (in-charge), IMD-H. The state received 34% excess rainfall from June 1 till date. The state has received 898.3 mm of rainfall as against normal of 669.4 mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rainfall-forecast-for-state/articleshow/78095245.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Chicken rates surge as demand resumes in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Increased consumption of chicken coupled with reduced production has led to a hike in chicken prices across the state. For the past few days, the price of chicken has been in the range of Rs 220 to Rs 250 per kg (skinless) and the average chicken price ranges from Rs 160 to Rs 180 per kg. On Sunday, chicken (skinless) was sold at Rs 220 per kg . Traders in the poultry business attribute the increase in price hike and household consumption (excluding hoteliers) to media reports suggesting that the consumption of protein can boost immunity. “People choose to consume chicken as it is the cheapest form of protein. The increased consumption this month can also be attributed to Pirti Paksha, which lasts for around 15 to 17 days,” said a poultry breeder. According to the Telangana Poultry Federation (TPF) and Indian Poultry Equipment Manufacturers Association (IPEMA), people across the state were consuming around 12 lakh kg of chicken everyday prior to the pandemic. The demand for poultry products dipped in April but is steadily increasing in households. The average consumption of chicken as on date stands at 10 lakh kg per day. Though household consumption is increasing, consumption of chicken has not reached 12 lakh kg every day in the state as there is drastic dip in purchase by hoteliers. Sources say that farmers are unable to meet the increased demand for chicken. Traders said that the farmers used to breed around 2 crore chicks per month before the pandemic. However, they are producing only around 1.5 crore small chicks and have not increased the supply despite increased domestic consumption and this has resulted in disruption in the demand and supply chain. Telangana Poultry Federation (TPF ) president Errabelli Pradeep Rao said that the market will stabilise once the hotel industry starts seeing more customers. “As on date, domestic consumption has increased but purchase by hoteliers is very low. Once the business is back on track the market will be strengthened and the prices will also stabilise,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chicken-rates-surge-as-demand-resumes/articleshow/78095265.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Gyms exercise caution on Day 1, hope things finally work out||New Delhi: After almost six months of no activity, it was time for gyms and yoga institutes to flex their muscles on Monday. Finally permitted to reopen with reduced number of users, frequent disinfecting and adherence to physical distancing requirements, there was fresh energy among the operators, though not too many customers turned up on the first day.Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi Gym Association, who also runs a gym in Malviya Nagar, exuded optimism that customer numbers would pick up as the week progressed. “We are receiving queries, indicating customer interest,” claimed Sethi. “Also, we should note that a number of gyms could open only in the evening because the resumption notice was released late on Sunday evening.”Chirag Sood was one such enthusiast who opted out on Monday. He had taken a one-year-plan at a gym in Saket, but said he would return after a few weeks if he “felt comfortable enough”. Sood, who has been using guidance on YouTube while working out in the past few months, explained, “You don’t know how crowded gyms will be and what timings will be the best for me. I may visit the gym once and see things for myself. It will take some time to restore people’s confidence.”The priority for gyms being to attract regulars back, TOI saw how they were taking the prescribed safety measures, using mist-sprayers to disinfect machines and individuals, both at the entrance and inside the gyms. Sethi elaborated that only alternate machines are being used and they had been placed in a manner to prevent the users facing each other. “Each customer has been asked to bring his or own clothing and shoes and can use a face shield for reassurance,” said Sethi.Sethi added that the use of masks during workout wasn’t mandatory. “As long as you are not facing someone and are at a suitable distance, you can pull down your mask during workout, but put it back on when you are close to someone,” he said.Aditya Sharma, who runs Box N Burn, a combat training-based gym in Amar Colony, Lajpat Nagar, said, “We have reduced the slots to 4-5 people per session. We check the body temperature before entry and ask customers to use masks. Each machine is being sanitised at regular intervals.”At Gravitaz in Ashok Vihar, the exercise machines will be similarly disinfected frequently. However, the gym did not open on Monday, with the entire day taken up by the sanitisation work. The gym’s operator, Zuhaib Rana, said ‘slots’ would be offered from Tuesday through the gym app, which will automatically restrict the number to 20 users at a time.Yoga institutes will also be capping the number of participants in their classes to 5-6 participants. “Each individual has to bring his or her own mat and we will ensure adequate distancing. There will be no physical touching and the instructor will maintain a distance. After each class, the area will be disinfected,” said Deepak Dadwal, president, Delhi Yoga Association and director of Yogaushdhi.East of Kailash resident Shruti Bansal skipped physical classes on Monday. She is quite at home on Zoom now, having virtual yoga sessions for the past four months. “While there may not be someone to guide you at home, there is less risk of infection,” said Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gyms-exercise-caution-on-day-1-hope-things-finally-work-out/articleshow/78115535.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||G Kishan Reddy urges Telangana CM to allot land for memorial||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Sunday appealed to chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao to allot land in the city for construction of the Telangana Liberation Movement Inspiration/Motivation Centre. In a letter to the CM, he said that if the state government identifies the land for it, the Centre will grant funds for the construction of the centre. Kishan Reddy stated that Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel had agreed to provide financial assistance for setting up the centre. “I met the tourism minister recently and explained the peoples’ struggle to liberate Hyderabad region from the clutches of the tyrannical Nizam rule and his private army of Razakars and how they collectively ensured its merger with the Indian Union,” he said. He further said that the proposed centre would document the struggle and the contribution of the people and depict all the important episodes during the Telangana Liberation Movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-urges-cm-to-allot-land-for-memorial/articleshow/78095257.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Informers out of job as cops go slow citing Covid||NAGPUR: The changed policing scenario and priorities in the backdrop of Covid pandemic are causing unprecedented hardships to the traditional class of informers, also known as ‘punters’ in local parlance. Now, cops are engaged more in enforcing Covid rules like use of masks, Covid distancing, monitoring crowd and such duties. In this backdrop, many dedicated police informers are in a quandary as there is no income from their handler cops who used to pay them for the information shared. There would be handsome reward for the informers whenever a major gang or rackets dealing in arms or narcotics and such serious crimes were busted with their help. “We earned handsomely from the cops to whom we gave valuable tips that led to several detections. But the same cops are either avoiding our calls or ignoring our tip-offs citing Covid issue,” said a punter who added, “We also have school going children and other expenses. My wife works as a cook at some bungalows which has helped us from starving.” While many cops and their seniors too have decided to go slow on detection as it might expose them to infection on coming close to strangers, others are busy enforcing the Covid guidelines. A sizeable chunk of the police personnel are also down after contracting the infection. Most units of the crime branch and police station staffers from detection branch have been affected as many of its personnel are now either in home isolation or recuperating at hospital. But some cops are extending a helping hand to the informers because of whom they had earn accolades and medals. “Almost 50% of my salary is spent on paying the informers who look up to us for their livelihood. There is nothing that we can do for them now as Covid has compelled us to slow down on raids and detections,’ said an officer. “If there are major raids and detections, we can ask for funds from the secret service head to pay our informers but not now,” he said. Another constable from city police said that this is the right time to win over good informers by helping them and their families. “I had been constantly providing my informers ration kits, cash to buy medicines and support medical expenses of their elderly kin. The informers will remember those who helped them during hardships,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/informers-out-of-job-as-cops-go-slow-citing-covid/articleshow/78096153.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Incorporate new normal in lifestyle: Experts at NIE webinar||NEW DELHI: Before the schools reopen, children need to be taught how to remain careful and maintain social distancing while engaging in healthy outdoor activities. This was highlighted by educators and medical professionals during a webinar for principals titled “New Norms for the Children of Post Covid-19 World — How to adopt?” organised by Times NIE in association with Manipal Hospitals. There was a consensus among the speakers that the new normal would be a safe environment only if parents, teachers and students prepare themselves with safety measures and adapt to these habits as a lifestyle change. Dr YK Mishra, head of cardiac science and chief cardiovascular surgeon, Manipal Hospitals, advised the schools to engage paramedics. “This will help schools in being better equipped amid the pandemic. Parents should also actively work in creating a nurturing and supportive environment for students,” he added. Hrushikesh Senapaty, director, National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT), told the educators that it was time to shift from content mastery to competent mastery. NCERT has designed an alternative academic calendar this year. “The contents are available on different portals for parents, teachers and students. Students who don’t have internet or smartphones can find them on television, which can be explained individually by teachers and NCERT counsellors. With this new system of learning, active participation of parents will help schools provide a stress-free learning experience to students,” said Senapaty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/incorporate-new-normal-in-lifestyle-experts-at-nie-webinar/articleshow/78096155.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: 15 tourists fined for not wearing masks||PANAJI: A group of 12 tourists from Karnataka hanging out on the steps of the iconic Immaculate Conception church in Panaji on Sunday were fined Rs 100 each for not wearing masks. These, along with three others also near the church, were the first instance of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) penalising maskless tourists in its jurisdiction. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the government should set out strict SOPs for tourists, and inform them about it at the border. “We welcome tourists, but they should keep in mind that they shouldn’t be roaming without masks,” he said. “It is dangerous for them and for the local people too.” Madkaikar said that although central guidelines exist, tourists need to be reminded to follow them when visiting Goa. He said the three tourists were alighting from a cab, and were fined. The taxi driver had his mask on. “Police should warn taxi drivers against ferrying tourists who are not wearing masks,” he said. “Drivers should insist on them wearing masks for everyone’s safety.” The CCP has fined a total of 150 persons since May for not wearing masks in the capital city, especially in the municipal market, but Sunday was the first time tourists have been fined by the corporation. “Goa has opened up, and tourists have begun visiting,” Madkaikar said. “We will have to keep this drive going. The government has authorised us to impose fines within our jurisdiction. We will form a team to send out inspectors around the city on Monday.” Covid cases in the capital city are on the rise, with an average of 25 new ones reported each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-tourists-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/78096158.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Rajkot||Hit-and-run accused nabbed||Rajkot: The accused of a hit-and-run accident, in which his car rammed into a two-wheeler, killing one 16-year-old girl, was nabbed in Jetpur of Rajkot district on Sunday. Police said the accused, Rajendrakumar Mandaliya, had rammed into the motorcycle being driven by Jaideep Makwana on September 9. While Makwana received injuries, his sister Hetal was killed on the spot. “After causing the accident, Mandaliya did not stop his vehicle and fled the spot. We had received a tip-off that it was Mandaliya who had caused the accident and so we nabbed him from a car showroom in Jetpur,” said H A Jadeja, inspector with Dhoraji police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hit-and-run-accused-nabbed/articleshow/78094325.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||10,774 active Covid-19 cases in PMC limits remain under home isolation||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been witnessing a sizeable rise in the number of active home isolation cases. As per the district health office (DHO) report released on September 13, around 60% active Covid-19 cases in PMC are under home isolation. The report states that 10,774 active cases of 17,788 are under home isolation in PMC jurisdiction, while 7,014 (40%) are under isolation at the hospital. Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar told TOI that patients with very mild symptoms or asymptomatic patients are allowed to isolate at home and ward-level teams of the civic body verify availability of separate accommodation in advance. “We have to keep a check on patients and the development of any kind of symptoms. A separate call centre has been established for the same and daily monitoring is done through telecommunication,” he said, adding that at least 1-2% of patients under home isolation do need hospital care at some point if their condition worsens. Deputy commissioner at PMC Sanjay Gawade said that monitoring a growing number of patients is challenging for the fact that around 20-25% of patients do not respond to daily monitoring calls. He added that the patients should exercise extreme precaution during home isolation. If anyone is found violating home isolation guidelines, s/he can be shifted to a nearby Covid-19 Care Centre. Gawade said, “Patients under home isolation stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. Thereafter, the patient is advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for another seven days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over.” Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said that in the PCMC limits, there are around 33% active Covid-19 patients under home isolation. Only healthy patients under the age of 50 and without any comorbid conditions are allowed to isolate at home. The criteria set by the ministry for health and welfare clearly mentions that elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease, etc, shall only be allowed home isolation after a thorough evaluation by the treating medical officer. Further, a caregiver should be available to provide care on 24X7 basis. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration that a Covid-19 patient remains under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10774-active-ncov-cases-in-pmc-limits-remain-under-home-isolation/articleshow/78095275.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Nalin urges finance minister to reconsider merging of I-T office||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel urged finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to reconsider a decision taken by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to merge the office of the principal commissioner of income tax (administration) here with the office of the principal commissioner IT (administration) in Panjim. A gazette notification has been passed in this regard, but the order is yet to be issued, Nalin said. In a five-page detailed letter to Nirmala, a copy of which was released to the media here, Nalin, said this news about the merger has left assesses as well as professionals rendering service in the coastal belt of Karnataka in a state of utter resentment. “I deem it my bounden duty to represent the citizens of my constituency with neighbouring Udupi and Uttara Kannada, and be their voice and ensure facts are brought to light,” he said. Nalin drew the attention of the finance minister to the distance between Mangaluru and the proposed merged office in Goa, and problems that it will pose in accessibility to the taxpayers as well as their authorized representatives in this city. Noting that accessibility between Mangaluru and Panjim is either by road or train, Nalin said Mangaluru on the other hand is the only city in the state to have all four modes of transport —air, road, rail and sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nalin-urges-finance-minister-to-reconsider-merging-of-i-t-office/articleshow/78089316.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Objections from bar nixed elevation of 6 judges to HC||NEW DELHI: Objections from the bar and the judiciary itself led the Centre to send inputs against some of the six serving judges whose names were recently returned by the Supreme Court. They had been recommended for elevation to Delhi High Court by the high court collegium last year, but based on the Centre’s stand, including adverse Intelligence Bureau reports, the Supreme Court collegium had last month returned the names. While the collegium resolution was not uploaded, details have emerged about the circumstances that led to the unprecedented move to send back the names of the six district judges of Delhi. TOI has learnt that the IB report raised questions about the integrity of some of the judicial officers, based on the information and inputs it received from various quarters. One of the judges was also flagged for having political affiliations. Apart from the IB inputs, representation by many senior judges overlooked by the high court collegium for elevation and from the coordination committee of All Delhi District Court Bar Association were also received. Sources reveal letters against the proposal were sent last year by judges Rakesh Tiwari, Deepak Jagotra, A S Jayachandra, Girish Kathpalia and Narottam Kaushal. At present, Kathpalia (senior most), Kaushal and Jagotra are in service while others have retired. They lamented that despite having a blemish-free career spanning over 15-17 years, highest disposals, best gradings of “A” for five straight years and support from the local bar where they presided, the high court bypassed them arbitrarily and proposed names of the other six judges last year. The representation speaks about how being overlooked for elevation when eligible is “like punishment.” The association sent a letter in January this year, where it raised the issue of supersession of six senior judges by the high court, commenting that “bar associations are seriously concerned with the supersession and there is serious resentment among members.” The lawyers’ body termed the proposal a “blow to independence of judiciary, which would demoralise honest and dedicated judicial officers.” According to sources, when the association members met the high court judges, they were assured that the names of ignored judges may be considered in the next round of proposals. A similar concern for superseded judges was also expressed by at least one of the consultee Supreme Court judges in the comments to the collegium, it is learnt. Last year, the high court had proposed six names— Poonam A Bamba, Yashwant Kumar, Neena Bansal Krishna, Dharmesh Sharma, Dinesh Kumar Sharma and A K Mendiratta — all of whom presided as district judges. The apex court collegium, comprising Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and justices N V Ramana, Arun Mishra, had cleared the names of six advocates practicing in Delhi for elevation in its meeting held on August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/objections-from-bar-nixed-elevation-of-6-judges-to-hc/articleshow/78096162.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 14, 2020||Chennai||14 Chennai flyovers to get vertical gardens||CHENNAI: After a lull of seven months, Greater Chennai Corporation has resumed work to install vertical gardens underneath 14 of the city’s flyovers. Last week, officials from the bridges department inspected work underneath the flyover at IIT-Madras traffic junction and North Usman Road flyover. Gardens will also come up under flyovers at Mint, Doveton, Pantheon Road, Perambur, Mahalingapuram, Usman Road, TTK Road junction, Kauvery Hospital, Royapettah High Road, GK Moopanar flyover in Nandanam, LB Road and Gandhi Mandapam Road. Senior GCC officials said 108 piers underneath these bridges in the city will have vertical gardens. “The project will cost Rs 8.15 crore. Work will be completed by the end of October,” said a senior official. The plants that will be grown are those that can survive without direct exposure to sunlight, given that they will be under the flyovers, the official added. They will be green and red-leafed, on the lines of projects in Bengaluru and Nagpur, where such gardens have been set up on metro rail pillars. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the work had been halted. “Since fabrication yards had not opened, we could not begin work. It will be finished in good speed now,” the official said. The interesting aspect about the gardens is that the plants will be watered with treated sewage water drawn from a nearby source. Small sewage treatment plants of the capacity of 5kilo litres per day would be set up along the piers, an official said. “Raw sewage is full of nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium that are necessary for plants. The STP would basically just decrease the biological oxygen demand (BOD) from 400 to 30, but retain the nutrients,” the official said. Treated water would also be used from STPs in corporation parks for the purpose. Senior officials said the gardens, once completed, would be given out for maintenance for five to ten years to private entities or government companies that can put up small advertisement boards on the piers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/14-city-flyovers-to-get-vertical-gardens/articleshow/78095276.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Probationary IPS officers given postings||AHMEDABAD: Eight probationary IPS officers who have completed their training at Hyderabad have been inducted into Gujarat police. Shefali Barval has been made SDPO Dahod. Lavina Sinha has been made SDPO Viramgam and Abhay Soni is SDPO Amreli. Sushil Agrawal has been posted as SDPO Palanpur. While Hasan Safin Mustaqali has been made SDPO Bhavnagar, Pooja Yadav will be SDPO Banaskantha. Vikas Sunda is SDPO Bharuch and Om Prakash Jat will be SDPO Gir-Somnath. The state government also shifted 15 DSPs. A R Jankat has been transferred as ACP, special branch, Ahmedabad. While Kalpesh Chavda will be DSP Kheda, V J Rathod will be DSP, Gandhinagar. M H Thakar has been made DSP IB, Bhavnagar and S K Vala is SDPO Vadodara Rural. D P Vaghela is new assistant director of ACB, Ahmedabad and B S Vyas is DSP Ahmedabad Rural. S H Sarda is DSP Devbhoomi Dwarka and Shruti Mehta is DSP SC-ST cell in Rajkot Rural. S S Gadhvi will take care of SC-ST cell at Arvalli. M B Solanki is posted as DSP HQ Jamnagar and D V Basia is ACP crime Rajkot. D G Chaudhary will be DSP, special branch, IB, Gandhinagar and B V Gohil will be DSP, training centre at Sorath. D P Chudasma is new ACP, crime, Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/probationary-ips-officers-given-postings/articleshow/78095268.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||Contractor, son beat up farmer for demanding dues||Pilibhit: Tension prevailed in Pilibhit's Nahrosa village, under Hajara police station, on Sunday morning after a 35-year-old marginal farmer was allegedly assaulted by a timber contractor and his son. Before, the situation acquired a communal hue, police arrested the father-son duo. The injured man was shifted to the district hospital in Pilibhit city. By evening, police termed the situation at the village as normal. Victim Jagdish Kumar's wife, Kesh Kumari, in her written complaint claimed that her husband had gone to get a sum of Rs 10,000 owed by the timber contractor, Sajjad. He had sold a few his trees to the contractor and payment of Rs 10,000 was pending. Kesh Kumari alleged that Jagdish was kept in captivity, abused and bludgeoned by Sajjad and his son, Firoz, for demanding his dues. As news of the assault spread in the village, a large number of people of a particular community assembled at the spot, she said. Her husband was rescued by locals before the accused could harm him further, Kesh Kumari said. She said she feared for her family and sought protection against Sajjad. Ram Sevak, SHO, said, "The two named accused were booked under IPC section 307 (attempt to kill), 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Both had been arrested," Uttam Singh, circle officer, of Puranpur circle, said a police force had been deployed at the village to avert breach of peace and to maintain the law and order. Now, the situation is normal, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/contractor-son-beat-up-farmer-for-demanding-dues/articleshow/78092303.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||SP recommends suspension of Pilibhit BJP VP’s pistol licence||Pilibhit: Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav has recommended to district magistrate Pulkit Khare that he suspend the arms licence of BJP district vice-president Amit Balmiki. This followed a report filed by Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi.It all began after Balmiki reportedly attempted to take unauthorised possession of a residential plot. Dwivedi said in the 12-year-old dispute with one Dimple Gaur, over a 200 sqm plot in Dalchand locality, a Pilibhit civil court had ruled in favour of Gaur on February 19 this year. When on August 31 she began construction on the plot, located next to her residence, Balmiki arrived with 26 henchmen and obstructed work.After police booked both sides under sections 107/116(3) of CrPC, the Gaurs obtained bail against personal bonds, but Balmiki and his henchmen neither appeared before court nor sought bail, said the SHO.SP Yadav said based on Dwivedi’s report, he recommended the suspension of Balmiki’s pistol licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-recommends-suspension-of-pilibhit-bjp-vps-pistol-licence/articleshow/78092872.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Forgotten 19th-century stepwell at HPS all set to get makeover||HYDERABAD: Tucked away near the south east gate of the Hyderabad Public School is a stepwell that few people know about, even faculty and students. A bequeathal of the late 19th century, the stepwell is now being revived. At 25-foot deep, the well was cordoned off for everyone on campus owing to safety concerns. Considering its environmental and historic importance, most of which is undocumented, the school has planned to restore it. “The stepwell predates the school, construction of which began in 1919. Water from the stepwell was used for plantations in the vicinity, including coconut trees, palm trees and paddy. In fact, well water was used for paddy grown on campus even till the 1970s, which made the school self-sufficient,” said an HPS spokesperson in a statement. As time would have it, the stepwell fell into disuse, becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes and vegetation. Roots of Peepal saplings could be seen making their way through walled crevices. Architect Yeshwant Ramamurthy, an alumnus of the school, has been working to restore the stepwell along with a team of researchers. “The stepwell is located at the lowest point of the school, making it an ideal place for surface run-off to be stored for the rest of the year,” he said. Kalpana Ramesh, part of Hyderabad Design Forum research team, said the campus has an over 15 crore litre catchment annually. “This water which would otherwise flow onto to the roads, can be diverted and captured in the well.” Ramesh said a team of seven well diggers, including five women, were engaged to desilt and clear the vegetation manually. This was done to ensure the structure’s safety. “To our surprise we saw water trickling in, which means the underground acquifiers were being reactivated,” said Ramesh, who is also the founder of The Rainwater Project. The step well has a small gallery and quaint arches. Speaking about the importance of stepwells, Anuradha Reddy, convenor, INTACH-Hyderabad, said: “These wells would help maintain the micro-climate by humidifying the atmosphere. They would to sustain agriculture, men and animals. They would also be used for religious purposes as well as for rest and leisure.” HPS said in a statement that “the restoration of the stepwell is part of a larger campaign to acquaint students with their natural and historic heritage. Two other wells would be restored after current work is completed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forgotten-19th-century-stepwell-at-hps-all-set-to-get-makeover/articleshow/78095271.cms||Uttara Varma
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Local operators restrained from tapping into customers of cable TV distributor||Vadodara: A local court has restrained nine cable operators and New Delhi and Indore-based television distributing companies from disconnecting cable television connections provided by Den Networks Ltd in Vadodara or approach their customers.Den Networks Ltd and a joint venture company it had formed with the nine cable operators, had approached the district court in February seeking a pre-arbitration restraint from disconnecting their customers. Den Networks and the JV – Fortune (Baroda) Network Pvt Ltd (FNPL) – had alleged that the nine cable operators and New Delhi-based Infiniti Television and Telecom Pvt Ltd and Indore-based ACN Digital Pvt Ltd had targeted its customers for providing its own cable television network. The nine cable operators hold 49% in FNPL. The cable operators had snapped cables of Den Networks and FNPL despite the agreement of not engaging in competing business directly or indirectly. The customers had complained to Den Network when their set-top boxes were changed. The court of additional district judge P T Patel upheld the documents related to share subscription and shareholders agreement among others produced by Den Networks and FNPL. The court also stated that the cable operators entered into a similar business by joining the businesses of the New Delhi and Indore-based companies.“The arbitrator has not been appointed yet but the stay has been granted by the court,” said Den Network’s lawyer Jaideep Verma. He added that before they moved court, the cable operators were disconnecting hundreds of customers of Den Networks on daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/local-operators-restrained-from-tapping-into-customers-of-cable-tv-distributor/articleshow/78093991.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Cong gears up to confront govt in 8-day legislature session||Mangaluru: The Congress legislature party (CLP) meeting on Wednesday will formulate the party’s strategy to confront the BJP government in the short 8-day session of the state legislature starting on September 21. The Congress has identified issues starting from mismanagement of handling of the pandemic in the state, riots in Bengaluru, and legislations that the government brought in the form of ordinances, said KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed. The session will be stormy and will see Congress come out strongly against the government, Ahmed told reporters here on Sunday. “Party legislators have already submitted more than 1,300 questions to the government,” Ahmed said, adding that the party will thwart any move by the government to push through 28 bills that it has listed in the agenda without proper discussion. “We will press for discussion on all the above issues as well,” he said. The government is yet to respond to a request from Siddaramaiah to extend the session by 10 days, Ahmed said, adding the short session is a ploy to get concurrence of the legislature for the bills. “We will expose the government on the floor of the legislature by highlighting its failures on various fronts, including its knee-jerk reaction to the drugs issue,” Ahmed said. The government has no concrete plan to tackle this major issue, Ahmed contended. The government has also miserably failed to provide succour to people of Karnataka hit by the deluge last year, even as they continue to suffer due to the monsoon this year. The party MPs who strut around like tigers in the state, become purring cats in Delhi, and do not have the wherewithal to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi for funds to handle the flood crisis. They have failed abjectly to highlight issues of Karnataka in Delhi, he noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cong-gears-up-to-confront-govt-in-8-day-legislature-session/articleshow/78094333.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP acquires 1600-acre barren land to set up SEZs, industry||LUCKNOW: In order to create special economic zones and corridors in the untapped areas of the state, the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) has identified nearly 1,600-acre of barren land. Chief executive officer of UPSIDA, Mayur Maheshwari, told TOI that following directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he had asked field officers to identify and acquire only barren land for setting up of industries. So far, UPSIDA has identified 1,600-acre of barren land, the CEO, UPSIDA said adding that the land area freed from land mafia was included in it and soon steps would be initiated to acquire it for the development of special economic zones and industrial corridors. This land bank would be made available to the industry department for inviting investments and setting up projects, Maheshwari added. The Yogi government has recently simplified procedure for changing the land use from agriculture to industrial and asked district authorities for expediting applications pending in this regard. Industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon, who is also chairman of UPSIDA, has praised Maheshwari for his efforts in creating a fresh land bank which was lying unused for decades and could be exploited for industrial growth, giving jobs in areas which were relatively backward. Claiming that the barren land has been identified in Hamirpur, Chitrakoot, Mirzapur, Auraiya and Lalitpur districts, Maheshwari said that the state is also all set to become a major solar energy hub as the Bundelkhand Solar Energy Limited has set the target of setting up of solar plants on 593 acre area identified by the UPSIDA in Lalitpur. Many entrepreneurs have also shown a keen interest in setting up solar plants in other districts of the Bundelkhand region, he added. Besides, the UPSIDA has taken up multi-pronged development of the state through its flagship projects such as Trans-Ganga City near Kanpur, spread over 1,141 acres, Saraswati Hightech City on 1,140 acres in Prayagraj and Trans Delhi near Ghaziabad on 2,800 acres. Under these projects integrated industrial model townships are being developed, the CEO claimed, stating that the UPSIDA has allottable land of 10,000 acres for industrial and residential purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-acquires-1600-acre-barren-land-to-set-up-sezs-industry/articleshow/78096548.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Umar Khalid's arrest a bid to suppress dissent, claim activists||NEW DELHI: Condemning the arrest of former JNU student Umar Khalid by Special Cell of Delhi Police, activists Harsh Mander and Kavita Krishnan, author Arundhati Roy, politician Jignesh Mevani, academic Nandini Sundar, and senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Monday alleged that the arrest was made as a “malicious investigation to target anti-CAA protesters.” Khalid, who was arrested on Sunday, was supported by 36 intellectuals who called him “one of the bravest young voices who spoke for the constitutional values of the country.” “He has been booked on several charges, including sedition, conspiracy for murder and under UAPA. This investigation is not about the violence in February, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA,” the activists said in a statement. The statement added, “He was one of the hundreds of voices that spoke up in favour of the Constitution across the country during the anti-CAA protests, always foregrounding the need for peaceful, non-violent and democratic means. The repeated attempts by Delhi Police to implicate Khalid in a number of fictitious cases of conspiracy for the violence in northeast Delhi are a part of a brazen attempt to try to suppress his voice of dissent.” “Of the 20 arrested by police, 19 are under the age of 31. Of these, 17 have been charged under UAPA and imprisoned for conspiracy for the Delhi violence. Those who actually instigated and participated in the violence have not been touched. Of the ones incarcerated, five are women, and except for one, are also students,” the statement mentioned. Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said, “Delhi Police’s investigation into the riots is a conspiracy in itself. The way it has handled the investigation could become another blot of its uniform.” “Khalid’s arrest is an attack on the real opposition in India and part of a larger design by police to somehow link anti-CAA protests with the riots. Naming Yogendra Yadav and other political leaders and intellectuals in another chargesheet was a part of the same design,” Swaraj India added in a statement. Many DU and JNU professors, historian Ramchandra Guha and Carnatic singer TM Krishna have signed the statement. “The essence of our democracy is the freedom of conscience and the strength of any country is in its young minds. The right to life is not just to be allowed to eat, live and breathe. It is to live without fear, with dignity and with freedom of expression, including dissent,” it said. The activists warned that since there was a precedence of physical attacks in court premises, it was imperative that all measures were taken to avoid any threat to Khalid’s life and safety while he was in the state’s custody. “It has also been observed by the court that false information is being peddled and selective leakages have been done to conduct a full-fledged media trial and influence the course of justice. This must cease immediately,” the signatories stated. Coming out in Khalid’s support, JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) called it “yet another instance of the never-ending witch hunts being conducted by Delhi Police.” The teachers demanded an “end to the use of extraordinary laws to persecute those opposing CAA and suppressing peaceful protests.” JNU Students’ Union wrote an open letter to the police commissioner regarding the intimidation of one of Khalid’s acquaintances in the name of questioning on the Delhi riots. “Police have been trying to incarcerate and malign activists to shift attention away from the real culprits. All progressive sections should stand united and vigilant, and unfazed by such cowardly actions,” it stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arrest-a-bid-to-suppress-dissent-claim-activists/articleshow/78115555.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro says ready for first manic Monday in 6 months||NEW DELHI: It’s been a week that the capital’s lifeline, the Delhi Metro, reopened its doors to commuters after more than five months. As corridors have gradually opened over the week and service timings have been extended with all safety norms in place, footfall has gone up. Monday, however, is going to be the real test for Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) as it is the first weekday since the 349-km network with 242 stations became completely operational. DMRC had reverted to the old service timings of 6 am to 11 pm on Saturday. Over preparations to tackle the increased footfall at stations from Monday, Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said that the corporation was completely ready for the acid test but it would still be better if commuters could avoid the peak hours. “We request the commuters to stagger the timing of their journey to avoid the peak-hour rush,” he added. DMRC will deploy 294 trains on its 10 Lines, including the high-speed Airport Express Line, which will perform over 4,500 trips from 6 am to 11 pm. Before lockdown, DMRC operated fewer trains between 11 am and 4 pm (off-peak hours). But with strict social distancing norms drastically reducing the Metro’s carrying capacity, trains will be available at an optimum frequency from 8 am to 8 pm. “We have already commenced full scale operations on all our corridors since Saturday. The system is in full preparedness to operate during the weekdays commencing Monday,” Dayal said. “Around 1,500 Delhi Metro officers and staff along with Civil Defence volunteers are being specially deployed at the stations to facilitate the commuters in addition to the regular Operation and Maintenance staff who report to duty at all stations and depots throughout the day,” Dayal added. Dayal said a team of around 8,000 housekeeping staff would look after the overall cleaning and sanitisation of station premises and trains across the network. “Adequate availability of sanitisers and thermal scanners has already been ensured,” he added. “Flying squads for each Line have been deputed to ensure adherence to Covid-19 related norms inside the system.” “For your and everyone’s safety and to help prevent the spread of coronavirus, wearing of face mask and adherence to social distancing norms throughout the travel have to be ensured by all commuters. Violation may attract penalties and removal from Metro premises,” Dayal said. DMRC has also advised the commuters to keep extra time of at least 15 to 30 minutes as thermal screening, hand sanitisation at entry points of stations and trains halting for a few extra seconds to ensure people board and de-board smoothly in adherence to social distancing norms will result in extra travelling time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-says-ready-for-first-manic-monday-in-6-mths/articleshow/78096168.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 14, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 17-year-old fights to have her child marriage annulled||BHOPAL: “Sold” into marriage for Rs 50,000 as a 15-year-old two years ago, a minor has approached Childline in Bhopal to get her wedding annulled so that she can pursue her education freely. The man she was forcibly married to is 20 years older, does drugs, ill-treats her and threatens to kill her and her family members unless she moves back with him, she told TOI. She now lives with her mother and younger brother and works at a showroom to help her at home and save money for her education. Her cry for help has been forwarded to the district Child Marriage Prevention Office and Child Welfare Committee (CWC). “According to her Class 10 marksheet, she is now 17-and-a-half-years old. She came to us on Friday, and told us that she wanted to be free of her child marriage that she was forced into two years ago,” said Archana Sahaye, director of City Childline, Bhopal. After the death of her father, her mother remarried but stepfather didn’t treat the child well, said Sahaye. “He gave her away in ‘marriage’ to a 35-year-old man. She could not resist back then as she was just 15 and under tremendous pressure,” she added. The girl left her in-laws’ and moved back with her mother soon after marriage. “My stepfather got me married to a truck-driver From Guna in 2018 in exchange for Rs 50,000. He is quite well off and boasts that no one can harm him as he can bribe anyone and get out of police cases. When I refused to go back to him, he threatened to murder me and my family. My mother and brothers have received death threats too. He said he will have me kidnapped if I didn’t go back to him,” the survivor told TOI. “Under pressure, I stayed with him for three days at first, and then for four days. The last time was on Diwali when his family members lied to me and forced me to go with them. I stayed there for eight days, during which I was subjected to domestic violence and the whole family used to treat me badly. They took away my phone and didn’t let me speak to my mother. It was then that I decided to seek help and came back home after a very bad episode of domestic violence,” she said. She says she couldn’t appear for her board exams in 2018 because she was forced into the wedding. “I took the Class 10 exams this year and have passed with decent marks. I want to go for higher studies and get a nice job so that I can support my family,” she told TOI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/17-yr-old-fights-to-have-her-child-marriage-annulled/articleshow/78095289.cms||Shuchita Jha
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Admission criteria of school of excellence challenged in Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The admission criteria at Delhi government’s School of Excellence (SOE) have been challenged at Delhi High Court by a student. According to the petitioner, asking for higher marks for admission in Class XI at the school is discriminatory and unjustifiable. The petition has been filed by advocate Ashok Agarwal on behalf of a student who had passed his Class X from a regular government school in Trilokpuri. In want of better education, the student had applied for admission in the science stream at the school. SOE’s are special English medium schools started by the government. There are five such schools in the city. As the student has just 49% marks in Hindi as against the required 51% marks, he was denied admission. To get admission in SOE in science stream, a student requires 71% marks in mathematics, 71% in science, 61% in English, 51% in social science and 51% in Hindi in their Class X results. In English, the petitioner’s marks are 87, 73 in maths, 77 in science and 57 in social science. However, in other government schools, the requirement for admission in the science stream is 55% aggregate marks with 50% in English, mathematics and science. The petition states, “It is submitted that action/inaction on the part of the respondent government are arbitrary, unjustified, discriminatory, irrational against public interest, opposed to public policy, violative of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India read with the provisions of the Delhi School Education Act & Rules, 1973 made there under.” The petition also challenges the government for running different types of schools such as SOE and RPVV. There are total of 24 RPVV’s in the city. “All these schools are public-funded but have different standards of education, different kind of facilities and arrangements. It is also submitted that the best of teachers in the education department are selected for teaching in SOE and RPVV School of Excellence and RPVV schools. Not only this, merit-based and through entrance examination, students are selected for education in both SOE and RPVV schools,” adds the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/admission-criteria-of-school-of-excellence-challenged-in-court/articleshow/78096171.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Tales of examinees’ courage behind NEET ‘success’ story||KOLKATA: A girl from Murshidabad spent the better part of Saturday night on a Salt Lake road after travelling 200km from home; a boy from Malda came to Kolkata three days early to beat lockdown; a boy from Behrampore fell unconscious at the centre after an arduous journey, and wrote the exam from a wheelchair; a girl from Nepal stayed 14 days in quarantine at a relative’s home before appearing for the exam in Salt Lake. They could still take the exam; there were a few who could not, even after trying their best. As lakhs of aspiring doctors took NEET on Sunday, out poured tales of grit and courage from examinees, who crossed boundaries of district, state and even country — not to mention walls of fear and uncertainty — all in order to take this one exam. Beldanga resident Noor Jahan Khatun and her father, a bidi worker, had booked a guest house in Salt Lake, hoping to check in on Saturday and reach the exam venue on time. But when they reached Salt Lake on Saturday evening, they were told their booking was not confirmed and asked to leave. Not knowing much of Salt Lake, father and daughter sat on the footpath near tank No.7, preparing to spend the night on the road as the latter started revising under the street lights. It was sheer luck that a good Samaritan spotted them some hours later, and helped them check into another guest house. “Had it not been for that person, I don’t know whether I would have been mentally fit to take the exam,” said the girl. With Saturday’s lockdown revoked only on Thursday, many examinees and their parents had already started from their homes in different districts and states on Wednesday to reach the city on Thursday, staying at hotels and guest houses around the exam venues. “It was only after we reached the city on Thursday that we came to know that Saturday’s lockdown was revoked. Had we known earlier, we could have saved the money spent on hotel stay. We would have started on Saturday itself,” said Sohail Rana, who was appearing for the exam at Apeejay School, Park Street. Several from faraway districts said they had to face a harrowing time arranging for transport. A group of examinees who were appearing from a venue in Howrah, said they had to shell out Rs 40,000 to book a bus from Malda to reach the city. “There were around 20 of us who hired the bus. We started early on Saturday and reached on Saturday night. We had to pay Rs 40,000,” said an examinee. Another examinee from Malda, Sneha Das, said she had to pay Rs 13,000 to hire a car to her centre on Park Street. Behrampore’s Bikram Nandi fell sick during the long journey and collapsed upon reaching his Kasba venue. But he managed to write the exam from a wheelchair after he was medically cleared. “He didn’t want to miss the exam after making the effort to reach. I asked him to opt out but he was adamant on writing the exam,” said his father Ranjit Nandi, who works at a private firm. Queuing up outside the Haryana Vidyamandir exam venue was also Avantika Malik from Nepal, who came out of her 14-day home quarantine only on Friday. “We had started from Kathmandu on August 28 morning in a car with Covid-negative certificates and took a train from New Jalpaiguri the same night to reach Kolkata on August 29. Since then we were in home quarantine at a relative’s house on Zakaria Street. My dream is to become a doctor and that dream kept me going even in this pandemic,” said Malik, who was accompanied by her father. But, for some students like Darbhanga resident Santosh Kr Yadav, the 600km distance proved too much to cover as he missed the exam by a mere 15 minutes. Yadav had boarded a bus from his hometown at 8am but was stuck between Muzaffarpur and Patna for close to 10 hours because of a traffic disruption, and could only reach Sealdah at 1pm. “I reached the Salt Lake venue at 1.45pm, but they didn’t allow me in as the gates had closed half an hour before the start of the exam at 1.30pm. I am shattered,” said Yadav, breaking down on the pavement outside Apeejay School, Salt Lake. (With inputs from Amit Moulick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tales-of-examinees-courage-behind-neet-success-story/articleshow/78096566.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 14, 2020||Pune||Over 4k new patients in PMR, 84 people succumb||Pune: The Covid-19 death toll in Pune Metropolitan Region climbed to 5,143 on Sunday after 84 people succumbed to the contagion. In a 24-hour period, PMR recorded 4,134 fresh positives, pushing the region’s total caseload to 2,24,826. This means, over the past week, more than 31,000 new cases have been added, while 24,457 patients were discharged. On Sunday, 3,766 patients recovered, taking the total number of discharges in the region to 1,78,393, the daily report issued by the district health officer stated. As of Sunday, there were 41,324 active patients in the region — 24,380 admitted to hospitals and 16,944 under home quarantine. The Pune Municial Corporation limits added 1,978 cases on Sunday. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 1,028 fresh cases, while rural areas (788), cantonments (109) and municipal council areas (231) made up the rest. Of the 84 fatalities, 44 deaths were recorded in PMC limits, while 13 people succumbed in PCMC areas. Twenty-one casualties were reported in the rural areas. A majority of the deceased had underlying health problems like diabetes, hypertension and heart problems. According to PMC’s report, 3,214 people are bing treated on oxygenated beds. PMC data showed that 910 patients are in a critical condition, with 440 on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-4k-new-patients-in-pmr-84-people-succumb/articleshow/78095285.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 14, 2020||Bhopal||CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan gifts projects worth Rs 580 cr to Gohad-Datia||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday took potshots at Congress leader Kamal Nath’s visit to pest-infected soybean fields, saying he is remembering farmers after losing his government in the state. Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who accompanied Chouhan during the joint rally said that it was the Congress government that betrayed the public and is now calling others as traitors. “During the 15 months of the Kamal Nath government, many disasters hit the farmers. We asked Nath to visit the fields and assess the damages, but he never stepped out of Vallabh Bhawan (secretariat). He never saw the mud-filled lanes of the village, nor did he step in the fields. Now that the government is gone, he is missing villages, farmers and farms. He did not have time for public representatives when he was the chief minister and he used to meet only contractors,” said Chouhan addressing a joint rally in Gohad assembly area of Bhind district. Chouhan and Scindia continued their rallies for the fourth consecutive day in the Gwalior-Chambal region. The two leaders toured Gohad and Bhander (Datia) and dedicated development works to the tune of Rs580 crore in both the constituencies. "We are reviving all schemes which were put on the back burner by the previous Congress government. Congress betrayed the youths but we will provide them employment and remove the ban on recruitment,’ Chouhan said. Scindia attacked Congress for calling dissidents as traitors. He said it was the Nath government that betrayed 7.5 crore people of MP. “Those who call our warriors as traitors must know that they cheated the farmers, the youtsh and the 7.5 crore people of the state. If bringing down a corruption-ridden government that failed to fulfill its promises is a betrayal, then, I admit, that I have betrayed,” he said. “The Scindia family is not after the post, position and the chair but, for the development of the public. My grandmother Rajmata made the DP Mishra government bite the dust, my father Madhavrao Scindia formed MP Vikas Congress and I will continue to follow them against the anti-public and corrupt government,” Scindia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-gifts-projects-worth-rs-580-cr-to-gohad-datia/articleshow/78095311.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: House survey in three towns showing rise in Covid cases||PUNE: The Khed tehsil administration will launch a two-day door-to-door survey from September 15 in Chakan, Rajgurunagar and Alandi to identify people with symptoms of Covid-19 and refer them for treatment. Khed sub-divisional officer Sanjay Teli told TOI on Sunday, “The survey will help us spot patients and treat them in the early stage of infection. These patients will be either admitted at our Covid care centre or will be allowed home isolation depending on their health condition.” These three towns are populated and house several industries. They have recorded a surge in positive cases, he added. Chakan is among the worst affected. It has recorded so far recorded 963 cases. Of these, 738 have been discharged after recovery, 25 have succumbed to the contagion and 200 are active cases. Chakan municipal council’s chief officer Nanasaheb Kamthel, said, “We have about 30,000 people who travel outside daily for work. The APMC markets and industries have reported most infections. We are focusing on contact tracing and trying to trace 30 people behind one positive patient and check their health.” Rajgurunanagar has recorded 658 cases, 511 of these have been cured and 13 succumbed to the virus and 134 are active cases. “People from all over the taluka come for their administrative work . If we don’t control the cases here, these people will get infected and it will spread in their villages,” a senior health official from Khed said. Alandi has registered 545 cases. Of these, 404 have been cured, 10 have died and 131 are active cases. Until June the temple town had less than 100 cases, but they surged in July and August after the lockdown eased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/house-survey-in-three-towns-showing-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78095312.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Web of deceit: How this gang used e-commerce sites to dupe scores||NEW DELHI: Ten people have been arrested from different parts of Haryana and Rajasthan for allegedly duping people from Delhi-NCR after contacting them through e-commerce websites. The cyber cell of Delhi Police carried out the operation as part of a crackdown to curb online crimes originating from the Nuh, Bharatpur and Mathura tri-junction region, using popular e-commerce platforms engaged in sale-resale of goods. According to around 300 complaints received on the national cybercrime portal, the accused posed as army/paramilitary personnel to gain trust of victims. The SIM cards used in the racket were sourced from as far as Barpeta in Assam and Telangana. “The complaints had various commonalities such as fraudsters impersonating army/paramilitary personnel, fake e-wallet transaction screenshots and use of malicious QR codes,” said DCP (cyber) Anyesh Roy. “The complaints also revealed that the fraudsters were using same names. This indicated the involvement of a huge gang of cyber criminals targeting unsuspecting people across the country.” The phone numbers were tracked and raids were conducted in various states, leading to the arrest of 10 men — Husban, Hasib, Shehzad, Salim, Aziz, Sakir, Faizal, Yashvir, Sajid and Sabir — mostly from Nuh, Faridabad and Bharatpur. All of them are in their mid-20s. The accused primarily used two ways to dupe people. In one, the accused posed as army/paramilitary personnel posting advertisements on popular e-commerce websites for sale of their goods, mostly cars or bikes. They even posted photographs of vehicles, mainly taken from internet, which had either Indian Army or a paramilitary force name written on them. After the deal is struck, they told the victim that the vehicle couldn’t be released or sent to him unless a releasing charge was paid as per the army/paramilitary rules. Once the amount was paid, they coaxed the victim to pay more on the pretext of transport and handling charges, GST etc. They would then suddenly cut all contacts with him. The gang used bank or e-wallet accounts for transactions. In the second mode, the accused pretended to be buyers. Here too, they impersonated army/paramilitary personnel and used to send a fake screenshot generated with the help of a spoofing app after agreeing to pay the advertised price for an item. When the victim complained about not receiving the money, they would ask him to scan a malicious QR code to bypass a technical glitch. Once the victim scanned it on his mobile phone, the money, instead of getting credited, got debited from his account. After a complaint, they used to send another QR code promising twice the amount for the “erroneous” transfer, but that amount would also get deducted from the victim’s account. This way, the gang managed to fraudulently make the victim scan malicious QR codes as many times as possible and then suddenly stopped responding to his calls. Watch Web of deceit: Gang using e-commerce sites to dupe scores busted in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/web-of-deceit-how-this-gang-used-e-commerce-sites-to-dupe-scores/articleshow/78096174.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||26 staff from Dudhwa, PTR to undergo training on mitigating man-animal conflict||Bareilly: A select group of 26 frontline staff of Dudhwa and Pilibhit Tiger Reserves will undergo a two-day special human-wildlife conflict mitigation training. They will also be trained for carrying out rescue operations in case of the absence of an expert veterinarian. The training, beginning on Monday, will be conducted in Dudhwa by the experts from WTI. Dr Daksh Gangwar, a facilitator from WTI, told TOI, “The same staff has been trained on the same subject thrice in the last two years. This training will help them track and identify wild animals, how to use various instruments for rescue, including tranquilizing guns. The sociology expert will train the staff on how to ensure the participation of local community in conservation of wildlife and how to establish reliable and useful relationships with them. The veterinarian will teach them about animal rescue rehabilitation, etc. After the completion of the training, staff will be expected to contribute more efficiently to wildlife conservation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/26-staff-from-dudhwa-ptr-to-undergo-training-on-mitigating-man-animal-conflict/articleshow/78092936.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Cured’ Covid patients flock to hospital with complications||PANAJI: For many Covid-19 patients, recovery from the infection may not be the end of the battle, as doctors across Goa are reporting cases of post-Covid complications. From exertional breathlessness to Covid fibrosis and various other complications, doctors say that even a heart attack can’t be ruled out in the post-Covid period. Since the spike in June, patients requiring post-Covid treatment are regularly being referred to the department of pulmonary medicine at the Goa Medical College (GMC). Head of department Dr Durga Lawande said that recoveries in these cases may often take two or more months. In such cases, she said, CT scams reveal residual changes in the lungs, which will likely clear in 2-3 months. “It is still early to say with certaintly the exact period required for recovery, since Goa’s Covid-19 spike occurred later than other states,” she said. Lawande said that if patients come with severe cases like post-Covid fibrosis, doctors commence treatment if there are chances of its persisting. Some patients, even after being discharged from hospital, suffer from residual breathlessness. Simple tasks such as walking to the washroom or going from one room to another become difficult due to the patient’s dropping oxygen level. “These patients require post-Covid treatment. They are referred to us after their discharge from (the Covid) hospital,” she said, adding that they are given additional treatment of steroids, but tapered over two months. “Most patients have responded well to the treatment,” she said. With the virus being new, Lawande said it is unclear whether patients who had pneumonia will heal in due course or with residual fibrosis in the lungs — scarring in the lungs — which interferes with oxygen exchange in the system. “To avoid the development of fibrosis, patients are given doses of steroids for two months. What happens to the fibrosis after three months is yet to be seen,” she said. However, she said that the few patients who have completed their two months (of steroid course) have done very well, though some may be required to be given oxygen for an additional month at home. She said that as compared to interstitial lung fibrosis due to other diseases, she said there is a better prognosis in Covid cases. “With Covid lung fibrosis, we don’t expect (it) to progress further, and it will likely clear. That’s what we are learning from the cases seen elsewhere,” she said. Certain drugs have been advocated for treatment of lung fibrosis that persists beyond three months, Lawande said, but they are still in the experimental stage. “Studies are still underway to determine the efficacy of those drugs,” she said. Lawande expects that around 20% of cured Covid-19 cases may have gone into fibrosis. It will be difficult to say which age group is more vulnerable to the risk of post-Covid health issues in the absence of a study, she said. “It would likely depend more on the extent of the infection of the virus the patient suffered. Other factors such as age and comorbid conditions may come into the picture, but we can’t say more without a study.” Some peculiar cases — patients who didn’t have active infection and were asymptomatic — developed breathlessness at a later stage, she said. Depending on the outcome of the investigation, treatment is initiated in them, she added. In some cases, she said the hyper-inflammatory state gets extended, raising the risk of strokes or myocardial infarctions (heart attacks) during post-Covid period. “Those patients need to be followed for three months post-Covid recovery,” she said. “They are informed about this at the time of their discharge. If there is a sudden increase in breathlessness, they shouldn’t ignore it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cured-covid-patients-flock-to-hospital-with-complications/articleshow/78096170.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 14, 2020||Kochi||30k active cases, TPR crosses 9%||Thiruvananthapuram: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 30,000 after 3,139 more people tested positive on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the state has become 9.02% which is the highest recorded so far. The TPR had been above 8% for the past few days and it had gone down to 6.8% on Saturday. The total number of cases reported in the state has now become 1,08,278. Of the new cases reported on the day, 2,977 are contact cases among which the source of 251 cases are not known. As many as 1,855 recoveries were also reported taking the total number of cured cases to 77,703. The total active cases have become 30,072. Fourteen more deaths were reported in the state and the total death toll has risen to 440. The deceased are Thankappan, 67, from Thrissur; Krishnan, 69, Leela, 75, Ponnan Nadar, 73, Ratnakumar, 66, Glory, 74, Wilfred, 56, Sudhakaran, 62, and Ramachandran, 42, from Thiruvananthapuram; Babu, 55, and Omana Amma, 71, from Kollam; O A Mohanan, 68, and Sulochana, 62, from Ernakulam and Chamaiyar, 94, from Palakkad. As many as 145 deaths were reported in the state this month alone. In Thiruvananthapuram, a total of 148 deaths have been reported officially. Among the new cases, 36 are those who came back from foreign countries and 126 from other states. Those who have infected through local transmission include 56 healthcare workers. Thiruvananthapuram reported 412 new cases, followed by Kozhikode (399), Malappuram (378), Ernakulam (326), Alappuzha (252), Kannur (234), Palakkad (233), Kollam (205), Kottayam (196), Thrissur (182), Kasaragod (124), Pathanamthitta (102), Wayanad (56) and Idukki (40). The locally transmitted cases are Thiruvananthapuram (395), Kozhikode (392), Malappuram (365), Ernakulam (298), Alappuzha (229), Palakkad (219), Kannur (207), Kottayam (191), Kollam (188), Thrissur (172), Kasaragod (121), Pathanamthitta (75), Wayanad (51) and Idukki (18). The district-wise figures of the patients who tested negative are Thiruvananthapuram (291), Kollam (140), Pathanamthitta (191), Alappuzha (46), Kottayam (125), Idukki (20), Ernakulam (232), Thrissur (115), Palakkad (66), Malappuram (202), Kozhikode (128), Wayanad (33), Kannur (88) and Kasaragod (178). As many as 2,04,489 people are under observation across the state and 22,639 are in hospitals. On Sunday, 2,684 people were admitted to various hospitals. In the last 24 hours, 34,786 samples were tested. Till now, a total of 21,32,795 samples have been sent for testing, including 1,88,976 samples from priority groups as part of sentinel surveillance. Seventeen new places were declared as hotspots on Sunday as 13 were excluded. There are 607 hotspots in the state now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/30k-active-cases-tpr-crosses-9/articleshow/78094348.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials may resume in India in 3 days||PUNE: After safety watchdogs in the UK cleared concerns, human trials of the Oxford University Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India are expected to resume in three days, top officials from the Indian Council of Medical Research confirmed on Sunday. The late-stage trials of the vaccine were temporarily put on hold globally following a reported side-effect in a UK patient. On Saturday, British drugmaker AstraZeneca said it was restarting the advanced human trials of the vaccine candidate it has developed jointly with the Oxford University. The UK development has offered relief to Indian investigators involved in conducting the human trials of the Oxford vaccine which will be manufactured by the Pune-headquartered Serum Institute of India (SII) under the name Covishield. “By Wednesday, all processes in terms of reviewing the UK trials' vaccine safety data will be over. After receiving the green signal from the Drug Controller General of India, the trial will resume across 17 trial sites in India,” a senior ICMR official requesting anonymity said. The council is supervising the Oxford University vaccine trials in the country. The review of the safety clearances from Data Safety Board of India in India as well as the UK board is paramount to restart the vaccine trials, the official said. A total of 17 trial sites across the country are involved in conducting phase 2 and phase 3 human trials of the vaccine among 1,600 healthy adult volunteers. The trial sites are currently awaiting the go-ahead to move into phase 3 testing of the vaccine. A total of 100 volunteers have already received the trial dose of the vaccine in the phase 2 trials and none of them have reported any adverse reactions, so far. “As I’d mentioned earlier, we should not jump to conclusions until the trials are fully concluded. The recent chain of events is a clear example of why we should not (have a) bias (towards) the process and should respect the process till the end,” Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted on Saturday night after the announcement. The SII said that it would resume trials “once DCGI will give us the permission to restart the trials in India”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oxford-vaccine-trials-may-resume-in-india-in-3-days/articleshow/78095326.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 14, 2020||Madurai||Punishment apt for cop who took part in strike: HC||Madurai: Observing that there was no infirmity in the punishment order passed by the authorities, Madras high court dismissed the plea moved by a policeman challenging his punishment for participating in an agitation and procession seeking to immediately relieve all those who were issued transfer orders in 2010. The court was hearing the petition filed by V Marimuthu, a police constable attached to Madurai city police, challenging the punishment order issued to him when he was working with Coimbatore city police. The charge against him was that he along with 27 other policemen assembled and raised slogans on the office campus of the Coimbatore city police commissioner seeking to immediately relieve those transferred. Justice R M T Teekaa Raman observed that they had also participated in a procession and a few of them had given interviews to the media. Since the charges were proven after an inquiry, the disciplinary authority had issued punishment of postponement of increment for three years with cumulative effect to the petitioner in 2015. When he filed an appeal, the appellate authority had reduced the postponement of increment to two years without cumulative effect. “In administrative law, transfer order and relieving order are two different things. Depending upon the administrative exigency the relieving order will come into force on a later date and the same is not per se arbitrary,” observed the judge. According to Rule 25 of Tamil Nadu Police Subordinate Police Officers Conduct Rules, no officer shall engage himself in strike on incitements there to on in ‘similar activities’. The expression ‘similar activities’ shall be deemed to include absence from work without permission or neglect of duties on any other act done or omitted to be done with the object of compelling something to be done by superior officers or the government and shall include any demonstrative fast usually called hunger strikes for similar purpose. Citing that the charges against the petitioner squarely fall under the category of ‘similar activities’ as per the Rules, the judge observed that the disciplinary authority had rightly inflicted the punishment on the petitioner. Since the appellate authority had taken a lenient view and modified the punishment, it cannot be termed as excessive, the court said while dismissing the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/punishment-apt-for-cop-who-took-part-in-strike-hc/articleshow/78096173.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram: Spurt in cases after Onam portends further peak||THIRUVANANTHPURAM: The district seems well on its course for a peak in September third week going by the positivity rate. Thiruvananthapuram’s TPR in first week of September post Onam was 9.9. Although it was a slight decline from the TPR in the final week of August (10.9), the number of cases in the district has risen sharply since September 1. Even with over 40 clusters, the first two weeks of August reported 3,839 cases. In September, the past 13 days have so far recorded 5,331 positive cases. The local transmission percentage in the district had touched 96.67% by September 7. The rate of local transmission dropped mildly in the next days with the percentage switching between 93% and 94% till now. In August, the TPR had shown a variable trend even with a huge number of clusters. While the cumulative TPR for August in the capital was 8.7, weekly rates ranged between 8.9-10.9. Going by the rise in number of cases, TPR is expected to rise more in the coming weeks. Right from the start of September, family clusters began to form and a majority of them had a history of informal gatherings as part of Onam. Irrespective of rural and city areas, cases were being reported from families which portended a further peak in transmission. In Kalady, around 35 active cases emerged from three families and more than 11 cases were reported from a single family in the first week. Karimadom, Kuriathi and Manacaud had over 90 active cases by the end of first week. Karimadom colony had a family in which 11 members tested positive. Some of the panchayat areas also recorded a delayed peak. Kallikadu panchayat had reported cases mostly from Mylakkara and Chamalappuram in the first week of September. Many of the neighbouring wards had already gone through the peak and were on a downward slide when 46 cases emerged at Chamalappuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tpuram-spurt-in-cases-after-onam-portends-further-peak/articleshow/78094353.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Flying colours: Count the flutter in your backyard||NEW DELHI: The Big Butterfly Count, a first-of-its-kind event to record the winged species and their population, will begin from Monday. The census will help conservators identify important trends of species, plan their preservation from extinction and understand the impact of climate change on them. Over 50 organisations across the country are expected to come together to conduct the census in 22 states and three Union Territories, the counting for which will continue till September 20. NGOs, nature lovers and others have been asked to submit their entries online along with pictures and GPS locations. Though Delhi has been conducting the annual butterfly census since 2017, this will be the first time when individual numbers along with species will be counted. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the exercise will be restricted mostly to the backyards. Sohail Madan, Bombay Natural History Society, said, “Counting butterflies is important as they play an intricate role in the ecosystem because they are pollinators and components of the food chain. Because of their sensitivity to environment changes, they are also key biodiversity indicators.” Butterflies could be spotted in Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and Aravalli Biodiversity Park, but experts said there were many host plants in Delhi-NCR that attract these insects. “Butterflies can also be found on a few plants, including curry leaves and lemon, in your backyard. They lay eggs on these host plants and the caterpillars feed on their leaves. People should plant saplings of host plants to attract butterflies to their gardens,” said Abhishek Gulshan, nature educator and founder, NINOX-owl about nature. Gulshan added that the idea behind Big Butterfly Count was to celebrate the role of butterflies in the health of the ecosystem. The most common butterfly species found in the capital include common mormon, plain tiger, lime swallowtail, red pierrot, blue pansy and lemon pansy. Meanwhile, experts said the number of butterflies had sharply declined over the years. According to BNHS, which has been organising the event in September every year, 69 butterfly species were observed in Delhi in 2017, which increased to 75 in 2018, but declined to 66 the next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/flying-colours-count-the-flutter-in-your-backyard/articleshow/78096181.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 14, 2020||Surat||51 diamond workers donate blood||Surat: Neel Madhav Impex, a diamond polishing unit, organised a blood donation camp on its premises at Matavadi area in Varachha on Sunday. Total 51 polishers donated blood which was given to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital blood bank. “We learnt about shortage of blood in the city. So, we decided to hold the blood donation camp, said unit owner Jagdish Lukhi who also donated with his brother. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/51-diamond-workers-donate-blood/articleshow/78094362.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||To attract investors, Goa’s industrial land showcased on Centre’s digital land bank||Panaji: The department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) has launched the country’s first digital industrial land bank to give investors a real-time picture of industrial land available in various states. Goa is among the first seven states to map its industrial land as part of the national GIS-enabled land bank system. The data on the portal shows that the state has 66 hectares of industrial land available. Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) managing director Derrick Neto said that the industrial land would be developed into plots based on demand from investors and after the state government takes the required decisions. Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal launched the GIS-enabled land bank system at a virtual meeting with ministers of states, UT administrators and senior officials of the central and state governments. “Goa was in the first stage of the land bank system, and accordingly, we carried out mapping of the land. So now, if you open the portal, you can see the different industrial estates — which plots are vacant, and the facilities available,” said Neto. The land bank system is developed by integration of the industrial information system (IIS) with state GIS systems, and the remaining states are likely to be brought on board by December. The IIS portal is a GIS-enabled database of industrial areas/clusters across the states. More than 3,300 industrial parks across the country have been mapped with information about forest, drainage, raw material heat maps and connectivity. “We have shown open land, which we can then develop and advertise as plots. It will be based on demand and it is for the state government to take the call,” said Neto. On August 10, industries minister Vishwajit Rane announced that Goa is mapping all revenue land in the state along with industrial land that can be put to use for economic activity. The industries department had tasked GIDC with the responsibility of mapping all the industrial land in the industrial estates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-attract-investors-goas-industrial-land-showcased-on-centres-digital-land-bank/articleshow/78096176.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Few aspirants miss NEET by minutes||Nashik: Several aspirants in Nashik district, who were assigned exam centres in Satana (90km north of Nashik) and Igatpuri (45km south of Nashik), complained that they missed out on appearing for the national eligibility and entrance test (NEET) on Sunday due to last-minute relocation of exam centres to Nashik city. The national testing agency had assigned 44 exam centres in Nashik district, where nearly 16,000 students were to write the exam scheduled from 2 pm to 5 pm. In all, 102 students from the Satana centre and 240 from the Igatpuri centre had their centres relocated. Rahul Aher, a resident of Jalgaon Chondi village near Malegaon, took his sister on his scooter to the examination centre in Satana about 50 km away from his home, but found that the centre had been relocated. “We travelled on the same scooter, for more than 2 hours, to reach the new centre at 1.31 pm, only to find that the gates had been closed — just a minute before we got there,” said Aher adding that his sister is inconsolable. At least six students, who had first gone to the Satana centre, reached the new centre at the KK Wagh College of Agriculture a few minutes after the gates closed. Sanjay Nikam, a resident of Niphad, was first assigned a centre at Igatpuri. Nikam and his father drove to Igatpuri, where they were told to rush to the Kendriya Vidyalay in Deolali instead. “I reached Deolali by 1.37 pm,” Nikam said. About four students — who had been to Igatpuri first — missed the exam at this centre. According to sources, the change in centres was announced by the NTA and a notification was also put up. “There were 102 students from Satana and we had a fair attendance, which means the students got the information on time,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/few-aspirants-miss-neet-by-minutes/articleshow/78096177.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Baner jumbo unit to reopen from Monday||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will reopen the Covid-19 jumbo treatment facility at Baner from Monday. The facility will begin admitting patients once again after a halt of around a week. “The updation of the facility is underway. It is almost complete and now we will start admitting patients. The decision on the admission will be taken based on the condition of the patients. Those patients, who are in need of O2 beds, will be prioritized,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner of PMC. He added that patients requiring the ICU facility will not be taken in immediately. The patients currently under treatment at this facility will be shifted to the ICU, if needed. The civic body had to stop taking new patients at the Baner facility after the appointed agency expressed its inability to operate the facility. The new agency has now been appointed. As per Khemnar, the pharmacy section has been improved while the bio-medical engineer is carrying out further checks. Once the checks are completed, the facility will be ready. “Apart from new admissions, even patients from Sassoon hospital will be taken in at this facility. The oxygen supply system at Sassoon hospital is under repair. So, admission of new patients has been restricted. Some of these patients will be asked to take admission at the Baner facility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/baner-jumbo-unit-to-reopen-today/articleshow/78095329.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Braveheart Nilanjana released from hosp; staffers salute her spirit||Kolkata: Braveheart Nilanjana Chatterjee (47) was discharged from hospital exactly a week after she had been admitted with a fractured right foot. She will be continuing with her rehabilitation for the next three weeks, using a walker and may have her surgical stitches taken off at home. On Sunday, she laid out two important immediate goals for herself — getting back on her feet and resuming normal life as fast as possible and ensuring that she follows all the legal routes to get the accused, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, booked. She was brought down in a stretcher to the ground floor lobby around 11.20 am, the formalities being completed in less than 15 minutes. Ruby hospital staffers lined up on both sides of the corridor and sang Hoyo Koromete Bir Hoyo Unnoto shir, saluting her spirit. Chatterjee sang along with them and thanked the staffers. Later, she said that what she had done came naturally to her. Her rehabilitation programme will continue at home, according to the hospital sources. “She is happy to be back at home. I want to tell Kolkatans not to overlook anyone in need of help. Our experience shows that the police and even chief minister Mamata Banerjee are ready to help,” said her husband, Deep Satpati. Chatterjee had jumped out of her car to save a 31-year-old woman, a bank employee, last Saturday night before Pandey rolled over her right foot. Meanwhile, a detective department officer, along with Anandapur police, recorded the statement of Chatterjee for over two hours on Saturday. A woman officer has also noted down all details that she gave to the investigators. “Once she is fully fit, we will get her statement recorded before the magistrate. Chatterjee, one of the prime victims, is the one, on whose statement the case hinges,” said an officer. The detective department and the east division also completed the medical forensic examination in the Anandapur molestation and attempted culpable homicide case. According to sources, the investigators had first collected the medical history of braveheart Chatterjee from the Ruby hospital. With doctors hinting that they might finally release her on Sunday, cops said they would record her statement soon after she settled down at home. A special doctors’ team — on behalf of the FSL — conducted this specific examination. A special forensic team comprising doctors reviewed her wounds. “The FSL medical unit will prepare a report on the nature of wounds based on the spot survey and try to ascertain whether Pandey’s act was a planned one or he had any knowledge of what he was doing. That will help us stick to the charge or add harsher sections. We have also asked the cops who had responded to the distress call by Deep Satpati to tell us about their experience that night,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/braveheart-nilanjana-released-from-hosp-staffers-salute-her-spirit/articleshow/78095334.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 14, 2020||Kochi||382 junior docs on Covid duty yet to get a penny||Thiruvananthapuram: Even as 868 doctors are continuing their protest against their salary cut for salary challenge, junior doctors association have alleged that the government has not paid even a single penny to 382 doctors even after three months of service. These 382 junior doctors, who had joined service in July for Covid-19 special duty at primary health centres and first line treatment centres, will be completing their three months duty by September end. “Authorities had promised us Rs 42,000 as salary and later they deducted six days’ pay for salary challenge and paid Rs 27,000 to a few. But 382 doctors have not received a single penny till date. The authorities have not cleared their salaries due to unknown reasons,” said Dr Ousam Hussain K P, state president of Kerala Junior Doctors Association 20-21. Of the 382 junior doctors working without pay, 88 are in Kozhikode district, Malappuram (41), Kannur (39), Alappuzha (40), Kollam (28), Kottayam (27), Thiruvananthapuram (27), Palakkad (26 ), Pathanamthitta (24), Ernakulam (22), Thrissur (10), Kasaragod (8) and 2 in Idukki. “We are being given promises every time. But it is not being executed. The government decided to pay the salaries when we protested. When salaries were sanctioned, without any information they cut our salaries for the salary challenge and we were paid a meagre Rs 27,000. When we protested against this pay cut, we were again given promises that it would be rectified soon,” said the association leaders. The junior doctors had threated to resign from service on September 10 but later they withdrew as the government assured them of rectifying the anomaly. “We are waiting for the government order or else we will be forced to quit from service soon,” said Dr Ousam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/382-junior-docs-on-covid-duty-yet-to-get-a-penny/articleshow/78094357.cms||Rajiv G
September 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Spurt in cases after Onam portends further peak||THIRUVANANTHPURAM: The district seems well on its course for a peak in September third week going by the positivity rate. Thiruvananthapuram’s TPR in first week of September post Onam was 9.9. Although it was a slight decline from the TPR in the final week of August (10.9), the number of cases in the district has risen sharply since September 1. Even with over 40 clusters, the first two weeks of August reported 3,839 cases. In September, the past 13 days have so far recorded 5,331 positive cases. The local transmission percentage in the district had touched 96.67% by September 7. The rate of local transmission dropped mildly in the next days with the percentage switching between 93% and 94% till now. In August, the TPR had shown a variable trend even with a huge number of clusters. While the cumulative TPR for August in the capital was 8.7, weekly rates ranged between 8.9-10.9. Going by the rise in number of cases, TPR is expected to rise more in the coming weeks. Right from the start of September, family clusters began to form and a majority of them had a history of informal gatherings as part of Onam. Irrespective of rural and city areas, cases were being reported from families which portended a further peak in transmission. In Kalady, around 35 active cases emerged from three families and more than 11 cases were reported from a single family in the first week. Karimadom, Kuriathi and Manacaud had over 90 active cases by the end of first week. Karimadom colony had a family in which 11 members tested positive. Some of the panchayat areas also recorded a delayed peak. Kallikadu panchayat had reported cases mostly from Mylakkara and Chamalappuram in the first week of September. Many of the neighbouring wards had already gone through the peak and were on a downward slide when 46 cases emerged at Chamalappuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tpuram-spurt-in-cases-after-onam-portends-further-peak/articleshow/78099507.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Waste blot on hospital ‘IMAGE’||Kochi: The average quantity of Covid and non-Covid waste from hospitals being treated at the common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) in Palakkad is up about 14% from pre-novel coronavirus days. According to latest data, IMAGE which runs the facility, has processed nearly 1,598 tonnes of biomedical waste (BMW) since March 21. At present, it is processing about 55 tonnes of BMW per day from 16,288 hospitals, including Covid care centres. For every kilogram of Covid waste per patient bed, the facility is processing 450gm of non-Covid waste per bed every day. Officials are however upset over the lack of proper segregation of waste at the source. "Hospitals have also been pushing through their solid waste. All the food and other plastic waste is being dumped in yellow bags which come sealed. We do not open those bags and they go directly into the incinerator. The workers don't touch them because they are supposed be Covid waste. The red bags are opened as the needles have to be autoclaved,” IMAGE officials said. The violation by hospitals came to light when they analyzed the Covid waste. "We have five functioning incinerators, but unsegregated waste could lead to damage. Repairing them is not only costly but will affect the facility's working capacity,” they said. Furthermore, the readings under the various parameters have been high. "All this is being monitored online and relayed to concerned agencies. We will be booked for violation under the EPA if the readings exceed any of the limits." Frustrated by repeated breaches, IMAGE fired letters to the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, which is a lead offender. “They are generating excess waste. Moreover, waste management at hospitals is being handled by untrained staff. They are dumping food and other waste in the yellow bags, which are exclusively for Covid waste. According to instructions they are to be sealed to be directly fed into the incinerator,” the officials added. With MCH authorities unresponsive, IMAGE made representations to the health department and the state pollution control board informing them of the violations. During a recent webinar on BMW management in India, IMAGE, which currently has the largest CBWTF capacity in the country, expressed concern over the altered quality of biomedical waste, the frequent maintenance of treatment & monitoring equipment and increased expenses for Covid waste management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/waste-blot-on-hospital-image/articleshow/78094367.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Five denied bail for killing man||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has dismissed a bail plea of five rioters accused of killing a 48-year-old property dealer, Parvez, who was involved in pacifying the situation between the two communities during the northeast Delhi riots. Additional sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat noted that, apart from the victim’s son, Sahil, police/prosecution has produced evidence of three protected witnesses, whose statements were recorded in a sealed cover. These witnesses identified the five accused to be involved in the killing and rioting that followed. “Their statements have to be taken at face value at this stage, and since they are protected, it means they face a threat,” ASJ Rawat observed, rejecting the bail plea of Jaibir Singh, Suresh Kumar, Uttam Tyagi, Naresh Tyagi and Supreme Maheshwari. All of them were named by Delhi Police in its chargesheet in connection with the killing of Parvez, where a total of 16 people have been arraigned as accused. Parvez, a resident of north Ghonda, Shahdara, allegedly received bullet injuries and died at a hospital, police said. Police claimed that on February 25, around 7pm, Parvez was found lying injured in one of the lanes in Jafrabad. His son said his father had received gunshot injuries on the right chest and was rushed to Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, where he later died. In their bail petitions, the accused highlighted that during investigation, police found that Parvez had a .32 bore licensed revolver, from which 13 cartridges were recovered, but the revolver was missing. But the court said it was for the accused to defend their actions as the dead man was not on trial. Police said Parvez was trying to intercede between the two communities when he was attacked. The 16 people arrested include the man who allegedly shot Parvez, while all the others were part of the mob inciting riots in the area. Opposing the bail plea, the prosecution placed eyewitness testimony, public witnesses, CCTV footage and call detail records. The riots claimed 43 lives, while over 250 people were injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-5-denied-bail-for-killing-man/articleshow/78096183.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 14, 2020||Madurai||HC allows plea seeking to disqualify PACCS prez||Madurai: The Madras high court allowed a plea seeking disqualification of a person from the post of president of a primary agricultural cooperative credit society (PACCS) since he is running a pawnbroking business in his wife’s name in Kanyakumari district. The court was hearing the petition filed by S Murugesan, member of the Aralvaimozhi primary agricultural cooperative credit society. The petitioner alleges that S Krishnakumar who is president of the society is engaging indirectly in a business that is similar to that of the society. He has sought to quash order of the authorities who rejected his representation to disqualify Krishnakumar from the post and also from basic membership of the society. Justice G R Swaminathan observed that as per section 23(2)(e) of Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies Act, 1983, a member of a registered society shall not directly or indirectly do any business similar to that of the registered society. The judge observed that when Krishnakumar was the president of the society, his wife acquired a licence for pawnbroking business and he was designated as nominee for the business. The said business is being carried out on the premises allotted to Krishnakumar by the municipality. The judge further noted that the first anniversary of the business was celebrated by Krishnakumar in which he projected himself as the proprietor. The court also observed that a cumulative consideration of all these aspects would show that Krishnakumar had indirectly undertaken a business similar to that of the society and that there is absolutely no material to establish that the pawnbroking business had affected the business of the society. The judge said that the disqualification provision envisages several circumstances and even if one of them is satisfied, consequences have to follow and therefore the disqualification is straight away attracted. Hence, the judge set aside the order which rejected the petitioner’s representation and allowed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-allows-plea-seeking-to-disqualify-paccs-prez/articleshow/78096180.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Tradition vs Covid norms: Some pujas to reduce idol height, others reluctant||KOLKATA: Organizers of popular Pujas are divided over height of idols in the wake of the pandemic. While some organizers have voluntarily decided to reduce the height of Durga idols, majority has made a pledge not to allow coronavirus to be an agent responsible for reduction of the height of Durga idol that has been a part and parcel of tradition for them. According to state minister and a veteran politician, Subrata Mukherjee, who is the president of Ekdalia Evergreen club, there was no reason why the club should compromise on the height of Durga idol even in the wake of the pandemic. “We are known for worshipping a Durga idol that is not only tall but also different in all aspects. We don’t believe in themes and people have always gathered at our pandal to take a glimpse of the divine mother more than anything else. We are ready to compromise with lighting to create more space for the visitors and do away with luxuries but not on the idol,” Mukherjee said. According Swapan Mahapatra, a key functionary of the puja committee, the height of Durga idol this year will be the same (22 feet) like previous years. TimesViewAll puja organising committees will have to behave responsibly if we want Bengal’s biggest festival to proceed smoothly and not leave any virus spread in its wake. The idol’s height may not be the moot point; but it may well have a bearing on the size of the crowd and, consequently, social-distancing aspects. The guidelines must be planned and followed properly.Pradip Ghosh, president of Santosh Mitra Square puja committee, made it clear that right from the beginning of planning this year, they had stuck to one point — there should be no reduction in height of the idol. “Though sometimes we design our pandal on most talked about global events, we don’t forget our tradition of making an idol, which is tall and reflects the divinity of the Goddess. This time, too, we will follow it,” said Ghosh. He added the height of the idol varies from 20 feet to 22 feet. According to Somnath Mullick, a key organizer of College Square Sarbojanin, known for display of traditional Durga idol, there was no plan of breaking away from tradition. “I don’t feel coronavirus has anything to do with the height of idol. We will create more space this time for the visitors but under no circumstances we will reduce the height of the idols,” Mullick said, adding that the height of the idol this time will vary between 16-feet and 18-feet. The organizers of Park Circus Sarbojanin puja committee too will keep their height of idol at 22 feet like previous years. But, organizers of other big budget pujas will modify height of idols and keep the pujas a low-key affair to spread awareness on the deadly virus. Organizers of Deshapriya Park that earned popularity for offering the visitors to have a look at the world’s tallest Durga idol in 2015 are not at all interested in the height. “We will perform the pujas but in the most humble manner in the wake of the pandemic,” said Sudipto Kumar, the secretary. Similarly, organizers like Tridhara, Chetla Agrani or Naktala Udayan Sangha will also bring down the height of idols. But those who won’t compromise on the height of Durga idols have promised to take care of other safety protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tradition-vs-cov-norms-some-pujas-to-reduce-idol-height-others-reluctant/articleshow/78095340.cms||Saikat Ray
September 14, 2020||Goa||Rs 50 lakh cover for all health workers engaged in Covid duties: CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday announced that the Rs 50 lakh insurance cover will now be extended to all health workers in the state, who are part of the fight against Covid. Announcing the benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna, Sawant tweeted that a health worker will be eligible to receive insurance of Rs 50 lakh in case of loss of life on the account of Covid-19-related duties. Earlier, Covid treatment was restricted to designated hospitals and health centres, but now all government health facilities are part of it. In April, Goa government had raised the salaries of staff working at Covid-19 facilities by 20% along with providing them a Rs 50 lakh insurance. Sawant had then declared that the hike on the basic would continue till the Covid-19 fight was on. It covered doctors, nurses, sweepers and security personnel. With a large proportion of cleaning jobs in government hospitals being outsourced, the government also declared that the private contractors on board would be covered. A senior official said, the government must broaden the scope to cover other categories of workers who are exposed to infection due to the line of their work such as cops, municipal cleaning staff and waste collectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-50-lakh-cover-for-all-health-workers-engaged-in-covid-duties-cm/articleshow/78096182.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara races towards 10,000 mark||VADODARA: After brief relief when the number of patients discharged from hospitals were more than the number of fresh Covid-19 cases reported in a day, Vadodara is back to square one. Over the last two days, the number of discharges which were going up have started coming down. According to the bulletin issued by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), Vadodara city and district had recorded 150 discharges against 127 fresh cases on Friday. On Saturday, the number of discharges came down to 103 while the city and district registered 103 fresh cases. The fresh cases have been reported from Atladara, Danteshwar, Swad, Gokulnagar, Manjalpur, Kapurai, Gajrawadi, Bapod, Navapura, Akota, Warasiya, Vadsar, Jetalpur, Kisanwadi, Fatehpura, Gorwa, Ramdevnagar, Yamuna Mill, Ektanagar, Navi Dharti and Gotri areas within VMC limits. On Sunday too, the number of discharges stood at 108 while Vadodara city and district recorded 123 fresh cases. With the addition of 123 new cases, which were results of 3,144 samples that were tested since Saturday evening, the total number of cases has now touched 9,666. The total number of discharges has touched 8,161 while the death toll has reached 161. In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases have been reported from Varnama, Vemali, Undera, Karjan, Chanod, Dabhoi, Padra, Dasrath, Fertilizernagar, Ankodiya and Bhayli areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-races-towards-10000-mark/articleshow/78094022.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Wayanad’s largest cluster Covid free||Kozhikode: The Valad cluster at Thavinjal that had been the biggest in Wayanad district, has been declared Covid-19 free within one and a half months. Health department officials said that the cluster that had 347 infected, has no active cases. Two deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the region. The infection spread in the cluster has been contained following rigorous containment measures and enhanced testing; over 5,000 have been tested for the infection in the region. The Valad cluster emerged after a funeral and marriage in the area from July 26 onwards. The infection spread to nearby panchayats too and Valad was declared as a large community cluster after more cases were reported over the next few days. District medical officer, Dr R Renuka said that the department that had tasked a special team of doctors had received good support from the public for Covid containment activities. Health workers, Asha workers, Anganwadi workers, and RRT’s were roped in for a coordinated effort. District surveillance officer, Dr S Soumya said that enhanced active surveillance, quarantine of contacts, and preventive public health measures were carried out in the area. Five junior health inspectors and four lab technicians were posted for testing and awareness activities in the cluster. “We did simultaneous testing at up to four centres in Valad and also mobile kiosks were installed. Quarantining primary and secondary contacts were carried out in a foolproof manner, which helped in arresting the spread," she added. Meanwhile, 54 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Wayanad on Saturday, of which 48 contracted the infection through contact. There are 442 active cases in the district that has reported 2,010 cases so far. There have been 1,558 recoveries in Wayanad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wayanads-largest-cluster-covid-free/articleshow/78094372.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Questions on fairness of riots probe motivated: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: Responding to allegations from some quarters that it was framing social activists, academicians and students in false cases, Delhi Police on Sunday said that the claims were “motivated” and the “handiwork of some interest groups”. In a statement, police said that a few lines were being taken out of context from chargesheets to generate controversy and raise doubts on the fairness of the probe into the February riots. “Various interest groups are using social media platforms and other online portals to raise questions about the fairness of investigations into the Northeast Delhi riots cases. It is alleged that anti-CAA protesters, including social activists, academicians and students, are being framed in false cases,” police said. The statement further stated, “Their assertion is not true and, instead, motivated. It is worth mentioning that it is for the police to conduct an investigation and submit its report to the court to take cognisance in the matter for trial. Those raising questions may, instead, take it up in court at the appropriate time as per the established judicial process.” Delhi Police said it did not consider it appropriate and necessary to reply to them at this stage as the matter was sub judice. “We registered 751 FIRs in connection with the communal riots that took place in the last week of February. Delhi Police has meticulously carried out investigation in the most professional manner. After collecting and collating all evidence, the investigation has been finalised in most of the important cases and the chargesheets submitted in court for trial,” it said. It elaborated that 1,575 people had been arrested. “Over 250 chargesheets have been filed in which 1,153 accused, of which 571 are Hindus and 582 Muslims, have been charged. All these cases are pending before the special courts constituted for the trial,” police added. Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PRO, said that the riots had caused widespread violence resulting in 53 deaths and injuries to 581 people. “It also caused large-scale damage to both private and public properties. In their attempt to prevent violence, 108 police personnel received injuries and two died. Delhi Police is investigating into the role of all individuals who took part in the riots and were part of a larger conspiracy in organising violence in Northeast Delhi and inciting communal passion and hatred among communities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-questions-on-fairness-of-riots-probe-motivated/articleshow/78096197.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Out for exam after quarantine||More than preparing for the exam, I was more worried about protecting myself from contracting any sort of illness before the exam. For, I would be heading from a foreign nation to write the paper in Kolkata and was always apprehensive what would happen to me if I had light fever during this period. I had left my Kathmandu home with my father on August 28 and reached Siliguri in a car. On the same night, we boarded a train to Sealdah and reached the city on August 29. We have a relative at Zakaria street and we moved to his place and went into home quarantine. We were carrying all the necessary documents including Covid negative reports and had all my documents sorted out as we went for quarantine and just kept preparing for the exam from the relative’s home. I stayed there for 14 days and only after the quarantine period got over on September 12, I stepped out of the home for the exam on Sunday. Even on Sunday, I was carrying all my documents including passport and the Covid test report as I wrote the exam at a Salt Lake venue. Even while waiting to enter the venue I was extremely concerned about maintaining my composure and ensuring that my body temperature was under control and I stayed in the shade as much as possible. Once I was let in, the mental anxiety was over. Writing the exam was the easier part. (Malik, a Nepal resident, spoke to Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/out-for-exam-after-quarantine/articleshow/78095357.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Extensive health screening at centres||Aurangabad: The NEET on Sunday saw extensive health screening of candidates before they could enter the examination centres. Over 12,000 students had registered for the exam that was held across 48 centres in Aurangabad. All the centres had drawn white squares or circles outside the exam halls for students to queue up . In addition, multiple checks were conducted. These included health checks using thermal guns as well regular frisking. While wearing of face mask was mandatory, the authorities had made arrangements for protective face covers in case the students failed to get their own mask. Nakshatra Beedkar, a candidate, said, “There was tension of the exam as well as Covid-19. I was initially tensed, but held my nerves and focussed on solving the paper.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/extensive-health-screening-at-centres/articleshow/78096185.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Help from cop saved my day||I was so tensed about the exam that I left my Aadhaar card and passport size colour photo back at home. I realised that only when I was entering the centre on Park Street. But thanks to a police officer, my day was saved. While the invigilators stopped me for not carrying photo IDs, I pleaded before them when a policeman, ASI Himadri Roy from Park Street police station, standing by the road came for my help. He learnt my ordeal and asked me if I had a soft copy. He transferred the same to his cellphone and went out on his motorbike. He came back after half an hour with a printout of my Aadhaar card and my photographs. He said after finding two cyber cafes closed, he had to call the owner of a third café, made him open the same and get the printouts. In the absence of a smartphone, I couldn’t attend any online coaching class in the last few months. Only a few days ago, my father arranged this smartphone for me. I can never forget what the policeman did for me today. (Karmakar, a resident of Hooghly, spoke to Subhojyoti Kanjilal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/help-from-cop-saved-my-day/articleshow/78095394.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||NMC fine-tuning system to avoid Covid-19 treatment delay, deaths||Nagpur: Amidst cases of Covid deaths due to non-availability of timely treatment, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is now removing the glitches in the system to ensure no patient goes without a bed when there is no shortage in the city. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has assured that the problem will be resolved soon as the civic body has started taking urgent measures. Since last three days, TOI has been highlighting that when citizens contact the NMC helpline number, they are informed there are no beds available in hospitals for critical Covid-19 patients. Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said beds are available in both, private as well as government hospitals, but timely updation of this information is not happening. To overcome this, NMC will now be focusing on procuring real-time data from all designated Covid hospitals in the city. At present, the information regarding admissions and discharges gets updated twice a day at government and private hospitals. “This information takes time to reach our call centre,” said Sharma. NMC will now ensure that it gets real-time information regarding vacancy of beds at government hospitals through its war rooms at the GMCH and Mayo. “High-ranking officers are monitoring them and will keep us posted regularly,” said Sharma. To get real-time data of private hospitals, the civic body is planning to start a help desk at hospitals and appoint NMC personnel who can procure real-time data. “Private hospitals are facing extreme shortage of beds. Vacant ones are getting occupied immediately,” the additional commissioner said. To highlight that admissions are taking place in hospitals, Sharma shared Sunday’s data which reveals that 120 patients were admitted in private hospitals, and 61 patients each in GMCH and Mayo. Also, 3 patients were admitted in AIIMS, 12 in Lata Mangeshkar Hospital and 18 in Shalinitai Meghe Hospital, respectively. NMC also plans to issue directives to private hospitals that walk-in admissions should be avoided unless the patient is critical and needs immediate medical attention. “All the admissions in the 80% reserved beds should be through our centralized helpline. Right now, admissions are being done both directly and through us,” added Sharma. Taking cognisance of complaints from citizens that they had to wait for hours for beds, NMC has now trained its staffers at the helpline centre. “Even if a bed is not available at that moment, the person in-charge will take all details and keep taking follow-ups till the patient gets a bed,” said Sharma. NMC has appealed to citizens not to pick and choose when it comes to allocation of hospitals. “Being choosy and putting pressure on workers is not fair. All private hospitals are following the same protocol and line of treatment,” said Sharma. He further said that when calling the NMC helpline number, citizens should not straightaway demand an ICU or ventilator facility. “Whether a patient needs it can only be determined by a doctor. We can guide them to the nearest hospital, where, after undergoing examination, the course of treatment can be decided. If a Covid positive patient is in a hospital having no ICU or ventilator facility, we will make sure he is shifted to a well-equipped hospital. But till then, the patient should not take discharge from the hospital he is in,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-fine-tuning-system-to-avoid-covid-19-treatment-delay-deaths/articleshow/78095392.cms||Manka Behl
September 14, 2020||Nashik||NMC to ramp up RT-PCR tests of Covid-19 suspects||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to increase the RT-PCR tests of Covid suspects in the city At present, the NMC is conducting 2,000 tests per day, including 1,500 antigen and 500 RT-PCR tests. Civic officials have said that henceforth they will conduct equal number of tests — 1,000 antigen and 1,000 RT-PCR tests. According to NMC officials, they prefer conducting antigen tests in containment as well as densely populated areas. RT-PCR tests, on the other hand, would be mainly conducted in urban primary health centres, clinics and hospitals of the civic body. “We have decided to ramp up the RT-PCR tests of Covid-19 suspects in the city. The accuracy ratio of these tests are quite high as compared to antigen tests. Therefore, we have decided to increase RT-PCR tests from 500 to 1,000,” said NMC officials. “At present, 25% of the total tests being conducted in the city are RT-PCR ones while 75% are antigen tests. But, the ratio will now be equal,” said NMC officials. NMC officials said that so far 1.38 lakh tests have been conducted in the city, of which, 35,974 people tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, civic administration has said that they have a few antigen kits left and have placed a fresh demand for 50,000 test kits. Of the 1 lakh kit received so far, the NMC had given 18,000 kits to Jalgaon municipal corporation and Jalgaon civil hospital on returning basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-ramp-up-rt-pcr-tests-of-covid-19-suspects/articleshow/78096194.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP again revises Covid test rates for private labs||LUCKNOW: The UP government on Sunday revised Covid-19 test rates for the private pathology labs. The rate for TrueNat and CBNAAT test will be Rs 2,000 instead of Rs 1,600 announced by the government on September 10. However, the rate for RT-PCR will remain Rs 1,600 as revised three days ago. Before that, all tests in private laboratories would cost Rs 2,500. The revised order was issued after most of the private labs stopped Covid-19 testing claiming that they cannot conduct tests at the reduced rate because raw material required for the procedures is very costly. As a result, thousands of tests could not be done in the past three days. A delegation of private labs also met the top health officials. Considering their demand, additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad states that private labs can charge up to Rs 2,000 for the tests done through TruNat and CBNAAT procedures, while the rate of the examination done by the RT-PCR method will remain Rs 1,600. It also warned of strict action as per law if labs are found to be charging more than the limit set by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-again-revises-covid-test-rates-for-private-labs/articleshow/78096588.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Madurai||4 years on, upgradation of 17 hosps only 30% complete, RTI finds||Madurai: The Rs 1,634 crore Tamil Nadu Urban Health Care Project, meant to upgrade and strengthen hospitals in 17 districts, is lagging behind with just 30% work completed though it was started four years ago and has just two more years to wrap up. A sum of just over Rs 400 crore was sanctioned for major works in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore till January 2020, but even these were still in the initial stages, according to information received through an RTI petition. The project which was launched with 85% assistance from Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) received administrative sanction in 2016. Healthcare activist C Anandraj, who filed the RTI plea, said the project which is expected to be completed in 2022 was yet to start in places like the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai where Rs 23 lakh had been sanctioned for demolishing the old building. The loan agreement between the government of Japan and government of India was signed on March 31, 2016. Under the agreement, JICA provided 85% of the loan amount, Rs 1387.87 crore, while the Tamil Nadu government’s contribution was Rs 255.82 crore. According to the agreement, the major works would have been completed by the end of 2020, but the RTI reply admits only 30% has been completed, he said. The major components of the project are upgradation of three tertiary hospitals and strengthening of 14 referral hospitals, secondary care hospitals as well as hospital management and primary health care in non-communicable diseases. ``The project in places like GRH Madurai is progressing at snail’s pace,’’ Anandraj said. The tertiary hospitals for upgradation are GRH, KMCH and CMCH. Anandraj said that delay in calling tenders and sanctioning them had contributed to the overall delay. The RTI reply further states that a sum of Rs 168 crore had been reimbursed, of which Rs 140 crore had gone towards purchase of medical equipment. Government Rajaji Hospital dean Dr J Sangumani said that as of now they were in the process of relocating the medicine, ophthalmology and dermatology sections from ward number 223, which was to be demolished for the new block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-years-on-upgradation-of-17-hosps-only-30-complete-rti-finds/articleshow/78096198.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Panic will bankrupt people more than killing them||There seems to be no immediate solution in sight to the coronavirus pandemic that has spread all across the world, writes Urmi Chakravorty. The virus, an acute respiratory syndrome, was identified in China in December 2019, but there were limitations in terms of its key epidemiologic features. ‘Covid-19 panic will bankrupt people more than killing them’ is the general feeling that’s turning out to be true with the outbreak of the virus taking a huge toll on the world economy with no sector spared whatsoever. Temporary company closure: Companies, big and small, have temporarily shut their offices, manufacturing units, factories and retail stores across the country. They have also asked their employees to work from home. The move, initiated by the government, is a precautionary measure. Companies are not taking any chances. That’s because even if one employee turns positive then all the others will have to be quarantined. This will not only affect productivity and in some cases, may even result in closure of operations. Recreational pause: Additional cleaning, health protocols and restrictions in public spaces like gardens, religious places, malls and theatres are intended to stop the spread of the virus. Apart from the huge financial loss, there is also an enormous loss of manpower. Inactivity at recreational centres has made the mindset of people negative — an empty mind is a devil’s workshop. Many are glued to their mobile screens with no scope to move around. No treadmills: Fitness freaks have no choice but to take guard, not at their gyms, but in the confines of their homes. Swimming pools, yoga in gardens or community halls are now a thing of the past. Yoga, at the most can be practised individually or in groups via technology. Another problem is that many want to work out or swim but they are not economically sound to afford equipment of their own. Educators unable to educate: With schools, colleges and universities shut indefinitely, and many exams postponed, academicians are finding it very difficult to complete the course, leaving students in a critical spot of bother. Apart from students and managements running educational establishments, the others associated with the industry, like taxi owners ferrying students, caterers running canteens with support staff, too, are bearing the brunt of the alarming situation. Aviation sector crashes: Commercial aviation has been hit the hardest. It was already in a soup and the corona ‘cancer’ has made matters worse. Domestic as well as international players have all been grounded, with take-off looking highly unlikely. Companies manufacturing products related to the airline industry are finding their books empty with no new orders. Cab business hits a roadblock: The business of rental car services has been drastically affected. Even drop services have been withdrawn as companies have asked employees to work from home. As the business runs primarily on financed vehicles, the government has been approached to urge financial institutions or lenders to waive off EMIs for a couple of months. Individual operators are the worst hit. Their income used to serve a dual purpose — paying vehicle loans and running families as well. Shares & stocks stumble: Share prices have crashed and profits of corporates have dipped considerably. There is an atmosphere of utter chaos in the stock market with recovery looking a distant dream. Given the scary scenario, one is not able to sell one’s shares because they would fetch a pittance. And buying shares at the moment is entirely out of question. Even brokers and consultants are out of business as there’s no trading happening. Most of their offices in metros are taken up on rent and staying afloat seems to be their biggest challenge. Real estate gets a hard knock: Investors and developers are on the verge of getting the knockout punch. Quite a lot have invested funds borrowed from financial institutions on interest. Many projects are lying incomplete because of issues pertaining to manpower and supply of construction material. With housing schemes and other commercial establishments not ready, selling them or leasing them or giving them on rent is not possible. Unemployment declines further: With commercial activities or events not happening, employment generation in both the organized and unorganized sector has declined beyond words. The ones who were already employed are either facing pay cuts or delayed salaries because their employers are not getting any business. Recruiting new workers looks a distant dream as the revenue tap has run dry and supply seems certainly uncertain. (The writer, a Nagpurian, is now assistant professor with KSM, Bengaluru)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panic-will-bankrupt-people-more-than-killing-them/articleshow/78110913.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three shootouts, 30 minutes and a km apart||NEW DELHI: Within a span of half an hour and barely a kilometre apart, three men were fired upon at different locations in northeast Delhi on Saturday night. While two of them, both business partners, died, their acquaintance is recuperating from a bullet wound in his abdomen. Police suspect the murders to be a fallout of gang rivalry. Two men went on a shooting spree in Old Mustafabad firing at least a dozen rounds in which first 45-year-old Farooq alias Pehalwan was killed and, later, his business partner, Abdul Hamid (50), was shot dead in his office. Pehalwan was a history-sheeter from Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr with 51 criminal cases registered against him. The PCR received two calls regarding the firing incidents. The first call was received at 8.23pm about firing inside an innerwear factory. When police reached there, they came to know that Pehalwan had been shot dead by two men, while his acquaintance, Jojaf Lorenzo (39), had escaped with a bullet injury in his abdomen. The factory is owned by Pehalwan’s friend. Locals said the two shooters went to the first floor and opened fire. They later sped away on a motorcycle towards Nehru Vihar. The second call was received at 8.34pm from Nehru Vihar where Pehalwan’s partner in a realty business, Hamid, was shot dead in his office. “Two separate cases of murder have been registered at Dayalpur police station. We are probing the cases from all angles, including rivalry. We came to know that the suspects had got into a quarrel with Suleman, Pehalwan’s brother, in the past. Suleman is a bad character of Khurja,” said a senior police officer. A source said that Suleman had enmity with a criminal named Javed. “We have identified two suspects, but more could be involved. CCTV footage and records of criminals are being scanned. We have also identified the motorcycle used by them to reach the location,” he added. “My aunt was at home and my uncle left on his motorcycle along with someone after getting a call. Later, we were informed that he had been shot dead. My uncle had an argument with some people 10 days ago, but I’m not sure if that could be the reason for the killing. We have shared some names with police. His body had eight bullet wounds,” said Afsar, Pehalwan’s nephew. Hamid’s family suspect the involvement of his first wife, whom he had divorced in 2012. Abdul Salam, his son from his second wife, alleged, “My stepmother and father had a property dispute. Recently, my stepbrother Naushad’s wife fought with him, came to our house and started living here. Naushad was very angry at this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-shootouts-30-minutes-and-a-km-apart/articleshow/78096208.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH staff ‘adopts’ newborn battling for life after parents abandon her||Nagpur: Doctors at the paediatrics department of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) have taken up the challenge to save a 12-day-old girl abandoned by her parents and suffering from a congenital small intestinal digestive disorder. “We are taking care of the baby as if it has been adopted by all of us,” said paediatric HoD Dr Rajendra Saoji. GMCH administration under medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande has decided to bear all the expenses of the treatment, “Even as she continues to battle for life, doctors want to revive the baby at any cost before handing her over to an orphanage if the parents do not return,” said Dr Gawande. Referred from the government hospital at Yavatmal, the baby had arrived at GMCH with her parents, Santosh and Manda Kasarkar, on September 11. After bringing the girl, the parents sneaked out from the hospital premises leaving her at the casualty. The hospital authorities shifted the baby to the paediatrics ward without wasting time as her condition was deteriorating. The doctors and staffers at the ward initially tried to contact the parents on the cell phone number mentioned on the form and also searched for them on the premises. When the efforts did not bear fruits, the staffers alerted the administration and police while attending to the baby on a war footing. While Ajni police registered an offence against Santosh and Manda on Saturday for abandoning the baby, Dr Saoji and his team comprising Dr Nilesh Nagdeve and Dr Thavendra Bihare geared up to save her. Apart from medication and treatment, the baby is also being looked after with special Tender, Loving Care (TLC) techniques by the nursing staff to provide emotional support required in absence of a mother. A nurse has been deputed round-the-clock to look after the baby who is now on intravenous fluid. Dr Saoji said the baby is suffering from duodenal atresia, which leads to blocking of small intestine making it difficult to digest and patient throws up anything ingested. “A tube has been inserted into her stomach to remove any accumulation of fluid. We are trying to stabilize her before going for surgery in which the blockage would be bypassed and the connectivity of the intestine restored,” he said. The experienced paediatrician said the baby is also likely to be fighting an infection. Sub-inspector SS Nanoti of Ajni police station said they are trying to trace the baby’s parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-staff-adopts-newborn-battling-for-life-after-parents-abandon-her/articleshow/78096210.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s nCoV death rate lowest since May-end||Nashik: The spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past two months notwithstanding, the Covid-related mortality rate in Nashik city has dropped significantly, and it is currently the lowest since May 31. The daily average of Covid-positive cases, which was 516 in August, increased to 876 cases per day between September 1 and 13. However, the death rate, which was 2.9% on July 31 and 1.9% on August 31, has now reduced to 1.6% — the lowest since May 31. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said they have increased tracing and testing of suspected Covid-19 cases and comorbid patients in the city. This has yielded results as the civic body has been able to bring down the fatality rate. The NMC recorded the first Covid-19 positive case on April 6 and first death on May 5. The city had only 49 cases till May 19. But there was a spike in cases after the lockdown was eased. By May 31, the city had a total of 214 patients with eight deaths. The death rate was 3.7% then. By July 19, the NMC had conducted 23,833 RT-PCR tests and 5,757 people had tested positive. Around 207 had succumbed by that time and the death rate was 3.5%, while the recovery rate was 65.8%. “We launched the ‘Mission Zero Nashik’ with the help of Bharatiya Jain Sanghatna, an NGO that provided 20 mobile clinics to trace suspected cases and conduct antigen tests. We also took the help of the corporators,” said the NMC officials. “We conducted 1.14 lakh tests, including 84,000 antigen tests, in just 55 days between July 20 and September 13. Around 30,217 people tested positive during this period,” they added. Moreover, the recovery rate has also increased from 65.8% to 82%, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-ncov-death-rate-lowest-since-may-end/articleshow/78096206.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Rise in cases forces NMC to plan new oxygen manufacturing plant||Nashik: The civic administration is planning to set up a new oxygen manufacturing plant to meet the demand for medical oxygen following a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city.Officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said, “Considering the doubling rate of 24 days, the number of Coivd-19 patients in the city is expected to double from the present 35,000 cases to 70,000 cases by the first week of October. The number of critical patients will also double by that time.”“Currently, our demand for liquid oxygen is around 45,000 litre per day. The demand will shoot up by the end of this month,” said officials. Officials further said they were studying various aspects like land, investment, plant capacity and the city’s present and future requirement of medical oxygen. “We will are expecting to complete the study within a week, after which we will be able to frame a concrete proposal for the manufacturing plant,” said officials. By July 29, there were 715 oxygen beds, including ICU and ventilators, both in civic and private hospitals in the city. The critical patient count stood at 141.The number of critical cases increased to 970 by August 30 and currently 1,148 critical patients are admitted in civic and private hospitals. There are a total of 1,432 oxygen beds, including 132 ventilators, in civic and private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rise-in-cases-forces-nmc-to-plan-new-oxygen-manufacturing-plant/articleshow/78096207.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: New master plan, ‘regeneration’ of old colonies||NEW DELHI: One of the key focus areas of the upcoming Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041 will be the ‘regeneration’ of the capital, in more ways than one. Residential areas that came up half-a-century ago, apart from old commercial complexes, would see redevelopment as part of the plan. Delhi Development Authority is preparing the MPD 2041, which will be a vision document for the city, in collaboration with National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA). DDA has recently started a massive public outreach through online meetings, as the authority wants the future growth of the city to be more ‘organic’ and based on ground realities. “There are some colonies where homes built 40 to 60 years ago had single-floor houses and where Floor Area Ratio (FAR) is available. When the colonies were made, the FAR was 1.33 but is 2 now and if those in old houses decide, we will provide support,” DDA’s vice-chairman Anurag Jain told TOI, adding that the concept of regeneration would be applicable to many other areas, including redeveloping commercial complexes like Nehru Place and Bhikaji Cama Place, on which DDA is already working. “Earlier, it was said if your home is in the middle of a market you can’t have peaceful sleep but now you have access to new ways of living. You don’t need to earmark separate plots for these and on the same plot, there can be a vertical mix. You can have offices on lower floors and residential area in the top floor,” Jain said. “Mixed land use will help in improving walkability but it has to be done following all norms and guidelines,” he added. The concept Walkability, in fact, is another important focus area of the upcoming MPD, Jain said. “If you can walk to work, to the Delhi Metro station or other facilities, your dependence on other modes of transport will go down. The concepts of Transit Oriented Development and mixed land use are part of the overall focus on improving walkability.” “Safe walking, which includes the concept of ‘eyes on the street,’ will be built in. For instance, shops on ground floor will face streets so that their lighting further lightens up the streets,” he said. “We are also thinking of a Blue Green policy. If filtered and treated water flow instead of sewage and we create a green strip around it, it will add to the value of the property there,” Jain said. The policy aims at treating drain water and storm water and then improving the area along these drains as green areas. “We are pushing for some major new changes in the MPD and the provisions will come up very clearly in the MPD 2041. However, if we can start some things, we will implement them by amending the MPD 2021. Why should we wait for MPD 2041 to come officially?” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-master-plan-regeneration-of-old-colonies/articleshow/78096217.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Missed exam by only 15 minutes||I tried my best to reach exam venue on time, but being stuck on the road for several hours, I reached the Kolkata centre late by 15 minutes. They didn’t allow me in. But I am a dreamer. I will prepare again and become a doctor one day. I had thought of coming to Kolkata earlier this week but we didn’t get bus tickets. We could get tickets only for a Saturday morning bus. It was scheduled to reach Kolkata on Saturday night. My uncle and I boarded it. But, due to snarls, it took us about 10 hours to cross a 90km stretch between Patna and Muzaffarnagar. We reached Sealdah at 1pm. We hired a taxi paying Rs 300 to reach Salt Lake. It took us some more time to locate the venue but by the time I reached there, it was 1.45pm. I ran to the gate but the guards stopped me. (The Darbhanga resident spoke to Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missed-exam-by-only-15-minutes/articleshow/78095397.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Footfall at Nashik airport up by 73% in August||Nashik: With the government easing the lockdown and paving the way for relaxation of flying norms, the footfall of fliers in Nashik airport increased by 73% in August compared to the previous months. The number of passengers flying from the city to Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Pune significantly increased in August compared to the footfall in recorded in July. “As many as 4,788 passengers flew to these three cities in August, compared to 2,761 passengers in July and 1,270 in June respectively,” said sources from Nashik airport. After the lockdown, private airline Trujet had re-started its Nashik-Ahmedabad flight from May 27 while Air India subsidiary Alliance Air started flights from June 12 connecting the city to Hyderabad, Pune and Ahmedabad. However, TruJet had stopped its operations from July 11 due to annual maintenance of the aircraft and resumed operations again from September 5. The footfall of fliers is gradually increasing on all the three routes. Around 1,200 passenegers have flown between September 1 and 7. “Earlier, the footfall was very poor in June as the lockdown, which had been imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, was in place. There has been a rise in footfall from July onwards due to the easing of lockdown norms. We are expecting a significant rise in footfall by the end of this month,” said sources from Alliance Air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/footfall-at-nashik-airport-up-by-73-in-august/articleshow/78096213.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors rescue, treat elderly Covid positive couple stranded at home||NAGPUR: At a time when even the rich and powerful are finding it difficult to get a bed and timely treatment, being old and alone could possibly show only the ugliest side of the pandemic. But an elderly couple, whose only daughter is in the US, was rescued and saved in time from their residence by a group of doctors from Seven Star hospital. The private tertiary care hospital made certain exceptions and went an extra mile considering the plight of the couple who had no one to find them a bed or even inform civic authorities. The couple’s son-in-law had contacted one of the hospital directors, Dr Sadashiv Bhole, on WhatsApp on August 28 and informed him about his wife’s ailing parents. “Covid team in-charge Dr Mohan Nerker, intensivists Dr Avinash Gandhare and Dr Ramesh Hassani, quality and patient care service head Dr Poonam Sarda, and Dr Javeria Ashrafi ensured that the couple had a speedy recovery,” said Dr Bhole. Dr Nerker said the couple was discharged within 10 days on September 8. “The 79-year-old man had fever chills, cough signs and breathlessness for two days. He got a Covid test done at home and was found positive. His 73-year-old wife is undergoing cancer treatment. Her haemoglobin had dropped and she too was admitted on September 2 after testing positive,” he said. Dr Bhole said the hospital had no choice but to admit the couple without a custodian physically present during the process. “Generally, a patient has to be accompanied by a relative or known person. In this case, it wasn’t possible. Regular updates would be given on WhatsApp to the son-in-law and the daughter,” he said. A family friend told the hospital staff that none among the daughter and son-in-law’s friends in Nagpur could help the ageing couple as they themselves were Covid positive while others feared catching the infection. The husband and wife were admitted in the same ICU and kept next to each other. “They were happy to see each other in the ICU. They responded well to the medication. After recovery, the couple was dropped home in the hospital ambulance. They were very happy while returning home,” said Dr Nerker. He said when the son-in-law enquired, there was no bed available in the hospital. “Fortunately, a patient got discharged and the elderly man got a bed. The admission was given after a lot of discussion with the Covid team as everything including food and personal care had to be provided by us. Looking at their condition, all agreed that they will look after the couple,” Dr Nerker said. The hospital was also informed that the old couple was in big trouble as they also had no access to conveyance. Recently, a 95-year-old Covid patient too was discharged from the same hospital after being reported in a critical stage. All relatives of the man had tested positive and there was no one to look after him. Yet, the Covid team treated him to recovery. “We live in a typical world where kids are outside and elderly parents are all alone. Yet, things are not as dark as they seem. If there are helpless senior citizens, there are individuals to help them out,” said Dr Bhole. The son-in-law and his wife told TOI over phone that they couldn’t travel to India and be with the elderly couple because of pandemic. “We are thankful to the hospital and its staff. My in-laws are very happy. My father-in-law had angioplasty and mother-in-law is a cancer patient. It wouldn’t have been possible for them to take care of each other,” he said. The son-in-law added that hospital gave them updates five times a day and also arranged video calls. “I am so grateful to them. Hats off to the entire medical fraternity. You are no less than gods! Please take care of yourself,” he said in a message to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-rescue-treat-elderly-covid-positive-couple-stranded-at-home/articleshow/78095444.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Officials from BDO’s office came to rescue||I belong to a poor farmer’s family where my brother and I are first generation learners with limited resources to spend on our education. So, we had no clue about how to reach the exam venue on time without having to stay at a hotel overnight. But that is when the officials from our block development office came to our rescue and arranged for a bus for several students like me at free of cost and even arranged for an overnight stay at the Haj House in Kaikhali. We reached the Haj House on Saturday evening and we will head back home on Monday in the same bus. I want to be a doctor and serve locals in my village. The pandemic has only emboldened my determination. I maintained social distancing but was not worried about contracting the virus. (Sheikh, a resident of Murshidabad, spoke to Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/officials-from-bdos-office-came-to-rescue/articleshow/78095500.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Start Kisan Rail to transport Vidarba oranges, Gadkari to Central R||NAGPUR: In a bid to reduce the dependence of orange growers and farmers from Vidarbha on road connectivity for transporting their produce, highways minister Nitin Gadkari has asked Central Railway to start Kisan Rail in the region, which can cut time as well as cost. According to Gadkari, at least 2.5 lakh tonne oranges are transported to Bangladesh every year. Presently, the growers are fully dependent on road transport, which takes 72 hours to reach the destination. In view of this, Gadkari has asked Nagpur divisional railway manager (DRM) Somesh Kumar and senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Krishnath Patil to prepare a road map for Kisan Rail for transporting oranges and other produce. “Kisan Rail can reduce the transportation time by 50%, thus saving cost and time. This will also keep the perishable goods fresh,” the minister told Central Railway officials in a meeting held on Saturday. The officials have given a green signal to the proposal. Gadkari said Kisan Rail can load oranges from Warud, Katol, Morshi, Nagpur and Narkhed stations. Oranges from this region are also transported to Jaipur, Bengaluru, Delhi and other big towns. Central Railway should launch a 20-wagon Kisan Rail which can transport around 470 tonne oranges. The officials were asked to develop a website through which farmers can book their goods in advance. “When Suresh Prabhu was commerce minister, Gadkari had pushed for making Vidarbha an orange cluster for the benefit of farmers. Kisan Rail is need of the hour,” said Shreedharao Thakre, executive director of MahaOrange, formed to boost exports. Kisan Rail initiative is already working well in Nashik-Solapur-Pune belt by transporting nutritious, immunity-boosting pomegranate (anar) from Maharashtra to northern India. In the last one month, Kisan Rail had transported more than 1,100 tonne pomegranate. “Farmers, availing the benefit of cheap and fastest mode of transport, are excited as the Kisan Rail is running thrice a week. It is becoming popular among farmers of Maharashtra,” says Central Railway chief public relations officer (CPRO) Shivaji Sutar. Kisan Rail is transporting perishable goods like anar, capsicum, cauliflower, lemon, green chillies, iced-fish, live plants, eggs and other vegetables from Sangola, Pandharpur, Kopargaon, Pune, Daund, Nashik, Manmad etc in the state. Started on August 7, 2020 as a weekly service from Devlali to Danapur in Bihar and further extended up to Muzaffarpur and later attaching a link rail at Manmad, Kisan Rail is now running as a tri-weekly and is receiving growing response from farmers. Introduced by the ministry of railways with the support of ministry of agriculture, Kisan Rail has brought hope and opportunity for the farmers to increase their income with faster mode of transport, fresh delivery of perishables, with no restriction on quantity, cheaper than road and saving huge transport costs including tolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/start-kisan-rail-to-transport-vid-oranges-gadkari-to-cr/articleshow/78096277.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 14, 2020||Bareilly||UP villagers claim man held for minor’s rape and murder is innocent, demand fresh probe||BAREILLY: Days after a 35-year-old man was picked up after an encounter in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri for allegedly raping and killing a three-year-old girl, several villagers claimed on Sunday that the man was innocent and demanded an independent probe. The man's brother even alleged that the accused had "surrendered" at a police station, and the encounter was "fake". The villagers held a protest outside the Kheri police station and called for a "DNA test to establish the truth". They also claimed that the accused was framed due to a fake rape case a few months after his wife's murder. Notably, there have been several cases of brutal rapes and murders of minors in Kheri this year. The little girl went missing and was later found brutalised and killed in a sugarcane field at Mathiya village of Singahi block on September 3. The autopsy confirmed that the minor was raped. Later, an FIR was registered against one Lekhram Gautam and he was arrested during an encounter on September 4. One of the villagers, Subhash, told TOI, “Lekhram was depressed since his wife’s murder. But, we have never seen him talking about any revenge and even his acts never indicated that he could kill a little girl who was not even born at the time of his wife’s death." The villager suggested that the police should revisit the case to ensure proper justice. "We are also afraid that the actual killer is still roaming free in our village and could pick up his next target,” Subhash added. According to villagers, the girl’s uncle had raped and killed Lekhram’s wife in 2014 and was sent to jail. Recently, he was released on bail. However, after the girl’s murder, her family had levelled charges against Lekhram and alleged that he had "threatened to take revenge for his wife’s death". Lekhram is, at present, in Kheri jail. When contacted, Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull, without divulging much details, said, “I have taken charge only a few days ago and would visit Singahi police station and look into this matter.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-villagers-claim-man-held-for-minors-rape-and-murder-is-innocent-demand-fresh-probe/articleshow/78093640.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why consumer courts are falling out of favour||NEW DELHI: In an indication of the quagmire hapless consumers find themselves in, CM Arvind Kejriwal recently touched upon the subject during the launch of an online filing system for such complaints. Kejriwal said about 15,000 cases were pending in the state and district consumer commissions in Delhi. An analysis indicated a significant drop in the number of cases filed in consumer courts in the last few years. The long duration of litigation and availability of alternative remedies were the primary reasons behind this, experts said. Talking about the gradual decline in the number of cases, advocate Shashi Shankar, who specialises in consumer dispute cases, said, “It is not like people are not aware of consumer rights. But when someone approaches a consumer commission, it’s not certain when the final outcome will come.” He usually advises clients to cut a deal with the manufacturer or dealer instead of litigating. Shankar’s approach could be crucial in understanding the situation. First, it takes longer for a case to reach its conclusion than, perhaps, out of court mediation or settlement. Secondly, there is a good chance of a client receiving an honest opinion from lawyers on how their case might not be concluded in the desired time frame. There was a 17% drop in cases in 2018 compared with the previous year. In 2019, the gap narrowed with a marginal 2.5% reduction in cases filed. However, a substantial 77% dip has been noticed so far in 2020. Similarly, Delhi State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission witnessed a 21% decline in 2018 from 2017 and the same number in 2019 as opposed to a massive fall of 83% in 2020 till date. Although the big fall in 2020 could be attributed to the pandemic, the options of return or replacement available with online purchasers nowadays could be of relevance, though marginally. Online purchases were included in Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which came into effect on July 20 this year. Advocate Amresh Anand pointed to a situation where a consumer lost the motivation to pursue dispute resolution realising its cumbersomeness. “Even if we talk about luxury goods, the maximum price is somewhere between Rs 50,000-70,000. But dispute resolution from start to finish at a consumer commission can become more strenuous owing to several factors,” he said. “These cases are supposed to be decided within six months, but consumers have moved from filing complaints to negotiating with service providers as they can’t afford to litigate for two-three years,” Shankar said. A case filed by the lawyer against a city hospital in 2003 is yet to get a final decision. Though a district commission passed its judgment, the complainant preferred an appeal. The case came full circle after the Delhi state commission remanded it back to the district commission for rehearing and reassessment of evidence. The need for an alternative coupled with a situation where a certain category of cases are increasing might have prompted the consumer to change tactics, said Anand. “Ever since Real Estate Regulation Act came into being, a majority of homebuyers have been taking that recourse,” he added. In one of his cases, only five hearings have taken place since the case was filed in 2018 in the state commission. “Filing a case under RERA is easier compared with a consumer commission. The filing has been online since its inception and has a nominal fee. In RERA, there is a pre-litigation procedure of conciliation too, allowing parties to settle before getting into a legal battle,” Anand said. A person can appear in his case, but legal nitty-gritty or lack of technical know-how could derail the process. “At times, people are compelled to withdraw cases and file again with the correct details. It’s not that easy. This can make litigation in consumer commissions seem a colossal task,” said Anand. So, what is the way forward? Experts said the government should continue with online filing or basic paperwork for filing complaints, replies and rejoinders and questionnaires to parties. Besides, evidence could be taken separately by filing in appropriate and dedicated departments without the commission’s indulgence at every stage. The commission would, thus, be able to save time for hearing arguments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-consumer-courts-are-falling-out-of-favour/articleshow/78096221.cms||Aamir Khan
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||VMC adds 253 beds as infections spiral||Vadodara: The belief that Covid-19 may reach its peak in early September seems to have proved to be a mirage. With cases increasing consistently, the administration has added more beds in an attempt to ensure that there is no shortage of treatment facilities. The number of cases being reported in the city and district since August 26 has remained over 120, barring two days. And since the last three days it has remained over 124 consistently. The only sign of relief has been that the positivity rate has remained low despite the large number of cases. But if the present trend continues in the coming days, the administration and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will have to cater to more patients. Also, Vadodara has to take care of Covid-19 patients from neighbouring districts that are also witnessing a steady trickle of cases. Officials said that 253 more beds have been added in the city. They added that the number of patients on ventilators or BiPAP machines had not increased. Sources said that more facilities were being identified and would be used if needed in the future. They added that beds were vacant even on Tuesday when the capacity had not been increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-adds-253-beds-as-infections-spiral/articleshow/78094044.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 35 dengue cases in a week take season total to 131||NEW DELHi: As many as 35 cases of dengue were reported from various parts of Delhi last week, taking the total figure to 131 this year. Of these 35 cases, 22 were from three municipalities (north, south and east corporations), seven from New Delhi Municipal Council and six remained untraced, stated a compiled report issued by South Delhi Municipal Corporation. TimesViewIn 2015, Delhi witnessed over 15,000 cases of dengue. Last year, it was only 5,077. Understandably a lot of attention is focused on controlling coronavirus this year. But health officials must ensure that the number of cases don’t rise sharply. Drives to minimise the cases caused by this vector-borne disease must be intensified.In 2019, the number of dengue cases reported till the corresponding week in September was 171. In 2018, 243 dengue cases were reported during the same period. डेंगू के ख़िलाफ़ महाअभियान में आज दूसरे रविवार को मैंने फिर से अपने घर की चेकिंग की और इकट्ठा हुए साफ़ पानी को बदला… https://t.co/v1mhD1iXD5— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1599975989000Civic officials have, meanwhile, intensified their drives to check waterlogging, spray insecticides and challan defaulters. “Though the number of cases is less compared with the last two years, we wanted to play safe. We are circulating forms to residential and commercial areas asking people to check for any mosquitogenic condition on their premises. They need to fill the form during the visit of DBC workers,” said an SDMC official. The number of malaria cases reported last week was 17 and the total cases this year reached a figure of 114. In comparison, a total of 247 cases were reported in September 2019 and 225 in 2018. Only five chikungunya cases were reported till Friday last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/35-dengue-cases-in-a-wk-take-season-total-to-131/articleshow/78114538.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 14, 2020||Pune||Online videos & study groups to the rescue of students as they get exam ready||Pune: Final-year students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have started preparations for their upcoming term-end examination by seeking question banks from the university, ensuring that they have power back-up, connectivity and proper gadgets to appear for the university examinations. Many students have decided to return to their hostels/paying guest accommodation to fetch their textbooks while others have made online groups to study. A student of final year Master’s in Hindi Dayanand Shinde from Tuljapur, Osmanabad district in the Marathwada region said that along with many from his region he had left the university without taking any textbooks when the lockdown was announced. “We never thought the lockdown would extend this long and did not take any textbooks. But now we are studying using the digital library at the university’s official website. Almost all books are available online on the website,” said Shinde. He added that there are students who stay in Pune and have been helping their counterparts by sending photographs or PDF files of the notes and textbooks. “Everybody is helping everyone the best they can,” added Shinde. Shruti Turkane, final-year student of political science and public administration, said students who opted for Marathi medium are facing immense problems. “We hardly have any material with us. When I came home, I just took with me three textbooks, which were reference books, because it never crossed our minds that we would be in a lockdown for such a long time. Now, we are completely relying on YouTube videos for material because 14 out of 15 videos uploaded by the university have errors and do not open. While we are still in a better place, the worst-case scenario is for my classmates from Chandrapur. We have not had any contact with them for the past four months. I wonder if they know about the decisions taken by the university,” Turkane said. Another problem that students are facing is the lack of platforms to clear doubts. “In class, we had a study group, and if the study group too couldn’t solve a problem, we could go to teachers who would solve the problem. This cannot happen via phone as our subjects are such that discussions and debates are needed for every single concept to be understood. We are very anxious about the entire thing. This is our last year and we had planned to study well and get good marks. Now, all we hope is that the exams are held without further delay because we have already forgotten whatever was taught and any more delays would mean we won’t remember anything of the syllabus that we had studied so hard,” she added. Pranjali Dewda, a student from Nashik, who has scored above 9.5 GPA in all her three semesters, is stressed about the final examination.  “We want question-banks to study as soon as possible. Otherwise, none of us will clear the examination. Till now, my study has been knowledge-oriented but now, all I am thinking about is examinations. For most of us, the Master’s level is the last of our academic life and it is sad that in the last leg, we are thinking of just exams and getting through it rather than understanding the concepts or studying anything thoroughly,” Dewda said. The environment itself has changed such that the students are unable to concentrate on studies. “There has been a six-month gap and now it is becoming really hard for us to study. It would have been good if the exams were taken immediately, then at least, we had everything taught fresh in our minds. I have been sitting with my textbook since morning and have hardly covered a single topic. I have scored 9.7, 10 and again a 9.7 CGPA in three semesters and now all I am hoping for are pass marks in the final semester. This is the state of our minds,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-videos-study-groups-to-the-rescue-of-students-as-they-get-exam-ready/articleshow/78095405.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 14, 2020||Nashik||2 women robbed of chains in 15 mins||Nashik: Two women were robbed of their gold chains within a span of 15 minutes in the city on Saturday morning. The total valuation of the chains robbed by the criminals is around Rs 1.02 lakh. The first incident occured around 6.45am near Pathardi Phata area which falls under the jurisdiction of Indiranagar police station. A 51-year-old woman from Ayodhya Colony was walking from Pathardi Phata towards Pathardi Gaon when two unidentified men on a bike came close to her from the opposite direction. The one riding pillion snatched her gold chain worth Rs 42,000 and fled the scene. When the woman raised an alarm, people nearby rushed to her rescue and told her that an attempt of chain robbery was made in Pathardi Gaon area five minutes earlier. In the second incident that has been registered with Bhadrakali police, a 60-year-old woman from Takli Road was passing from Sai Krupa Service Centre towards Trikoni Garden around 7am. Two men on a bike stopped in front of her, the one riding pillion snatched her gold chain worth Rs 60,000 and then the suspects fled the scene. While chain robberies had almost stopped when the lockdown came into effect, chain robbers have become active over the past two months. A woman was robbed of her gold chain in the Indiranagar area on September 10. There were two chain robberies in Ambad and Upnagar on September 7 and one more in Ambad on September 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-women-robbed-of-chains-in-15-mins/articleshow/78096235.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 14, 2020||Patna||Socialist leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh passes away||PATNA: Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh died at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday. He was 74. The socialist leader was the guiding force behind the Centre’s National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NAREGA) implemented by the Manmohan Singh government. Singh had been put on ventilator support in the ICU on Friday night, his son Satya Prakash told TOI over phone. Earlier, he underwent treatment for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna from where he had resigned from the post of RJD national vice-president. Singh was admitted to AIIMS-Delhi for treatment of post-Covid complications. He is survived by two sons and a daughter. The 5-term Lok Sabha member from Vaishali had also served as chairperson of the Bihar Legislative Council and a cabinet minister in the Karpoori Thakur government in 1977. He had also been elected from Belsand assembly constituency in Sitamarhi district. “Singh’s body would be taken to his native village Shahpur in Vaishali district on Monday,” Satya Prakash said. CM Nitish Kumar said his last rites would be performed with full state honours while following the Covid norms for restrictions on gathering. “He will be cremated with full state honours at Hasanpur Ghat on the banks of the Ganga,” a family member said. Singh’s body was brought to the state assembly premises where CM Nitish, former CM Rabri Devi, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and a large number of leaders of all political parties paid their last respect to the departed soul. His body was later taken to his Patna residence. On Monday, his body would be taken to his native village. President Ramnath Kovind, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan, CM Nitish, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and RJD chief Lalu Prasad condoled his death. PM Modi called him a grassroots leader with deep understanding of poverty and problems of the poor. “I will request Nitish Kumar to execute the development projects he wrote about in the letter. Let’s fulfil his wishes,” Modi said, while referring to Singh’s letter to Nitish on Thursday about development projects in Vaishali which he had represented for five successive terms. “His death is a personal loss to me and an irreparable loss to the political, social, educational life of Bihar and the socialist movement,” Nitish said in a condolence message after speaking to his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/socialist-leader-raghuvansh-passes-away/articleshow/78095450.cms||Madan Kumar
September 14, 2020||Delhi||No mini-lockdown, we’re past that: Delhi health minister||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday clarified that there won’t be any mini-lockdown in Delhi due to the recent spurt in Covid cases. “We want to make it clear that we are past the lockdown phase. We have got a lot of experience after the lockdown. The most effective way to prevent corona infection is to wear masks. If you wear masks, you can avoid infection to a great extent,” said Jain. “It is also necessary to adhere to social distancing. Some people had stopped using masks, and an awareness campaign was carried out,” he added. For the past five days, the city has reported more than 4,000 fresh cases, leading to higher occupancy of Covid beds in hospitals. To bolster the healthcare infrastructure, Delhi government has permitted Covid hospitals to augment the number of beds by 30%, Jain said. On Saturday, it directed 33 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU/HDU beds for Covid patients. The rise in Covid-19 cases has struck the capital after a period of less-than 1,000 daily cases, prompting rumours about a mini-lockdown to tame the situation. Following the partial decline, many people had become complacent and stopped following safety norms, said a source. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has repeatedly urged Delhiites to wear masks and stick to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “The CM himself is making all citizens aware. Messages are also being broadcast via FM and interactive voice responses etc. We are telling residents through every means that if you are stepping out of the house, you must wear a mask,” Jain said. Many ICU beds are still vacant in central and Delhi government hospitals but some healthcare facilities are reporting a shortage of ICU beds. According to the information on ICU beds with ventilators available on Delhi Corona app, by Sunday evening, Max Saket had only two of the 40 such beds vacant, and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital three of the 32 beds, while Max Shalimar Bagh and Holy Family Hospital had all ICU beds with ventilators occupied. “Although hospitals have enough beds, there is a shortage of ICU beds in easily approachable hospitals. Hospitals in high demand have been ordered to increase ICU beds. Right now, ICU beds are available in central and Delhi government hospitals,” said the health minister. “Around 4,321 people were found to be Covid-19 positive out of 60,000 tests conducted on September 12, making the test positivity ratio about 7.19% in Delhi against the national rate of 8.8%,” Jain pointed out. Delhi recorded 29 deaths in the last 24 hours, which brings down the mortality rate of the past 10 days to about 0.68% compared to the general average of 2.23%, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-mini-lockdown-were-past-that-jain/articleshow/78096236.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 14, 2020||Pune||Rigorous study helps more from city qualify for JEE (A)||Pune: Over 1,500 students from the city have qualified for the joint entrance exam (JEE) Advanced for admissions to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). Experts said the qualifying rate was impressive, attributing it to the quality of teaching and focussed preparation.According to Vaibhav Bakliwal, director of Bakliwal Tutorials, “Students in Pune are most focussed on conceptual learning and not rote learning for their JEE preparation. With their concepts being sound already, the extra time they got this year helped them practice more variety of questions which strengthened their preparation.”From Bakliwal Tutorials, nearly 650 students qualified for the Advanced exam including city toppers in first and second positions Vedang Asgaonkar and Aziz Shameem. From IITians Prashikshan Kendra, about 409 students qualified. Director Durgesh Mangeshkar said, “The number of selections are higher than last year. Around 28,000 students appeared from Pune and hardly 4,000 went through JEE formal coaching for two years or more.”In Kota, Hyderabad and New Delhi, the number of students preparing is huge. It is almost one lakh prepare from Kota, 1.5 lakh in Hyderabad and nearly 50,000 from Delhi. Still, the number of selections in these cities is much lesser and only about 25 %, Mangeshkar said. Pune has an average qualification of 40 % of total students appearing for JEE and qualifying for the advanced exam.The National Testing Agency announced the JEE Main results along with qualifying cut-off marks on Friday. To qualify for the advanced exam, students should score 90.376 percentile. The top 2.5 lakh students are selected for the advanced test.Asgaonkar, who stood 52nd in the all-India ranks, prepared for the exam from Bakliwal Tutorials and said that his focus was now on the Advanced exam. He also topped India in the Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana, an exam for fellowship in basic sciences. He topped Maharashtra in the January leg of JEE Main with a perfect 100 percentile in physics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rigorous-study-helps-more-from-city-qualify-for-jee-a/articleshow/78095437.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Inter-state buses to ply to Gujarat today 1st time after lockdown||NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to start bus services from Nashik to Gujarat’s Vapi and Surat from Monday. This will be the first inter-state bus transport service by the MSRTC from Maharashtra since the lockdown was announced in March. According to a MSRTC official, the state transport utility has received the nod for starting the interstate bus service from Monday. “The first bus from Nashik division will start for Vapi at 8.30am . It is an ordinary bus and the frequency will be increased depending on the response from the commuters,” he said. “Similarly, the bus for Surat is likely to begin from Monday or Tuesday. The ordinary bus will leave from the Central Bus Stand at 10.30am. The MSRTC has also decided to start the non-AC semi-sleeper coach for Nagpur and it will start from Nashik at 8pm,” he added. The running of these buses have been decided keeping in mind the flow of commuters to these destinations as there are very limited trains running on these routes. The MSRTC has also decided to start the ordinary buses for Akola (at 8:30 am). “Considering the demand for travellers in Solapur, an ordinary bus will start from Nashik at 9.30 am and a semi-luxury non-AC bus (Hirkani) will start from Nashik at 8.15 pm.The point of origin for all the above buses will be New central bus stand and services will be introduced from Monday. There is a rising demand for buses towards Pune from several other parts of Nashik district and hence the MSRTC has decided to introduce direct bus services from those depots. “We have decided to start buses from Malegaon, Manmad, Nandgaon and Yeola depots for Pune and they will take the Ahmednagar route towards Pune,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/inter-state-buses-to-ply-to-guj-today-1st-time-after-lockdown/articleshow/78096239.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 14, 2020||Kanpur||Bundelkhand turning into graveyard of farmers due to flawed policies of state govt: Lallu||Jhansi: UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu on Saturday said that Bundelkhand was becoming a graveyard of farmers as many of them have died by suicide owing to mounting loans and crop failure. Lallu, in a telephonic conversation with TOI during his three-day-tour to Bundelkhand to meet the families of farmers who recently ended their lives, attributed their suicides to the ‘anti-farmer policies’ of the state government. “Thousands of migrant labourers who have returned to their native places, are still jobless despite the many schemes floated by the state government which are all superficial,” said Lallu “Let alone jobs, most of them are yet to receive the monthly Rs 1,000 grant which the state government had promised during the lockdown,” he added. He further said that due to the flawed and anti-farmer policies of the Yogi government, farmers of Bundelkhand are forced to end their lives as their crops are failing and loans are mounting on their heads. “Bundelkhand is turning into a graveyard of farmers. There are rampant suicides taking place here and the government is unable to do anything. The insurance companies are running away without paying compensations and the CM Yogi is not taking any cognizance of the issue. It seems that the CM too is a part of this huge insurance scam the farmers are falling victim to,” said Lallu. Apart from this, the UPCC president added that a large number of illegal mining activities are being carried out in the region and the administration is turning a blind eye to it. However, if a farmer is found transporting even a few sacks of red mud from his farm, he is booked for illegal mining, said Lallu. When asked why the former UPA government was not successful in implementing Bundelkhand Package and MNREGA scheme during their rule, he said that it was MNREGA that proved to be the lifeline of thousands of migrants during the lockdown. “It was due to the efforts of Rahul Gandhi that the Bundelkhand Package could be made possible. It has helped thousands of farmers in getting rid of debts, and has given work to them, thereby developing the rural areas. But due to the hindrances created by the BSP, SP and BJP during their successive rules the package could not be successfully implemented. In fact, it is Congress who had brought all the major reforms for which the BJP is trying to take dividends,” said the UPPCC president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bundelkhand-turning-into-graveyard-of-farmers-due-to-flawed-policies-of-state-govt-lallu/articleshow/78094456.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||Pune cops book two for fiddling with scores of 178 students||PUNE: The city cyber police are investigating an FIR lodged by a prominent open education institution accusing two people of hacking into the computer system and tampering marks of 178 students between September 2018 and December 2019 for monetary gain. The centre for open and distance learning has accused the evaluation head at the centre and another person from Hyderabad of violating its grace marks policy after its information technology (IT) department conducted an elaborate internal investigation that led to the FIR on Saturday. “The extent of the alleged monetary gain and related aspects are under investigation,” said a cyber police officer. A senior official at the open and distance learning centre, who did not wish to be named, said, “Some of the students, who are enrolled with us, had received e-mails from an outsider stating that he could help them fare better in the exams. The person was in no way associated with our centre. After a few students reported the e-mail to us, we even warned him against sending such mails and restrained him from luring students in any way. We reported the incident to the cyber police so as to assess how this person was trying to help students and what he was planning to do.” The official added, “We suspected that there was someone who was providing the data, with respect to students’ e-mail IDs, to the outsider based on some WhatsApp chats between the person and the evaluation head. The question of manipulation of marks is a matter to be established by the investigation.” Senior inspector of the cyber police Jairam Paygude told TOI, “So far, our investigation has revealed that a student from the open and distance learning centre, who had scored less marks, had approached the evaluation head for grace marks. After the evaluation head helped him, more students approached him seeking similar help. Our probe also revealed that the suspect from Hyderabad showed the evaluation head how to hack into the centre’s computer system. The suspects had changed the case histories of the students and illegally changed the marks. We are now investigating the monetary transactions conducted between the suspects and students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-book-two-for-fiddling-with-scores-of-178-students/articleshow/78095460.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 4,000+ cases for fifth day, over 56,000 people tested in Delhi||NEW DELHI: For the fifth consecutive day, Delhi recorded more than 4,000 single-day Covid positive cases pushing the number of active cases to 28,812. A total of 4,235 cases were witnessed and 29 people died due to the novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. Delhi has reported 2.18 lakh Covid positive cases so far, out of which 1.84 lakh people have recovered and 4,744 died. Delhi’s Covid positivity rate was highest on Sunday since September 9 when the city started testing more than 50,000 people every day. The positivity rate on Sunday was 7.48%, Saturday 7.19%, Friday 7%, Thursday 7.38% and on Wednesday, it was 7.41%. The recent surge has been fuelled by high number of daily tests. As many as 56,656 tests were conducted in the last one day. Delhi has been conducting more than 60,000 daily tests in 11 districts covering various age groups, localities and sections of people. In the last five days, the government has conducted 3.35 lakh Covid-19 tests with rapid antigen tests constituting a majority of them. Health minister Satyendar Jain said that the government has been advised that the more tests it conducts, the more it will help to stop the coronavirus pandemic. “If you are corona positive and do not have symptoms, you can isolate yourself and you will not infect anyone. A large number of tests are being carried out. This is showing a surge in cases, but will greatly help in controlling the coronavirus,” Jain added. The government has attributed over 30% of the surge to outsiders. Jain at a press meet said, “There is no separate data of people coming from outside, but those who are coming from outside are also being found infected. In Delhi, all the transport modes are operational now, so there is no restriction for the people coming from outside. We hope that after 10 to 15 days, the cases will come down.” The cumulative positivity rate of the capital is 10.2% while the case fatality rate is 2.17%. The number of containment zones has gone up to 1,488, which is the highest. The health minister said that there has been no case of reinfection in Delhi. “It has happened that if you are infected with Covid and your test is negative in 10 to 12 days, you cannot infect others, but the virus can remain in your body. Many times, even after a month and a half, the test may have a positive result, but the scientific community has not claimed that it is reinfection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4000-cases-for-fifth-day-over-56000-people-tested/articleshow/78096241.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts heavy rain for Pune district from tomorrow||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday forecast heavy rainfall over Pune district during the next three days, and particularly on Tuesday. Met officials said a low pressure system had formed off the Andhra Pradesh coast in the Bay of Bengal on Sunday. “As this system is expected to move westwards, the South West monsoon will become vigorous over Maharashtra and this will bring heavy rain over Pune district and other parts between Monday and Wednesday,” a senior met official said. The met officials said the Madhya Maharashtra region, which includes Pune district, was likely to get rain from Monday onwards. The ghat areas of the district were expected to get heavy rainfall. From Thursday to Saturday, the official said, the district was likely to get moderate rainfall. On these days, the maximum temperature would be around 29 to 30°C and minimum temperature would be in the range of 21 to 22°C. On Sunday, the weather condition was mostly overcast and windy in some parts of the district. In Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the condition was sunny and bright. The overall weather condition was pleasant as Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 28.7°C and 29.4°C maximum temperature, which were below normal by 0.9 degree Celsius and 0.6 degree Celsius, respectively. Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have experienced rainfall throughout the week, especially in the evening hours between 4pm and 8pm. The rainfall occurred due to local convective activities, which were associated with lightening and thundery activity on most of these days. However, on Sunday, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded nil rainfall, the met officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-heavy-rain-for-district-tomorrow/articleshow/78095461.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 14, 2020||India||For high-risk groups, government plans to fast-track vaccine||NEW DELHI: The government is considering emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccine so that it can be made available at the earliest for those in high risk groups, including senior citizens and healthcare workers, health minister Harsh Vardhan said. “This shall be done after a consensus is reached,” Vardhan said during a social media interaction called ‘Sunday Samvaad’. Officials said while the final phase of trial for a vaccine takes six to nine months, an emergency authorisation may be considered once a certain level of efficacy is established along with its safety. The much awaited vaccine, there are several in the works, is expected to be ready by the first quarter of 2021, Vardhan said even as he maintained “no date has been fixed for the vaccine launch” as yet. To allay concerns about safety of a vaccine, Vardhan said he would be happy to take the first dose if some people had a trust deficit. He also added that it would be first made available to those who need it the most, irrespective of their paying capacity. Vardhan’s remarks came a day after pharma giant AstraZeneca announced resumption of its Covid vaccine trial after it got a go-ahead from British regulators. Its India partner — Pune-based Serum Institute of India — has also paused the trials after it was issued a show-cause notice by the Drugs Controller General of India. The company is waiting for required approvals from DCGI to resume trials. India has three vaccines in advanced stages of trial. The vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and proposed in India by Serum Institute is ahead and is set to enter phase 3. The other two locally developed candidates by Bharat Biotech and Cadila are in phase 2 trials. Besides, the government is also talking with Russia to pursue Sputnik V. Vardhan said the government was taking full precautions in conducting trials of the vaccine and officials were drawing up a detailed strategy on how to immunise a majority of the population. “Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines are being discussed intensely,” he said. He added that a safe and effective vaccine would help in establishing immunity to Covid at a much faster pace as compared to the natural infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-high-risk-groups-govt-plans-to-fast-track-vaccine/articleshow/78096843.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Vegetable prices in city markets rise by up to 100% in just 9 days||Kolkata: Prices of vegetables soared, some to the extent of nearly 100% over the last nine days, across the retail markets on Sunday, burning holes in the pockets of consumers. Market sources attributed the spike to the profits made by middlemen. Price of tomato rose to Rs 120-130/kg. Potato, too, remained quite expensive with the retail price touching 36-38/kg. Prices of most vegetables remained beyond Rs 60/kg. Even the humble pumpkin sold at Rs 50 a kg, which was Rs 20 last week.“We have been confined to our homes for nearly six months. We are still working from home and the diet was getting monotonous. Today, I was determined to take home something special. The news of a massive catch of Hilsa also kindled hope. But the prices shocked me. I exhausted all the cash buying the regular stuff,” said Anirban Chakraborty, an IT professional at Behala market. Hilsa weighing marginally above 1kg was sold at Rs 1,800- Rs 2,000 a kg on Sunday.To worsen matters, prices of some vegetables — that were showing signs of getting a little cheaper — rose again. Green chillies, which had cooled off a bit to stabilize at Rs 120 a kg on Wednesday, again rose to Rs 200/kg on Sunday.Cost of brinjal on Sunday rose to Rs 80-Rs 85 a kg. While coriander was sold for Rs 600 a kg, customers had to shell out Rs 70-Rs 75 a kilogram of okra. “It seems we are in an age when we go to the market with a bagful of money to return home with a pocketful of vegetables,” fumed Alok Ghosh Dastidar, a retired government official who shops at Bhowanipore market.However, market sources said the growers weren’t getting any benefit from this steady price rise. The chain of middlemen takes home the profit.“The yawning gap between the wholesale and retail prices is alarming. Okra, which was sold at Rs 35 a kg at the wholesale markets, was sold at Rs 70-Rs 75 a kg in the retail markets. This 100% rise defies logic. Even if you take into account the transportation cost, market entry cost, the prices should not have risen by more than Rs 4- Rs 5 a kg. Here, the role of the enforcement branch is immense,” said Kamal De, a member of the market task force.Untimely downpour has also widened the demand-supply gap. Since August received record rainfall and it’s continuing in September, much of the standing crops were damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vegetable-prices-in-city-markets-rise-by-up-to-100-in-just-9-days/articleshow/78095468.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 14, 2020||Patna||PM Modi heaps praise on Bihar, says none can match Nitish Kumar||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi said the Rs903 crore worth of the natural gas pipeline and LPG bottling plant projects he inaugurated on Sunday would propel the country’s eastern region, including Bihar, on to the path of accelerated development. He also said there was no alternative to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar in the state, as he had unfolded its turnaround story in the last 15 years and was best placed to take it further forward in coordination with the Centre. Thereby, the PM made it amply clear that the NDA comprising BJP, JDU) and LJP, as well as Hindustani Awam Morcha (S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi would present a seamless combine. The PM, through videoconferencing, inaugurated the 193km-long Durgapur-Banka natural gas pipeline laid in the last 17 months despite challenges posed by forests and hilly tracts, at the cost of Rs630 crore. He also inaugurated LPG bottling plants at Banka and Harsidhi in East Champaran, each with a capacity to produce 40,000 gas cylinders daily. Both involved an expenditure of Rs273 crore. The LPG cylinders produced would be distributed in 14 districts of Bihar and also in the adjoining districts of Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. “Bihar has also got an IIT, IIIT, national law university and other educational, medical and engineering institutes under Nitish’s leadership. The state also got two central universities after his persistent efforts,” Modi said. “Bihar is a powerhouse of talent. Think of any institution in the country, they all teem with the presence of Bihari talent,” he said, adding they put in “labour, talent, skill and dedication” in whatever work they do. The PM pointed out that Bihar was once counted only for its workforce, as a result of which its developmental aspirations were ignored by the previous dispensations. “Today, the towns and villages are power connected and laying of the gas pipeline, along with the CNG supply, will bring modern infrastructure to the state,” he said. “The biggest natural gas pipeline from Paradeep in Odisha to Kandla in Gujarat will pass through seven states. It will link Bihar and the eastern region with the developed western states,” he said. Modi said it would also lead to the revival of the fertilizers plant and crude oil refinery at Barauni (Begusarai), besides helping in bringing about other gas-based industries. Further, he said the natural gas pipeline and the two bottling plants were part of the Rs1.25 lakh crore package he had announced in 2015. Speaking on the occasion, CM Nitish said, “Bihar today is seen as a state where development has taken place. It will be transformed into a developed state.” Earlier, Union natural gas and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi made detailed statistical presentation of the benefits that had accrued to the people, including women, with LPG connections in the urban and rural households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-heaps-praise-on-bihar-says-none-can-match-nitish/articleshow/78095475.cms||Abhay Singh
September 14, 2020||Pune||Second-hand car sales soar amid rising nCoV cases||Pune: The unavailability of public transport during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown and the subsequent safety concerns forced the city resident, Girish Kulkarni, to invest in purchasing a four-wheeler, albeit a pre-owned one. “Even though public transport is now available, I felt it was unsafe to board one. Elderly persons are not allowed to use public transport either. I thought it was safer to have our car to use for regular transport and in case of emergencies,” Kulkarni said. Kulkarni is one of many who thought it to be imperative to purchase a four-wheeler for personal and emergency use amid the Covid-19 outbreak. As per the data provided by the used car dealers, the sector was witnessing a boom in the past few months, as against the sales slump it was recording before the lockdown had started. According to the president of the Used Car Dealers Association, Pune, and owner of Autofin Solutions, Vinod Ahir, the demand for second-hand cars had gone up by over 50% since Unlock 1.0 began in June. “Before the lockdown, my outlet would sell around 15 cars per month. Since June, however, the number went up to at least 25 cars a month. Most of the used car dealers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have been recording a spike in the sales, which began towards May-end and has continued to show an upward graph since. This is the first time the industry, which was facing a downturn until February, has seen such a surge in demand,” he said.Nakul Khandelwal, founder of Bid Wheels — an online bidding portal which deals in second-hand cars — said, “The demand is highest for the vehicles costing up to Rs5 lakh. We receive at least 300 enquiries per month for used cars in this segment. Such heavy demand has led to a supply crunch in the market, thereby resulting in an increase in the prices of used cars by almost 15% to 20%. The sellers, who now know that they have multiple prospective buyers, are negotiating with everyone for the best price.”Another member of the association, who did not want to be named, said, “Most buyers are those who had never owned a four-wheeler. While the maximum demand is for cars under Rs5 lakh, we are also seeing decent demand for vehicles falling in the Rs15 lakh to Rs20 lakh segment.”He said that the other reason for the increased demand for pre-used cars was the immediate shortage of new cars in the market. “Due to the lockdown, the production units of automobile companies were shut, leading to a supply crunch and subsequent price rise in that sector,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-hand-car-sales-soar-amid-rising-ncov-cases/articleshow/78095465.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 14, 2020||---||PM Modi heaps praise on Bihar, says none can match Nitish Kumar||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi said the Rs903 crore worth of the natural gas pipeline and LPG bottling plant projects he inaugurated on Sunday would propel the country’s eastern region, including Bihar, on to the path of accelerated development. He also said there was no alternative to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar in the state, as he had unfolded its turnaround story in the last 15 years and was best placed to take it further forward in coordination with the Centre. Thereby, the PM made it amply clear that the NDA comprising BJP, JDU) and LJP, as well as Hindustani Awam Morcha (S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi would present a seamless combine. The PM, through videoconferencing, inaugurated the 193km-long Durgapur-Banka natural gas pipeline laid in the last 17 months despite challenges posed by forests and hilly tracts, at the cost of Rs630 crore. He also inaugurated LPG bottling plants at Banka and Harsidhi in East Champaran, each with a capacity to produce 40,000 gas cylinders daily. Both involved an expenditure of Rs273 crore. The LPG cylinders produced would be distributed in 14 districts of Bihar and also in the adjoining districts of Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. “Bihar has also got an IIT, IIIT, national law university and other educational, medical and engineering institutes under Nitish’s leadership. The state also got two central universities after his persistent efforts,” Modi said. “Bihar is a powerhouse of talent. Think of any institution in the country, they all teem with the presence of Bihari talent,” he said, adding they put in “labour, talent, skill and dedication” in whatever work they do. The PM pointed out that Bihar was once counted only for its workforce, as a result of which its developmental aspirations were ignored by the previous dispensations. “Today, the towns and villages are power connected and laying of the gas pipeline, along with the CNG supply, will bring modern infrastructure to the state,” he said. “The biggest natural gas pipeline from Paradeep in Odisha to Kandla in Gujarat will pass through seven states. It will link Bihar and the eastern region with the developed western states,” he said. Modi said it would also lead to the revival of the fertilizers plant and crude oil refinery at Barauni (Begusarai), besides helping in bringing about other gas-based industries. Further, he said the natural gas pipeline and the two bottling plants were part of the Rs1.25 lakh crore package he had announced in 2015. Speaking on the occasion, CM Nitish said, “Bihar today is seen as a state where development has taken place. It will be transformed into a developed state.” Earlier, Union natural gas and petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi made detailed statistical presentation of the benefits that had accrued to the people, including women, with LPG connections in the urban and rural households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/modi-heaps-praise-on-bihar-says-none-can-match-nitish/articleshow/78101591.cms||Abhay Singh
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||NEET sees over 80% turnout in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exam, held on Sunday, saw 80-85% participation in Gujarat. A total of 80,219 had registered for the medical college entrance test this year. In comparison, 92-93% students had taken the test in 2019 out of the total 76,000 candidates who had registered.  The exam was held across 217 centres covering 10 cities of Gujarat. Of these 38 centres were in Ahmedabad and nine were in Gandhinagar. After English and Hindi, the students taking the exams in Gujarati language were highest this year. “Every centre had an isolation room for students suspected of being infected with Covid-19. The supervisors for such examination halls were to be provided with PPE kits. No incident has been reported from any centre in Gujarat of any student being suspected of contracting Covid-19,” said a source in NTA. Students were checked with a thermal scanner at the time of entry to the examination centre and every exam centre was completely sanitized before and after the test. District authorities were instructed to avoid crowding at test centres and to implement social distancing measures during the test. Students were provided with face masks and writing pens at the examination centres. The exam conducting authorities had also arranged for packaged water and biscuits for the students. According to experts, the exam papers were easy this year as compared to 2019. The answer keys are expected to be announced late on Sunday. The results are expected to be out by the end of this month. There are currently about 5,400 medical seats, 1,200 dental seats, 3,600 in Ayurveda programme and about 3,300 seats in homeopathy course in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/neet-sees-over-80-turnout-in-gujarat/articleshow/78095463.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Treating mental illness here doesn’t mean separating mother from child||NEW DELHI: In the midst of a raging pandemic, 32-year-old Asha (name changed) was kept chained in her house in east Delhi by her labourer husband as her mental illness became difficult to handle. The mother of three was rescued in August and moved to the mother and child unit of Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS), where children are not separated from their mothers or given away for adoption. While Mental Healthcare Act 2017 states that a child under three years shall not be ordinarily separated from the mother while she is receiving care, treatment or rehabilitation at a mental health facility, IHBAS has been following this practice since 2012. Through this unit, it has been working on addressing social taboos that prompt separation of a mother with mental health issues from her child. IHBAS director Dr Nimesh Desai said the mother and child unit was set up to counter the “myths” that a mentally ill mother was incapable of caring for her child and that if it was a destitute person, adoption was a better option. The experiment has shown that being with their children can actually help the patients. Between 2012 and 2020, the unit has treated 226 young mothers, most of whom are from low-income and poor families and include 97 destitute women. Here, small children get to stay with the mother under the care of attendants assigned exclusively for each child. Recognising the importance of the mother-child bond during treatment and need for care and protection of the child in the absence of caregivers back home, the unit continued with the practice even during the pandemic. Asha’s youngest child, a one-year-old boy, is living with her. There are three more women at the facility and all have children below two, the youngest being 2 months old. When TOI visited the facility, a nurse was gently putting a baby in the lap of its recovering mother. The 30-year-old patient is suffering from bipolar depression and psychosis, and her mother said but for IHBAS, the family would have found it difficult to care for a small baby away from the mother. Between July and August, six mothers have been admitted with their kids. They have illnesses ranging from depression, psychosis to schizophrenia. The women usually stay here for two to three months. “We encourage that the child stays with the mother as much as possible and three attendants over three shifts take care of the child,” Dr Desai said. “We have found that once treated, the women go back to their normal lives with requisite follow-ups and medication. So, it is important to not separate the child from the mother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/treating-mental-illness-here-doesnt-mean-separating-mother-from-child/articleshow/78096248.cms||Ambika Pandit
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Storm warning: House to meet for one-day Delhi assembly session||NEW DELHI: The one-day Delhi assembly session on Monday is likely to be stormy with the opposition BJP planning to take on the AAP government over various issues, including the proposed removal of slums along railway lines and rising Covid cases. The assembly complex was sanitised a day before the session due to the pandemic and 19 additional chairs have been placed in the House, which had 104 seats, to help MLAs maintain two-yard distance between two persons. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel said MLAs would sit leaving one seat between themselves for social distancing. The 70-member assembly has 62 AAP and eight BJP members. No MLA will be allowed entry without a negative Covid report conducted within the last 48 hours. Covid tests were conducted on 94 people, including 29 MLAs, at the assembly on Friday and nobody was found positive, said Goel. In another 214 rapid antigen tests, three persons have been found positive. A temporary rapid antigen testing facility will be operational at the committee room in the complex from 10am till noon on Monday to help MLAs and media people get tested. “The antigen tests give results in 15 to 30 minutes. Those testing negative will be allowed to enter the premises,” said an official. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri has given a notice for a short-duration discussion. “The BJP MLAs will raise the matter of about 48,000 slums located on railway land as their removal will affect lakhs of people,” Bidhuri said. More than 50,000 houses have been built for slum dwellers in Delhi but the AAP government has not allotted them, he alleged. “We want to know the views of the government on this. The Centre has provided 50% of the construction expenditure.” “We will raise the issue of the Covid situation in the city, non-implementation of Ayushman Bharat scheme, inadequate number of public transport buses, stagnation of development work, among others,” said Bidhuri. He also demanded that the session should be of at least five days to discuss all issues of public importance. There will be no question hour as it is a one-day session, which will begin at 2pm with Special Mention under which members raise important matters. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia is scheduled to introduce Delhi Goods & Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which will be considered and is likely to be passed on Monday itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/storm-warning-house-to-meet-for-1-day-session/articleshow/78096242.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 14, 2020||Pune||Pune airport opens 24-hour help desks for flyers' sake||PUNE: Two help desks, one in the departure area and other at the arrival, have been opened by the Pune airport authorities to help flyers with queries. “Flying is complicated owing to the new regulations. Many passengers have queries regarding flights, connecting flights and way to go about in the airport. The help desks will be helpful for them,” an airport official told TOI. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said the help desks created fresh jobs for many. “The contagion has had a debilitating impact on the economy. Businesses are down and people are losing their jobs. But we are creating new jobs and improving passenger facilitation. Passengers can easily get their airport-related queries answered. Twenty-one new jobs have been created at the airport. The help desk is available round-the-clock in three shifts,” the director said. Flyers at times are confused about flights as the number of flights and destinations from and to the airport has come down. There are queries related to quarantine. Many come to or fly off from Pune for two to three days and always have queries about quarantine. After arriving in Pune, many are concerned about public transportation. The help desks are provided with all information about flights, delays and cancellation which is given to the flyers. Earlier, without the help desks, flyers would move to different airline offices or airport officials for information. Flyers appreciated the service. “Help desks, especially during these times, are important and necessary. Flyers will have many queries. The staff present help and aren’t rude,” Nikhil Joshi, a frequent flyer, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-airport-opens-24-hr-help-desks-for-flyers/articleshow/78095471.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kazi Nazrul film negative damaged during lockdown||Kolkata: The pandemic-induced lockdown has been extremely unkind to rare film negatives. Many have been lost and one of the saddest casualties in film history due to the lockdown has been the negative of a rare 1934 film titled ‘Dhruba’. This was the only film co-directed by legendary author Kazi Nazrul Islam. Its negatives have been badly damaged due to the lack of a skilled technician who would go and clean the spools where they are stored. This black & white film was based on a story titled ‘Bhakta Dhruva’ that was penned by Girishchandra Ghosh. Along with Satyendranath Dey, Nazrul had directed the film where he played the role of Narada. Other actors in the cast included Tulsi Chakraborty, Angurbala and Joynarayan Mukhopadhyay. “In the context of the cultural history, a film directed by Nazrul is extremely important. Besides, he is perhaps the first Muslim director of the subcontinent. The relevance increases in the present times when we note that the film had a Muslim director playing a Hindu mythological character. The government should ensure that the film is restored,” said film scholar Sanjoy Mukhopadhyay. Nazrul also did the playback for four of Narada’s songs. He composed 17 of the 18 songs in the movie. According to the Bengali Film Directory that has been published by Nandan, the film was released at Crown on January 1, 1934. Two small clips of the film are available online. But the complete film isn’t available on the public domain. During the lockdown, the negatives available with the current copyright holder in Kolkata crumbled to dust. These were highly flammable nitrate-based negatives that are meant to be kept in rooms away from sunlight or heat. According to Saugata Nandi, director of Chhayabani and NT 1 studios that holds that copyright of the film’s negative, “When we acquired the rights of the film, the material was not available anywhere. But we had acquired it because of the film’s historic importance. The old negatives weren’t in good condition. The lockdown was the last nail in the coffin.” Such negatives need to be kept in a temperature-controlled environment and have to be taken out regularly from the spools and cleaned with a lot of care. “This is a very specialized job. Since negatives are no longer required for filming, we no longer get skilled people to do this kind of a job,” he added. Pradesh Ranjan Chowdhury, who has been doing this cleaning of negatives at NT1 studios, lives in Barasat. “Though lockdown has been lifted, he has not been able to come down to our Tollygunje studios from March. He has now shifted to Agartala. Restoration of the film from these existing negatives is next to impossible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kazi-nazrul-film-negative-damaged-during-lockdown/articleshow/78095473.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||New members appointed for 4 FRC zones||Ahmedabad: The state education department on Sunday announced appointment of members of Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC) for four zones of Gujarat under the Gujarat Self-Financed School Act – 2017. The Ahmedabad FRC committee is headed by KA Puj, a retired Gujarat HC judge while Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat committees are headed by Ganpatsinh Rana, H P Baxi and Ashok M Dave respectively, all three being retired district court judges. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-members-appointed-for-4-frc-zones/articleshow/78095481.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Thieves use gas cutter, steal Rs 9.5 lakh from Alandi ATM||PUNE: Thieves cut open the cash-dispensing unit and stole Rs 9.5 lakh from an RBI-licensed white label ATM operator in Chimbli village near Alandi in the early hours of Sunday. “The theft came to light around 2.50am on Sunday, barely 20 minutes after the culprits left with the cash. Till late Sunday evening, no one from the non-banking entity, which manages the kiosk, came to lodge an FIR with us. We have suo motu lodged a case,” senior inspector Ravindra Chaudhar of the Alandi police said. Chaudhar said the suspects entered the kiosk around 2.20am and blackened the CCTV cameras inside. “They used a gas cutter to open the machine and stole Rs9.5 lakh from the cash tray. They left the spot within 10 minutes of entering the kiosk,” he said. Chaudhar said they had written to the company several times to deploy security guards at the kiosk, to no avail. “Moreover, the central security system of the company too was not aware of the incident, as the culprits disconnected electricity supply while cutting open the machine. There was no security guard,” Chaudhar said. He said the theft was discovered by their night patrol team, which was checking all ATM kiosks in the vicinity. “The team reached the spot around 2.50am, and noticed that the machine was cut open. The officer tried to contact the officials of the firm, but there no response,” Chaudhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-use-gas-cutter-steal-rs-9-5l-from-alandi-atm/articleshow/78095478.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Seven-member gang hacks businessman, 40, to death||Coimbatore: A seven-member gang hacked a 40-year-old Avarampalayam resident to death at Gokhale Street near Ram Nagar on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as C Biju of Dhanalakshmi Nagar. He was running a soda shop at Gokhale Street for the last 20 years and was also a moneylender. “The gang had targeted Biju on Sunday afternoon when he was at the shop. Though he tried to escape, the gang members chased him and attacked him using sickles. He was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), but died without responding to treatment,” a police officer said. Hindu Munnani functionaries and members used to spend time at the soda shop as Biju was a supporter of the outfit, the officer said. Nithish Kumar, 20, son of Arumugam of Ganesh Nagar at Narasimma Naickenpalayam used to visit the shop along with his friends. In June, Anandh, a Gandhipuram-based Hindu Munnani member, verbally abused Kumar at the shop. On July 3, Kumar and his family visited Anandh’s house and fought with Anand and his relatives over the issue. Anandh lodged a complaint against Kumar and his family before the Kattoor police, who registered a case. A few days ago, Biju held a talk with the families of Anandh and Kumar, and requested them to settle the issue amicably. Meanwhile, Anandh’s friends Rahul of Ram Nagar and Vishnu of Kannappa Nagar decided to avenge the humiliation he suffered. On Saturday around 5.30pm, the duo attacked Kumar and his friend Ganesh at Saibaba Colony. They stabbed Kumar on his abdomen before escaping from the place. He was admitted to a private hospital at Rathinapuri. Based on his complaint, the Saibaba Colony police registered a case against Rahul and Vishnu. Kumar’s father Arumugam and his supporters had approached police on Sunday, seeking action against Biju, the officer said. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan has formed four special teams to nab the killers. Police are collecting CCTV footage from Ram Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seven-member-gang-hacks-businessman-40-to-death/articleshow/78095474.cms||A Subburaj
September 14, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Need new paradigms on public policy’||Aurangabad: Appealing to the youths to develop a holistic understanding of life, former member of Maharashtra planning board H M Desarda said that mankind can survive only if it coexists with nature. “The growth per se does not necessarily mean development. We have to respect the dignity of nature. Growth at the cost of environment depletion should cease immediately,” he said.Addressing a webinar for students of MGM Institute of Management and Research on ‘Post Covid-19 Economy: Challenges and Opportunities’ in Aurangabad, Desarda said that societies need to have new paradigms for public policy and governance once the pandemic situation recedes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/need-new-paradigms-on-public-policy/articleshow/78093711.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Kumki elephants to help capture injured tusker||Coimbatore: The forest department brought kumki elephant Suyambu to Mettupalayam forest range from the Chadivayal elephant camp on Sunday and is planning to bring kumki Venkatesh on Monday to capture an injured tusker roaming in the area. The elephant, which has an injury on its left foreleg, had consumed medicine-laced jackfruits placed by forest department officials. Now, the department has decided to tranquilise the animal for treatment. Though Suyambu was deployed on Sunday to capture it, the tusker managed to escape. Venkatesh will be brought to the spot on Monday for the drive. “We will tranquilise the animal and start treatment on Monday,” district forest officer D Venkatesh said. “A team of frontline staff is working round-the-clock to monitor and feed the animal medicines.” The nature of injury could be ascertained only after the animal is tranquilised, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kumki-elephants-to-help-capture-injured-tusker/articleshow/78095470.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC likely to hear Greater Kailash-II basements flooding case||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court, on Monday, is likely to take up a plea filed by residents of Greater Kailash-II in connection with repeated flooding of basements in the area since August. In their plea seeking the court’s intervention, the residents said, despite repeated complaints, all the agencies —South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Delhi Jal Board and Delhi Metro — had been passing the buck. The locals wanted a long-term solution to the problem of flooding, such as drilling deep holes at several points, and ensuring water seeps back into the watertable. “The petitioners are some of the residents of GK-II, who are victims of a peculiar situation where the basement of the buildings is getting repeatedly flooded with as much as 1.5 feet to 4 feet water,” the plea said, noting that, at this stage, no one has been able to trace the source of leakage. Filed by advocates Shaan Mohan, Tushar Gupta and Sumit Mishra, the petition claimed that when residents approached the civic agencies, the latter adopted a “hands off approach by simply shifting the responsibility on other departments/authorities.” A month has passed since the issue was noticed but no solution has been found yet, the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-likely-to-hear-gk-ii-basements-flooding-case/articleshow/78096250.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Astrologer forecast leads to mad rush in markets||VIJAYAWADA: Thousands of people were in a mad rush for wheat and calotropis leaves on Sunday after an audio clip by an astrologer went viral on social media. A man, who identified himself as Dr Vadlamani Ravi Sundar in the audio clip, said that a rare astrological formation is happening on Sunday starting from 10:45am. Sundar claimed that six out of the nine planets will be in their own zodiacal houses which is a rare occurrence that has never happened in the last 250 years and will not happen in the next 250 years either. He said good fortune would knock at the door if an earthen diya is lit up after the zodiacal formation begins. He suggested that wheat along with the diya should be placed on calotropis leaf. “If one prays to god between 10:45 and 11:45 by lighting the diya as suggested, the astronomical formation will shower good fortunes,” he said. Many people were seen buying wheat on Sunday morning and in search of calotropis plants which grows as a weed. As wheat is not commonly available in general stores, many were seen enquiring for the places where they can purchase it. Even shopkeepers were taken by surprise with many people asking for wheat on Sunday morning. M Sambasiva Rao who runs a super market said that he had never seen such demand for wheat. “Had I known before, I would have kept enough stock. I also come across the audio clip but did not anticipate the demand that it can create” he said. Those who were having wheat stocks saw bumper earnings. B Ragavaiah, a flour mill owner at Poranki sold 200 gm of wheat for Rs 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/astrologer-forecast-leads-to-mad-rush-in-mkts/articleshow/78094060.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: No need for farmers to worry over free power, says YSRC||AMARAVATI: Dropping hints that the YSRC has decided to back the Electricity (amendment) Bill, 2020 to be introduced in the parliament session, Lok Sabha floor leader Peddireddy Mithun Reddy said there was no need for farmers in the state to worry about free power. He said that CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy has already initiated measures to continue the free power to the agriculture sector unhindered for another 35 years. Speaking to media after attending the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) presided by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Sunday in New Delhi, Mithun Reddy said that they have demanded the Union government to include discussion on payment of GST to states during the session. “We will also raise the issue of Special Category Status (SCS) to AP during the session. We have not dumped the issue. ,” said Mithun Reddy. Samdani MN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-no-need-for-farmers-to-worry-over-free-power/articleshow/78094097.cms||Samdani MN
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||65-year-old woman found strangulated||Udhagamandalam: A 65-year-old woman was found murdered in her neighbour’s house at Puduvayal near Gudalur in the Nilgiris on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as K Padmavathi, a widow. She used to sleep at her neighbour Elsy’s house at night, a police officer said. “Elsy, 55, also a widow, is running an automobile spare parts shop at Puduvayal. On Saturday night, Elsy reached home to find Padmavathi lying dead on the floor with strangulation marks around the neck,” he said. Police have ruled out burglary as a motive and have registered a case under Section 454, 511 and 302 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Three special teams have been formed to investigate the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/65-year-old-woman-found-strangulated/articleshow/78095483.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Driver fined Rs 5,000 for chasing wild elephant||UDHAGAMANDALAM: When they shot the video of chasing a wild elephant in a jeep and circulated the same on WhatsApp, little did 26-year-old Sujin, of Masinagudi, and his friend know that would land them in trouble. The video shows Sujin chasing the elephant in his jeep by focusing the headlight on the animal that was roaming near Masinagudi area in the Sigur forest range, which falls under the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. The video was shot by his friend, who was sitting on the backseat of the vehicle, on Saturday night. Watch | A jeep driver chases a wild elephant near Masinagudi area in the Sigur forest range in #TamilNadu. The driv… https://t.co/4f5QT6ukWx— TOIChennai (@TOIChennai) 1600081352000As the video went viral, forest department officials nabbed Sujin, a tourist jeep driver, and his friend. While Sujin was fined Rs 5,000 and made to spend the day at the Masinagudi forest range office on Sunday, his friend, who shot the video, was let off with a stern warning. Watch Tamil Nadu: Driver fined Rs 5,000 for chasing wild elephant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/driver-fined-rs-5000-for-chasing-wild-elephant/articleshow/78095480.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh sees over 9,000 new coronavirus cases, 66 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 9,536 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 5,67,123. The toll jumped to 4,912 as 66 more patients succumbed to the disease. As many as 10,131 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 95,072 active cases with the 4,67,139 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 82%. Twelve police personnel including East Godavri SP Asmi, who were on duty probing the Antarvedi chariot fire incident, have tested positive. Also, two of the protesters, who were taken into custody, had also tested positive. There was a massive demonstration against the incident and many were seen flouting social distancing norms. East Godavari reported the highest number of fresh infections on Sunday with 1,414 cases, followed by West Godavari 1,076, and Chittoor 957. West Godavari crossed the 50,000 Covid-case mark to become the third district to achieve such grim feat after East Godavari and Kurnool. East Godavari leads the Covid-19 tally of Andhra Pradesh with 76,808 cases. Of the 66 deaths registered on Sunday, seven each from Anantapur, Nellore and Prakasam, six each from Kadapa and Visakhapatnam, five each from Chittoor, East Godavari, Krishna and Kurnool, four each from Guntur and Vizianagaram, three from West Godavari, and two from Srikakulam. Chittoor contributed to 525 deaths, followed by Guntur 463 and East Godavari 454. Other than Prakasam and Vizianagaram, all other districts achieved at least 80 percent recovery rate. It is above 90 percent in Anantapur. Andhra Pradesh tested 45.99 lakh people for Covid-19, including the 72,233 tests conducted on Sunday. The overall positivity rate stood at 12.33%, while the mortality rate improved to 0.86%. Even though the state has been reporting about 10,000 daily new cases, the daily case total remained more or less the same for the last 50 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-sees-over-9k-new-coronavirus-cases-66-deaths/articleshow/78094041.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||EESL to power energy appliances project||Vijayawada: The Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) has shown interest to install energy efficient appliances in about 30 lakh houses. Earlier, the Indo-Swiss Building Energy Efficiency Project (Beep) came forward to provide Indo-Swiss building technology to the AP government. EESL chairman Rajeev Sarma has called on principal secretary for housing Ajay Jain to discuss about energy appliances project. AP is the only state in India which will provide 30 lakh modern houses to the poor with world’s latest energy efficient technologies. Rajeev Sharma said that for the first time in India, Energy Conservation Building Code is being implemented in AP’s housing programme. EESL executive vice-chairman Saurabh Kumar said that EESL is holding discussions with the state government about supply of energy efficient appliances to 30 lakh houses. He said that EESL has introduced the super-efficient fans based on the latest technologies which are highly qualitative, reliable and saves substantial energy compared to conventional fans which will help to enhance the quality of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eesl-to-power-energy-appliances-project/articleshow/78094136.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hubballi||This teacher travels to students’ homes with a mobile science kit||Chitradurga: The launch of ‘Vidyagama’, the state government initiative rolled out to ensure continuous learning among children during the pandemic, has enthused Nagabhushan KT, a science teacher at the government high school in Rekhalagere Lambani Hatti in Challakere taluk in Chitradurga district, who has been visiting the homes of students with a mobile laboratory kit in tow. In the past three weeks since the launch of the initiative, Nagabhushan has taught 172 students, clarifying any doubts they may have in his subject and conducting experiments too. On many occasions, he has allowed the students to demonstrate the experiments themselves in order to help boost their confidence. Distance is no bar to Nagabhushan, who travels by a two-wheeler. It does not matter if the homes of students are in isolated locations, Nagabhushan gets there, all the while donning a mask and following all prescribed safety procedures. He teaches students in groups of three and six. What is more, he carries with him 50 masks and a hand sanitiser. An MSc graduate with a BEd, Nagabhushan has won numerous district and state-level awards including the best ‘teacher trainer’ award at the Akshara Bharathi programme. Challakere block education officer Suresh KS said that the initiative of a travelling teacher with a mobile laboratory kit was being tried on an experimental basis, and met with encouraging response in the district. Deputy director of public instruction Ravishankara Reddy, subject inspector Govindappa and Reklagere Lambani Hatti school headmaster HD Venkatesh have expressed their appreciation of Nagabhushan and his commitment to educating students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-teacher-travels-to-students-homes-with-a-mobile-science-kit/articleshow/78094570.cms||SA Gangaraju
September 14, 2020||Pune||Police bust sex racket, rescue six women||Pune: The Wakad police on Saturday busted a sex racket being run from a housing society in Thergaon and rescued six women. Police have arrested three persons, including two women, for running the racket. A team led by senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar made the arrests. Police said the investigations revealed that the rescued women were from poor families. “The suspects promised the women money and forced them into the trade,” Mugalikar said. The officer said the arrests were made following a tip-off received by sub-inspector Pranil Chougale. “The suspects were approaching the customers through cellphone messaging applications. We sent a decoy customer and raided the flat,” Mugalikar said. The officer said the rescued women were sent to a rescue home in Pune. “The arrested trio has been remanded to police custody till August 14,” Mugalikar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-sex-racket-rescue-six-women/articleshow/78095482.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Lightning kills 2 amid heavy rain in pockets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lightning strikes on Sunday resulted in the death of two agricultural labourers — Vadrevu Baburao (50) and Kola Venkata Ramana (45) — of Kandrakota village in East Godavari’s Peddapuram mandal. “The deceased went to the agriculture fields at J.Timmapuram village wherein they died of the lightening before heavy rains” the Peddapuram revenue officials said. The area experienced heavy rainfall along with places in West Godavari which received heavy to very heavy showers. The spell of rain came as a result of low pressure forming over the Bay of Bengal, along the Andhra Pradesh coast, as was predicted by India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier. Tanuku in West Godavari received 180mm rainfall while several pockets in Vizag city experienced light to moderate rain. In another incident, a man is believed to have drowned in a canal at at Suddhagadda in Prattipadu and a search operation is underway. In Rayalaseema, a motorcycle was washed away in a flooding canal at Chenchugudempalem village of Rudravaram mandal. Meanwhile, irrigation officials released nearly 1.4 lakh cusecs of water from Srisailam reservoir to catchment areas of Krishna river and surrounding areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/lightning-kills-2-amid-heavy-rain-in-pockets/articleshow/78094030.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Number of approved plots rises as realtors regularise layouts||CHENNAI: The number of approved plots is on the rise in Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA). Realtors said the trend means that authorised housing plots are coming for sale in the market and promoters with unsold unapproved plots are regularising their layouts. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has approved 57 housing layouts comprising 4,461 plots in the city and suburbs that fall in the three neighbouring districts between January and July this year. A majority of approved housing sites in 2020 are located in the western suburbs such as Kundrathur, Poonamallee and Avadi. Eighty-two housing layouts with 4,285 plots were approved by the planning authority during the same period last year. The rush by promoters with unapproved plots was the major reason for the jump in the number of applications seeking nod from the CMDA. Founder president of the Association of Builders for Chennai Development, A Balasubramani, said a large land parcel that was part of an unapproved layout where a few plots were sold and sale deed was registered before October 20, 2016, was regularised under the amnesty scheme. “Several promoters are applying to sell off the remaining unapproved plots in the regularised layout after getting planning permission from the CMDA, including handing over 10% of Open Space Reserve to the respective local bodies as per the development rules,” he said. Builders Association of India state treasurer S Ramaprabhu said there was no dearth in takers of the plot segment. “Unlike in apartments, price of housing plots that remain unsold will appreciate every passing year,” he said. The number of approved housing plots within CMA began to increase last year after the state government launched a regularisation scheme for unapproved plots in 2017, in the light of a litigation in the Madras High Court to end the menace of illegal conversion of agriculture land into unauthorised housing plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/number-of-approved-plots-rises-as-realtors-regularise-layouts/articleshow/78095484.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Comrade Thangavel no more||Coimbatore: Veteran CPM leader and former Tirupur south constituency MLA K Thangavel, 68, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 here, passed away on Sunday. Thangavel, a popular trade union leader who led many struggles for the rights of labourers, was admitted in hospital 15 days ago. Family sources said that he died around 2.30am. He is survived by wife Shanthamani and two daughters. Thangavel, who dropped out of school after Class VIII, started his life as a banian unit worker to support his family and went on to join Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) to fight for workers. He eventually led several struggles, championing the cause of the textile workers. The most notable among the protests was the one in 1978 for loom workers in Tirupur and the 127-day marathon protest for hiking the wage of banian workers in 1984. “The 127-day-long protest that he led is still revered as a very important protest for the labour rights in the state,” said DMK president M K Stalin in his condolence message. Recalling that Thangavel was born in a poor family, who rose to become a trade union leader and then an MLA, Stalin said that during 2011-16, Thangavel’s voice always rung in the assembly for the welfare of people. “He was the pinnacle of honesty and embodiment of simplicity,” said MDMK leader Vaiko. “I am deeply saddened by his death.” While unscrupulous elements in the textile industry dreaded Thangavel, many on the side of the garment unit owners came to respect him for his integrity and determination. He was elected district secretary of composite Coimbatore district in 1986, turning out to be among the youngest to hold the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/comrade-thangavel-no-more/articleshow/78095487.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD EO Anil Kumar Singhal: CAG audit for transparency||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal on Sunday said that the decision to get its finances and properties audited by Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) will bring in transparency and help instill confidence among devotees. Singhal said that TTD was often dragged into controversies by vested interests. ‘’Now with CAG auditing TTD’s finances and properties will help us put an end to such unnecessary criticism,” said Singhal. He said TTD had rolled out online Kalyanotsavam tickets so that the Grihastas can avail darshan within 90 days of the booking. Kalyanotsavam kankanams are being sent to the devotees through the postal department. The EO appealed to Udayasthamana seva and Vimsathi Varsha Darshini ticket holders to avail VIP break darshan at the temple till normalcy is restored. Meanwhile, TTD’s dial your EO programme has come in for praise. TTD’s additional EO AV Dharma Reddy has played a key role in the launch of programmes such as as Veda Parayanam, Sundarakanda Parayanam and Bhagavat Gita Parayanam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-eo-singhal-cag-audit-for-transparency/articleshow/78094115.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC orders action against officer for denying info under RTI||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered the state information commissioner to initiate proceedings under the Right to Information (RTI) Act against the mamlatdar of Bhachau in Kutch for his conflicting stands in not furnishing information to an octogenarian. In this case, Sureshchara Dholakiya, 87, wanted information from the revenue department in Bhachau taluka for the purpose of placing it before the court in an ongoing litigation. In April 2018, he applied for the information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act . The mamlatdar, who is the public information officer, refused him the details claiming that it pertained to a third party and cannot be parted because it is privileged information under Section 8(1)(d) of Right to Information (RTI) Act . Dholakiya’s first appeal in the same department did not yield any result, and he approached the state information commission, which in August 2019 directed the officer to furnish the information in 20 days.  The commission observed that information was refused on a flimsy ground and severely criticized the conduct of the information officer. The mamlatdar, even after the commission’s order, refused information to the senior citizen. This time, he replied that the details were not available as the documents were lost during the time of the 2001 earthquake. Dholakiya moved the HC complaining that the officer had not obeyed the information commission’s order. The HC took notice of the officer’s conflicting stands before the commission and after its order. Justice A Y Kogje on Thursday observed that the denial of information stating it pertained to a third party leads to assumption that the information was available with the office, but later the official claimed that the records were not found. “Therefore, the same cannot be accepted by this Court. Therefore, there is no hesitation in holding in aforesaid situation that the respondent authorities, more particularly, the Public Information Officer and Mamlatdar, Bhachau, has acted in a callous manner as a result of which the petitioner had been deprived from the right of Right to Information,” the court said and ordered for action against the officer under Section 20 of the Right to Information (RTI) Act||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-action-against-officer-for-denying-info-under-rti/articleshow/78095494.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: HC grants conditional bail to key accused||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has granted conditional bail to the key accused in the counterfeit currency racket, paving way for his release after 11 months being behind bars. While granting bail, justice VK Jadhav observed: “If printer and photocopy has been used to make the currency notes, the same would not attract the definition of counterfeiting as defined under section 28 of the IPC.” On October 31, 2019, Pundaliknagar police got information from their sources following which three suspects were arrested and counterfeit currency notes of Rs 100 denomination were seized from them along with a printer. Samran alias Lucky Rashid Shaikh (27), a resident of Nehru Nagar, was dubbed as the kingpin of the racket. Representing the key suspect, lawyer Govind Sharma contested that police have claimed that the seized notes were manipulated by using a computer, but the seizure panchanama does not have any computer. Taking cognizance of the arguments, the court observed: “Though I find that printer came to be seized from the possession of the applicant. However, prima facie, in the given set of allegations I hardly find that section 489-A is attracted, which speaks that whoever counterfeits, or knowingly performs any part of the process of counterfeiting, any currency note or bank-note is liable for punishment under the provisions of section 489-A of the Indian Penal Code.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-grants-conditional-bail-to-key-accused/articleshow/78093721.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Four cops suspended for negligence||Vadodara: Four cops of Vadodara rural police were suspended for their negligence in registering an offence of molestation. The sub-inspector P J Kharsan, assistant sub-inspector Purvisha, police station officer Galabhai and constable Raju were suspended by the superintendent of police Dr Sudhir Desai as they conducted just a preliminary investigation based on a complaint received. Kharsan was a senior sub-inspector heading Vadodara Taluka police station but was transferred to traffic branch last week. A seven-year-old girl living in Laxmipura was allegedly molested on August 29 and her mother had given a complaint. Instead of registering an FIR immediately, the cops undertook a primary probe. Recently when Desai learnt about it, he ordered an inquiry and suspended the four cops for negligence on duty. The offence was finally registered on September 10 and the accused Bhavesh Parmar was arrested. Parmar had taken the girl to his home by luring her of playing game on his mobile phone and allegedly molested her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-cops-suspended-for-negligence/articleshow/78094053.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Won’t spare those behind Gurazala violence: MLA||Guntur: Expressing shock over the clashes between party workers in Gurazala, local legislator Kasu Mahesh Reddy said the accused were arrested within 24 hours. Reddy said there was no place for violence in his constituency and troublemakers would not be spared. A YSRC youth activist, Neelakantha Babu (20) who was seriously injured in the clash between two groups of YSRC two days ago, died in Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur, in the late hours of Saturday while undergoing treatment. Reddy visited GGH on Sunday and consoled the family members. He handed over Rs 2.5 lakh ex-gratia to the kin of the victim. Mahesh Reddy said that it was unfortunate that the two groups had resorted to the clashes while negotiating to resolve a small dispute among them. He said both groups are from Vaddera community, a weaker section of society. He said that they gave details to the police and requested them to take stringent action against all those involved in the violence. Mahesh said CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy is planning to handover the stone crusher mining to the Vaddera community society as they are involved in stone crushing activity for decades as part of their welfare. “We are trying to make Vadderas owners of quarries instead of keeping them as workers. TDP which looted their monies through illegal mining activity is shedding crocodile tears,” said the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/wont-spare-those-behind-gurazala-violence-mla/articleshow/78094086.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Drugs scandal: Legal eagles suggest cops don’t have watertight case||BENGALURU: Legal luminaries are of the opinion police may not have a watertight case against the accused in the drugs scandal that was allegedly busted recently. Those arrested include two Sandalwood actresses — Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani. While three lawyers ToI spoke with felt digital evidence police claim to have gathered is not enough to build a case, the fourth felt electronic evidence could not be ignored altogether. ‘Digital evidence insufficient to prove peddling’Senior advocate Hashmath Pasha, who specialises in NDPS cases, said digital evidence collected by Bengaluru police will not stand scrutiny in court. “In a drugs case, seizure and recovery of drugs is a paramount,” Pasha said. “But here, police are basing their case on past events, pictures and CCTV footage and videos, all of which are digital evidences. It is hard, if not impossible, for police to establish the fact that the accused had consumed or peddled drugs using this evidence.” He added: “Unless police show recovery of drugs from the accused, proving peddling or consumption is difficult. Blood and urine samples collected within 48 hours from the accused could prove consumption. If the suspects had consumed drugs a couple of months earlier, then it becomes difficult to prove even consumption.” ‘Like probing a murder case without finding a body’AS Ponnanna, senior advocate and former Additional Advocate General said any investigation without seizure of a banned substance in Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) cases is self-defeating and ultimately amounts to a “zero case”. “It is like investigating a murder case where the body has not been found,” he said. As for the digital evidence, Ponnanna felt it is only for public consumption and those watching TV. “I have not seen the FIR. But this (electronic evidence) may not lead to anything if there is no recovery of any banned/ prohibited drug,” he said. ‘Must legalise marijuana to break mafia-terror nexus’Advocate BC Thiruvengadam, who is well versed in international conventions / laws, also felt mere electronic evidence is insufficient for police to sustain the case. He said even in electronic evidence, only SMS messages can be retrieved as WhatsApp is an encrypted service. He also said as long as prohibition remains the drugs menace will persist and become a source for mafia and terror. Citing the example of the US where certain states have legalised marijuana, he said a similar strategy needs to be adopted to break the nexus of drug runners, mafia and terror. As regards recovery of a substance, he said that unless sufficient quantity of material is shown as recovered, the accused cannot be kept in custody for long. ‘Electronic evidence cannot be wished away’Taking a different line, senior advocate Sandesh J Chouta said electronic evidence collected by police cannot be wished away. Chouta said provisions of NDPS encompass all aspects of the drug menace, including transportation. Citing an example, he said if a person’s involvement in routing of the drugs is established through electronic evidence, he or she can be convicted. “Recovery of banned material from an accused is not the only criterion to determine guilt. If it is shown that s/he is involved, it attracts section 120-B of IPC (criminal conspiracy) and that is enough,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drugs-scandal-legal-eagles-say-cops-dont-have-watertight-case/articleshow/78094512.cms||P Vasanth Kumar
September 14, 2020||Amaravati||Experts warn Andhra Pradesh farmers over urea||AMARAVATI: Agriculture scientists and officials are worried about the excessive use of fertilisers by farmers in the state as it is likely to induce pests and crop damages. The farmers are on an overdrive in using fertilisers as massive stocks were consumed within three months of the commencement of Kharif operations in the state. Although a favourable monsoon with continuous rains and reservoirs reaching full capacity has helped farmers go for cultivation to the fullest extent, unusual quantities of fertilizer use is creating ripples among agriculture experts. The farmers have already used nearly 15 lakh metric tonnes of fertilisers against the total season’s demand of 17 lakh MT. “There is no shortage of fertilisers including urea in the state. However, it is not a wise move to use high quantities of stocks as it might boomerang on the production,” said agriculture commissioner H Arun Kumar. He said that farmers should follow the recommendations of the agriculture officials and scientists in usage of fertilisers and desist from high quantities of spraying. He added that excessive use of fertilisers would in fact attract new pests and damage the crop. The state government had readied stocks of fertilisers including urea, DAP, MOP, SSP and other complex chemicals in tune with requirement for the season. The state government had also anticipated that demand for fertilisers might go up from the previous year and readied plans for procurement from the Centre as well as private firms. The government had directed the agriculture department to be ready to avoid the last-minute rush for the stocks keeping in view of the previous year’s experience. “The state has received 511.8 mm rainfall against the normal of 44 mm till the first week of September. This is nearly 15 percent excessive rainfall which has put the farmers on over drive,” said a senior official. Sowing operations were completed in about 32 lakh hectors of agriculture crops and plantations completed in about 17 lakh hectors of horticulture crops which is considered to be very high in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/farmers-risk-crop-damage-by-excess-fertiliser-use-experts/articleshow/78094014.cms||Samdani MN
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||36 sovereigns gold recovered from 3 chain snatchers||Coimbatore: Three people were arrested on Saturday in a case related to a series of chain snatching incidents. The accused were identified as R Sharan, 21, J Suresh, 29, both from Vagarayampalayam near Sulur and K Nithish Kumar, 20, from Peelamedu Pudur. Suresh and Sharan are electricians while Nithish Kumar has a diploma in mechanical engineering. Police seized 36 sovereigns of gold ornaments and two motorcycles from them. Two days ago, Sharan was caught redhanded by passersby while attempting to snatch a gold chain from a woman at Kovilpalayam. He was handed over to police. During interrogation, he admitted that he and two of his aides were involved in a few chain snatching cases in the district. The trio confessed that they were involved in the recent chain snatching incidents at Vadavalli, Annur and Kovilpalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/36-sovereigns-gold-recovered-from-3-chain-snatchers/articleshow/78095485.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Utilize Ayush doctors, PG students for treating Covid patients: High Court||NAGPUR: With a view to tide over the crisis of shortage of medicos, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court directed the government and civic body to utilize the services of Ayush doctors and postgraduate students in super speciality. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala stated that Ayush doctors and PG students would work under the guidance and instructions from senior doctors through various communication systems pointed out earlier. Indian Medical Association (IMA) president Dr Archana Kothari and director of Orange City Hospital and Research Centre, Dr Anup Marar, who is also convener of Hospitals’ Association (Vidarbha), had joined the hearing on a suo motu PIL based on a TOI report dated August 24 regarding shortage of beds. They were assisting the court on their own for tackling problems pertaining to shortage of beds. Both pointed out difficulties faced by the doctors who are 65 years of age and above or are suffering from co-morbidities to take responsibility of providing treatment by personally attending to the patients in various hospitals or dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs). “We find that there is a classification of patients in different categories — broadly, it’s in three categories of mild, moderate and severe. These are further classified as asymptomatic positive patient, symptomatic patient without comorbidity, symptomatic patient with comorbidity, symptomatic patient with pneumonia without hypoxia, symptomatic patient with pneumonia with hypoxia, and symptomatic patient with pneumonia with hypoxia with sepsis/shock/organ failure,” the judges said. Quoting Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean’s affidavit, the HC stated that there is a set treatment which is provided to different categories of Covid-19 patients with variations to be made by the consulting doctors keeping in view the specific issue related to patients. “For doctors of 65 years and onwards with co-morbidities, it may be possible, keeping in view the experience which they possessed in the profession, to provide guidance in respect of investigation and treatment to be administered to a particular patient through various means of communication like personal contact on cell phone, sending of reports through WhatsApp looking at the patient’s condition through video call and also conducting conference,” the judges said. They pointed out that they’ve seen and experienced that doctors, who are infected with Covid-19, are managing and administering patients in hospitals while they are in home isolation. It does not seem to be a difficult task to manage the patient by the doctors, they said. “We’re are assured by Dr Kothari and Dr Marar that within a day they will provide a list of private doctors in different age groups, who can provide their services, either by personally attending the patients or through various communication systems. Such list shall contain addresses and contact numbers of doctors. NMC commissioner Radhakrishnan B submits that presently, if this arrangement is made, the problem can be tackled. We’re assured by collector to make paramedical staff available in the concerned hospitals and DCHCs,” the judges said. The bench pointed out that main issue which requires its attention is of making the ventilators and oxygenated beds available to the patients of moderate and severe conditions reduce death rate. “We, therefore, thought that without going into legal niceties, an immediate arrangement can be worked out to reduce death rate,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/utilize-ayush-docs-pg-students-for-treating-covid-patients-hc/articleshow/78095488.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers jittery over plan to build 19 bridges over Kundu||NANDYAL: Farmers in the Kundu river region in Kurnool district are worried over modernisation of canals and construction of new projects. The government had recently cleared the decks for construction of Joladarasi and Rajoli reservoirs and modernisation of Kundu river and Nippulavaagu to tap flood waters from Srisailam project. Although the proposed reservoirs and modernisation of the river is likely to bring additional water into utilisation, local farmers worry the government might give priority to take water to downstream projects — Somasila and Kandaleru — in Nellore district as they could save more water. Somasila and Kandaleru projects together could save around 145 tmc of water. “We are not opposing giving water to farmers of Somasila and Kandaleru regions. But the government should give priority to protect the rights of the Kundu ayacut,” said Kamani Venugopala Reddy, convener, Kundu River Ayucut Agitation Committee. He said the government should convert all new proposed bridges on the river into minor barrages to save more water in the region. “The government should plan check dams at every 3km along the Kundu to preserve more water and save crops in the drought-hit region,” Reddy said. The Kundu flows through nearly six assembly constituencies and is the only source of water for over 100 villages. Farmers on about 1.5 lakh acres are dependent on the water from the Kundu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-jittery-over-plan-to-build-19-bridges-over-kundu/articleshow/78094051.cms||Samdani MN
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: VMC looks to finish SWD works at rapid pace over coming days||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is focusing its efforts on completing the long-pending storm-water drain (SWD) projects in the city. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the contract agency L&T has been carrying on with work on major drains in the city. “Around 65% of SWD works have been completed. Culvert works at Guntatippa drain along Ballemvari street are in progress. Similarly, works are ongoing at eight other locations in the city. A few workers fell sick with Covid-19 and it affected the pace of works. Land acquisition for reconstruction of Pulleru drain is in process and work at Gunadala area will start soon. We hope SWD works will gain full pace over the coming days,” VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said. The SWD project is one of the major projects sanctioned for the city by the Union government. The project, which started in 2017, had failed to gain momentum due to a lack of coordination between government departments. Major portions of the work remained incomplete as authorities of the Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL) had failed to relocate electric poles and transformers. In 2019, the contract agency stalled works due to a sand shortage and a lack of funds from the government. The civic body ironed out the issues after a series of consultations with the agency and released the requisite funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-looks-to-finish-swd-works-at-rapid-pace-over-coming-days/articleshow/78094140.cms||Venu Lanka
September 14, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 5 lakh, active cases only 47,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 case tally crossed five lakh on Sunday though active cases were only around 47,012, of which 10,393 were in Chennai. With 5,693 fresh cases, the state’s total stood at 5,02,759. The cumulative toll is now 8,381 with 74 more deaths. Chennai reported 994 cases and 17 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (300), Chengalpet (299), and Kancheepuram (189) together reported 788 cases and 16 deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 1,48,584 cases – 29.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. Officials said they were prepared for the increase in cases as the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and that they were focussing on restricting the fatality rate. The western region saw more than 1,000 positive cases on Sunday with Coimbatore accounting for 490 followed by Salem (309) and Tirupur (291). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases (3,495) in the state, after Chennai. Salem recorded 10 deaths, the most after Chennai. The central region of the state, comprising Trichy, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded 750 fresh cases taking its tally to 40,932 on Sunday. The region also recorded 6 deaths. The southern region saw 640 fresh cases on Sunday, which is the lowest number reported in a single day since June 30. The overall total Covid-19 cases in the region on has crossed the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 1,00,982 cases. There are 6,398 active cases and a total of 1,746 deaths, including the six on Sunday. The most number of cases in the south on Sunday were in Tirunelveli (126), which currently also has the most number of active cases in the southern region with 1,072. During the past month, both Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have been consistently reporting 100 new Covid-19 cases or more every day whereas cases are showing decline now in many of the other districts. For the fifth day in a row, with 78 cases on Sunday, Madurai district reported less than 100 fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-covid-tally-crosses-5l-active-cases-only-47k/articleshow/78101130.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||Speeding car hits and injures two persons in Hadapsar||Pune: Two persons, including an autorickshaw driver, sustained injuries after a speeding car hit them on Hadapsar-Saswad Road around 7.30pm on Sunday. The Hadapsar police detained car driver Ravindra Khese (35) of Hadapsar. “We have sent him for a medical test to check whether he was driving under the influence of alcohol,” an officer from the Hadapsar police said. The officer said the autorickshaw driver Nandkumar Kapale (32) sustained injuries on his legs while pedestrian Krishna Saman (21) sustained injuries on his back. “They were taken to hospital before our team reached the spot,” the officer said. Khese was driving towards Hadapsar in his car. “He lost control over the wheel and dashed the autorickshaw, a pedestrian and a car,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speeding-car-hits-and-injures-two-persons-in-hadapsar/articleshow/78095523.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||Restaurant worker robs owner’s house in Pune||PUNE: A worker from a restaurant in Nigdi attacked the owner’s wife and children in the early hours of Saturday and fled with a safe comprising gold ornaments and a wrist watch, collectively worth Rs2.2 lakh. The owner had provided the worker everything from food to shelter, ever since the lockdown started. The incident occurred in Yamunanagar around 5.30am. The suspect, who is from Nepal, executed the robbery with his two accomplices, when the owner had gone to his native place. Before fleeing, the trio tied the two women and three children in the house with a rope and also locked the flat from outside. The owner’s wife, who suffered minor injuries while resisting the suspect, has lodged an FIR with the Nigdi police. Sub-inspector of the Nigdi police SS Ohol said, “We have launched a search for the trio. We are working on some clues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurant-worker-robs-owners-house/articleshow/78095508.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Long travel times, lack of facilities hamper NEET aspirants||HYDERABAD: It is six hours in the examination hall and at least six hours of travel for candidates, who travelled from districts to various centres in the city to appear for the NEET examination, which prevented few candidates from giving their best in the examination. Quite a few students said that they reached exam centres by 10am and added that they had to wait by the roadside until the gates opened. “The least the officials could have done is make washrooms available for students,” said P Vamshi Priya, who started travelling at 3.30am from Adilabad to reach her exam centre in Hyderabad adding there are no facilities even for parents to wait for the exam duration. Priya’s father Ramachander said that it doesn’t make any sense to not have a waiting area citing social distancing norms. “It was crowded outside the centres as everyone was waiting on roads. Had the officials arranged for waiting area, everyone would have waited at designated spots and our children could have access to washrooms before the start of the examination,” said Ramachander. Another candidate K Pavani, who travelled from Mahabubnagar for the exam, said that it was very congested outside the centre. “Even if one person had Covid-19, everyone standing outside the centre would have contracted the virus. What’s the point of following all norms inside the gate when it is chaotic outside,” questioned Pavani. Even lecturers working in corporate colleges in the city said that their students, especially girls, complained about lack of washrooms among other facilities. “Many of my students travelled from districts to Hyderabad for exams. They were happy with SOPs followed inside the centre, but complained about washrooms,” said Ashok Kumar, chemistry lecturer, Narayana Group of Institutions. While few candidates said that they were made to leave sanitisers and pens behind, many were happy with arrangements made inside the exam centre. In the wake of Covid-19, only 12 students were made to write the exam instead of 14. They were allowed inside the centre in a staggered manner from 11am to 1.30pm. The students who reached after 1.30pm were not allowed to appear for the exam in most of the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/long-travel-times-lack-of-facilities-hamper-neet-aspirants/articleshow/78095536.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore rural SP tests +ve as district logs 490 new cases||Coimbatore: After a lull in Covid-19 cases for more than a week, Sunday proved to be a shocker for health authorities as well as residents after 490 people tested positive, pushing the district case tally to 22,156. Even as fresh Covid cases shot up, a senior official in the district tested positive. Coimbatore rural SP Ara Arularasu gave his samples for testing after developing mild symptoms on Saturday and the results turned out to be Covid positive on Sunday. He has opted for home isolation even as samples have been collected from his family members and other staff at his office for testing. Fresh Covid cases which touched about 600 ten days back had gradually dipped and were hovering below 400 on September 11. “People’s cooperation is very important in this battle againt Covid-19. Anyone having even mild symptoms should get themselves tested and isolate if we have to control the spread,’’ said collector K Rajamani. On the administration’s part, health authorities in the city as well as the district are taking all efforts, he said. “On an average, 8,000 samples are being tested in Coimbatore everyday, out of which more than 6,000 is from the city limits,’’ he said. Deaths due to Covid appeared to be under control as only four deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the net toll in the district to 353. There was a dip in the number of active cases too, with 554 people discharged on a single day leaving the number of people under treatment to 3,495. Neighbouring Tirupur too recorded a whopping 291 new cases, touching a total of 4,748 cases. Tirupur had showed signs of receding numbers in the last week but on Sunday recorded a sharp rise, which officials attribute to opening up of public places and transportation. There was a similar trend across the region with Salem registering a rise, albeit a marginal one compared to the past few days. The district had 309 fresh cases on Sunday while the numbers remained less than 300 for the past few days. “We are conducting 136 special camps everyday in Salem city to bring down the cases,’’ said Salem corporation commissioner R Sadheesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-rural-sp-tests-ve-as-district-logs-490-new-cases/articleshow/78095522.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Click here to know the latest trends among online fraudsters||Ludhiana: Covid-19 has become an opportunity for the cyber fraudsters to dupe people. In the present scenario, when people are staying home and are more dependent on the social media and social networking sites, it is creating more room for the fraudsters to target people. Despite the spurt in online frauds, cyber cell of Ludhiana police is doing nothing to bring awareness among people about these frauds. According to cyber experts, the majority of the fraud these days being reported are related to customer care service providers, followed by online links sharing offers to lure people and donation or help in the name of Covid-19. The fraudsters have adopted another new trend of duping money in the name of offering online courses. Recently, a city-based private school teacher has lost Rs 25,000 to an online fraudster on the pretext of an online educational course. The 28-year-old teacher from Civil Lines said, “During lockdown, I received a message about an online education course for teachers. I was free so I thought of opting for the course. The fee for the online course was approximately Rs 8,000. When I made the payment for the course, through an online link shared by the fraudster, three transactions were made from my account. When I realised Rs 25,000 had been transferred from my account, I immediately informed the bank.” “Then I also lodged a complaint with the police which was forwarded to the cyber cell of Ludhiana police. After a few days I got my money back. One thing I have realised is that one cannot make a difference between a genuine offer and a fraudulent one so we should be really careful while clicking on any link or making online payment,” she added. Another prevalent trend among fraudsters is the fake customer care providers. In this, the accused upload their numbers on the internet as customer care providers for different companies. When the victim calls them for any refund or service, they dupe them of their money. A similar case was reported in the city on August 5 when the resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony, Harbans Singh, 41, lost Rs 1.66 lakh to such fraudsters. Salem Tabri police have also registered a case in this matter against the unidentified accused. Harbans had gone to an ATM kiosk in Aman Nagar of Salem Tabri area to withdraw Rs 10,000. That time he managed to withdraw the cash. A few days later he again had gone to the same ATM kiosk for withdrawing Rs 10,000, he did not get the cash, but got an SMS alert on his mobile of successful withdrawal. He called the customer care number that he got on the internet. Minutes later, he received a call. The caller claimed to be from the bank and said he is transferring back the Rs 10,000 to his account. He asked for the OTP sent on Harbans mobile. Seconds later, Rs 1.66 Lakh was withdrawn from Harbans account. The caller disconnected the call and switched off the mobile. Similarly, Pradeep Gupta of GTB Nagar and Ravinder Kumar of Kidwai Nagar have also lost Rs 49,000 and Rs 72,000 respectively in this customer care service scam. Both victims had got the numbers from the internet. Besides, the TOI has already reported of cases in which city residents are receiving Rs 25 lakh lottery offers by Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) and also the messages asking monetary help being sent by the fraudsters by creating fake Facebook accounts. Unfortunately, cyber cell of Ludhiana police is doing nothing to make people aware of such frauds and the ways to escape from them. Cyber security expert, Rakshit Tandon said, “During the lockdown, when people were indoors the online frauds have increased tremendously. People have become more dependent on online shopping, online payments of bills and thus customer care service too to clarify things.” Tandon said, “Awareness about these frauds is the only way to escape. People have to remember a few basic rules to escape from any kind of online fraud. Do not click on any random link offering money or anything, make payment through secure e-wallets and search for customer care numbers on the authentic website of the company.” According to Tandon, fraudsters use different tricks to get emails and mobile numbers. “When we visit different websites, they ask to access the mobile numbers and location on your phone or laptop, and we easily give them access. Similarly, there have been cases of data breach in the banks and big companies. Through that too, the data gets leaked. Awareness is most important to stay safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/click-here-to-know-the-latest-trends-among-online-fraudsters/articleshow/78096263.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Arts & science colleges gear up to conduct online exams||COIMBATORE: After the Bharathiar University (BU) announced that as per the direction of the higher education department, theory exams for final semester students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be held online from September 21 to 30, arts and science colleges affiliated to the university are gearing up to conduct the exams. A mock test will be conducted on Wednesday to prepare students for the online exams. Autonomous colleges have the liberty of holding the exams as per their schedule, but within September 30. B L Shivakumar, principal of Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science, an autonomous college, said they have decided to hold the exams from September 16 to 30. “We have already conducted model exams online, so students are familiar with it. We plan to conduct exams for 400 students per day. There will be one invigilator for 16 students, who will be connected through Google Classroom. This will prevent malpractices,” he said. “After the exams, students have to scan and convert their scripts into a PDF file, with their register number on all pages, and send it to the college.” The Coimbatore Government Arts College, another autonomous college, will hold the exams for both UG and PG final semester students from September 19 to 30, said principal K Chitra. “Many of our students are from remote areas who have no access to internet. We will send them question papers on WhatsApp and they can send back the answer sheets in PDF format to staff members. The scripts will be included in a CD and evaluated,” she said. “Every 15 students will have an invigilator. Invigilators, HoDs, department faculty, faculty from the computer science department and programmers will be present at the college’s computer lab, from where invigilation will be done.” According to BU, exams will be held from 10am to 1pm. They will be descriptive. Students should write on A4 white papers on one side. Candidates should log into the portal half-an-hour before the exam begins. Question papers can be downloaded at 9.45am. Students staying in remote areas can write the online exam at the college if they want to, Bharathiar University vice-chancellor P Kaliraj said. “But they should follow the Covid-19 standard operating procedures. In case a student can’t undertake the exam, we will conduct a supplementary exam by October-end,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/arts-science-colleges-gear-up-to-conduct-online-exams/articleshow/78097362.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore Marathon goes virtual this year||Coimbatore: The eighth edition of ‘Coimbatore Marathon’ to be held in December this year would be a virtual event, organisers said. The proceeds of the marathon, to be held from December 1 to December 31 this year, go towards the Coimbatore Cancer Foundation. The event’s theme this year is ‘Run Smart’, a release said. As it is a virtual event not constrained to a specific date and time, participants can choose their date, start time, route, distance and run or walk from wherever they are, and complete their race any time during the month of December, the release said. “Another advantage of the virtual run is that we are not constrained in terms of the route, timings and so on, so we have introduced four new event categories — a 3km run/walk, a 10 miler (16.1 km), a 20 miler (32.2 km) and a full marathon (42.2km) in addition to the usual 5km run/walk, 10km and half marathon (21.1km) events,” said Ramesh Ponnuswami, race director, Coimbatore Marathon, in the release. Organisers said they would ask participants to register as usual, and during the marathon log in to a health app which would keep track of their activity, the data from which would be verified later. Those interested can register at www.coimbatoremarathon.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-marathon-goes-virtual-this-year/articleshow/78095521.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 5 lakh, active cases only 47,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 case tally crossed five lakh on Sunday though active cases were only around 47,012, of which 10,393 were in Chennai. With 5,693 fresh cases, the state’s total stood at 5,02,759. The cumulative toll is now 8,381 with 74 more deaths. Chennai reported 994 cases and 17 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (300), Chengalpet (299), and Kancheepuram (189) together reported 788 cases and 16 deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 1,48,584 cases – 29.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. Officials said they were prepared for the increase in cases as the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and that they were focussing on restricting the fatality rate. The western region saw more than 1,000 positive cases on Sunday with Coimbatore accounting for 490 followed by Salem (309) and Tirupur (291). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases (3,495) in the state, after Chennai. Salem recorded 10 deaths, the most after Chennai. The central region of the state, comprising Trichy, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded 750 fresh cases taking its tally to 40,932 on Sunday. The region also recorded 6 deaths. The southern region saw 640 fresh cases on Sunday, which is the lowest number reported in a single day since June 30. The overall total Covid-19 cases in the region on has crossed the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 1,00,982 cases. There are 6,398 active cases and a total of 1,746 deaths, including the six on Sunday. The most number of cases in the south on Sunday were in Tirunelveli (126), which currently also has the most number of active cases in the southern region with 1,072. During the past month, both Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have been consistently reporting 100 new Covid-19 cases or more every day whereas cases are showing decline now in many of the other districts. For the fifth day in a row, with 78 cases on Sunday, Madurai district reported less than 100 fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-covid-tally-crosses-5l-active-cases-only-47k/articleshow/78101128.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 5 lakh, active cases only 47,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 case tally crossed five lakh on Sunday though active cases were only around 47,012, of which 10,393 were in Chennai. With 5,693 fresh cases, the state’s total stood at 5,02,759. The cumulative toll is now 8,381 with 74 more deaths. Chennai reported 994 cases and 17 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (300), Chengalpet (299), and Kancheepuram (189) together reported 788 cases and 16 deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 1,48,584 cases – 29.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. Officials said they were prepared for the increase in cases as the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and that they were focussing on restricting the fatality rate. The western region saw more than 1,000 positive cases on Sunday with Coimbatore accounting for 490 followed by Salem (309) and Tirupur (291). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases (3,495) in the state, after Chennai. Salem recorded 10 deaths, the most after Chennai. The central region of the state, comprising Trichy, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded 750 fresh cases taking its tally to 40,932 on Sunday. The region also recorded 6 deaths. The southern region saw 640 fresh cases on Sunday, which is the lowest number reported in a single day since June 30. The overall total Covid-19 cases in the region on has crossed the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 1,00,982 cases. There are 6,398 active cases and a total of 1,746 deaths, including the six on Sunday. The most number of cases in the south on Sunday were in Tirunelveli (126), which currently also has the most number of active cases in the southern region with 1,072. During the past month, both Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have been consistently reporting 100 new Covid-19 cases or more every day whereas cases are showing decline now in many of the other districts. For the fifth day in a row, with 78 cases on Sunday, Madurai district reported less than 100 fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-covid-tally-crosses-5l-active-cases-only-47k/articleshow/78095517.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 5 lakh, active cases only 47,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 case tally crossed five lakh on Sunday though active cases were only around 47,012, of which 10,393 were in Chennai. With 5,693 fresh cases, the state’s total stood at 5,02,759. The cumulative toll is now 8,381 with 74 more deaths. Chennai reported 994 cases and 17 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (300), Chengalpet (299), and Kancheepuram (189) together reported 788 cases and 16 deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 1,48,584 cases – 29.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. Officials said they were prepared for the increase in cases as the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and that they were focussing on restricting the fatality rate. The western region saw more than 1,000 positive cases on Sunday with Coimbatore accounting for 490 followed by Salem (309) and Tirupur (291). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases (3,495) in the state, after Chennai. Salem recorded 10 deaths, the most after Chennai. The central region of the state, comprising Trichy, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded 750 fresh cases taking its tally to 40,932 on Sunday. The region also recorded 6 deaths. The southern region saw 640 fresh cases on Sunday, which is the lowest number reported in a single day since June 30. The overall total Covid-19 cases in the region on has crossed the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 1,00,982 cases. There are 6,398 active cases and a total of 1,746 deaths, including the six on Sunday. The most number of cases in the south on Sunday were in Tirunelveli (126), which currently also has the most number of active cases in the southern region with 1,072. During the past month, both Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have been consistently reporting 100 new Covid-19 cases or more every day whereas cases are showing decline now in many of the other districts. For the fifth day in a row, with 78 cases on Sunday, Madurai district reported less than 100 fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-covid-tally-crosses-5l-active-cases-only-47k/articleshow/78101125.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 5 lakh, active cases only 47,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 case tally crossed five lakh on Sunday though active cases were only around 47,012, of which 10,393 were in Chennai. With 5,693 fresh cases, the state’s total stood at 5,02,759. The cumulative toll is now 8,381 with 74 more deaths. Chennai reported 994 cases and 17 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (300), Chengalpet (299), and Kancheepuram (189) together reported 788 cases and 16 deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 1,48,584 cases – 29.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. Officials said they were prepared for the increase in cases as the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and that they were focussing on restricting the fatality rate. The western region saw more than 1,000 positive cases on Sunday with Coimbatore accounting for 490 followed by Salem (309) and Tirupur (291). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases (3,495) in the state, after Chennai. Salem recorded 10 deaths, the most after Chennai. The central region of the state, comprising Trichy, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded 750 fresh cases taking its tally to 40,932 on Sunday. The region also recorded 6 deaths. The southern region saw 640 fresh cases on Sunday, which is the lowest number reported in a single day since June 30. The overall total Covid-19 cases in the region on has crossed the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 1,00,982 cases. There are 6,398 active cases and a total of 1,746 deaths, including the six on Sunday. The most number of cases in the south on Sunday were in Tirunelveli (126), which currently also has the most number of active cases in the southern region with 1,072. During the past month, both Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have been consistently reporting 100 new Covid-19 cases or more every day whereas cases are showing decline now in many of the other districts. For the fifth day in a row, with 78 cases on Sunday, Madurai district reported less than 100 fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-covid-tally-crosses-5l-active-cases-only-47k/articleshow/78101129.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu Covid tally crosses 5 lakh, active cases only 47,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 case tally crossed five lakh on Sunday though active cases were only around 47,012, of which 10,393 were in Chennai. With 5,693 fresh cases, the state’s total stood at 5,02,759. The cumulative toll is now 8,381 with 74 more deaths. Chennai reported 994 cases and 17 deaths, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (300), Chengalpet (299), and Kancheepuram (189) together reported 788 cases and 16 deaths. As on date, the capital city has recorded 1,48,584 cases – 29.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. Officials said they were prepared for the increase in cases as the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and that they were focussing on restricting the fatality rate. The western region saw more than 1,000 positive cases on Sunday with Coimbatore accounting for 490 followed by Salem (309) and Tirupur (291). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases (3,495) in the state, after Chennai. Salem recorded 10 deaths, the most after Chennai. The central region of the state, comprising Trichy, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recorded 750 fresh cases taking its tally to 40,932 on Sunday. The region also recorded 6 deaths. The southern region saw 640 fresh cases on Sunday, which is the lowest number reported in a single day since June 30. The overall total Covid-19 cases in the region on has crossed the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 1,00,982 cases. There are 6,398 active cases and a total of 1,746 deaths, including the six on Sunday. The most number of cases in the south on Sunday were in Tirunelveli (126), which currently also has the most number of active cases in the southern region with 1,072. During the past month, both Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari have been consistently reporting 100 new Covid-19 cases or more every day whereas cases are showing decline now in many of the other districts. For the fifth day in a row, with 78 cases on Sunday, Madurai district reported less than 100 fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-covid-tally-crosses-5l-active-cases-only-47k/articleshow/78101127.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana rises to sixth spot among states in active cases, ninth in overall infections||HYDERABAD: While Telangana stands at the ninth place across the country in terms of overall caseload, the state has risen to the sixth position in having the most number of active cases. The state currently has 31,607 active cases, out of the total 1,57,096 infections. Among the top 10 states with the most number of cases, Delhi, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal currently have less number of active infections than Telangana. Maharashtra tops the list of having most number of active cases as well as in the overall caseload. Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is on the third spot in the country with 95,072 of active cases. Experts have said that the need of the hour in Telangana is to have better treatment facilities. “More number of active cases means there will be more symptomatic cases needing hospitalisation. Better treatment does not mean just increasing the number of beds, but a number of other things as well,” said professor Sarang Dev, the executive director of Max Health Care Institute, Indian School of Business. He added that the active cases may not be a direct worry but sure needs attention. Dr Madala Kiran, assistant professor with the Government General Hospital in Nizmabad and possessing certification of biomedical research of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said that it is important to control further spread as the recovery statistics have been good so far. “More testing led to detection of more cases. More share of asymptomatic cases is also good sign,” he pointed out. Health minister Eatala Rajender has been maintaining that the situation of Covid- 19 in the state is under control and recovery rate has been good, positivity rate is has come down||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-rises-to-6th-spot-among-states-in-active-cases-9th-in-overall-infections/articleshow/78095558.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli collector tests Covid +ve, starts work from home||NAGPUR: Gadchiroli collector Dipak Singla tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday, but has decided to continue to work from home instead of going on leave. The 34-year-old IAS officer of 2012 batch, despite having fever and weakness, continued work even on Sunday saying the warlike situation warrants his participation and not absence. With only a handful of senior officials, who can play decisive role in the Covid situation, at hand, Singla, a chartered accountant before joining the civil services, decided to turn his home isolation facility into a makeshift office. The tribal district is gradually witnessing spike in the number of Covid cases. As on date, the district has seen over 1,500 cases of which 298 are under treatment and three deaths. Singla said he chaired a meeting on Sunday through videoconferencing to discuss modalities to start home isolation system in the district, reviewed the progress of RT-PCR testing facilities and also fine-tuned a few steps to start a video series for social media campaign regarding Covid awareness to sensitize the masses. “Using a laptop, Internet, iPad etc at home, I can conduct virtual meetings to review day-to-day situation,” he said. Singla said he has instructed to deliver any important documents that require his signatures to be sent to his bungalow wrapped in protective material. “I had travelled to my native place in Haryana to meet family members and probably contracted the disease due to the outstation movement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-collector-tests-covid-ve-starts-wfh/articleshow/78095553.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Random sampling for Covid-19 test keeps visitors away: City mkt vendors||Ludhiana:The vendors and arhityas of the main vegetable market of the city are facing huge financial losses as locals are not buying vegetables procured by them from farmers. One of the main deterrents is the random sampling initiated by the health department to restrict the spread of Covid-19 virus — vendors said people are suspicious of testing ever since the organ harvesting of Covid-19 patients started to make the rounds in social media. The members of local vendors committee and arhityas association have raised the issue with the district market committee. Gagandeep Singh, a vendor at the city market, said, “Days after local health department started conducting random sampling inside the main vegetable market, there’s a huge fall in the number of visitors here.” He further said, “It has become a tough task to sell vegetables and our stock is getting rotten. If it continues, we will have to shut our stalls.” Gurkamal Singh, a member of New Sabzi Mandi Arhtiyas Association Ludhiana, said “We are not against the initiative of district health department officials to conduct random sampling inside the market premises, but it is affecting our livelihoods – our daily earning is slashed by 40% to 50%. We are now forced to take up the matter before the authorities concerned.” Vindod Sharma, general secretary of the district market committee, said, “We are looking into the matter and discussing with higher authorities of state marking committee to decide on further course of action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/random-sampling-for-covid-19-test-keeps-visitors-away-city-mkt-vendors/articleshow/78096268.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Pune||Staffers responsible for breakdowns to be fined: PMPML||Pune: The persons responsible for bus breakdowns will be fined Rs500 to Rs5,000 from Monday, said senior officials of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML). A total of 205 buses have broken down from September 3 to 9, the first week since PMPML resumed operations in Pune and the Pimpri Chinchwad. Rajendra Jagtap, the chairman and managing director of PMPML, said the breakdowns occurred at a time when the PMPML was running just 25% of its fleet, and it was not acceptable. “In the pre-Covid times, the PMPML would witness anything between 35% to 40% breakdowns per day. During that time, the total number of buses on the roads would be between 1,300 to 1,500. With close of 470 buses running at present, the breakdowns, under all circumstances, has to be less than 10%. For the entire week since we resumed services, breakdowns have been a concern. We have studied the facts and ample time has been given to the concerned officials to improve. From Monday, things will be different and if there is a bus breakdown, a thorough investigation will follow to identify the person or persons responsible for the same. And once the persons are identified, they would be fined,” Jagtap said. Another official said the drivers have been told to test a vehicle before driving it. “They should look for any signs of technical problems in the buses. Being drivers for years now, all of them have a fair idea about things and to check to be sure. The depot managers have been told to ensure all buses in their depots are maintained by the mechanics and only the vehicles that are perfect should be allowed to run. Last week, the joint managing director of the transport body toured all the 13 depots and again instructed the same to the officials. If a bus breaks down from Monday, the investigation will take into account all the above factors so that responsibility can be fixed. Once it is done, based on the seriousness of the breakdown and the fact that whether it could have been easily avoided, the fine amount will be fixed,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/staffers-responsible-for-breakdowns-to-be-fined-pmpml/articleshow/78095560.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops arrest 2 for stealing 4 LPG cylinders||Ludhiana: Division number 8 police have arrested two thieves on Saturday. According to the police, the accused are addicts and were in need of money to buy drugs. One of them was working as a labourer before lockdown, but has since been unemployed. The accused are identified as Saurav Kumar, 20, of Chandan Nagar and Prem Verma, 27, of Pritam Nagar. The police have recovered a stolen scooter and four stolen LPG cylinders from their possession. Sub-inspector (SI) Rajinder Singh, in-charge of police post at Kailash Nagar, said both the accused are friends and drug addicts, who indulge in petty crimes to meet their drugs needs. The SI added that on September 10, Manoj Kumar of New Krishna Nagar, Hambran Road lodged a complaint with police that he is a worker of LPG cylinder supplying agency. On September 10, when he was supplying cylinders in Upkar Nagar in Civil Lines, some unidentified miscreants stole four cylinders from the vehicle. He said the police traced the accused and nabbed them. The police have also recovered the scooter used by the accused in the crime. The police are further checking if the accused have a previous criminal record. A case has been registered against them under sections of 379 (theft), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-arrest-2-for-stealing-4-lpg-cylinders/articleshow/78096266.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Aurangabad||2 police inspectors suspended in Osmanabad||Aurangabad: Two inspectors from Osmanabad police, who are on medical leave since November 2019, have been suspended after a preliminary probe found that some medical records and certificates submitted by them were never issued by the hospitals where they are undergoing treatment.Based on the proposal submitted by Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan, Aurangabad range’s in-charge special inspector general of police Nisar Tamboli has suspended the police officers. “During preliminary probe, the medicos, whose medical certificates were submitted, have given their written statements revealing that some of the records were not issued by them,” a police officer said.When contacted, Roushan said, “The preliminary inquiry has revealed that there is serious inconsistency in the medical records and certificates submitted by inspectors SR Thombre and Suresh Chate to substantiate their medical leave and records produced by the doctors. The documents submitted by the inspectors are contradictory to the records available with their hospitals.”The officer added that Thombre citing complete bed rest remained on sick leave. “However, it was found that he had gone to participate in Mumbai Marathon in February this year,” he said.According to the probe, Thombre has been staying in Aurangabad and getting treatment in Jalna, while Chate is staying in Latur and getting treatment in Beed district. “The fact that they were travelling to smaller towns for obtaining treatment caught our attention and the preliminary inquiry revealed that some of the submitted medical records were never issued by the said hospitals and doctors,” an officer privy to the probe said. It also came to the fore that one of the hospitals was found to be closed on the date that has been mentioned on one of the medical certificates submitted by an inspector.Inspector Thombre headed Tuljapur police station, while Chate headed Umarga police station. On November 1, 2019, Thombre was transferred to cyber police station, while Chate to police control room. “Series of defaults against the duo prompted us to transfer them. Thombre had put a minor kid behind bars, while Chate would often come to police station only in the evening hours,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-police-inspectors-suspended-in-osmanabad/articleshow/78093774.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 14, 2020||Pune||3 detained for damaging vehicles||Pune: The Sinhagad Road police on Sunday detained three youths on the charge of vandalising 14 vehicles and damaging a clinic in Vadgaon-Budruk. Police said the trio, armed with rods and sharp weapons, reached the vegetable market around 1am on Sunday in Vadgaon-Budruk on a scooter and started damaging vehicles parked along the roadside. “The trio created a ruckus to terrorise the residents in the area. They damaged 14 vehicles, including cars and two-wheelers. They also damaged one clinic in the area,” inspector Sunil Takawale of the Sinhagad Road police told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-detained-for-damaging-vehicles/articleshow/78095555.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||No surprises as NEET sticks to syllabus||HYDERABAD: There were no surprises for candidates who took the NEET on Sunday as they said the paper was easy since the National Testing Agency (NTA) stuck to the NCERT syllabus. Students and experts said the difficulty level of all sections — botany, zoology, physics and chemistry — was low and added that many students might score 700 out of 720. As many as 55,800 students registered for NEET-UG 2020 from Telangana and as per the NTA, about 85%-90% of them said to have appeared for the test on Sunday. “I was very comfortable with the question paper. I am sure I would score more than 700,” said V Chetan Reddy, who took the test at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Gachibowli. Another candidate D Tejaswi, who took the test at Malla Reddy Engineering College, Secunderabad said: “Botany, zoology, and chemistry were very easy. In physics, I found about three or four ambiguous questions, but overall, I am happy and confident.” Lecturers and experts agreed that the highest mark this year could be around 710. “Merit students will have little disadvantage this year as the paper was a little easier even when compared with last year’s paper,” said Sri Lakshmi A, core dean, Narayana College, Madhapur. K Venkat Rao, a physics lecturer from Sri Chaitanya Group , said even minimal preparation would have sufficed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-surprises-as-neet-sticks-to-syllabus/articleshow/78095559.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 14, 2020||Mysuru||Aged couple murdered in Karnataka's Shivamogga||SHIVAMOGGA: An aged couple were murdered in Byakod village in Sagar taluk of Shivamogga district on Saturday evening, which shocked the people of Malnad. Sundar Shet ,88, and his wife Sulochana Shet ,79, were brutally killed by crushing their faces. Byakod is a hamlet in Sharavathi valley in Sagar taluk, which comes under Kargal police station. The couple are survived by three children. Two of their sons are goldsmiths, and they have a daughter who is married and is staying in Kundapura. The couple owned a 1 acre size areca plantation in Byakod village. They had been staying for many years in an old house. They had no neighbours living nearby. They were probably murdered on Friday night, said villagers. Shivamogga SP K M Shantharaju said that one of the neighbours visited the house on Saturday evening and found the couple to have been murderd, after which he informed the villagers.The family members lodged the complaint. “It was a horrific incident and I have formed a special investigating team to solve this crime,” said Shantharaju. The family members informed the media that some gold ornaments were missing, including the mangal sutra of Sulochana Shet. Villagers suspect that the couple were robbed and murdered, but police are not sharing any more details about missing valuables. Sagar taluk rural police station circle inspector Sunil Kumar, who stayed at the village the whole night on Saturday, was admitted to a private hospital in Shivamogga after developing chest pain. He suffered a mild heart attack and is doing fine, said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/aged-couple-murdered-in-shivamogga/articleshow/78094575.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 recovery rate up as Telangana reports 2,000 new cases, 11 deaths||HYDERABAD: The recovery rate in Telangana has improved to 79.2%, surpassing the national average of 77.84% for the third consecutive day, even as authorities reported 2,216 new infections and 11 deaths. While the toll climbed to 961, the overall Covid-19 recoveries in the state now stand at 1,24,528 as 2,603 more patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Saturday. While 31,607 patients are undergoing treatment, the state has so far seen 1,57,096 Covid-19 cases. Among the districts, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded the highest numbers with 341 new cases, followed by 210 cases in Ranga Reddy, 126 cases in Nalgonda and 148 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri. The remaining 29 districts recorded new cases as well. Meanwhile, the authorities have once again reiterated that those suffering from flu or influenza like symptoms must report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required services. “People with symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, running nose, difficulty in breathing, body pains and headache should report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay. Also, people with co-morbid conditions are requested to stay indoors and avoid any kind of travel except for medical care in order to avoid exposure to Covid-19,” an official release said. On the other hand,the director of medical health also stated that the number of patients succumbing to the virus when compared to the total number of infected patients, dipped slightly going down below one percent. Altogether, 56,217 samples were tested across the state, taking the total number of samples tested to 21,34,912. The number of samples tested per million population stood at 57,504 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-recovery-rate-up-as-t-reports-2k-new-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/78095570.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Osmania University, JNTU final semester exams from September 16||HYDERABAD: After a delay of five months, Osmania University (OU) and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) are all set to conduct final semester examinations in offline mode for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses from September 16 across Telangana. An estimated 2.50 lakh final year students of degree courses (BA, BSc, BCom) and professional courses such as engineering, management, hotel management and pharmacy will be appearing for these examinations at over 300 centres across Telangana. Considering the present condition, the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) has granted permission to students to appear for the examination at their parent college. “We are conducting the examination in a staggered manner. BE students of few branches will appear for examination from 10am to 12pm and others will appear from 3pm to 5pm. Only one student will be allowed to sit on one seat and social distancing will be maintained as per University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines,” said Prof Sriram Venkatesh, controller of examination, OU. While no separate rooms are available for students having symptoms of Covid-19 in exam centres, OU is offering another chance to appear for final semester examination in October. “ The examination will be conducted as a one-time measure due to this pandemic,” said professor Venkatesh. JNTUH is also undertaking similar measures for final year students. “The pattern of examination shall be answer five out of eight question. There shall be no compulsory section with short answer questions. There shall be no credit based detentions for the academic year 2020-21,” read guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-jntu-final-semester-exams-from-sept-16/articleshow/78095567.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Driver killed, cops suspect role of in-laws||HYDERABAD: A car driver was murdered allegedly on the way to his in-law’s house at Kanchanbagh on Sunday. The couple reportedly had marital disputes. Around 5.30 pm, Munawar Qadri, 27, a cab driver and a resident of Baba Nagar, was on the way to his in-law’s residence in the same locality. He was stabbed to death by unknown persons in the by-lanes which leads to his in-law’s residence, Kanchanbagh police said. Munawar’s hands were tied when he was found murdered. “He got married to Simran Qureshi five years ago. In the recent times, Munawar and his wife were at loggerheads and she moved to her parents’ house. We are suspecting the role of the victim’s in-law’s role in the murder and investigation is on,” Kanchabagh inspector Venkat Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-killed-cops-suspect-role-of-in-laws/articleshow/78095573.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||15 minors rescued from Karmabhoomi Express test -ve||Ludhiana: Following the directions of State Child Welfare Committee (SCWC), members of Childline and Bachpan Bachao Andolan had tested 15 minor children rescued by railway security forces from Ludhiana railway station for Covid-19. The results came back as negative on Sunday. The railway police had also tested the 12 accused who were arrested for trafficking the 15 minor children from three major railway stations in Bihar. The reports are being awaited. After getting negative reports, Childline members have begun the process of uniting the children with their family. They will be produced before the SCWC on Monday. Kulwinder Singh, in charge of Childline (Ludhiana railway station), said, “Its a relief that these children have tested negative, the investigation team were in close conatct with the children when they were being rescued.” According to Singh, higher authorities have given instructions to Childline to keep a strict watch on long-route passenger trains coming from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh during night hours. It is being suspected by the officials that poor financial conditions is forcing several families in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to send their children to Ludhiana to work in factories and industries. Tarun Kumar, director of Ludhiana railway station, said, “Post this case, where 15 minors were rescued from Karmabhoomi Express, we have given directions to railway protection force and government railway police to increase their strength in the night patrolling party to ensure the safety of minor children travelling from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/15-minors-rescued-from-karmabhoomi-express-test-ve/articleshow/78096272.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 14, 2020||Trichy||Disgruntled AIADMK men create ruckus||Trichy: A tense situation prevailed for a while at AIADMK’s youth brigade meeting held in Srirangam on Sunday after a section of cadres marched towards senior leaders including a minister on the dais over a disagreement in appointment of functionaries. Plastic chairs were tossed in the air by the disgruntled cadres. AIADMK sources said the state-level meeting was presided over by Trichy suburban-north AIADMK district secretary M Paranjothi and also attended by backward class welfare minister S Valarmathi and state youth brigade secretary and Vedasanthur MLA, V P B Paramsivam. Around 10.30 am, a group of cadres said to be supporters of Trichy AIADMK’s fishermen wing secretary Kannadasan entered the hall. They marched towards the dais and accused the party leadership of not awarding district-level party posts to deserving people. Sources said Kannadasan had expected him to be appointed as union secretary which did not materialize. As the meeting was halted, a section of cadres tried to stop them from proceeding to the stage where the minister was also sitting. Chairs placed in the meeting hall were thrown towards the dais by the upset cadres. As Srirangam police were alerted, they were made to leave the hall. Thereafter, the meeting progressed in the presence of police. A complaint was lodged by AIADMK Srirangam area secretary Diamond Tirupathi at Srirangam police station and further inquiry is under way. AIADMK cadres said that no one was injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/disgruntled-aiadmk-men-create-ruckus/articleshow/78096274.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Five held, ganja worth Rs 1.5cr seized||Hyderabad: Five persons were arrested and 600kg of ganja, worth Rs 1.5 crore, was seized from a Dhaba in Sangareddy on Sunday morning. The accused were identified as Afsar Shaik from Maharashtra, Banavath Jaipal from Sangareddy, Machender Digambar Pawar from Osmanabad, Shinde Satish Manik Rao and Amir Ajij Shaik from Maharashtra. Acting on reliable information, officials, from the prohibition and excise department’s Medak division raided Sri Sai Parivaar Dhaba in Zaheerabad, Sangareddy district, and found the dry ganja concealed inside a lorry. Rs 40,000 cash was also seized from their possession and the offenders were booked under the NDPS Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-held-ganja-worth-rs-1-5cr-seized/articleshow/78095605.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||84.33% appeared for NEET on Sunday, physics tougher say aspirants||Ludhiana: On Sunday, 2,164 students appeared for NEET in three district centres out of the 2,566 registered students, marking 84.33% attendance. Students reached the centre at 11am while the pen and paper exam kick started at 2pm and continued for three hours. Out of 960 students assigned for one of the centres, SGND Convent School, Andlu in Raikot, 798 students were present, marking 83.12% attendance. Amrit Indo Canadian Academy, Ladian Khurd in Bagga Khurd saw the highest attendance among all the centres, which is 86.06% — 556 were present and only 90 were absent out of the 646 students registered. Guru Nanak Model Senior Secondary School in Doraha had 960 students registered, but only 810 students appeared for the exam, marking 84.35% at the centre. Candidates were asked to follow NEET dress code and declare their health status on the NEET self declaration form. Students after the exam claimed that the physics portion was very difficult. Ravleen Pannu from DAV, who appeared for the second time, said, “Physics wasn’t as predictable as the other subjects but it wasn’t tough. All subjects were fine. Overall, the exam was moderate and easy. Biology and chemistry were mostly NCERT based. Last year’s exam was easier, I don’t think it was similar.” Regarding Covid-19 protocol, she said “No problems were faced at all. All the measures were followed diligently. Proper distancing was maintained and the volunteers were ready to help and guide everywhere. It was a great experience.” In the end, candidates were asked to hand over the OMR sheet and admit card to the invigilator and exit the exam hall in a phased manner. Candidates who qualify NEET 2020 exam, meeting the required cutoff, will be eligible to appear in counselling and admission processes further. Violation of social distancing outside centres Though inside exam halls, safety protocols were being followed to a T, outside there was nobody to check parents, who gathered to pick the students. They violated social distancing norms by milling about the entrance. Two quotes pending Elanchezhian Jayabalan Joint Police Commissioner said Paramjeet Kaur , City Coordinator for NEET and Principal of BCM Arya School said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/84-33-appeared-for-neet-on-sunday-physics-tougher-say-aspirants/articleshow/78096273.cms||Mehak Jain
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Woman, daughter drown in Narmada||Vadodara: Three persons of a family living in Bhimpura village in Dabhoi taluka were swept away in the gushing waters of Narmada river on Sunday. One of them was rescued by local boatmen. According to police, Sonal Vasava (30), her 14-year-old daughter Kiran and nine-year-old nephew Jatin had gone for a dip in the river at the ghats of Yamhas Tirth near Chandod on Sunday. As the river has swelled and is in spate due to monsoon, the trio was dragged away. While Jatin was saved by boatmen, Sonal and Kiran disappeared in water. Local sources said that boatmen and swimmers searched for the mother-daughter duo till evening, but they could not be found. The search will be resumed on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-daughter-drown-in-narmada/articleshow/78094066.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Some try readmission under RTE||Aurangabad: Several students, who are already studying in Class I in different schools in Aurangabad district, reportedly have applied for admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, for the academic year 2020-21 taking many stakeholders by surprise. Manish Hande, secretary of Maharashtra English Schools Trustees Association (MESTA), said such cases of “ineligible” beneficiaries must be eliminated from the admission process by the authorities. “If any student has already been enrolled in a school, it makes no sense to allow him or her to become part of the admission process through the RTE Act again by encroaching upon the rights of another deserving candidate,” he said. As many as 16,587 beneficiaries were in race for 5,082 seats reserved in 582 schools in Aurangabad district under the RTE Act for the academic year 2020-21. Aurangabad district had 2,603 confirmed admissions and 1,990 provisional admissions till Sunday evening as the stipulated deadline is scheduled to get over by Tuesday. When contacted, S P Jaiswal, education officer (primary) with Aurangabad zilla parishad, said the revised criteria of upper age-limit for beneficiaries of the RTE Act has created an issue of attempt for re-admission of their wards by the parents. “The upper age-limit of RTE beneficiary kid has been increased to seven years and two months and a section of parents tried to take benefit of this rule. On technical grounds, such admissions cannot be denied. Moreover, we have not yet received any formal objection to such attempt of re-admission,” he said. Vanita Kasabe, a parent, said multiple attempts of admissions under RTE Act may lead to injustice to deserving students from current and next academic year. “The admission process under RTE Act has many loopholes that need to be fixed. The government should have shown some foresight and made it clear that multiple attempts of admissions would not be entertained despite increased age limit,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-some-try-readmission-under-rte/articleshow/78093798.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode road under spotlight for tiger spotting||KOZHIKODE: After being in the news for frequent tiger spotting and even instances of motorists having run-ins with big cats, the Sulthan Bathery-Pulpally road, which is one of the most wildlife-rich corridors in the state bordering Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, will soon have special caution boards. Earlier, the forest department had installed cameras for monitoring tiger movements and behaviour on Sulthan Bathery-Pulpally road. This is even as the earlier attempt by the department to install speed-control barricades on the road could not take off following public protests. “We will be installing additional caution boards — one at Pokalamalam and the other one at Vattappadi — urging motorists to exercise caution. Though there won’t be any specific reference to tigers in the caution board as it would create panic, we will be putting an image of the tiger on the board,” T Sasikumaran, range forest officer, Chethalath range under South Wayanad forest division, said. He added that though the department had deployed camera traps to monitor tiger movement in the area two weeks back, it was damaged and he suspects poachers hand behind it. Officials said the caution boards are also intended to discourage motorists from stopping vehicles on the road with the intention of taking pictures of wildlife which could result in man-animal conflict. A video shot by bank manager Frederic Jose last week of a tiger staring majestically at motorists standing a few metres off the road near Pambra estate had gone viral. Conservationists, however, opined that such videos would do disservice to the conservation of the endangered species in its prime habitat. On Thursday, a tribal youth was injured when a tiger attacked him in the Kattikolly forest area near Vakery, Sulthan Bathery. Vipin, 21, a resident of Maramala Kattunayikka colony under the Chethalath range, had gone to the forest to collect firewood when he came under attack in the forest near Pambra. Officials said the tiger spared the youth when his kin who accompanied him made loud noise. Vipin who sustained injuries in his neck and back has been admitted to the Bathery Taluk hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/road-under-spotlight-for-tiger-spotting/articleshow/78094614.cms||K R Rajeev
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger reclaims territory after 11 years, kills rival||NAGPUR: A tiger, born in Umred-Paoni-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary and dispersed later, returned to the territory after 11 years and killed a two-year-old male. Carcass of the younger male was found late on Saturday evening. With the latest incident, 11 tigers have died in Maharashtra in last nine months since January 2020. This is the 72nd tiger death in the country. However, as per data compiled by NGO Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), 77 tiger deaths have been reported this year, including 56 mortalities and 21 body parts seizures. According to Ravikiran Govekar, chief conservator of forests (CCF) & field director of Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), “Regular movement of adult male T-22 from Bramhapuri has been recently captured in Kuhi area. T-22 is the same tiger which was born in Umred-Karhandla and was recorded in camera traps in 2009. T-22 may be around 13 years now.” Though 189 sqkm Umred-Karhandla was notified as sanctuary on June 29, 2012, the area had presence of tigers prior to that. There is recorded evidence of tigers making the sanctuary their home and those achieving adulthood being pushed out toward Bramhapuri and Tadoba landscape. After park’s dominant tiger Jai went missing in April 2018, there have been several dispersals in and out. Govekar said, “The tiger that died in the fight is one of the three sub-adult cubs of T-17. During post-mortem, we observed injuries on the body and other circumstantial evidences prima facie indicate the tiger died in territorial fight.” Female T-17 had left three cubs who are now exploring their own territory. Tiger T-22 must have ventured the territory in search of mate. The carcass of the tiger was found by forest staff in compartment number 365 in Wanoda beat of Kuhi forest range during routine patrolling. “Since it was getting dark, post-mortem was conducted on Sunday morning as per National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines,” said Govekar. The post-mortem was performed in the presence of veterinary doctors Chetan Patond and Sayyed Bilal, and NTCA and PCCF’s representatives Anil Dashhare and Roheet Karu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-reclaims-territory-after-11-years-kills-rival/articleshow/78095664.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Anger over ESZ notice has familiar ring to it||Kozhikode: The hilly regions of Kozhikode and Wayanad are witnessing a strong buildup of protests over the draft notification on eco-sensitive zones (ESZs) around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary, reminiscent of the frenzy whipped up in the region over the Gadgil report. Various political parties, farmer organizations as well as the church are in the forefront of the protests and three local bodies have already passed resolutions against the draft notification. Protest marches have been taken out to forest offices in Thamarassery and Peruvannamuzhi ranges and many are being planned in Wayanad which shares a boundary with the sanctuary. Environmentalists say the same vested interests that inflamed public sentiment against conservation during the protests against the Gadgil commission report in 2013 are behind the ongoing misinformation campaign regarding exaggerated restrictions which will come into force with ESZ. The draft, issued by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change on August 5, had notified an area of up to 1km around the border of the sanctuary as ESZ. The ESZ is spread over an area of 53.6sqkm. Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary is spread across 74.2sqkm spanning the Chakkittapara and Chembanoda villages of Koyilandy taluk in Kozhikode. Farmer organizations have said the notification would severely affect the lives of local people including the farm-based livelihoods of around 15,000 families. “The contention by the forest department that there are only 5,500 people residing within the ESZ limits is totally wrong. As per our preliminary estimates there are over 15,000 families, most of whom are farmers. The residents will have to face stringent restrictions including prior permission to cut trees and even farming of rubber, coffee and other crops will be hit. Even construction of small shops and laying of roads will be restricted,” said Chacko Kalamparambil, a member of the karshaka raksha samithi, a collective of ten farmer organisations formed to resist the ESZ with Thamarassery bishop as patron. Forest officials meanwhile said that the ESZ will not affect the livelihoods or development aspirations of the people and that the activities that will be curbed are mostly large-scale construction, quarrying, hazardous industries, etc. “Tempers of locals are being whipped up by spreading falsehoods, akin the anti-Gadgil committee report protests. Messages saying that people will have to switch off lights in their homes after 7pm or that use of petrol and diesel vehicles will be banned in the area along with night-time traffic are going around on social media,” said an official of Peruvannamuzhi forest range. Some of the messages have even exhorted violence against forest department staff, the official said, adding that a police complaint will be filed on Monday in this regard. Officials said that in many locations most of the areas under ESZ are either vested forests or reserve forests on the fringes of the wildlife sanctuary and that only around 900 hectares of land with human habitation will come under the ESZ. Environmental organizations said that the same vested interests who sparked off even violent protests against the Gadgil report were trying to use the ESZ notification to mobilize people with upcoming elections in mind with the backing of the quarry, mining and tourism mafia. "The state government has reduced the ESZ around wildlife sanctuaries from 10km to 1km. Farmers in ecologically fragile areas will only benefit from the notification. There won’t be any restriction on farming or cutting of trees or construction of roads, as claimed," said N Badusha, president of Wayanad prakrithi samrakshana samithi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/anger-over-esz-notice-has-familiar-ring-to-it/articleshow/78094642.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Minor hiccups as physical exams kick off at DU, finally||New Delhi: Many students who came for Delhi University’s physical examinations on Monday didn’t carry their own answersheets, which has been made mandatory due to Covid-19, and had to make last-minute arrangements. Deepak Kumar, who came from Azadpur to Deshbhandu College for his first-year business organisation paper, said, “I got to know only a few days ago that former students can clear their pending papers,” said Kumar, whose friend helped him get answer sheets. Rajeev, from Chhatarpur, reached Shaheed Bhagat Singh College just five minutes before the scheduled time as he and his father were looking for white sheets for over 20 minutes. “We left home early but the search for answer sheets left us worried,” said the School of Open Learning (SOL) student, who had missed papers during the first online phase of open-book examinations due to internet problem at home. Most students who opted for the physical version were from SOL, who have either had back papers to clear or missed a few exams during phase I. Some students had issues with internet connectivity. At the centres, teachers and guards, wearing gloves, masks and face shields, checked students’ temperature before allowing them one by one. “Students are made to wear masks all the time, carry their own papers and other essential items. We are also using sanitisers, both at the main and the classroom entrances,” said Sudhir Sinha, prinicipal of Shaheed Bhagat Singh College. Faridabad resident Pawan, who came to Sheikh Sarai, said he also worked at a shop and had missed the August 10 test as he couldn’t check the mail on time. Similarly, Adarsh Tripathi had missed his English exam. “Thankfully this exam was conducted or I would have lost a year.” A teachers’ group, Academics for Action and Development, claimed 13% of the SOL students couldn’t take online exams compared 4% of general candidates. Among disabled candidates, the count was 23.5-24%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minor-hiccups-as-physical-exams-kick-off-at-du-finally/articleshow/78114775.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven held for killing man over financial dispute in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Seven people have been arrested for allegedly killing a car driver in Rajendranagar due to a financial dispute. Cyberabad police on Saturday arrested Syed Irfan, Mohd Attaullah, Mohd Ziauddin, Mohd Waseem, Mir Ashraf Ali, Kishan Rao and Shaik Khaled. The deceased, Mohammed Jaweed, and a friend had invested Rs 5 lakh in Irfan’s chit fund business. After facing losses, Irfan failed to return their money. When Jaweed would visit Irfan to get the money, he would dodge paying back. Later, Irfan paid Rs 3 lakh and said he would pay the remaining amount soon. However, he failed to do so. Jawed would frequently visit Irfan and abuse him verbally. Ten days prior to the murder, the duo had an argument. Fed up, Irfan decided to eliminate him. He, along with his associates, purchased two hunting sickles and a knife. On September 8, Jawed asked Irfan to meet him at Praja Kalyan mandapam at Shivarampally. Initially, he showed Jaweed copies of some property documents, promising to settle the balance but soon the duo had a heated argument. Irfan then attacked the victim on his neck with a hunting sickle and later his associates stabbed him to death. Police arrested the gang from Shivrampally on Saturday and booked them for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-held-for-killing-man-over-financial-dispute/articleshow/78095644.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Apex body of bank unions seeks safety of employees||Aurangabad: The United Forum of Bank Unions, an umbrella organisation representing nine associations of bank employees, has asked the state home department to issue an advisory to the police to deal with the incidents of assaults on bank employees. In a memorandum submitted to the government, the forum claimed that it had come across incidents of attack on bank employees in Nashik and Malkapur in Buldhana. Devidas Tuljapurkar, the convener of the forum, said: “We plead with the government to take a serious note of such incidents and advise the police to take immediate action against the attackers. It will be difficult for the employees to render uninterrupted services if such incidents go unchecked.” He pointed out the workforce is already under pressure due to the pandemic. “As many welfare schemes are executed through banks, the footfall at most branches is high, exposing the staffers to the Covid-19 risk,” he added. Tuljapurkar said some so-called social and political workers also threaten, abuse and manhandle bank staff for sanctioning and disbursing loans, irrespective of merit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/apex-body-of-bank-unions-seeks-safety-of-employees/articleshow/78093813.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Tusker gored to death in infighting||Kozhikode: A wild tusker was gored to death by another male elephant following infighting at Kalikolly forest under Begur forest range in north Wayanad forest range late on Saturday night. Forest officials said that the 45-year-old male elephant had got into a fight with another tusker at around 10pm on Saturday. Forest watchers saw the carcass in the forest on Sunday morning. Chief forest veterinary officer Dr Arun Zachariah said that the elephant had sustained multiple gore wounds in the infighting. “The elephant had a gore wound in which the other elephant’s tusk had pierced the chest, heart and liver, which caused the death,” he said. Dr Zachariah said that infighting among tuskers was common and the site of the fight was near the spot where the elephant Maniyan which had shared a unique camaraderie with the people of the area and was found dead after being gored by another wild elephant in September last year. He said that camera traps have been activated to ascertain the identity of the other elephant involved in the fight. The postmortem of the carcass was conducted in the forest after which it was buried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tusker-gored-to-death-in-infighting/articleshow/78094655.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Miscreants damage 2 cars of CPI members||Hyderabad: Two unknown motorcycle borne persons damaged two cars belonging to members of Communist Party of India at Maqdoom Bhavan on Sunday evening. Central Zone police said that one of the two cars belong to CPI Secretary Chada Venkat Reddy. “Two motorists came near Maqdoom Bhavan at around 6.30 pm and approached the security guard under the pretext of seeking some address. Meanwhile, the pillion rider got down the bike, picked up a nearby stick and started smashing the wind shields of the cars. When the security guard tried to nab him, the attacker got on to the bike and sped away,” police said. Police officials reached the spot soon after and are trying to identify the bike registration number to trace the two miscreants with the help of closed circuit cameras. When the incident took place, none of the party cadre were present at their party office. The Commissioner’s Task Force teams also reached the spot and started efforts to track down the two persons. Police registered a case and investigation is being conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/miscreants-damage-2-cars-of-cpi-members/articleshow/78095673.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||100 NEET candidates reach old centre, ferried by officials 50km to new one||Nagpur: On Sunday afternoon almost a hundred NEET candidates landed up at their old exam centre, claiming they never received any intimation about change in centre. Outstation candidates, who reached Bharti Krishna Vidya Vihar (BKVV) in Telangkhedi, were shocked to learn that their new centre was over 50km away in Katol taluka. The responsibility of conducting the exam and informing students about changes lies with National Testing Agency (NTA). Almost 500 candidates had been shifted to Orchid Public School in Katol from BKVV. NTA had sent SMS and e-mail to all students whose centre had changed across the country. TOI also mentioned this change about Nagpur in its Saturday edition. Students without their own vehicles were in quandary over how to reach the new centre far away. Fortunately, BKVV and NTA officials arranged vehicles to ferry the candidates. BKVV pressed a school bus into service and NTA officials gave their hired cabs. Since NTA observers were also involved right from the start, all candidates were assured that they won’t miss their exam. Coordinator of Katol exam centre too was informed in advance about the arrival of candidates from BKVV for the test. Students mostly got ‘saved’ because of a habit of reaching early for big ticket exams. One parent, who witnessed the initial chaos, said, “It’s extremely common for candidates to arrive minimum two hours prior for such major exams. This buffer gives them ample time to cover up for any logistical problems that arise.” “Of course, credit to BKVV and NTA for going beyond the call of duty and arranging vehicles for these kids. One of them had come from Butibori and was initially crying after realizing the centre change,” said the parent. NTA will be conducting a separate exam for Covid-19 positive students. Many of them who had ticked a box in a self-declaration Covid-19 form, which had come along with admit card, were denied entry. NTA has not yet announced date of new exam. Over 85% candidates appeared for the exam across the country despite the pandemic. Rajnikant Bondre, owner of a coaching institute, said “The questions break up was 60% easy, 30% moderate and 10% hard. Regarding syllabus, 56% of the questions came from Std XII and remaining 44% from Std XI.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/100-neet-candidates-reach-old-centre-ferried-by-officials-50km-to-new-one/articleshow/78095681.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 14, 2020||Meerut||Missing for 2 weeks, body of Dalit girlwith throat slit recovered, youth held||Bijnor: A Dalit girl, who was missing for almost two weeks, was found murdered in a sugarcane field at Hardaspur village in Bijnor district. Her throat was slit with a razor.A man, identified as Salim, was arrested by police. He has reportedly confessed to the crime and claimed that he was once in a relationship with her. Heavy police force was deployed in the area after fears of the incident taking communal colour.The girl belonged to Khera Mohalla of Haldaur police station. She went missing on August 31 after leaving her house for a friend's function. Her family soon filed a missing complaint. They suspected that Salim may have kidnapped their daughter. The girl's father said, "My daughter went missing on August 31. I had filed a complaint and gave Salim's name to the cops. But, the police did nothing. Her body was recovered after 15 days." A case has been registered against Salim now.SP (city) Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, "Police are probing the matter and have arrested the accused. He has confessed to his crime and narrated the entire incident. He also said that he loved the girl and was in a relationship with her for four years. But, of late, she liked someone else which enraged him to take the extreme step."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-for-2-weeks-body-of-dalit-girlwith-throat-slit-recovered-youth-held/articleshow/78093837.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist reports 349 cases & 11 deaths||Aurangabad: The district reported 349 fresh Covid-19 patients, including 121 cases from the rural areas and 73 from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation limits, taking the total number of cases to 28,061. This indicates a rise in Covid cases in rural areas of the district. A total of 11 patients succumbed to the infection while undergoing treatment at different hospitals on Saturday. The deceased belonged to the age of 50 years to 80 years. The death toll has risen to 803. As many as 322 patients recovered from the contagion, taking the total number of patients cured to 21,532. Health authorities said testing was on at different places including rural areas. A senior health official said. “While the process of unlocking has begun on a larger scale now, the chances of the spread of Covid-19 have increased in rural areas too. The risk of contracting the disease can be minimized by wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-reports-349-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/78093841.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Two held for murder bid||tnnLudhiana: The police on Saturday night arrested two persons, who along with some others, tried to kill a man with an axe in Jodhan village of Ludhiana district.The arrested accused have been identified as Baba alias Baljinder Mohan and Dharminder Guddu, both from Chappar village. The other accused, who are on the run, include Baba’s son Abhishek Sharma and one Tirth, besides five to six unidentified persons.In his police complaint, victim Gurdeep Singh, 27, of Chappar said he, along with Mannu Anand of Ahmedgarh, had gone to a religious place to offer prayers on Friday. In the sewadar’s shed, the accused objected to the use of wood for lighting a fire and slapped Mannu and forced them to leave the place.Gurdeep said around 5.30pm, when he was returning home, Baba and Abishek on one motorcycle and Tirth and Guddu on another, along with five-six others on three motorcycles stopped him. Baba abused him and hit on his head with an axe, following which he fell on the road, he said. The others accompanying Baba also attacked him, but as he raised an alarm, they fled the spot. Later, villagers got him admitted to a hospital. Based on the complaint, the police have booked the accused under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous weapons or means), 294 (obscene acts and songs), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC. Dakha DSP Gurbans Singh Bains said Baba and Guddu were arrested from Chappar area and a manhunt has been launched for the remaining accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-held-for-murder-bid/articleshow/78094653.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||A tiff, 2 murders & an arrest a day later||New Delhi: A 22-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly stabbing to death a man who had attacked his friend in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar on Monday morning. The friend, who was stabbed multiple times, has also succumbed to his injuries. According to police, both deceased men had criminal records. While Rohit (27) was involved in robbery, extortion and attempt to murder cases, Ashish Pandey (24) faced a robbery case registered against him in 2019. Police received two PCR calls from Khyala in Raghubir Nagar at 12.56am and 12.57am reporting a quarrel near a JJ colony. Rohit’s mother made the first call about the attack on his son. The cops found that Rohit had an argument with Naveen, who apparently thrashed him. DCP (west) Deepak Purohit said Rohit, who was inebriated, started searching for Naveen but a neighbour managed to send him home. “Around 12.30am, Pandey, who was previously jailed in a robbery case, met Rohit along with his friends Sahil Singh (22) and Abhinav (21), and asked him about the incident. Rohit, however, asked them to leave, leading to another argument,” Purohit said. The trio left the spot initially but returned in some time. “They saw a knife in Rohit’s hand and asked him about the incident again. Following an argument, Rohit attacked Pandey and stabbed him. Sahil was also attacked when he tried to intervene and suffered a minor injury on his left leg,” the DCP said. At this point, Sahil also attacked Rohit with a knife. “As Rohit collapsed, bleeding profusely, Sahil and Abhinav fled,” Purohit added. Rohit and Pandey were declared dead on arrival at Guru Gobind Singh Hospital. A murder case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-tiff-2-murders-an-arrest-a-day-later/articleshow/78114885.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bhopal||Active cases above 20K in MP, enough beds for all, says govt||BHOPAL: The number of active patients in the state reached 20,487 on Sunday as 2,200 new people tested positive for Covid-19. Given the speed with which the number of active cases is increasing, it is estimated by the government that the tally of cases will cross 2.5 lakh by October end. With an eye on the 2.5 lakh figure, capacity is being augmented to tackle the situation when there will be a huge number of Ccovid-19 patients. Sources say that the speed at which the number of Covid-19 patients is increasing, it is likely to outnumber the available capacities, and go beyond the planned figures. However sources from the government claim that as on September 13, only 57% ICU beds were occupied and 45% beds with oxygen are occupied, but this vastly varies from area to area. In cities like Bhopal, more than 75% of ICU beds are occupied, and in Indore, it is above 80%. Then, there are a couple of districts where no ICU beds are occupied. So far, the increase in number of active cases have been less numerically. Like there were only 2,626 active cases on June 30. This increased to 8,668 active cases on July 31, and on August 31, there were 13,914 active cases. Now in September so far, there has been an increase of more than 7,000 in the number of active cases. When contacted over the issue, additional chief secretary, health, Mohammed Suleman said, “It is a very dynamic thing, the exact increase in cases cannot be predicted. So we do our planning on month-to-month basis, i.e., the capacity augmentation plans are revised on a monthly basis as per the situation.” Equally important would be the availability of oxygen in the state when the number of active cases increase. As of now, availability of oxygen in state is around 180 metric tonnes daily as against the consumption of around 110 metric tonnes. When there are around 20,000 active cases, the requirement will also increase, said sources. And it will pose a challenge as the number of active cases is increasing throughout the country and so is the scarcity of available medical oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/active-cases-above-20k-in-mp-enough-beds-for-all-says-govt/articleshow/78094678.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Invalid notes of Rs 16L face value seized||Vadodara: One person was detained for possessing demonetized currency notes of Rs 16 lakh in Dahod on Saturday. The local crime branch of Dahod police had received information about Mukesh Bariya and his friend Bharat possessing old notes which were demonetized in 2016. Cops laid a trap to nab the duo by contacting them to exchange the old notes for the new notes. “Since they were looking to change the notes, we told them that we will exchange the notes for a commission,” said a police official. The two men were told that they will be paid Rs 9 lakh for the demonetized notes. It was agreed to exchange the notes at Suthar Vasa village in Jhalod taluka on Saturday. When they reached the exchange spot, Bharat became suspicious and escaped from there, while Bariya was nabbed. He told the police that a contractor from their village gave these notes to them for exchanging. “We have detained the man and will register a non-cognizable case and inform a local court. Once the court approves, we will register an offence against the accused under the relevant law,” the police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/invalid-notes-of-rs-16l-face-value-seized/articleshow/78094105.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Unease of doing business: City industrialists train guns at PSIEC||TNNLudhiana: After chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh expressed concern over Punjab ranking 19th on ease of doing business index in India, businessmen have now started exposing the fault lines in the government’s industrial policy and departments. The latest department on the target of the businessmen is the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), which is the nodal agency for focal points and industrial areas in the state. According to city businessmen, PSIEC is harassing them by asking for enhancement charges again and again for the plots in Phase 8 Focal Point that were sold to them years ago. Besides, PSIEC is also refusing to issue clearance certificates to the plot-holders, so they are not able to avail loans against their properties. Gurmeet Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), says, “The recent ranking of ease of doing business has exposed the actual working of Punjab departments, which are roadblocks in the progress of the industry. PSIEC is one such department, as it backtracks from its commitments and is hell-bent on fleecing the businessmen to compensate for its own losses. PSIEC has complicated the matter of Phase 8 Focal Point and even after settling the enhancement fee at Rs 24 per square yard for plots allotted, it has now started issuing notices to us asking to pay Rs 474 per square yard. If we add up the cumulative cost of all charges, the rate per square yard will work out to be Rs 1,000, which means a businessman with a factory in 1,000 square yards will have to shell out Rs 10 lakh. Now in the present circumstances how will they arrange such an amount? We request the chief minister to take notice of this issue which has been brought to the knowledge of senior officials and top leaders time and again.” Rajeev Jain, a city businessman, says “Availing loans from banks and other financial institutions requires clearance certificates from PSIEC, which it refuses to issue on the plea that matter of enhancement charges is pending. Businessmen are unable to avail the benefits of the Invest Punjab policy. When departments will treat the industry and businessmen shoddily, how will Punjab march ahead in the ease of doing business rankings?”Gurpreet Gogi, chairman of PSIEC, says, “The matter of enhancement charges was brought to my knowledge earlier as well and I have sought a detailed report from the officers. It will be submitted within 15 days. I assure businessmen that no injustice will be done to them and the issue will be resolved at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unease-of-doing-business-city-industrialists-train-guns-at-psiec/articleshow/78094669.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Meerut||Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s ex-wife records statement with UP Police, reasserts her charges||MUZAFFARNAGAR: The estranged wife of Nawazuddin Siddiqui has recorded her statement at a police station in UP’s Muzaffarnagar and reasserted her charges, including that a family member was “molested” by the actor’s brother. She had filed the case in Mumbai, which was later transferred to Muzaffarnagar’s Budhana area where the alleged incident took place. The actor’s wife also repeated several other allegations she had leveled earlier. Nawazuddin, his four family members including his mother and brothers were booked at Versova police station in Mumbai on July 27 on the basis of a complaint filed by his wife. According to KP Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Budhana police station, “Statement under section 161 of CRPC has been taken by the investigation officer on Saturday. The complainant alleged that Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s brother molested a minor family member in 2012. Further investigation is on.” The complainant also alleged that she had apprised her in-laws’ about the molestation incident, but they told me to keep quiet. In his response, the actor’s brother Faizuddin Siddiqui has accused his former sister-in-law of “blackmailing”. He has demanded a fair investigation by Muzaffarnagar police. Nawazuddin is currently living with his family at his native place in Muzaffarnagar’s Budhana town. Watch Nawazuddin Siddiqui's estranged wife Aaliya records statement on her complaint with UP Police, reasserts her charges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nawazuddins-ex-wife-records-statement-with-up-police-reasserts-her-charges/articleshow/78093849.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 14, 2020||Trichy||Patronage soars for SETC services across Tamil Nadu||TRICHY: A week after the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) resumed long-distance bus services suspended during the lockdown, the patronage has surged across cities, leading to an increase in services, addition of special buses and resumption of trips to more destinations. While weekdays continue to handle normal footfall, special bus services are being operated to ensure social distancing and clear the rush of those heading to Chennai and Bengaluru from the districts. In Trichy, when services resumed on September 7 after five months, it operated only 13-15 buses connecting Chennai. The patronage subsequently increased by up to 40% and during the weekend, heavy demand saw services double to 30 a week. This was because a large number of families began travelling to visit relatives and attend family events in Chennai and vice-versa. Professionals and those heading to their workplaces kept the demand alive amid the Covid-19 spread. “On Sunday, we operated five special buses to Chennai, but the demand is not back to the pre-Covid-19 times,” a manager with SETC Trichy said. Ultra-deluxe (pushback seater) bus services were also operated to Hosur and Nagercoil from Trichy according to the demand. Limited operation of train services to Chennai and absence of private omnibus operators were cited as a key reasons for the surge in demand. In Madurai too, the demand for SETC service has increased in a week. From operating 30 buses on day one, SETC Madurai now operates 38. Officials said they have been operating buses on Rameswaram-Madurai-Salem and Rameswaram-Madurai-Chennai routes for the past two days. As 60% of the seat capacity cap to operate buses was filled quick, it is planned to run buses to Bengaluru from Monday. SETC Coimbatore initially operated 15 buses to Chennai, but now runs 30 to Chennai, Kanyakumari and Nagercoil from Coimbatore city. “The actual capacity of each bus is 43 passengers. But we are allowing only 26 to travel. In the last two days, all 30 buses were full,” an official said. In Chennai, patronage for SETC has been slowly increasing. The corporation has been operating 400 buses of which 300 were to various tier-two cities, but now the number is 500. There demand has been more to operate to the southern districts. There has been a corresponding marginal increase in revenue too, which officials say, helped the corporation pay for its fuel cost. Before Covid -19, the corporation used to operate 1,100 buses and net a revenue of around Rs 1.75 crore, but now only half of its fleet are operating and with lesser number of passengers, said the official. As of now, SETC is confining its operation to within the state. Karnataka government had requested it to resume services, but the authorities were awaiting clearance from the government in this regard, the official added. (With inputs from V Devanathan in Madurai, A Subburaj in Coimbatore & P Oppili in Chennai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/patronage-soars-for-setc-services-across-the-state/articleshow/78096297.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Recurrent floods driving villagers out of Kuttanad||ALAPPUZHA: Santhosh has lived in Kuttamangalam at Kainakary all his life, cherishing the village right in the heart of backwaters for its bewitching beauty and tranquillity. But after flood waters entered his home in 2018, he decided to leave. “I have a deep affection for this beautiful place. But it had become too difficult to stay. Two years ago, the whole region got flooded. The outer bunds of the paddy fields suffer a breach everytime it rains,” says Santhosh. So, he decided to relocate to Cherthala with his family. Though he had been mulling to move for some time, the floods of 2018 gave him the final push. “We bought a piece of land at Poojaveli and built a house. We shifted during the Onam days and now we are sleeping without the fear of water entering our home,” says Santhosh, an electrician by profession. Sixty-two-year old Sasiamma, a widow from Kainakary too have a similar story to share. She was also driven away from her village by the recurrent floods. She bought a plot of land in Muhamma with government’s funds and left Kuttanad before this monsoon. Kuttanad tahsildar T I Vijayasenan says several other families who can afford to buy land have started to migrate from Kuttanad to Cherthala, Alappuzha and Changanssery. “We don’t have accurate details or survey reports of such families. The government has started taking strong measures to prevent flooding in Kuttanad and it may stop people from leaving the region,” he says. Vijimon P B, a 48-year-old man from Kuttanad says he has bought land in Kalavoor in Alappuzha and started the construction of a new house. “It is not possible to lead a peaceful life in Kuttanad due to the continuous floods. The state government has chosen to turn a blind eye to the distress of people,” he says. Prasad Cherthala, a real estate businessman says that he has been receiving several inquiries from people from various parts of Kuttanad who are looking to relocate. “I have struck deals with at least six families from Kuttanad who have bought land in places like Kanjikuzhy, Mararikulam, Muhamma and Cherthala. Many are still calling,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/recurrent-floods-driving-villagers-out-of-kuttanad/articleshow/78094693.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||City cop feeds starving woman||Hyderabad: A woman constable of Moghalpura police station gave food to a starving woman who was with her three-month-old child. The unidentified woman was found with the baby on the streets in search of food. “A lady constable could not resist herself and brought them to the police station and fed them by her own hands,” said Anjani Kumar, CP Hyderabad, who tweeted the incident, appreciating the effort of the woman constable. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-cop-feeds-starving-woman/articleshow/78095685.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Gutka products worth Rs 1.3 lakh seized||HYDERABAD: Golconda police on Saturday arrested a 49-year-old businessman from Shaikpet for illegally storing banned tobacco products. The accused was identified as Abdul Nadeem. It was found that Nadeem had purchased the gutka and banned tobacco products from a person belonging to Bidar, Karnakata. Police seized Rs 1.3 lakh worth gutka products of various brands from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gutka-products-worth-rs-1-3l-seized/articleshow/78095735.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||6 more deaths take toll to 577; 415 test positive||TNNLudhiana: Six residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 415 tested positive on Sunday.According to the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 78-year-old woman of New Akash Nagar; a 48-year-old woman of Jagraon, who had chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease; a woman, 72, of Civil Lines with diabetes and hypertension; a 60-year-old woman of Jagraon; a 46-year-old woman of Machhiwara, who had diffuse cerebral edema; and a 77-year-old man of Ranjeet Singh Nagar, who had diabetes and hypertension.Besides, four outsiders succumbed to the virus and 37 tested positive here on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally has risen to 577 and that of outsiders to 155.He said to date, 1,94,581 suspects have been tested for Covid here.Of the positive patients, 120 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 34 positive cases’ contacts, 129 from OPD, eight health-care workers, two cops, four pregnant women, 114 through tracing process, one case of severe acute respiratory infection, one pre-operative case and two undertrials.Local health department officials said the district case count now stood at 13,860 and that of outsiders at 1,493.The civil surgeon said to date, 11,342 patients have recovered, which constitutes 81.83% of the total cases.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,938 active cases in the district at present and 4,608 people were home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-more-deaths-take-toll-to-577-415-test-positive/articleshow/78094717.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Trichy||Cancel nod for ONGC’s oil drilling: Ramadoss||Trichy: PMK founder S Ramadoss has urged the Centre to cancel the permission granted to ONGC limited to explore eight more new oil wells in delta districts. “The license granted to ONGC by the environment ministry, Government of India, to extract oil and gas in 8 places has already lapsed. It is condemnable and unfair that the union government has extended the permission to explore oil wells until 2023,” Dr Ramadoss said in a statement here on Sunday. An expert committee had granted ONGC permission to explore 24 oil wells in delta districts in 2013. Of them, ONGC has already established 16 wells. Though ONGC had kept the proposal for drilling eight wells idle for months, they had recently applied for license renewal. “Despite the state government announcing delta region as a protected agriculture zone, granting approval by extending license for three more years is condemnable,” Dr Ramadoss said. “The permission should be cancelled and the Tamil Nadu government should take the issue with the union government and pressurize to withdraw the license and do the needful to make ONGC wind up from the delta from its entire activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cancel-nod-for-ongcs-oil-drilling-ramadoss/articleshow/78096327.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kolhapur||86% villages in Kolhapur district affected by Covid||KOLHAPUR: Rapid spread of coronavirus in Kolhapur district has once again been underlined by the official data, according to which 86% of the villages are affected by Covid-19. Kolhapur district has the highest number of affected villages in Pune revenue division, except the Pune metro region. As per official data, Covid-19 patients were found in as many as 882 out of 1,025 villages in Kolhapur district. Sangli district, which is also experiencing serious outbreak, is next with 85% villages — 596 out of 699. Solapur district, which had witnessed massive surge in the number of positive cases, has 76% affected villages. The district has 1,029 villages and positive cases are detected in 782 villages. Satara, which is also reporting cases in large numbers, has 74 affected villages as Covid-19 patients have been found in 1,105 villages out of 1,500. “The figures indicate community spread of the virus something that was restricted to urban centers initially,” he said. While Kolhapur city continues to record a large number of patients, more than half of the patients from the district are from rural areas that indicates the spread in non-urban region. Out of the 33,890 cases on Saturday night in Kolhapur district, 17,561 are from rural areas. Urban centers like municipal corporations and councils have 16,329 cases in total, while 1,095 cases are from other states or districts. Rural parts of Kolhapur have also a higher number of deaths. Out of 1,028 deaths, 438 cases have been reported in tehsils. Municipal corporation has seen 264 deaths, while the nine municipal councils in the district have registered 275 deaths till Saturday night. Hatkanangale, which has the highest number of positive cases – 3908, has registered 137 deaths. Ichalkaranji municipal council had registered 196 deaths. Gaganabawda had seen one death so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/86-villages-in-kolhapur-district-affected-by-covid/articleshow/78093866.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Meerut||Man found dead in a car in Bijnor’s Bundki canal||Bijnor: A man was found dead in a car submerged in Bundki canal in Bijnor on Sunday morning. Police sent the body for postmortem and a probe was launched.The victim was identified as Ankit Gupta of Bundunagar Colony in Dhampur city. Passers-by spotted the immersing car into the canal and informed police. Sub-inspector Praveen Tewatia rushed to the scene and fished out the car. Police said the victim’s family was informed. In a separate incident, a 15-year-old boy, Mohammad Umar of Pathanpura under Najibabad area, feared drowned after he fell into Samipur canal while taking bath around 5.30pm on Sunday. Police and local divers launched a rescue operation but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-found-dead-in-a-car-in-bijnors-bundki-canal/articleshow/78093863.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur neglects janata curfew||Kolhapur: Even though mayor Nilofer Aajarekar had appealed to the citizens of Kolhapur to observe janata curfew in order to reduce the chances of contracting Covid-19, people continued with their everyday activities. Excluding a few vegetable markets and shops in areas, which were closed, majority of the activities took place on the third day of the janata curfew There were no signs of the curfew in many areas. Activities in busy market areas like Rajarampuri, Shahupuri and Mahadwar road were seen unaffected apart from few shops being closed. Vegetable market in Shahupuri, Laxmipuri, and Rajarampuri were closed but vendors were seen in all parts of the city. Shops, which were closed for the past two days, were also operating in the absence of any formal order by the administration. Autorickshaws, petrol pumps and other were functioning normally on Sunday.  Aajarekar and few organisations like the chamber of commerce had appealed to the citizens to observe janata curfew to contain the spread of coronavirus. However, shopkeepers, traders and others had different opinions. Administration did not issue any formal order because of which people carried out daily activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-neglects-janata-curfew/articleshow/78093872.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Liquor smuggler’ lets dogs out, ‘sets haul on fire’||EXCISE MEN RETURN EMPTY-HANDEDTimes News Network Ludhiana: A high drama was witnessed for almost three hours in Daba’s Basant Nagar on Saturday night, when an excise department team reached outside the house of a “liquor smuggler” following a tip-off. The “smuggler” locked himself in and unleashed his two pit bulls to keep the team out.Police said the excise department had received an input that the man was running an illegal liquor business from his house. An eye-witness said, “The team reached here around 7pm. When the man came to know about it, he locked himself in, turned off the lights of his house and released his pets — two pit bulls — to ensure nobody entered the premises after scaling the boundary wall.”The department team then called the police. “The team kept asking the accused to come out, but in vain. Minutes later, we saw flames on the house roof. Perhaps, the man set on fire the liquor kept in his house. The department team and the police kept standing outside his house till 10pm,” the eyewitness added.Daba police station SHO inspector Pavittar Singh said, “After the excise department officials apprised us of the situation, police personnel were sent to the spot. However, the team could not nab anyone and no recovery was made. Thereafter, the team left from there. No complaint has been lodged with the police in this matter. A police team went there on Sunday, too, but the man has locked his house and escaped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/liquor-smuggler-lets-dogs-out-sets-haul-on-fire/articleshow/78094738.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Naresh Jain admits to role in Rs 250cr scam: ED||New Delhi: High profile money laundering accused and hawala dealer Naresh Jain allegedly admitted before the Enforcement Directorate of his role in the Rs 250 crore pulses scam of 2007 in which senior members of the erstwhile Manmohan Singh government were under the scanner. Jain was sent to 14 days of judicial custody on Monday after the end of his week-long custodial interrogation at the ED headquarters in the national capital. A multi-agency probe was initiated by the UPA government against Jain in 2007 after the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence found alleged violation of a government directive banning export of pulses following an unprecedented price surge. During its probe in the pulses scam, the DRI had unearthed Jain’s vast business dealings in Dubai and his connections with entities belonging to fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim. The D-Company allegedly used Jain to route its income from illegal narcotics trade into Indian companies. The DRI also came across instances of alleged involvement of some politicians and ministers in aiding Jain and some rice traders to illegally export pulses. The probe was then shifted to the CBI. Jain, interestingly, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in 2009 on a tip-off from US intelligence agencies about his connections with Dawood, wanted in India for the 1993 serial blasts in Mumbai. He was extensively questioned by the ED but, mysteriously, escaped action and had been evading agencies since then despite Interpol red corner notices from two countries, the UAE and Italy, pending against him. A probe is also being undertaken to establish Jain’s connections with Delhi Police which failed to arrest him . The hawala dealer, who was then operating from Dubai, would organise back dated letter of credits from a Cooks Island bank, co-owned by a Patel family from Mumbai, to launder illicit money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/naresh-jain-admits-to-role-in-rs-250cr-scam-ed/articleshow/78114950.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 14, 2020||Meerut||In search of bride, man dons Army uniform; arrested||Meerut: In order to improve his prospects in marriage, Sanjay Kumar, in his 30s, decided to don an Army personnel's uniform complete with nameplate and Barrett cap. While it is not known how many would-be brides' families he impressed, his luck ran out when he was arrested by a joint team of Meerut Police and local military police here on Sunday.Kumar was often seen loitering about the Meerut cantonment area. He claimed to belong to the Punjab regiment. But another Army personnel felt there was something amiss in his story and he tipped the authorities about Kumar.After his arrest from his rented house in Ichauli area in the city, it was learnt that Kumar was not in the Army. He was a resident of Modinagar in Ghaziabad. Three sets of Army uniforms, including nameplate and Barrett cap, were recovered from his rented house.During interrogation, Kumar confessed to posing as an Army personnel as he was looking for a "good" match for marriage, police saidAn FIR under IPC section 140 (wearing garb or carrying token used by soldier, sailor or airman) was registered at Inchauli police station against Kumar. "Upon interrogation, he confessed to flaunting by posing himself as an army personnel and was also looking for a "good" marriage prospect," police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-search-of-bride-man-dons-army-uniform-arrested/articleshow/78093877.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 in UP: Critical care reels under viral load||LUCKNOW: Critical care facilities in Covid hospitals came under tremendous pressure on Sunday with the virus showing no sign of relent. As many as 847 more Covid-19 cases were reported in 24 hours. Officers said that the pressure mounted because Lucknow has been recording an average 904 cases daily in September. Of 39,188 cases reported since the outbreak, about 11,760 have come this month alone. At present, 9,555 are recuperating in hospitals or are in home isolation. Only four ICU beds out of 283 and 82 high dependency units (HDUs) out of 574 were vacant in various hospitals at 11 am on Sunday. Of 2,918 isolation beds, where mild patients are kept, 1,895 were vacant. This was revealed in the Covid bed availability report at CMO office. In all, 29 hospitals in the city with a total bed strength of 3,775 have been designated to be Covid facilities. Not a single ICU or HDU bed was vacant in the top three premier SGPGIMS, KGMU and RMLIMS. In RMLIMS, all isolation beds were also full, while SGPGIMS had 10 isolation beds vacant and KGMU eight. SGPGIMS has a total 202 beds -- 104 isolation, 20 HDU and 78 ICU, while KGMU has a total 236 beds -- 136 isolation, 40 HDU and 60 ICU. The RMLIMS has a total 133 beds -- 83 isolation, 30 HDU and 20 ICU. Similar was the situation at Era’s Lucknow Medical College. Situation would improve in the next seven days as chief minister Yogi Aditynath has directed the top three institutes to add 1,000 ICU beds. Subsequently, KGMU decided to add 350 ICU beds in the coming days -- 150 in the first phase and 200 in second. The university has decided to increase bed strength to 500 that will include the new Covid hospital at RALC building and the existing Covid facility on the campus. SGPGIMS has also announced plans to add 100 beds in two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/critical-care-reels-under-viral-load/articleshow/78096333.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cow safari project hits roadblock in absence of will||JAIPUR: The cow safari project at Hingonia Gaushala, which hogged limelight across the country after it was announced in 2018, has been shelved. As the project did not appeal the ruling party at Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), the private foundation that proposed the project took a backseat. Sources said the project did not get support after the regime was changed. As per the proposal, visitors could have watched cows graze in open land, feed, clean, milk and massage them while temporarily residing at the state-run cow rehabilitation centre. The safari also included climb-up machan huts on trees where visitors could stay. The safari also proposed travel on bullock carts through muddy terrains and through forest areas housing the Hingonia Gaushala. “Tourism development was part of our memorandum of understanding with the state government. Development of huts on trees and a wall around the forest area. However, construction was stopped after receiving no support,” said a source. Moreover, visitors could have seen 30 breeds of desi cows such as Tharparkar, Rendi, Gir, Kankrej, Red Sindhi, Rathi, etc. It was proposed as an educational safari for visitors who could have informed about native cow breeds and their characteristics. Sources said after a BJP rebel councillor won a mayor seat with Congress support, the project hit the roadblock. The gaushala had hit headlines in 2016 after thousands of cows died. Due to mismanagement by government authorities, it was handed over to an NGO, which is now developing it as a breeding centre for desi cows. At least 30 bulls and 20 cows of Tharparkar breed have been brought to the gaushala from Bikaner. “After the change in regime, an attempt was made to make system more transparent and increase the involvement of JMC,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cow-safari-project-hits-roadblock-in-absence-of-will/articleshow/78095732.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Meerut||UP: Girl dies, 19 injured in blast at dairy plant in Hapur||MEERUT: A flying 1 ton boiler, which took off from a dairy plant propelled by a massive blast in it, landed in a dense residential colony in UP’s Hapur district on Sunday morning, bringing down several houses, killing a 5-year-old girl and leaving at least 19 people injured. The freak incident took place in Baroda Sihani village of Hafizpur area of Hapur. According to eyewitnesses, the boiler, which was bursting at seams due to steam pressure, flew and initially landed in a field. “It took off again and landed on houses, bringing them down and trapping several residents,” an eyewitness said. Owner of the plant, Vineet Sharma, has been booked. “Based on the complaint of the girl’s father, an FIR under section 287 (whoever does, with any machinery, any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 338 (whoever causes grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 304 A (causing death by negligence), and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against Vineet Sharma,” Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur’s assistant superintendent of police said. The girl, Misbah, succumbed to her injuries at hospital. Most of the injured are children, police said. Another minor girl with critical injuries was referred to a Meerut hospital after her condition deteriorated, police said. Watch UP: 5-year-old killed, 19 injured in blast at dairy plant in Hapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-killed-19-injured-in-blast-at-dairy-plant-in-hapur-1-ton-boiler-flies-300-mtr-to-land-at-homes/articleshow/78093870.cms||Piyush Rai
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||In centres from 11am-5pm, they fight hunger, tension||Chandigarh: Going by the reviews of students, the paper and the process of the exam went smoothly. Twelve students were allowed to sit in one room. In some centres, a few seats remained vacant as students did not turn up for the exam. The entry to the examination centers began at 11am and students were provided with gloves and masks inside the examination hall. A student requesting anonymity said, “Our class had only 10 students and there were two invigilators. We did face any problem.” At some centres, students alleged that they were not allowed to wear shoes, while there were some students, who entered the classes wearing shoes. Students also faced hunger pangs because they could not take eatables with them as per the rules. Students entered the venue at 11am and the registration and checking took more than one hour. Students were made to sit in the exam halls around 12.30 till 2pm, when the exam actually began. The exam ended at 5pm. “The entry was at 11am, so I had my breakfast at 9.30am. We had to sit idle from 12.30 pm till 2 pm. I started feeling hungry and got stressed as to how I would focus on the exam, but once the question paper was distributed, there was no time to think about anything else,” said Abhimanyu Singh, a NEET aspirant. Students who came from outstation too said they faced no problems. Parents of students were seen praying for their children outside the exam centres. Huge crowd was witnessed outside each centre. Police were deployed to manage crowd and social distancing norms. The National Testing Agency (NTA) concluded the NEET exam at 5 pm. NEET 2020 exam was held at 32 centres in the city in which 15,931 students were to appear. At a center in Mullanpur, question papers were not given back to students after the exam for which parents protested and thereafter the paper was given to them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-centres-from-11am-5pm-they-fight-hunger-tension/articleshow/78094740.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Students find NEET lengthy but easy||Chandigarh: The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 was held on Sunday after a long wait due to the Covid-19 pandemic. NEET aspirants termed the paper lengthy, but easy and scoring. Experts too supported the views of the students and said the paper was scoring and therefore, high cut-off is expected. Priya Thakur, a NEET aspirant, said, “The paper was lengthy, but easy. I am hopeful of scoring well. The wait was worth it. In comparison to the past years, the question paper was easy. However, the questions were not direct, which left us confused at some point.” Manas Prabhu, a NEET Aspirant who appeared at a Chandigarh-based centre, said, “Biology and chemistry sections were oriented and easier, but physics consisted of theoretical and factual questions, which left me irritated a little. I found many questions repeated from the previous exam papers.” In NEET 2020, one paper consisted of 45 questions each from physics and chemistry and 90 questions from biology which consisted of zoology and botany (180 questions in total). The paper pattern was conventional and similar to the previous year papers consisting of 180 questions each worth four marks along with negative marking. Chandigarh-based physics expert Kunal Singh said, “With the NTA conducting the exam, it was expected that the paper would be easy and scoring. Most of the questions were less calculative in physics. Around 34 out of the 45 questions in physics were straight forward taken from standard reference books which shows lack of innovation by the NTA, including 13 repeated questions from previous exams, which will be a cakewalk for any serious NEET aspirant. In fact, some questions in the paper were class X level. Meanwhile, the NTA also emphasised upon theoretical, factual and few logical questions which are part of the school syllabus as they did in JEE (mains) 2020. I think it was the easiest physics paper in last three years and I am sure that the cut-off will definitely rise.” Besides, 75% of the chemistry paper emphasised upon organic and inorganic from classes XI and XII standard and were of course highly scoring. Analysing biology exam, Dr Arvind Goyal said, “The biology section was on expected lines, based on the NCERT textbooks. There were matching type questions and questions based on names of scientists. The questions were straight with not much twist. No diagram-based questions were asked. Students should be able to score well. The cut-off is expected to go high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-find-neet-lengthy-but-easy/articleshow/78094725.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Activists try to block highway, threaten to stop milk supply||Kolhapur: Activists of Maratha organisations on Sunday tried to block traffic on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway to press for their demand for reservation. They have also warned that they would stop the supply of milk to Mumbai if the Thackeray government did not take immediate steps to implement the reservation. Many youths gathered at the Kolhapur entry point in the morning. Heavy police force was deployed and the cops appealed to the agitators to not block the road as many students had to go to their exam centres to appear for NEET. The activists initially complied but tried to stop the vehicles going towards Pune once the exam began. The police, however, controlled the situation and detained the activists within a few minutes. In Sangli, a meeting of the Maratha Kranti Morcha decided to call for Maharashtra bandh if the government failed to take remedial steps on the SC verdict. Morcha coordinator Vilasrao Desai alleged that government was not in favour of the reservation. “The government immediately stopped the admission process for Class XI, which was an indicator of its mindset”, he said. Workers announced that they would go an agitation without giving any notice to the government.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/activists-try-to-block-highway-threaten-to-stop-milk-supply/articleshow/78093878.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Four arrested for killing man at a traffic signal||New Delhi: Four people have been arrested for allegedly killing a man at a traffic signal in east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar on Sunday afternoon. Yogesh (33) was shot inside his car by three men on a motorcycle. Police said the murder was a fallout of a previous rivalry with another criminal, identified as Ravinder. Both operated in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri. The accused, arrested by a team led by ACPs Lalit Mohan Negi and Hridya Bhushan and inspector Vinod Badola, have been identified as Abdul Nasir (34), Rajiv (34), Vivek alias Vicky (28) and Ravinder alias Raju (24). Nasir, wanted in a MCOCA case, was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head. “Three sophisticated pistols, a countrymade pistol and 12 live cartridges have been found on them. All four accused said they had eliminated Yogesh alias Cheeku. The four trailed the accused while he was going towards Hasanpur Depot,” said an officer. The weapons used in the murder are yet to be recovered. The probe revealed Yogesh was killed in revenge of a 2011 murder. Yogesh had killed Raju, the brother of a gang leader in Dakshinpuri for getting a woman he liked to Vicky’s brother while he was in jail. Yogesh later got them divorced and started living with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-arrested-for-killing-man-at-a-traffic-signal/articleshow/78114917.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala govt forms panel to revise rules of business||THIRUVANANTHPURAM: The government has constituted a ministerial sub-committee to finalize proposed amendments to its rules of business, which are being undertaken after more than a decade. The rules of business is a set of rules that lists out procedures for undertaking government’s day-to-day business. It is framed on the basis of Article 166 (3) of the Constitution, which says, “The governor shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the government of the state, and for the allocation among ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the governor is by or under this constitution required to act in his discretion.” It is based on this article that 60 rules have been framed in the state. The amendments are being initiated to improve speed of governance and ensure more transparency, in the wake of administration switching to electronic mode on multiple fronts. The government had initiated the process of amending the rules of business almost a year ago. Draft proposals have been prepared which will now be considered by the sub-committee. The panel consists of law minister A K Balan, revenue minister E Chandrasekharan, water resources minister K Krishnan Kutty, transport minister A K Saseendran and ports minister Kadannappally Ramachandran. Since the Constitution talks only of the formation of a council of ministers to aid and advise the governor, the rules of business explains in detail how ministers and officials, from the rank of chief secretary to the last grade officer, should discharge their duties. However, sources said that, of late, the procedures have been sidelined in many cases. “For instance, as per the rules secretaries to departments are expected to hand over the gist of all files that are disposed without being referred to the council of ministers. However, hardly anyone follows this,” they said. A more serious violation had stirred up a major controversy. In January, the state had approached the Supreme Court against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) without intimating the governor. As per rules of business, all such matters that affect relations between the state government and the Centre should be conveyed to the governor before taking them to the SC. The issue gained prominence after the governor took serious exception to the move and sought an explanation from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/panel-formed-to-revise-rules-of-biz/articleshow/78094746.cms||KP Saikiran
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru drug raids: Visiting a casino is not a crime, says Siddaramaiah||BENGALURU: Former chief minister and leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday defended party colleague BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan, whose is rumoured to be involved in the drugs scandal, insisting his party colleague is not involved in the case. “I asked Zameer about the allegations being made against him when we met recently,” Siddaramaiah told reporters. “He categorically said he was not guilty. Even Prashanth Sambargi has not said Zameer is directly involved in the drugs deal.” On Zameer’s alleged visits to casinos in Colombo, which even Sandalwood actress Sanjjanaa Galrani visited, Siddaramaiah dismissed it saying: “The focus of the probe, I presumed, was on drugs not on people visiting casinos. Zameer might have gone to the casino, but visiting a casino is not a crime.” Sambargi had alleged Zameer was seen with Sheik Faisal, who allegedly owns a casino in Colombo that serves as a drugs hub, and said being photographed with an accused is not evidence of guilt. He said the case should be investigated impartially and it should not be turned into a witch hunt for political reasons. Meanwhile, former CM and JD(S) functionary HD Kumaraswamy admitted he convened a party meeting in Colombo about six years ago, but it had nothing to do with the drugs scandal. His clarification was in response to Zameer’s statement that he had organised a tour of Colombo for Kumaraswamy and JD(S) legislators. Next one week crucial: BommaiMeanwhile, home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the next one week is crucial in the government’s war on drugs as key bills will be moved to strengthen laws and agencies in fighting the menace. Besides further empowering the Central Crime Branch, Bommai said state police manning borders will also be given more powers to ensure drugs do not enter Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/visiting-casino-is-not-evidence-of-guilt-says-siddaramaiah/articleshow/78094560.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress appoints party in-charge for districts||JAIPUR: The Congress has revised the list of ministers in-charge of districts on Sunday. The list was revised due to complaints against the existing in-change of districts for not performing their roles and change in the cabinet composition after the political crisis. The changes were decided on Saturday but announced on Sunday. Two districts went vacant after two ministers, Ramesh Meena and Vishvendra Singh, were dropped from the cabinet for siding with the rebel group led by Sachin Pilot. Minister of local self-government and urban development and housing Shanti Kumar Dhariwal has been made the in-charge of the state capital Jaipur. Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria has been given the charge of two divisional headquarters districts (Ajmer and Kota), while transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas will represent the party from the government in Udaipur. Health minister Raghu Sharma will lead the party as in charge of Tonk and Bhilwara. Sources said that revised list made before the cabinet reshuffle is made to strengthen the presence of party before the Congress in charge in Rajasthan Ajay Maken begins his second round of taking feedback in the state. “During the feedback programme in Jaipur and Ajmer, bother PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and Maken received complaints from the party workers against the senior leaders, including party in-charges. It is the reason that they were changed by the party,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-appoints-party-in-charge-for-districts/articleshow/78095733.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kolhapur||740 new cases take Kolhapur district’s Covid count to 34,630||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district registered 740 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, including 243 from the city, taking the total number of patients to 34,630. Of these, 11, 015 have been discharged from various Covid care facilities after recovery. At present, there are 10, 827 active cases. The district also reported 31 casualties, of which, six are from the city. With this, the death toll of the district stands at 1,059. According to official information, of the recent cases, 365 were from the rural areas of the district, 86 from Hatkanangale tehsil, 90 from Karvir tehsil while Panhala and Shirol tehsils registered 60 and 43 cases respectively. Of the 31 deceased, 28 were senior citizens. A 95-year-old man from Peth Wadgaon succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. Meanwhile, Solapur rural registered 601 newCovid-19 cases and 13 deaths on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in Solapur rural swelled to 17,339 cases, of which, 5906 are active. Solapur rural has reported 494 deaths so far. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported 70 new cases and one death on Sunday. At present, the city has 804 active cases. Solapur city has recorded 442 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/740-new-cases-take-kolhapur-districts-covid-count-to-34630/articleshow/78093897.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mysuru||Runway at Mysuru airport passes safety test||Mysuru: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) conducted a runway surface friction test at the Mysuru airport. With just a month remaining for Dasara celebrations, hundreds of tourists from across the country are expected to visit the heritage city. The test on the 1,740-metre single runway at the airport at Mandakalli on Mysuru – Ooty Road was conducted in the first week of September. Authorities claim the test results declared the runway to be safe for operations under all weather conditions. “With a total of footfall of 2,915 passengers at the Airport in August, AAI Mysuru drives itself towards complete restoration of flight operations with passenger safety and comfort as primary concern,” the airport authorities said. Runway friction tests are conducted to prevent plans from skidding especially when the runway is wet. During the test, the rubber deposits on the runway are also removed for safe aircraft operations. Low friction levels may lead to aircraft overruns and run off incidents. The airport, which had cancelled all its flight services due to the lockdown, resumed operations from March. Till August, 8,415 passengers have travelled to various destinations. Flight services from Mysuru have resumed to Hyderabad, Cochin, Bengaluru, Goa and Belagavi. Everyday 10 ATR planes ferry passengers to five cities. According to airport authorities, Mysuru airport witnessed 2787 passengers load with 274 aircraft movement in July and it increased to 2911 passengers in August. Mysuru airport director R Manjunath told TOI the test was a routine acticity. “We conduct routine runway tests. So far there are no special flights for Dasara,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/runway-at-mysuru-airport-passes-safety-test/articleshow/78093893.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 14, 2020||Hubballi||Demand for renaming of rlystations in NK grows louder||Hubballi: In the wake of the central government’s nod for the renaming of the Hubballi railway station after Shree Siddharoodh Swamiji, the demand among various organisations and citizen outfits to get other terminals in North Karnataka renamed has grown audibly louder. Activists are crying foul over their longstanding pleas having been thrust aside. Trustee of Hutatma Mailara Mahadeva National memorial Trust VN Tippanagoudar said that, despite the Centre approving the proposal to rename the Haveri railway station in the freedom fighter’s honour, an official notification to that effect was yet to be issued. “The file is just being moved from one department to another. Now, we are being told that the gazette notification will be issued in a fortnight,” he told TOI. In Betgeri, an organisation has been fighting to get the Gadag Junction renamed to ‘Gadag-Betgeri’ station. Member of the Betgeri Railway Abhivruddhi Horata Samithi Ganesh Singh Byali pointed out that the terminal had been located inside the Betgeri town limits from the Colonial Era. He also lamented the indiffirent attitude of the elected representatives towards the demand. President of Belgaum District Kannada Organisation Action Committee Ashok Chandaragi said that there had been a pending demand to get the Belagavi station renamed after either Kittur Channamma or Sangolli Rayanna, one they had now revised. “Since a proposal has already been sent to name the airport in Belagavi after Sangolli Rayanna, and since there is the possibility of Kittur getting a station, the terminal in Belagavi must be named in the honour of Belavadi Mallamma, who defeated Chatrapathi Shivaji in battle,” Chandaragi said. ‘Proposals must be sent to Union home ministry’ Any proposal on the renaming of stations must originate from the state government and sent to the Union home ministry, which will then take a call on it after discussions with the ministry of science and technology. This is to ensure clarity on spellings in English and Hindi. Once the proposal gets the necessary approval, the state government will be asked to issue a gazette notification. We are not aware of any proposal for renaming other railway stations. -Suresh Angadi | Minister of State for Railways||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/demand-for-renaming-of-rlystations-in-nk-grows-louder/articleshow/78094736.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist registers 1,086 cases, 35 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara disrict Sunday crossed the four-digit mark for recording Covid-19 patients on a single day for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic. The district registered 1,086 fresh cases along with 35 casualties on Sunday. Kolhapur and Sangli districts, on the other hand, have crossed the four-digit mark way back. While Karad and Satara continue to worry administration, Koregaon tehsil is slowly emerging as a new Covid-19 hotspot. Karad tehsil recorded 301 new cases, including 74 from the town.While patients are found in all parts of Karad town, cases are detected from neighbouring villages too. Umbraj and of which, around 2000 are from the town. Satara tehsil reported 255 fresh Covid-19 cases, most of them being from the town. A large number of patients were found Sadar Bazar and other localities. At present, Satara tehsil has also more than 5,000 positive cases. Meanwhile, Koregaon tehsil crossed three-digit mark by recording 110 new cases for the first time. As many as 30 cases were found in Koregaon town while patients were also seen in Waduj and Katar Khatav. The tehsil has around 1,600 positive cases at present. Phaltan tehsil registered 70 coronavirus patients with 16 of them from the town. Among other tehsils which reported Covid-19 cases were Patan (54 cases), Khatav tehsil (61 cases) Maan tehsil (17 cases), Jawli (17 cases), Mahabaleshwar tehsil (36 cases), Wai tehsil (55 cases), and Khandala tehsil (59 cases).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-registers-1086-cases-35-deaths/articleshow/78093885.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Unidentified body of 50-yr-old found||Hyderabad: An unknown person’s dead body was found in a local water body in Meerpet on Sunday. Police said that the deceased, 50, is a male. Police appealed the locals to help identify the man. The dead body was sent for postmortem and a case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unidentified-body-of-50-yr-old-found/articleshow/78095747.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Rise in suicides: City doc starts drive to pull people back from brink||Ludhiana: In the wake of an official data showing that Ludhiana recorded 30% increase in suicide cases in 2019, as compared to the previous year, a city-based psychiatrist has launched a campaign for suicide prevention.According to the recently-released annual report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for the last year, the total number of suicides reported in Ludhiana city was 254, up 60 from 194 in 2018.The data also suggests that quite a few suicides took place due to drug abuse and liquor addiction. As many as 13 persons took the extreme step in 2019, four each in 2018 and 2017, and two in 2016 due to drug abuse- and liquor addiction-related reasons.Psychiatrist Dr Anshu Gupta said, “The NCRB data reveals that there is an increase in suicide cases in Ludhiana. During the lockdown also, several cases of suicide have been reported. So, my first aim is to make people understand that suicide is a big modern-day problem. Besides, there has also been a shift in the pattern, as until some time ago, suicides were reported more among the elderly people, but now even youngsters are taking the extreme step. So, I decided to make videos on it to help prevent suicides in the city.”Dr Gupta has already released his first video on YouTube covering the main factors that drives one to ending his life. In the next video that he would be releasing this week, he would deal with the myths related to suicides.“Eventually, I want to make people understand that anyone can prevent suicides by just being sympathetic and giving a patient hearing to those who are apparently disturbed mentally. People always show the tendency first. Nobody commits suicide in just one thought,” he added. Dr Gupta further said, “In the videos, I will be making people aware on how to know if someone has the suicidal tendency and what should be done to prevent him from ending his life. People with suicidal tendencies need hope. If you can’t help, involve their family members or dear ones. If even that does not work, then a professional must be consulted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rise-in-suicides-city-doc-starts-drive-to-pull-people-back-from-brink/articleshow/78094747.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt employees to protest against salary cut on social websites||JAIPUR: In the third phase of state government employees’ protest against salary cut, over 5 lakh employees will run a campaign on social media sites such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram on September 14 and 15 demanding withdrawal of the order. The employees have already changed their profile pictures on WhatsApp with a common photo carrying the slogan “Mai Betan Katoti Ka Birodhi Hoon”. “We will run the campaign by posting this slogan on all the three social media platforms along with #NoSalaryCut,” said Tej Singh Rathore, general secretary, All Rajasthan State Government Employees Federation. The federation had launched a five-phase stir to protest against state government’s decision to deduct a day’s salary of the employees. The cabinet had decided to deduct two days’ remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services and one-day salary of other state government employees (ministerial and sub-ordinates) from September to mobilise resources for Covid relief fund. In a memorandum to the chief secretary (Rajeeva Swarup) earlier, they demanded their pending salaries for March (16 days) be released and withdraw the order to deduct one-day salary. They had also demanded that the government must reverse its order to stop payment of cash for 15 days (out of 30 days privilege leave) when they go on leave. Further, they demanded that the government should have a dialogue on their 15-point demand charter which was submitted earlier. The charter includes issues pertaining to salary cuts, new pension scheme, contractual employees etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-employees-to-protest-against-salary-cut-on-social-websites/articleshow/78095741.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Despite more cases, Vidarbha matches recovery rate with state||NAGPUR: Even though the surge in Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha continued on Sunday, the improvement in recovery rate was also visible. With 68,623 out of 98,382 patients recovered, Vidarbha’s recovery rate matched Maharashtra state’s average of 69.8% on Sunday. Vidarbha reported 3,378 cases on Sunday while 3,034 patients recovered. The number of cases is likely to surpass the one lakh mark on Monday. Deaths remain a big worry for Vidarbha as 79 patients died on Sunday taking the toll to 2,535. Of these, 946 have been reported in 13 days of September. Except Gadchiroli, all 10 districts in Vidarbha reported deaths on Sunday; Nagpur (45), Bhandara (6), Chandrapur (5), Yavatmal (5), Gondia (4), Akola (4), Washim (4), Wardha (3), Amravati (2), and Buldhana (1). Nine of the 11 districts reporting 100+ spike in cases, with 5 reporting over 200 cases. Nagpur (1,409) again reported highest cases while Amravati (462), reported its record single-day spike. Recovery rate is also improving. On Sunday, Nagpur (1,769) reported more recoveries than new cases. Now, total 68,623 patients have recovered, which is more than 69%. Amravati: A record single-day spike on the second successive day took the district’s count to 8,774 as 462 new patients tested positive. While Sunday’s figure beat Saturday’s high of 320, two deaths took the toll to 198. The day’s casualties included a 67-year-old woman from Saatkhiradi locality here and a 72-year-old man from Pravinnagar locality. A total 359 patients were discharged, taking their number to 6,693. This left 1,883 active cases including 15 in Nagpur. 336 are in home isolation. The rural belt accounted for 165 of 462 cases, taking its count to 2,764. Anjangaon Surji and Paratwada reported 18 cases each while Chandur Bazar 17. Achalpur and Nandgaon Khandeshwar reported 13 each while Morshi reported 12 and Shirajgaon Mozari ten. Chandur Railway reported nine while Bhatkuli reported six. Dhamangaon Railway reported four while three each came from Warud, Rahatgaon and Dharni. Daryapur, Nandgaon Peth and Anjangaon Bari reported two cases each. Single cases came from 16 other villages while there were four from outside the district. The remaining 293 cases were reported from different localities of the city with Badnera reporting the highest 20 followed by Dasturnagar (10), Sainagar (8), Yashodanagar (7), Rajapeth (7), Kanwarnagar (6). Bhandara: Deaths of six Covid patients rocked Bhandara district on Sunday. This took the death toll to 57. Bhandara also registered surge of 180 new taking the count to 2,818. With 162 patients recovering on Sunday, total 1,562 have been discharged. The district has 1,259 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: With 5 deaths reported once again, Yavatmal’s death toll reached 152. A 75-year-old man and 49-year-old woman from Yavatmal city, 47-year-old man from Pandharkawda, 90-year-old woman from Vani, and a 24-year-old youth from Darwha died. Including these deaths, total 260 new cases were detected in a day taking total cases to 5,709. Recoveries in Yavatmal surpassed 4,000-mark on Sunday with 173 patients discharged. Now, Yavatmal has 1,549 patients under treatment, 274 in home isolation. Akola: The district witnessed never before surge of 232 cases on Sunday, taking took patients in Akola to 1,207 — highest in September. An 81-year-old man from city Kotwali, a 38-year-old woman from Ramdaspeth, and 61-year-old woman from Akot died. Another patient from Akot died in a private hospital. This took Akola’s death toll to 181. Total 5,614 cases have been reported in district, and 4,226 have recovered. Gondia: Total 80 new cases were diagnosed on Sunday while 83 patients were discharged. The toll rose to 50 with four deaths. Deceased include a 73-year-old man from Tibi Toli, 60-year-old man from Ambhora, 43-year-old woman from Gondia’s Sales Tax Colony, and a 70-year-old diabetic man from Arjuni Morgaon. District now has 3,158 cases, 1,718 recoveries and 1,390 active patients. Buldhana: On Sunday, 177 tested positive in district. A 54-year-old man from Sundarkhed in Buldhana tehsil died during treatment on Sunday. With this, total cases in Buldhana reached 4,951. Recoveries increased with 107 discharged. Now, 3,642 patients have recovered and 1,245 patients are under treatment. Washim: Four deaths were reported in a day in Washim on Sunday, two of them testing positive after death. Swab samples of a 55-year-old woman from Pimpri Avgan and a 40-year-old man from Manora died on Saturday, while a 64-year-old man from Washim city and a 61-year-old from Mangrulpir city died on Sunday. This took Washim’s death toll to 54, including 1 suicide. Total cases reached 2,804, including 1,915 recoveries, and 835 patients under treatment. Wardha: On Sunday, 133 tested positive and three deaths were reported. A 58-year-old man from Hinganghat, a 60-year-old woman from Karanja and a 72-year-old man from Selu died on Sunday. The total number of positive patients has reached 2,570. With 52 discharged on Sunday, total 1,253 have recovered so far. Active cases are 1,270, with 47 deaths so far. Chandrapur: The total climbed to 5,858 and toll rose to 71 with 290 new cases and five deaths on Sunday. In all 175 patients were discharged, total cured patients are 3,216, leaving 2,526 active patients. The four-day public curfew in Chandrapur, its suburb Durgapur, Urjanagar and Padoli and Ballarpur town also came to an end on Sunday. There was good response to the curfew and all establishments apart from essential services and government offices remained closed. The five deaths include 37-year-old person from Naginabagh in Chandrapur, 65-year-old from Shivaji Nagar Khed in Brahmapuri tehsil, 52-year-old from Bamanwada in Rajura, 53-year-old from Bikli in Nagbhid and 53-year-old from Wani in Yavatmal district. All were comorbid patients at Chandrapur GMCH. Gadchiroli: Total 41 new patients, including 22 from Gadchiroli tested positive on Sunday while 14 patients were discharged. With this, Gadchiroli’s case count reached 1,606 and recoveries reached 1,205. No death was reported in Gadchiroli. With 3 deaths reported earlier, total 398 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-more-cases-vidarbha-matches-recovery-rate-with-state/articleshow/78095743.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: SOG to question cyber criminals involved in huge cash fraud||JAIPUR: A team of Special Operations Group (SOG) will question the gang of cyber criminals who were arrested by Rajsamand police for defrauding a person of Rs 85 lakh. The same gang had also defrauded another person of Rs 2.5 crore in Bhilwara in the name of giving insurance for which a complaint had been registered at the cyber crime police station in Jaipur and is being investigated by the SOG. The accused hail from UP-NCR region. According to officials, the gang had been operating since 2014. Rajsamand police had received the complaint on August 31 in which it was alleged that the gang had defrauded the complainant out of Rs 85 lakh over a period of three years from 2017 to 2020 following which the cops got into action and arrested the six accused. They were identified as Mohammad Javed (31), Ravi Kumar (32), Rahul Garg (33), Gaurav Bansal (31), Sanjay Chaudhary (31) and Sonu Baghel (27). SP Rajsamand Bhuvan Bhushan Yadav said, “The accused presented themselves as IRDA officials as well as insurance agents. Few of them had previously worked as insurance agents and got the data of the potential targets from there. Javed was the mastermind behind the operation.” The gang also duped a complainant in Bhilwara for around six years between 2014 and 2020 which is being investigated by SOG. While the complainant in Bhilwara was financially well off, the target in Rajsamand came from a humble background and took loan to pay for the fraud insurance. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, Yadav said, “They worked long-term and initially would even take out genuine insurance policies following which they would entice the victims by claiming that they would get them bonus returns and premature claims if the targets deposited money in the accounts given to them. As the accused had been in touch with the victims for a prolonged period of time, the victims had also started trusting them due to which they would deposit the money through cheques in the said accounts.” Cops have seized the accounts as well as many Sim cards from the accused who are currently in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-to-question-cyber-criminals-involved-in-huge-cash-fraud/articleshow/78095737.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Meerut||Police arrest 3 staff of M’nagar joint for running illegal hookah bar||Muzaffarnagar: Police sealed a restaurant in Muzaffarnagar and arrested three employees for possession of a dozen hookahs and allegedly running an illegal hookah bar in the district late on Saturday. According to sources, a police team from New Mandi police station reached the restaurant after being tipped off, and found a hookah party being organised. On noticing the heavy police force, the hookah bar owner fled, but police managed to arrest three employees — Anmol, Sunil and Ashu, along with two customers — and recovered different types of tobacco and a dozen hookahs from the spot. Police are now trying to track down the bar owner, who was identified as Habeeb, resident of village Bajhedi under New Mandi station. According to deputy superintendent of police (New Mandi), Dhananjay Kushwaha, “A case under various sections has been registered in the matter. Further probe is on, and action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-arrest-3-staff-of-mnagar-joint-for-running-illegal-hookah-bar/articleshow/78093902.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: NEET aspirants flout Covid norms||JAIPUR: Students who appeared for the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) exam here have complained that very few Covid norms were followed. Aliya Naqvi, a NEET aspirant who appeared in Maheshwari Public School on Sirsi Road, said students at the centre did not follow social distancing norms. “It was utter chaos at the centre as students were jostling for space. It was very scary that examiners at the centre were not making any efforts to ask students to maintain distance,” Naqvi, a resident of Kidwai Nagar in Jaipur, said. Similar was the situation in other centres too. Rohit Sharma, an aspirant who appeared at Gyan Ashram School, Rajat Path at Mansarovar, said during entry and exit, it was not possible to maintain social distance at the centre. “One cannot entirely blame the school as I have seen that students were in hurry to step out of the centre after the exam was over. They were not even listening to a repeated requests by the invigilators,” said Sharma. Over 1 lakh students had appeared in the NEET exam in the state held at five centres—Ajmer, Jaipur, Kota, Udaipur and Jodhpur. Ashish Arora, a NEET exam expert, said the overall paper was easier than last three years. “About 92% of paper was conceptual and based on NCERT. It means that students who covered NCERT will have an upper edge over others. Compared to the last 4 years, biology paper was the toughest,” said Arora. He added that this year the cut-off may increase up to 595 marks for government colleges. Last year, it was 582 whereas in 2018, the cut-off was 535. NEET coordinator office in Jaipur said attendance in the exam was close to 80%. They are yet to update the attendance of all centres but the primary information is very encouraging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/neet-aspirants-flout-covid-norms/articleshow/78095744.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Members of Maratha outfit condemn Centre, state govt||Nashik: The members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM), who met in Nashik on Sunday, condemned the state and central governments following the Supreme Court verdict putting a stay on reservation for the community in employment and education sectors. They met at Varad Lakshmi Lawns, on Aurangabad Road, at noon and discussed the future course of action. “It is the community that is suffering in the fight between the Centre and state government. We want the reservation in the interest of thousands of students and youths. Since the Supreme Court has stayed the proposal, both the Centre and state should look into the same at the earliest or be ready to face the consequences,” Karan Gaykar, a member of Maratha Kranti Morcha state coordinating committee, said. He warned that if the governments failed to take a decision in the interest of the community, none of the elected members or the ministers would be allowed in the district. The MKM members said the state government should move a privilege motion against advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, claiming that he was responsible for the Supreme Court verdict. They also want the state government to immediately start Sarathi, a nonprofit company, to look into Maratha welfare, provide Rs 500 crore fund for the Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal, bear 50% fees of students for the current educational year and absorb people who were selected through reservation as a special case at various posts. The members said that they would now start visiting the residences of MLAs and MPs across the district and present them a memorandum demanding reservation for the community. They want the elected representatives to present demand from their own side to the presidents of their respective parties. The community members warned that those who refuse to do so would face agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/members-of-maratha-outfit-condemn-centre-state-govt/articleshow/78093906.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rs 10 crore fine collected from citizens for Covid SOP violations||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has collected Rs 10 crore in fines for violation under the Epidemic Ordinance since the lockdown began. These include penalties for not wearing masks, maintaining social distance, among others. Till date 6,84,421 persons have been penalised for such violations. The state has also collected over Rs 17 crore for traffic violations. According to data compiled by police, 3,657 FIRs were registered for violation of prohibitory orders (quarantine norms) against 8,102 people out of which 6,292 were arrested and 3,209 chargesheets have been submitted. In social media-related violations, 219 cases have been registered and besides arrests by state police, the Special Operations Group (SOG) arrested seven people in similar category of violations. No complaints were lodged related to social media over the weekend. “Officials are following all the guidelines with the easing of lockdown to ensure that there is no spread of coronavirus. Although most restrictions have been eased, there is still a need to ensure that guidelines are adhered to and we are not letting our guard down. There is coordination with volunteers and health workers so that the set guidelines can be followed,” said a senior police officer. Since the beginning of the lockdown, under the Essential Commodities Act, 145 FIRs were registered and 103 people were arrested while 64 cases were chargesheeted though no fresh complaints were registered since Saturday. Under preventive action, 27,203 people were arrested while 9,50,930 were penalised as per the MV Act and 1,66,627 vehicles were seized. Out of the total fines collected under the MV Act, Rs 10,464,50 were collected over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/r10-cr-fine-collected-for-epidemics-ordinance-violations/articleshow/78095745.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown horror? Domestic violence cases double in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Domestic violence (DV) cases doubled in April-August period this year in the city compared to the same period last year. Police and sociologists attribute this rise to restriction in movement because of the lockdown after the Covid-19 pandemic. According to police sources, around 250 domestic violence cases were registered during the period while in the same period last year, the figure was around 120. Experts say that frequent tiff between husband and wife and rise in cases of demand of dowry have led to domestic violence. The other reasons are loss of job of the breadwinner, salary cut and quarrel over petty issues because of stress. Sociologist Garang Jani said that one of the reasons behind sudden spurt in domestic violence cases is stress after the lockdown. “It is believed that if the family stays together for a long time, the bond between them increases. But the present situation has affected our social and economic life. Life was stressful even before the lockdown but when an individual goes out to work, he/she forgets problems at home for a brief period, which is of great help,” he said. Jani said that during the stay at home, the real nature of a human being comes to the fore. “The middle class started to lose their savings and this led to money-related quarrels between husband and wife. Some were in stress because of losing their jobs or reduced income. In our society, the husband vents his anger either on the wife or the children and the same has happened. Fatigue and stress result in quarrels over petty issues. The main thing is that in our society we don’t have any stress-relieving mechanism for the middle and the lower middle class society,” he added. Inspector general of police and joint commissioner of police (administration and headquarters) Ajay Choudhary, who often sits in the control room and listens to the issues of common public, said that a proper study is necessary to establish that the rising number of domestic violence cases was due to the stress during Covid pandemic. However, he added that there are multiple reasons and one of the reasons for the sudden spurt in domestic violence cases could be the lockdown. Assistant commissioner of police (woman police cell) Mini Joseph said unless each and every case is studied they can’t come to the conclusion that the spurt in domestic violence cases is because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-horror-dv-cases-double/articleshow/77967736.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Woman attacked over land, video goes viral||LUCKNOW: A video showing a woman being attacked with a stick in the Jankipuram area of Lucknow went viral on Sunday. The police are investigating the case. Police said that the woman, identified as Asha Devi of Rampurwa village in Jankipuram, has a land dispute with her neighbour Prakash. The issue is subjudice in Malihabad tehsil and the SDM has forbidden both the parties from indulging into any kind of construction, the police said. On September 10, Prakash allegedly started construction at the disputed land and the news reached Asha who reached the scene. Asha alleged that Prakash attacked her with a stick when she attempted to stop him from carrying out construction. However, the police swung into action only when a video showing the woman being attacked on Sunday, went viral on social media. SHO Jankipuram, SK Dubey, said the allegations and video was being examined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-attacked-over-land-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78096339.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Jaipur||Govt setting oxygen generation plants at hospitals across Rajasthan for Covid treatment||JAIPUR: With more Covid-19 patients getting admitted to hospitals complaining breathlessness and requiring oxygen support, the state government is setting up 38 oxygen generation plants in hospitals attached to government medical colleges and district hospitals. Among 38 oxygen generation plants, 17 will have the capacity of filling 90 oxygen cylinders daily, 14 have the capacity of producing 35 to 40 cylinders daily and seven will have the capacity of producing 24 cylinders. Establishing more oxygen plants is a part of measures taken by the state government for strengthening healthcare facilities for Covid patients across the state for ensuring that patients get proper treatment in districts and do not require to shift them to Jaipur or any other major cities of the state. “We have seen a lot of patients are taken to Jaipur and Kota for Covid treatment. Since these two districts are already witnessing spike in cases, there is need to strengthening healthcare services, not only in Jaipur but also in different districts,” said a health department official. In Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh Hospital, two oxygen generation plants have already been installed, while the third is under installation. A health department official said, “Apart from SMS Hospital, one oxygen generation plant has been sanctioned at RUHS Hospital and the technical evaluation for it was done on Sunday.” In Barmer, the civil work for the oxygen generation is under process. In a nymber of other places too, financial sanctions have been okayed and work for installation will be done by National Health Mission at Bhilwara, Pali and Churu. Besides, in district hospitals of Beawar, Kekri, Banswara, Dausa, Sriganganagar, Chittorgarh, Rajsamand, Kotputli, Tonk, Nagaur, Jhunjhunu, Sawai Madhopur, Bundi, Baran, Dholpur, Karauli, Pratapgarh, Sirohi, Jaisalmer, Jalore and Hanumangarh, the work for setting up oxygen generation plants has been started. Besides, work for other plants is expected to be completed within a month and at some other places even in less than one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-setting-oxygen-generation-plants-at-hospitals-across-state-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/78095749.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Trader dupes 10 farmers of Rs 3.27L in Sinnar||Nashik: As many as ten farmers in Sinnar have claimed that they were cheated by a trader who purchased onions from them but did not pay them.On the complaint of a farmer, the MIDC Sinnar police have registered an offence of cheating against the trader. The complainant Santu Bodke of Moha village in Sinnar taluka said that he had cultivated onions in his farm in 2019-20. The yield was in April following which he had stocked the onions in his farm itself. When Bodke learned that some of the farmers in his village had sold their produce to two traders and had immediately got the payment as well, he sold his onions to the trader on May 20 for Rs 35 thousand, with the latter assuring to make the payment in two days. When Bodke did not received the payment after two days he started following up with the trader. However, the trader did not respond to his calls. Meanwhile, when Bodke started enquiring about the concerned trader, he learned that some farmers who had sold their produce to the concerned trader in March, April and May had also not received the payment. Subsequently, Bodke lodged a complaint with the Sinnar MIDC police station stating that he and 10 more farmers have been cheated by the concerned trader to the tune of Rs 3.47 lakh. The Sinnar police said that they were investigating the case. Many farmers are cheated in the district by traders who take the agricultural produce but do not make the payment to the farmers. IG (Special) Pratap Dighavkar, who recently took charge of Nashik Range said that he would be ensuring that strict action against traders who are found cheating farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trader-dupes-10-farmers-of-rs-3-27l-in-sinnar/articleshow/78093917.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 14, 2020||Vadodara||Bootlegger flees with cop’s gun||Vadodara: A bootlegger fled with the service gun of a sub-inspector when he was stopped by a police party at Devgadh Baria in Dahod district on Saturday evening. The cops from Devgadh Baria police station were on the watch near the office of executive magistrate on Saturday evening as they had received an information that the accused, Mukesh Panchal, would be passing from there in a car with a liquor stock. Panchal’s car was intercepted by the cops at the spot. When sub-inspector Narvatsinh Selot stopped Panchal and tried to remove his car’s key, Panchal caught his hand. Selot tried to free his left hand with his other hand. The cop had held his service gun in the other hand. In the scuffle, Selot pulled Panchal’s car’s key chain, but his gun fell in the car. “Panchal sped off his car from the spot after pushing Selot away. A head constable tried to stop Panchal, but the latter did not stop and tried to run over him. However, the head constable moved away, and Panchal managed to escape,” said an official from the Devgadh Baria police station. Later, Selot lodged an offence of attempt to murder, causing hurt to obstruct public servant on duty and under Arms Act against Panchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bootlegger-flees-with-cops-gun/articleshow/78094123.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||35% of vaccine trial volunteers found infected with Covid-19||NAGPUR: Human trials of Covaxin, a made-in-India vaccine on Covid-19, entered second phase now. Another dose was administered to 50 participants two days ago. In fact, 75 Nagpurians had enrolled themselves for these trials. But 25 of them were disqualified as 17 were found infected with Covid-19 and eight had already developed antibodies. This means, nearly 35% of these randomly selected citizens of different age groups in city were found infected. This could be a major indication of community spread in Nagpur. “Of the 75 participants, 17 tested positive in RT-PCR test done as per the protocol while eight tested positive in antibody tests,” informed Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, who is heading the human trials of Covaxin at his hospital and research centre, the only trial centre in Maharashtra. “These people were randomly selected from 12 to 65 years age group. They include both men and women. They hail from different parts of the city, and from different backgrounds,” he added. A healthy individual with no history of diseases was the qualifying criterion for human trials. This could be a strong indicator that a large population of Nagpur has already got infected with coronavirus and many have already recovered and developed antibodies. Back in July, the divisional authorities had started sero-surveillance to know how many people had developed antibodies. At present, this survey has stopped. “There was a problem with the kits we received for survey. So, we had to stop. Before that, we had surveyed some 100 people but the results were put on hold as the kits were not suitable,” said Dr Uday Narlawar from GMCH, nodal officer for the survey. While it is still not officially out, about 4.7% of the total surveyed Nagpurians were found positive in antibody tests in July. Dr Narlawar said doctors are now busy handling the huge surge in Covid-19 cases, so it is difficult to restart sero-surveillance. If 25 of 75 randomly selected people of different age groups are found infected, nearly 30% of the Nagpur’s population may have either recovered or is infected with Covid-19. This estimate comes to 9 lakh taking Nagpur’s approximate population as 30 lakh. Earlier also, many doctors had told TOI there was ample evidence of community spread in Nagpur. +ve in both RT-PCR and antibody tests In a curious case, two people who came to enroll for Covaxin trials reportedly tested positive in RT-PCR test as well as antibody tests. Infectious disease specialists Dr Ashwini Tayade said that this was possible. “Both were asymptomatic. We know RT-PCR can be positive for up to 90 days in some cases,” she said. Samples of these cases were collected on the same day. Antibodies may have developed in their bodies while traces of virus were still there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/35-of-vaccine-trial-volunteers-found-infected-with-covid-19/articleshow/78095758.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Demand for oxygen up 4-fold, price doubles as Covid-19 cases increase||BENGALURU: With the number of severely infected Covid-19 patients increasing, there is up to a four-fold increase in the daily demand for medical oxygen in Karnataka. The state needs 400-500 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen daily, up from 100-150 metric tonnes in March-April. Covid-19 patients suffering from breathlessness require high-flow nasal oxygen as a lifesaving measure, pushing up the demand for medical oxygen. Consequently, medical oxygen’s price has shot up, and it varies depending upon the type of contract. Under old contract between manufacturing companies and hospitals, it costs Rs 13-18 per cubic metre; in new contracts, the cost is Rs 24-25 per cubic metre. For spot contract during emergencies, it costs Rs 40 per cubic metre. A fortnight ago, the state formed a committee of senior officers to monitor the production and supply of oxygen to hospitals from the manufacturing companies and to ensure undisrupted supply. Seven companies manufacture and supply liquid oxygen to hospitals in the state. Four of them are in Ballari. Big players are Inox Air Products, Bhuruka Gases and Universal Air Products. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary, department of commerce and industry, and head of the state-level committee looking after the oxygen production, demand and supply, said medical oxygen manufacturers have been asked to augment their production given the increase in demand for medical oxygen at Covid hospitals and ensure uninterrupted supply. “I don’t see a shortage; we are able to just meet the demand. Now, Karnataka needs 400-500 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen a day, as against 100-200 tonnes in pre-Covid days. We are in touch with the seven oxygen production agencies on a daily basis,” Gupta told TOI. He said the government had issued directions to curtail the industrial usage of liquid oxygen and divert the supply to medical purposes. After a private hospital in Bengaluru reported a sudden oxygen shortage, most hospitals have tied up with at least two vendors to ensure uninterrupted supply. This has added to the cost of hospital management. Given the price hike in liquid oxygen, the Private Hospitals’ and Nursing Home Association (Phana) said the Rs 7,000 package price fixed by the Karnataka government for each oxygenated bed was very low and demanded a revision of the Covid treatment package for government-referred patients. “The calculations for the agreement were based on the liquid oxygen price then. Now, it’s expensive. We are writing to the health and family welfare department regarding this,” said Dr HM Prasanna, Phana president-elect. According to Phana members, the majority of hospitalised Covid-19 patients require high-flow nasal oxygen, pushing up the demand. Doctors have observed a trend of patients in home isolation developing breathlessness and rushing to hospitals with very low oxygen saturation levels. “We had a patient brought in with oxygen saturation of 60%. We tried our best. He died three days later. There are several such cases of home-isolated patients seeking admission with breathing difficulties,” Dr Prasanna told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-demand-for-oxygen-up-4-fold-price-doubles-as-cases-increase/articleshow/78096694.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops tighten vigil on history-sheeters||HYDERABAD: As instances of violence against rowdy-sheeters or they being involved in crimes while out on bail see a spike, the Cyberabad police has decided to increase vigil by making their appearance before the police thrice in a week compulsory. In addition to this, the rowdy-sheeters will also have to go to the police station every Sunday. There are around 1,600 rowdy-sheeters across the city. Majority of them are either in the south zone or west zone in Hyderabad, followed by sensitive areas like Rajendranagar, Mailardevpally and surrounding places in Cyberabad. The assistant commissioner of police (Rajendranagar division), Ashok Chakravarthy, said that the rowdy-sheeters are being strictly monitored to avoid any untoward incidents. The system of vigil adopted by the Hyderabad commissionerate has been different. The local patrolling police regularly go to the residence of rowdy-sheeters in Hyderabad or keep track of their movement using the mobile phone location. However, some retired police officers feel that the existing system, both in Hyderabad and Cyberabad, is inept in containing the activities of rowdy-sheeters activities. The investigating officer have strive for their conviction if a change has to be brought, they feel. “In many cases, after coming out on bail, rowdy-sheeters are again getting involved in offences despite being counselled. The only solution for this is that investigating officer should complete the investigation at the earliest in a focused manner, when the accused is still in judicial remand. The officers should strive to get the trial started in the court immediately,” a retired police officer told TOI. If the trial can be completed when the accused is still in judicial remand, the rate of conviction can increase since the accused cannot threaten the witness or go for outside settlement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyberabad-cops-tighten-vigil-on-history-sheeters/articleshow/78095784.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 14, 2020||Meerut||Mudra loan fraud: Locals got just Rs 50k, receive recovery notices of Rs 2L in UP's Bulandshahr||Meerut: A former manager of a nationalized bank, its field officer and a middleman have been booked for allegedly cheating many people in UP’s Bulandshahr district by promising them Rs 50,000 under Centre’s Mudra loan scheme, an amount “which they were not required to pay back”. All the gullible people were approached by a middleman, Ashok Kumar, over a period of two years. Pradhan Mantri Mudra (micro units development and refinance agency) Yojana (PMMY) was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April 2015 for providing loans up to Rs 10 lakh to the non-corporate, non-farm small/micro enterprises. So, scores of people in Bulandshahr’s Khurja area happily signed several documents, handed over photocopies of their Aadhar cards and other documents along with photos. And most of them soon got Rs 50,000 into their accounts.But, the scam unravelled after a new manager took over the charge. It came to the fore that all the applicants were sanctioned a loan amount of Rs 2 lakh each. And they were handed over just Rs 50,000.Soon, all the loan beneficiaries were sent recovery notices of Rs 2 lakh, triggering panic among them. Many of them thronged the police station with complaints.An FIR against the former manager, field officer and middleman was registered on September 10.According to one of the complainants, middleman Ashok Kumar had approached him in February 2018, claiming he could get a loan of Rs 50,000, which he will not have to return to the bank. “I was made to meet the then bank manager Atishresth Verma and field officer Varun Bhatnagar. I deposited copies of my Aadhar card, PAN card and three photographs. And I signed on 15 to 16 blank forms. They sanctioned a Rs 2lakh loan in my name and gave me Rs 50,000. And I was told that I can keep this money, there was no need to return it,” the FIR read. Harendra Kumar, superintendent of police (rural), said, “Under PMMY, the loan disbursed was way less than the actual amount sanctioned in the documents. A case has been registered against a former bank manager, a field officer and a middleman for cheating customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mudra-loan-fraud-locals-got-just-rs-50k-receive-recovery-notices-of-rs-2l-in-ups-bulandshahr/articleshow/78093913.cms||Piyush Rai
September 14, 2020||Meerut||Yogi govt to give Rs 20L to kin of prodigious UP girl who died in accident||Meerut: The family of UP scholar Sudeeksha Bhati, who died in a road accident in Bulandshahr on August 11, met UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday. The CM promised them financial assistance of Rs 20 lakh – Rs 15 lakh from the state government and another Rs 5 lakh from the local MP’s development funds. Meanwhile, an amount of Rs 1.5 lakh was given as compensation to the family by Bulandshahr district administration. The government authorities have also assured the family that a library and a memorial in her name will also be constructed.Sudeeksha, daughter of a farmer in Gautam Budh Nagar district had hit headlines after securing full scholarship to US college in 2018. The 19-year-old had returned from the US in June amid the Covid-19 outbreak pandemic.“My daughter left us too early. We want her dream of educating girls to stay alive. We demanded the state government authorities to set up a library and a memorial in her name. CM Yogi Adityanath has assured us that our demands will be met,” said Jitendra Bhati, Sudeeksha’s father.After meeting the family, CM Yogi tweeted, “The government has announced to give Rs 15 lakh to the kin of Sudeeksha Bhati. A library and a memorial in her name will be established and will act as an inspiration for other students.”In her native village of Deri Skaner in Gautam Buddh Nagar district, Sudeeksha Bhati was a success story often cited. Not many girls in the area managed to finish schooling, let alone dream of college — they were either married at a young age or forced to drop out due to harassment by local youths. A district topper in boards with 98% in Bulandshahr, she went on to bag a full scholarship to Babson College in Massachusetts, US. She was killed in a road accident in UP’s Bulandshahr earlier in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/yogi-govt-to-give-rs-20l-to-kin-of-prodigious-up-girl-who-died-in-accident/articleshow/78093927.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||DSMNRU final year exam from Sept 21||Lucknow: Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMNRU) will conduct its final year exam of undergraduate and diploma courses from September 21. The schedule was uploaded on the varsity’s website. The exam will be held from September 21 to October 13. The hostel facility will be made available for differently-abled students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dsmnru-final-year-exam-from-sept-21/articleshow/78096354.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Use top 2 floors of district hospital as Covid care centre for Fatorda: Vijai||MARGAO: Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai on Sunday demanded that the government convert the top two floors of the new South Goa district hospital for use as a Covid care centre for Fatorda. Rane, after inspecting the new hospital recently, had said that the top two floors weren’t suitable to be converted into a Covid centre, as they were designed as classrooms for a nursing institute. “All government premises should be used only for Covid purposes. There should be no deviation from the focus on Covid care,” Sardesai said while addressing reporters after launching a tree plantation drive from the old market circle to the KTC bus stand stretch of the road. Sardesai further demanded that an RT-PCR test for Covid, considered to be the gold standard for Covid tests, and which is being conducted at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, be started at the South Goa district hospital, too, at the earliest, for the benefit of the people. “This will show whether the government is really concerned about the state’s development, the reason that was touted by the 10 breakaway MLAs for switching over to the ruling side, or if the switchover was just to make the numbers,” the Fatorda MLA said. The former deputy chief minister also expressed disapproval over the government’s plans to restart schools soon. “How can you even consider conducting classes when there’s a spike in Covid cases? The government is doing nothing to flatten the curve,” he said. Pointing out to health minister Vishwajit Rane’s announcement, that the third Covid hospital at the new South Goa district hospital will start functioning from Saturday, Sardesai urged Rane to honour the deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-top-2-floors-of-district-hospital-as-covid-care-centre-for-fatorda-vijai/articleshow/78095822.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||Matri Sadan chief threatens to move court if part of Kumbh Mela land is given on lease to akhadas||Haridwar: A day after the officials of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) met with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow and demanded land on lease for three Bairagi Akhadas — Nirmohi, Digambar, and Nirwani — in the Bairagi Camp area of Kumbh Mela land in Haridwar, Swami Shivanand, chief of Haridwar-based Matri Sadan, on Sunday threatened to move court if the government accedes to the demand of the seers. Shivanand opposed the proposal of providing land to the akhadas saying that the land which they already have is being utilised for commercial purposes like building apartments. Shivanand further stated that he will file an RTI (Right to Information) petition asking how each of the 13 akhadas will utilise the amount of Rs 1 crore that will be given to them by the Uttarakhand government for Haridwar Kumbh 2021. “The government should take all details of the spendings from the 13 akhadas as it will have to furnish the information under the RTI Act,” Shivanand said. When asked to comment on Shivanand’s remarks, ABAP general secretary Mahant Hari Giri said, “Swami Shivanand is doing what he thinks is his duty. We are doing what we think is right. We respect him and would like to say nothing further.” Giri added during the meeting with Yogi Adityanath, the UP CM said that a decision on providing land will be taken after the Supreme Court passes an order in the special leave petition filed by the ABAP against Uttarakhand government’s notice served on four religious structures in the Bairagi Camp area. He further added that the decision will be taken in consultation with Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. Notably, both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh state governments allege that they have claim on the Mela land. Meanwhile, Swami Rajendra Das of Nirmohi Akhada clarified that the government is not going to allot any land to 10 out of the 13 akhadas as they already have their own land. “Only the three Bairagi Akhadas will be given land in the Bairagi Camp area as they have no land of their own,” he said. (With inputs from MS Nawaz)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/matri-sadan-chief-threatens-to-move-court-if-part-of-kumbh-mela-land-is-given-on-lease-to-akhadas/articleshow/78093252.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Dumping garbage in open can cost you Rs 2,000||LUCKNOW: Now throwing garbage in the open even when no civic personnel is around can lighten your wallet by Rs 2,000. Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has decided to issue e-challans based on the complaints lodged by citizens on the Lucknow 311 Smart City App. According to LMC officials, people can lodge complaints related to open dumping of garbage by shops, eateries, and households on Lucknow 311 app by clicking a picture along with their address and name if possible. After receiving the complaint, the command and control centre linked with the app will forward the complaint to the respective zonal offices of LMC for continuing the inquiry. After finding the name and contact number of the property owner in its records, LMC will send a link via text message for payment of penalty for garbage dumping.  The violator will have the option to pay the penalty, ranging between Rs 1,000- Rs 2,000, online or by visiting the LMC office. The decision was taken in a Smart City meeting chaired by municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dumping-garbage-in-open-can-cost-you-rs-2k/articleshow/78096363.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||National PG College BCom results out||Lucknow: National PG College has declared the results of first and second year BVoc, BCom (Hons) and BCom students. Candidates can check their results on the website by entering their credentials. The result of BA, BSc and other courses will also be announced shortly. “All the first and second-year students have been promoted as per government directions. The remaining results will also be declared in the coming week,” said Prof Rakesh Jain. He said the classes of the second and final years have already begun. The admission process of BCom for the academic session 2020-21 has winded up, while the document verification for BSc admission will end this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/national-pg-college-bcom-results-out/articleshow/78096365.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Dehradun||No takers: 5 ‘exam special’ trains meant for NEET aspirants get only 21 passengers, earn Rs 1040||Dehradun: The officials at Dehradun railway station were taken aback on Sunday afternoon when an ‘exam special’ train, meant for NEET aspirants, arrived completely empty at the station from Moradabad. A team of doctors, government officials and other railway staffers deputed at the platform to check the students on arrival went back empty-handed. Sitaram Sonkar, station superintendent at Dehradun railway station told TOI that “since there were over 18 centres for NEET in Dehradun and 12 in nearby Roorkee, the Railways had specially organised this train so that students could commute easily.” “It came as a surprise to us that no one took the train,” he added. Interestingly, attendance at the exam centres in Dehradun and Roorkee was high and a large number of students could be seen queuing up to appear for the exam. A Railways official said that “perhaps due to the Covid threat, students preferred to make their own arrangements to reach the exam centres rather than opting for the special trains.” The fate of several other ‘exam specials’ operated by the Moradabad, Prayagraj and Agra divisions was no better. According to Railways sources, the special NEET train that ran from Bareilly to Ghaziabad had just one passenger while the one from Bareilly to Lucknow had five passengers. In all, the five special trains that the Moradabad railway division organised for NEET exam aspirants for travel to and from Dehradun, Roorkee, Lucknow and Moradabad got a total of 21 passengers only. And the Railways, which spent lakhs on operating these trains, made a princely sum of Rs 1040. Providing details, Anuj Singh, assistant commercial manager (ACM), Moradabad division, said, “The Bareilly to Ghaziabad train got one passenger and earned Rs 65 while the Bareilly to Lucknow exam special got five passengers and had earnings of Rs 230. Train no. 04305 — Bulandshahr to Bareilly — got three passengers and we have earned Rs 145 from it. Maximum 12 passengers boarded the exam special from Haridwar to Bareilly, providing earnings of Rs 600.” Keshav Tripathi, Public Relations Officer, Prayagraj division, said that the response of NEET aspirants to the exam special trains operated by their division was also “quite dull.” “The special train that ran from Aligarh to Delhi --- which was operated by our division -- was boarded by five people only, incurring a total income of around Rs 250 for the Railways,” he said. In Agra division, too, the exam special that ran from Kosi Kalan (Mathura) to Delhi, was boarded by just 10 passengers. Similarly, a 10-coach NEET special train travelled 400 km from Neemuch to Bhopal, carrying only 15 candidates. Sources said that twenty-seven students had registered for the 720-seater special, but a dozen didn’t turn up allegedly due to Covid fear. Nine of the 10 coaches came to Bhopal completely empty. Another NEET special, from Anuppur, fared somewhat better as 270 students took it, but most of its 18 coaches, too, were empty. Some of the students felt more of them would have taken the special if the Railways had announced it earlier. “The exam date was fixed long ago, but the train was announced only a day in advance. Very few students would leave their travel plans this late,” said Prashant Nema, an aspirant. Another candidate, Anuj Shastri, said many students found it more convenient to travel by a hired vehicle. “It was not clear if there would be any transport available for the exam centre after we arrived at Bhopal station. So, many of us pooled cars,” he said. (With inputs from Ramendra Singh in Bhopal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-takers-5-exam-special-trains-meant-for-neet-aspirants-get-only-21-passengers-earn-rs-1040/articleshow/78093267.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to take GST compensation fight to Parliament session||HYDERABAD: While states like Karnataka have decided to go in for the loan option to bridge the revenue gap due to non-payment of GST compensation by the Centre, Telangana has decided to raise the issue in Parliament as its calculations revealed the state may not get much benefit from borrowing options. In the loan option, Telanagan can raise up to Rs 51,951 crore or Rs 55, 933 crore (inclusive of earlier 3% and additional 2% gross state domestic product (GSDP) limit fixed by the Fiscal Responsibility Budget Management Act). As per the FRBM’s limit at 3% GSDP, the state can borrow Rs 50,169 crore. In the first option given by the Centre, if the states go for borrowing to fill GST compensation loss, Telangana could borrow Rs 51,951 crore, while if the second option is exercised, the state could borrow Rs 55, 933 crore, including Rs 5,764 crore GST compensation loss. Finance minister T Harish Rao had stated earlier that the state government would not benefit much from either of the options and the interest rate for states would be very high. According to estimates, the state should have got Rs 6,116 crore GST compensation between April and August. The Centre gave about Rs 3,000 crore of the last fiscal, but delayed its release, increasing the interest burden on the state. In addition to this, the state government is also upset about the Centre reducing the maximum benchmark of paying GST compensation. Earlier it was 14% of GST, but this year due to Covid-19, the Union government announced it was reducing it to 10%. Telangana is of the view that it would increase burden on states when revenues were shrinking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-take-gst-compensation-fight-to-parliament-session/articleshow/78095817.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 14, 2020||Nashik||Audit finds valuables missing from Tuljapur temple; 1 booked||Aurangabad: The Tuljapur police in Osmanabad district on Sunday registered a case of cheating, forgery and theft, among other charges, against a former official of the famous Shree Tuljapur Bhavani temple trust after an audit of the shrine’s valuables revealed a shortfall of 348gm gold, over 71kg silver and 71 ancient coins.The police complaint states that the suspect had a post in the trust’s religious affairs division from 2001 to 2018 and was responsible for maintaining a record of the donations, which include centuries-old jewellery such as diamonds and precious stones, besides antique coins.Charges relating to criminal breach of trust and making false documents have also been invoked in the case. No arrest was reported till Sunday night.The alleged misappropriation of the temple’s valuables is suspected to have happened during the period when the official was in his post, basically holding responsibility for maintaining the valuables, police said.The trust runs the Tuljabhavani temple, dedicated to the goddess Bhavani, who Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj revered. The temple is regarded as one of the “Shakti Peethas” in Maharashtra. It is visited by thousands of devotees throughout the year. Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan told TOI, “Based on a complaint lodged by tehsildar Yogita Kokhe, who is currently administrator of the temple trust, the offence has been registered against one suspect.”The report submitted by a three-member committee comprising additional collector, sub-divisional police officer and sub-divisional magistrate, along with the directives of the home department received on April 8, 2020, have been cited as the basis for lodging the police complaint.The complaint states that the keys of the temple’s treasury (safe) were with Mahadeo Gangadhar Dikshit from 1980. Dikshit passed away on November 14, 2001, following which the then collector issued orders asking the official concerned to carry out a panchanama of all official records in Dikshit’s office as well as valuables in the treasury, and take charge.The complaint states that a panchanama was done only on February 2, 2005, which revealed discrepancies in the actual availability of valuables and the record maintained at the temple. However, these discrepancies were never brought to the notice of the temple trust.The complaint says the official concerned retired from his post on October 31, 2015. However, he was twice granted an extension of 11 months each. On August 16, 2018, the then collector ordered accountant S L Intule to take charge from the official. While the process of taking charge was on, the audit revealed the discrepancies in gold weighing over 1.5 kg and over 68 kg of silver, the complaint points out.Taking cognizance of this, a high-level committee was formed on October 6, 2018, whose audit revealed 348.661 grams of gold and over 71.69 kg of silver and 71 ancient coins had gone missing. The report was sent to the home department on December 5, 2019, which earlier this year issued directives for registration of an offence against the suspect, the complaint states.A senior revenue official said the confusion about certain technicalities in the complaint resulted in a delay in registering the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/audit-finds-valuables-missing-from-tuljapur-temple-1-booked/articleshow/78093949.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||Delayed response: No driver, no oxygen, no doctor in NMC ambulances||Nagpur: The 65 ambulances deployed by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) following recommendation by Mumbai’s expert team seems to be failing in meeting the objective of early treatment of Covid19 patients whose condition may otherwise deteriorate at home. Flagged off with much fanfare this week, most of the converted ambulances are yet to make any trip because of lack of drivers. Those managing to reach the doorstep of patients too are not proving to be more than free of cost taxi service. The NMC has allotted four to five ambulances in each of the 10 zones which have only assigned drivers for running them while doctors, paramedics and key medical equipment are conspicuous by their absence. Basic life support (BLS) and advance life support (ALS) are missing in these ambulances though the Covid patients requiring admission need oxygen support right from beginning of their journey in search of hospital beds. In sharp contrast, private ambulances are well equipped with BLS and ALS equipment where patients can spend long hours without facing the risk of deterioration in health. Already harassed by long delays in finding beds, Covid 19 positive patients are forced to prefer the 108 emergency response service which is taking too long to arrive. On Friday evening, an asymptomatic positive patient from Hudkeswar Narasla area under Hanuman Nagar zone experienced sudden breathless and called up the NMC officials. On allegedly not getting any response, the patient’s family approached the local corporator. Prabhag 29 corporator Vidya Madavi said the patient had tested positive around six days ago. “His oxygen level dropped suddenly around 6pm. His kids called me up and sought help. I called up the Hanuman Nagar zone assistant commissioner. She referred me to the NMC control room. At 8pm, I called the control room. The official said he will call back after finding out if the driver was available but never returned the call. The family was getting worried as his condition deteriorated,” she said. Madavi’s husband then called 108 ambulance which came all the way from Hingna at 10pm and left for GMCH. “No bed was available there, so the patient was taken to IGGMCH at 11.30pm,” she said. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke told TOI that the school van-cum-ambulances have been made available only for shifting the patient up to the hospital. “It is not possible to install a life support system in these makeshift vehicles. On Saturday, we convened a meeting with top NMC and RTO officials to get 10 vans equipped with mobile oxygen cylinders. It will be monitored by the paramedical staff,” he said. Officials from other zones too admitted that not all vans were in use and some had pulled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/delayed-response-no-driver-no-oxygen-no-doctor-in-nmc-ambulances/articleshow/78095823.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||JE violates service rules by posing as SP neta, suspended||VARANASI: A junior engineer of irrigation department, Pravin Kumar, was suspended for violating service rules by projecting himself as Samajwadi Party candidate from Chakia assembly seat in Chandauli district. He also posted derogatory comments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and criticized government policies on social media platforms. Kumar, junior engineer (mechanical) posted in the tubewell division, was attached to Meerut office by an order issued on Saturday night. The evidence collected against Kumar revealed he had made adverse comments against the prime minister on his Facebook wall using derogatory language and also shared pictures presenting himself as MLA candidate, the order said. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said Kumar was absent from duty without informing his seniors. The officials found he was active in politics as an SP worker. The photos and videos on his social media accounts attached with the investigation report included posters with photographs of SP patron Mulayam Sing Yadav, Akhilesh Yadav and others. In the posters, his name is mentioned as engineer Pravin Kumar Sonkar. He also projected himself as probable SP candidate from Chakia assembly seat for next assembly polls. The DM said, “The JE posted in tubewell division of the irrigation department in Varanasi had also made derogatory comments against the Prime Minister, criticized the policies of central and state governments and was not coming to work since August 26 without taking leave or informing his seniors.” The DM said that taking note of the facts and evidence, a recommendation was made to the chief engineer (tubewell) on Friday to initiate necessary action against Kumar for violating service rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/je-violates-service-rules-by-posing-as-sp-neta-suspended/articleshow/78096370.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Pandemic threatens to dim sparkle of fireworks industry||Uncertainty around Covid-19 could cast a shadow on the festival of lights and push towards a cycle of debt for fireworks makers. Sivakasi, which accounts for 80% of the country’s fireworks production, is staring at a huge loss this Diwali, with the pandemic sparking an economic slowdown, loss of jobs, restrictions on celebrations and an atmosphere of gloom and fear. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-pandemic-hit-indias-fireworks-capital/articleshow/78099311.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pandemic-threatens-to-dim-sparkle-of-fireworks-industry/articleshow/78095819.cms||M K Ananth
September 14, 2020||Mysuru||Rain sends price of beans, tomato up||Mysuru: Incessant rain across the state has sent the price of two vegetables very commonly used in South Indian homes – tomato and beans – on an upward spiral. While the price of one kg of beans has breached the Rs 100-mark, tomato is being sold on the retail market for a staggering Rs 60 per kg. The vendors in the retail market have attributed the surge in the prices to a drop in supply and an accompanying rise in demand. Farmers, however, have attributed the spike to the loss of crops owing to the rain. Vendors said that supply of vegetables to the city had witnessed a drop in the past few days. “Most vegetables are being transported to Bengaluru and other big cities, resulting in the prices going up,” said Nagaraju, a vegetable vendor. President of the Mysuru District Raitha Sangha TR Vidyasagar said that farmers engaged in the cultivation of vegetables were getting a good price for their produce. A vegetable cultivator in Nanjangud himself, he said, “We are getting Rs 30 per kg of tomato, and making Rs 35 to rs 40 for every kg of beans. This is owing to the sudden rise in the price on the market.” However, the incessant rain has also ushered in a fair amount of problems, with tomato crops sustaining much damage. “If the rain continues this way, the price may go up further, maybe until the next harvest,” Vidyasagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rain-sends-price-of-beans-tomato-up/articleshow/78094462.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||NDRF tour of flood-hit disaster over, Maharashtra seeks Rs700 crore||NAGPUR: The state government has estimated a loss of around Rs700 crore due to last month’s floods. A report has been put up before the Centre for seeking grant from National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) to compensate affected persons and carry out repairs. State’s disaster relief minister Vijay Wadettiwar told TOI, “The NDRF will be releasing funds according to its own norms, which may fall short to meet the entire compensation amount. Rest of the amount will be borne by the state.” He said the state plans to provide over Rs20,000 per hectare for crop losses in affected areas. As per NDRF norms, only Rs6,800 per hectare will be released, and rest will be paid from the state kitty, he said. The compensation will be, however, limited to only one hectare per farmer, irrespective of more area being affected. The minister admitted that it may not be enough, saying the state government is trying to give the most by granting at least three times the NDRF limit. Even for damage to homes, the government is paying up to Rs95,000, said the minister. BJP leader and former guardian minister for Nagpur, Chandrashekhar Bawankule claimed that the region has suffered losses of Rs2,000 crore. This includes crops like paddy, cotton, soybean and even citrus fruits. Meanwhile, the NDRF team on Sunday wound up its tour to assess flood damage in the affected districts —Nagpur, Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli. According to details submitted to the team, the floods have left six persons dead — four from Bhandara and one each in Nagpur and Gadchiroli. The deluge has also damaged 92 bridges and 600km-length of roads. This loss has been estimated to be worth Rs324 crore. On the agriculture front, over 5% of the land under cultivation in the five districts has been affected. According to the report, the floods have hit 34 talukas of the five districts. The total land under cultivation in the talukas stands at 8,37,642 hectares out of which the floods have damaged area spread in 88,864 hectares. This comes to 5% of the total agricultural area in the five districts and 10% of the land in the 34 affected talukas. The highest loss is to paddy at 67,000 hectares followed by 15,000 hectares of cotton. The estimates say that 23,000 homes, including hutments, have been damaged. These include 2,900 completely destroyed pucca homes and 1,229 huts. Over 18,000 houses and huts have been partially damaged. More than 68,000 persons had to be evacuated to safer places. The highest number was in Bhandara with 27,300-odd persons and nearly 27,000 in Nagpur. Around 600 milch animals, big and small, have perished apart from 130 draught animals dying. The floods have also taken toll on over 45,000 poultry birds. Fisheries too have taken a hit as over 8,000kg of fish seeds and market for over 7 lakh kg of fish was lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ndrf-tour-of-flood-hit-dists-over-maha-seeks-rs700cr/articleshow/78096079.cms||Shishir Arya
September 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Move to appoint Manickam asgen secy hint to Telangana Congress overhaul?||HYDERABAD: Congress has finally decided to go for overhaul of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee by appointing young party loyalist B Manickam Tagore as the general secretary in charge of the state. Manickam, who is close to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, has been given the task of submitting the ground report of the party in Telangana. Manickam had defeated MDMK stalwart V Gopalsamy, better known as Vaiko in political circles, in the Virudhunagar Lok Sabha constituency in Tamil Nadu. His appointment is a clear indication that the focus of the party high command is to prepare a young and efficient team in the state to take on K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS in Telangana. Although the new team will be a mix of young, seniors and veterans, the focus would be on the younger lot. “While a change of leadership and the team looks imminent, it has to be seen whether the high command will go for the changes before or after the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, two Graduates MLC constituencies and a bye-poll to Dubbak Assembly segment. GHMC polls are scheduled to be held in February 2021, but indications are TRS may go in for early polls to the civic body. The Election Commission is yet to announce the schedule of polls to MLC seats and the Dubbak constituency. Speaking to TOI over phone, Manickam said he would first go to Delhi and thank Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for his appointment. The Parliament session is also starting on Monday and he is also the whip of Congress Parliamentary Party. “I will soon decide when to come to Hyderabad,” he said. Many among those who started their career from NSUI are upbeat as Manickam has risen in the party ranks from NSUI background. The new incumbent will study the political situation and, after consultation with the veterans, seniors and juniors, will submit a report to the party high command on the changes required for Congress to return to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/move-to-appoint-manickam-asgen-secy-hint-to-t-cong-overhaul/articleshow/78095878.cms||Roushan Ali
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Bhagwat: Provide jobs to Covid-hit labourers||Lucknow: To make labourers and farmers self-reliant, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday asked RSS cadre to coordinate with other charitable organisations to provide jobs to those hit by coronavirus pandemic. During his two-day visit to Lucknow to review the works done by RSS workers in Awadh Prant, Bhagwat appreciated the relief operations carried out by not only Sangh but also other social and religious organisations in the region during the pandemic. Bhagwat said labourers and farmers need to be made ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) in urban and rural areas of the state. The RSS boss also announced that the Sangh would carry out work for conservation of the environment. “People need to be made aware about this important aspect,” Bhagwat said. He said the society needs to be made aware about the conservation of water and restraint on use of plastic, which is harmful to the environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bhagwat-provide-jobs-to-covid-hit-labourers/articleshow/78096395.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Cap prices at private hospitals, want audit of Covid-19 purchases: Congress||PANAJI: Congress on Sunday demanded that the state government should cap treatment and testing prices at private medical facilities during the ongoing pandemic. The party’s media cell convener Trajano D’Mello said that the party would be writing to the comptroller and auditor general of India (CAG) asking for an audit of all the purchases made by the state government during the pandemic, particularly procurement to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. D’Mello said the state government had failed to prepare for the Covid-19 pandemic during the initial lockdown phase and is now trying to cover up the failures. “Why aren’t all private hospitals being made to compulsorily provide beds to those who opt for private care and why is there no check or cap on fees being charged for Covid patients by private hospitals?” said D’Mello. Congress said that the recent admission by the health minister that beds in hospitals are not sufficient, highlights the government’s failure to prepare for the pandemic. “The health minister has recently announced that additional beds will be arranged for patients but why is the government now scrambling when there was enough time for preparedness?,” said D’Mello. “Given Goa’s current Covid-19 situation and the paucity of funds, the state government should stop the salaries and other benefits of all MLAs, including the opposition,” he said.  “This government reduced the monsoon assembly session to one day business, when there was need to discuss the preparedness to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Goa government initially boasted of zero cases in Goa and showed no efforts to tackle the pandemic. Now people of Goa are suffering for the mistake done by this government,” D’Mello added. Panaji: Congress on Sunday demanded that the state government should cap treatment and testing prices at private medical facilities during the ongoing pandemic. The party’s media cell convener Trajano D’Mello said that the party would be writing to the comptroller and auditor general of India (CAG) asking for an audit of all the purchases made by the state government during the pandemic, particularly procurement to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. D’Mello said the state government had failed to prepare for the Covid-19 pandemic during the initial lockdown phase and is now trying to cover up the failures. “Why aren’t all private hospitals being made to compulsorily provide beds to those who opt for private care and why is there no check or cap on fees being charged for Covid patients by private hospitals?” said D’Mello. “Our party will also write to CAG to conduct a special audit and we will demand fixing of rates at private hospitals,” said D’Mello. Congress said that the recent admission by the health minister that beds in hospitals are not sufficient, highlights the government’s failure to prepare for the pandemic during the initial phase of the lockdown. “The health minister has recently announced that additional beds will be arranged for patients but why is the government now scrambling when there was enough time for preparedness? The district hospital in Margao does not have a basic oxygen line laid down and will not be starting for the next 10 days at least,” said D’Mello. “Given Goa’s current Covid-19 situation and the paucity of funds, the state government should stop the salaries and other benefits of all MLAs, including the opposition,” he said.  “This government reduced the monsoon assembly session to one day business, when there was need to discuss the preparedness to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Goa government initially boasted of zero cases in Goa and showed no efforts to tackle the pandemic. Now people of Goa are suffering for the mistake done by this government,” D’Mello added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cap-prices-at-pvt-hospitals-want-audit-of-covid-purchases-cong/articleshow/78095964.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: 79% fatal accidents involving bikes caused by other vehicles||KOCHI: Most number of road accidents that took place in Kochi in 2019 involved two-wheelers, shows a latest NCRB data. As per the data, 71 two-wheeler riders died in accidents in Kochi last year. However, in accidents involving two-wheelers, only 15 of the riders who died were offenders while 56 of them were victims of the accident caused by another offender. The data also revealed that as many as 35 people died in accidents involving trucks in Kochi city followed by bus (16), SUVs (four), cars (nine), jeep (one), rickshaws (seven) and cycle (three). A total of 155 people died due to accidents in the city in 2019. Out of the 35 people who died in accidents involving trucks, seven were offenders and the rest were victims. In the case of buses, three were offenders and 13 were victims. In the case of SUVs, one offender died in accidents while three others were victims. In case of accidents involving cars, five victims and four offenders died in Kochi. As many as nine pedestrians were also killed in accidents in Kochi city last year. Road safety expert P D Sunil Babu said most road accidents, these days, take place due to human error. “The need of the hour is to start thinking about developing a culture of discipline on roads. Two-wheeler riders have to understand that they run a risk higher than four-wheeler drivers. So, they should be extra cautious and should use protective gears. At the same time, unless every driver on the road starts to develop this culture, accidents would repeat. Effective enforcement, including patrolling and deployment of cameras, is the solution till such a culture develops,” said Babu. The data, however, also provides hope for Kochiites. As many as 2,138 road accidents were reported in Kochi in 2019, which was slightly lesser than the previous year’s figure of 2,311. Ernakulam assistant police commissioner K Laljy said effective enforcement through coordinated efforts of police, motor vehicle department and road safety authority has helped bringing the accident rate down. “It is a welcome trend that despite increase in population in the city, the number of deaths due to accidents are coming down. Effective enforcement has played a major role in this,” said ACP Laljy. He added that reckless driving remains a reason for the increasing number of accidents. “Most people are now using helmets. Hence, the number of fatalities is low. But there could be an increase in number of injured people. Reckless driving, especially by young people, is still a major cause for concern. A culture of disciplined driving can only create a permanent solution for this issue,” said Laljy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/79-fatal-accidents-involving-bikes-caused-by-other-vehicles/articleshow/78094957.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Flats reserved in Bengaluru exclusively for drug consumption, say cops||BENGALURU: Central Crime Branch police claimed some flats were being maintained in Bengaluru only to host parties where drugs would be consumed. These flats were also used for after-parties and drugs would be consumed at these events, CCB sleuths claimed. Sources say, six of the accused arrested in the case confessed many parties they attended took place in such flats. Ten people have been arrested till date in the case. Based on information from the accused, police have drawn up a list of the flats. “We will take the accused to these flats for further investigation,” a police officer said. Sources said these after-parties are restricted to select people and party organisers allowed a maximum 30 members. Only celebrities and the affluent would be invited to the parties that usually went on till the small hours of the morning the next day. “These parties were held even during the Covid-19 lockdown in the city. We’ve collected information about such parties and the places where they were held,” the officer added. “The place where the party would be hosted would be revealed to the invitees only the previous night through WhatsApp. They maintained secrecy to avoid being caught by police.” Meanwhile, sources claim actresses Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani cooperated with their interrogators well on Sunday, compared to their initial days in police custody. The investigators told the actresses that they would have to seek extension of their police custody again if they did not answer their questions. The duo answered many questions asked by the interrogating officers. The duo is believed to have confessed that they participated in several parties in Bengaluru and other places in the country, but denied consuming, transporting or selling drugs. Ragini and Sanjjanaa have given details to police on how they came in contact with event organisers Viren Khanna, Rahul Thonshe, Aditya Agarwal and Sheik Fazil. Hair samples of the two actresses have been sent to the Forensic Science Lab (FSL), Hyderabad for tests. The report will reveal whether they had consumed drugs or not. “Hair follicle drug test report will help us to prove that drugs were used in after-parties,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/flats-reserved-exclusively-for-drug-consumption-say-cops/articleshow/78094425.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bhopal||Now, cold storage funds siphoned off||Bhopal: Scams are tumbling out of Madhya Pradesh horticulture department in different ways and names every day — after Chinese tillers that weren’t and marigold seeds that didn’t germinate, now it’s plastic crates. The budget allocated by the Centre for constructing cold storages for onion farmers was allegedly siphoned off to procure ‘plastic crates’ without consent of authorities. A single vendor from Betul, MP, got an order of Rs 10 crore. Insiders say tribal farmers were awaiting their subsidies against onion cold storage when funds were diverted to procure no-so-important plastic crates from a single company against norms. In January 2020, a major component of the funds allotted under RKVY for building cold storages was diverted to onion storage houses, allegedly by a section of officers who convinced bureaucrats that it was not required. The components were changed again, taking top officials into confidence on the ground that plastic crates would be “more useful for farmers to store onions”. Simultaneously, funds were transferred to MP AGRO from where orders were given to a particular vendor for supply of these crates instead of allowing the farmers to buy of their own choice and transferring the subsidy into their accounts — as per DBT norms. District horticulture officers were asked to buy the crates from the same company for distribution, said sources. It is also alleged that the company, which supplied these crates doesn’t have an office at the given address. Given the volume of commission that has been given, it is a case liable for tax evasion and money laundering, said an officer. Similar modus operandi was applied in all other procurements that were made through MP AGRO — violation of DBT policy, changing components allocated by central government, procuring directly from vendors and putting pressure on rural horticulture officers to raise demands and make distribution of purchased items. It is also alleged that some officers, who tried to oppose the irregularities, were threatened by a clique involved in corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-cold-storage-funds-siphoned-off/articleshow/78094959.cms||P Naveen
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Farm bills to be tabled in Parliament today, Akali Dal in dilemma||JALANDHAR: As three bills on agriculture marketing are being tabled in the Lok Sabha on Monday, Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) finds itself in a dilemma over its response to the bills which have been rejected by the farmers in Punjab. With the list of business released by the Lok Sabha secretariat giving details of the bills being introduced by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, it has become clear that the Akali Dal’s appeal to the Centre not to table central agricultural ordinances for approval in Parliament until all reservations expressed by farmer organisations, as well as farmers and farm labourers are duly addressed, did not work at all. Akali Dal had initially expected that these bills would be tabled later in the session so that they would get time to persuade the BJP to make some amendments in the proposed bills but the tabling of these bills on Monday has come as a shock for the BJP partner. The party till late on Sunday evening was not clear about its strategy. Well-placed sources in SAD have revealed that the party leadership is asking the BJP’s central leadership for a window so that alliance is not broken and SAD also manages to save its base among farmers in Punjab. It is learnt that Akali Dal is looking for a way out so that it either can abstain from voting or vote against the bills. “The party is looking for a way out by rather putting the ball in BJP’s court by explaining that due to such strong sentiment among farmers against the ordinances, the party apprehended losing its core vote base and then it would be detrimental for the alliance too,” said a senior SAD leader. It is learnt that majority view in the party was not to support the ordinances mainly due to the sentiment against the bills. “Our party always pursued its politics through sentiments of Sikhs and farmers but now it is caught in the same game with both constituencies — farmers and Sikhs — overlapping and remaining crucial for party’s survival,” said another SAD leader. “Had it been a discontinuation of the MSP, the party would have gone to the extent of breaking the alliance but on these three bills, the party does not want to break the alliance so it is looking for a middle path after talking to central leadership of BJP,” said a senior SAD leader privy to the latest discussions within the party on the issue. When asked, SAD general secretary Prem Singh Chandumajra admitted that their planning had gone awry with the bills being tabled on Monday. “We expected that the bills would be tabled after some days and we would be able to work out some solution. We are working on the situation after the latest development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farm-bills-to-be-tabled-in-parl-today-akali-dal-in-dilemma/articleshow/78095939.cms||IP Singh
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Library, memorial, Rs 20 lakh in name of Bulandshahr girl killed in road accident||LUCKNOW/MEERUT: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced the construction of a library and a ‘prerna sthal’ (memorial) in the name of Sudeeksha Bhati, a 20-year-old student who died in a road accident in Bulandshahr on August 11. The CM also promised the girl’s family a financial assistance of Rs 20 lakh – Rs 15 lakh from the state government and another Rs 5 lakh from the local MP’s development fund. An amount of Rs 1.5 lakh was given as compensation to the family by Bulandshahr district administration. Sudeeksha’s family, accompanied by Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar and BJP Rajya Sabha member Surendra Nagar, met the CM on Sunday. According to officials, the CM asked assured help to the family and asked about their well-being. The family told the CM that Sudeeksha was a brilliant student who overcame all odds. After the meeting, CM Yogi tweeted, “The government has announced to give Rs 15 lakh to the kin of Sudeeksha Bhati. A library and a memorial in her name will be established which will act as an inspiration for other students.” Sudeeksha, daughter of a farmer in Gautam Budh Nagar district, had hit headlines in 2018 after securing full scholarship for graduation course in entrepreneurship at Babson College, Massachusetts (US). She had come from the US in June amid Covid-19 outbreak and was scheduled to go back on August 20 but died in an accident on August 11. “My daughter left us too early. We want her dream of educating girls to stay alive. We demanded the state government authorities to set up a library and a memorial in her name. The CM has assured us that our demands will be met,” said Jitendra Bhati, Sudeeksha’s father. After Sudeeksha’s death, the family had alleged that the accident took place as motorcycle-borne men were following her vehicle and harassing her. Police arrested two persons, Deepak Choudhary and Raju, on the basis of CCTV footage but said they could not find any evidence to corroborate the family’s claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/library-memorial-rs-20l-in-name-of-bulandshahr-girl/articleshow/78096402.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Speeding killed 81 in city last year||Kochi: The latest report by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) on accidental deaths reveals that reckless driving and speeding remain the biggest reasons for accidents and subsequent fatalities in the city. According to the report, in Kochi, most traffic accidents (1,296) and related fatalities (81) happened due to speeding in 2019. While 1,360 people were injured due to speeding, 799 were injured due to reckless driving. Eighty-seven people were injured in accidents caused by poor visibility due to weather conditions, while six due to poor road infrastructure and two under the influence. Dangerous and reckless driving claimed the lives of 69 people in as many as 763 accidents. However, lack of road infrastructure was the reason for four accidents in 2019 and three people died in such incidents. According to the statistics, only one major accident happened in 2019 due to drunk driving, but there were no casualties. No major accidents happened due to physical fatigue of drivers, defect in mechanical condition of vehicles or animal crossing, the data further showed. A senior officer with state police said though the data might not be accurate, it gives an understandable image of the situation. “Many accidents go unreported. Some get settled before it becomes a police FIR and hence, may not get included in the data. However, all fatal traffic accidents are accounted for and are part of the NCRB data. Strict enforcement may be one of the reasons why the city didn’t witness even a single fatal accident due to drunk driving last year, but it doesn’t mean that those under influence of alcohol are not causing any accidents. Fortunately, such accidents might not have led to any causality,” said the officer. Meanwhile, the data also revealed that most number of accidents in Kochi, in 2019, happened in February (221), followed by November (205), May (201), January (196), March (195), December (185), October (181), July (174), June (173), April (154), August (135) and the lowest in September (118).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/speeding-killed-81-in-city-last-year/articleshow/78094966.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lobbying for posts: Vigilance for action against 2 IPS officers||Lucknow: The vigilance establishment has recommended strict action against two IPS officers, Ajay Pal Sharma and Himanshu Kumar, for alleged lobbying for suitable postings. The home department is studying recommendations of the vigilance department before initiating action. A 2011 batch IPS officer, Sharma, is currently posted at Police Training School, Unnao, while Kumar a 2010-batch officer is currently posted at 28th battalion PAC in Etawah. Vigilance officials told TOI reports are sent to the government after every inquiry and details are confidential. It’s also reliably learnt that voice samples of the two IPS officers were not taken by Noida police, negating the theory that forensic report was inconclusive due to sampling errors. Home department officials, however, refused to comment on forensics, saying the content was classified. Earlier, suspended IPS officer Vaibhav Krishna, who was then posted as SSP, Gautam Buddh Nagar, filed a corruption complaint against five IPS officers, including Ajay Pal Sharma Himanshu Kumar and marked it to the department of home and then state DGP on August 23, 2019. While the probe was on, explicit videos and chats of Krishna went viral on January 1 this year. Krishna had described the videos as “morphed” and an attempt to malign him. He alleged the five IPS officers named by him were responsible for the leak. He also linked the leaked video footage to his “confidential” report sent to the government thrice last year and lodged an FIR against unknown persons for morphing and sharing videos. An SIT was formed on January 9 on directions of the CM. It comprised interim state police chief Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, who is also heading the vigilance department along with IG, STF, Amitabh Yash and Jal Nigam MD Vikas Gothalwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lobbying-for-posts-vigilance-for-action-against-2-ips-officers/articleshow/78096406.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab farmers plan stir in Delhi||BATHINDA: With farm ordinances set to be tabled in Parliament on Monday, nearly 50 activists from Punjab will reach Delhi to join a protest called by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a conglomerate of over 200 farm organisations of the country. They will hold the protest outside Parliament on September 16 and 17, when Lok Sabha takes up debate of these ordinances. “We will be reaching Delhi in large numbers on the day Lok Sabha takes up debates on agri bills. If activists are not allowed to reach Parliament, we will protest where we are stopped,” BKU Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal and BKU Lakhowal general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said on Sunday. BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said their activists are holding parallel protests to pressure leaders of SAD and Congress to oppose the bills in Lok Sabha. Farmers will oppose MPs who support the bills or abstain from voting, he said. On Monday, farmers from Punjab will hold five protest rallies at Barnala, Moga, Patiala, Phagwara and Amritsar. Thousands are expected to turn up. Activists of 11 farm bodies plan to block traffic on Tuesday for two hours from noon, at over 40 places across the state. Also, BKU Ekta Ugrahan has planned six-day parallel protests at Badal village and Patiala from September 15. While Centre has been claiming that the purpose of these ordinances is to create ‘one nation one market’ and provide farmers a choice of who to sell, the farmers fear they will not get the minimum support price for their crops as per the new laws. They also fear that the new law will hit the current system of mandis badly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-farmers-plan-stir-in-delhi/articleshow/78095945.cms||Neel Kamal
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Will be a test of state’s MPs: Mann||Chandigarh: Bhagwant Mann, president of Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Lok Sabha MP, has appealed to all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members from Punjab to collectively speak and vote against agriculture ordinances in the monsoon session of Parliament. Mann said the Parliament session would be a test of MPs’ loyalty towards Punjab. When the agricultural ordinances are presented, SAD MPs Sukhbir Singh Badal and his Union minister wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal would be watched by people of Punjab from outside the Parliament and by him inside the Parliament, he asserted. The AAP leader said SAD’s core committee meeting on Saturday on the issue of agricultural ordinances revealed that the Badal family, which had so far been advocating the ordinances, was unnerved by the ground reality. He said if they speak and vote against the ordinances, Harsimrat might lose her ministership and the enforcement directorate might act against her MLA brother Bikram Singh Majithia. Mann said the big question was whether the Badal family would protect the federal structure of Punjab, its agriculture, farmers, labourers, job-seekers and transporters. According to him, the SAD core committee meeting has exposed the dilemma of Akali leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-be-a-test-of-states-mps-mann/articleshow/78095963.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kochi||‘Chiri’ campaign of police brings smile on kids’ faces||KOCHI: Last month, Njarackal police received a call from a boy complaining that someone uprooted a gooseberry plant which he had been caring for over two years and made away with it. The boy had gotten the sapling from his school but some miscreants took it away at night. After receiving the complaint through the Chiri helpline number, police visited the boy’s house at Nayarambalam with a variety of saplings, including two gooseberry saplings, to cheer him up. Chiri, the state police’s campaign to assist children who are facing psychological pressure due to the lockdown, has been getting a warm response from kids in the district. The latest to get assistance from the helpline was a ninth standard student from Ayyampuzha. The girl called up the helpline seeking assistance as she was struggling to finish up her online projects due to the lack of electronic gadgets. The girl’s father became bedridden about nine months ago and her mother who used to work at a bakery stopped going to work to take care of the father. The girl is good at studies and well-wishers had purchased a television for the girl soon after online classes began. She however found it difficult to keep up with the school projects which needed to be done online. It was then that she called the Chiri helpline. SHO of Ayyampuzha police was directed to enquire about the girl’s situation and based on his report, police bought a handset and handed it over to the girl. A similar incident was reported from Chengamanad a few days ago. This time a parent approached the police station seeking help as his television got damaged when his house got flooded in the monsoon rain. “My television got damaged in the floods. I am not able to buy a new one. My children are unable to attend online classes due to the same. Please help,” the parent wrote in the complaint filed at the station. A women police officer at the station, Jini, shared it in WhatsApp groups to find someone who can donate a TV. The very next day Chengamanad police visited the man’s house with a new television. The state police launched the Chiri project, with a helpline number, 9497900200, on July 11. Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick said the project aims to ease the psychological pressure faced by children. Officers said district-level police units have a psychiatrist, psychologist, one member of the Our Responsibility Children initiative and three teachers as part of the Chiri panel. They added that the helpline is intervening to provide assistance on complaints ranging from excess use of mobile phones by children to serious offences against children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chiri-campaign-of-police-brings-smile-on-kids-faces/articleshow/78095027.cms||Disney Tom
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Capt dares Sukhbir to quit BJP alliance||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has challenged SAD president Sukhbir Badal to quit the BJP-led central government to prove his party’s sincerity on farm ordinances to be tabled in the monsoon session of Parliament. Dubbing Sukhbir’s ‘sudden U-turn’ on farm ordinances as a cheap gimmick to hoodwink the farming community, Amarinder said as a member of the ruling alliance at the Centre, SAD is party to the ordinances and had supported them unconditionally. Slamming Sukhbir over his party’s ‘brazen double standards’ on the issue, Amarinder also asked if the Akali leader is ready to vote against the ordinances in Parliament. “SAD’s so-called appeal to the Union government not to present the three central agricultural ordinances for approval in Parliament until all reservations expressed by farmer organisations are addressed is a total hogwash,” he added. Amarinder recalled the SAD president’s assertion during the all-party meeting convened by the CM on the issue in June that the central government had assured them that there would be no tinkering of the minimum support price (MSP). “It is more than obvious now that the SAD president had lied then in a deliberate bid to mislead the farmers,” he said. “What were they doing when the ordinances were being brought in? Why did they not object? After all, they are part of the central government responsible for these ordinances,” Amarinder said. “Your wife is a Union minister. Has she even once spoken for the farmers in the cabinet,” Amarinder asked Sukhbir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-dares-sukhbir-to-quit-bjp-alliance/articleshow/78095965.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Nagpur||No lockdown for now, but pay Rs500 for going maskless||NAGPUR: Guardian minister Nitin Raut has changed his mind on ‘self-lockdown’ on weekends from September 19 as it would adversely affect livelihood of the poor. The minister also told the media on Sunday lockdown would have created problems in contact tracing and also increased the number of cases, as per experts. Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh has increased the fine for not wearing mask in public places from Rs 200 to Rs 500. “Despite repeated requests, some people are not wearing masks and this may spread Covid. We are left with no alternative but to be strict with them,” he said. Raut and Deshmukh reviewed the Covid situation in the district on Sunday along with officials from several departments. The two ministers fixed responsibility on administrative officials regarding bed management and contact tracing. Each officer was given a specific field and area. “I have received reports that patients with mild symptoms are getting hospitalized while those with severe symptoms are not getting beds. Hence, bed management is vital. Serious patients should get beds first,” he told TOI. Raut said there were large number of complaints that beds were not available even for serious Covid patients. He told Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials to increase the number of Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) immediately. The two government medical colleges were asked to install a dashboard of beds. “Under no circumstances should a patient be refused a bed by government hospitals. The relatives of patients should not come to hospitals. Arrangements should be made to inform them of the patients’ condition at their home. War rooms should be set up in both medical colleges,” the minister told the IAS officers in-charge of the medical college beds. The guardian minister told TOI the number of active patients was high in the district because private laboratories were not updating their records properly. “I have asked officials to take action against erring labs,” he said. The two ministers also held talks with representatives of oxygen cylinder manufacturing companies. They were asked to ensure that Nagpur and adjoining districts of Vidarbha did not face oxygen shortage. However, they made it clear that priority should be the two medical colleges in the city. As there is severe shortage of manpower in healthcare sector, Raut asked officials to immediately avail the services of medical students who had cleared their final year exams and also those who were in final year. The honorariums of Asha and anganwadi workers should be increased, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-lockdown-for-now-but-pay-more-for-going-maskless/articleshow/78095962.cms||Ashish Roy
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak looks for a Sikh to head Nanak varsity||Amritsar: The Pakistan government has started looking for a Sikh scholar to take charge as the vice chancellor (VC) of Baba Guru Nanak University (BGNU) in Nanakana Sahib, even as it has given the varsity’s six-month charge to Lahore-based Government College University VC Asghar Zaidi. Sources said Zaidi had been given additional charge as he had academic expertise. “They actually need an intellectual Sikh face to head the university which will be known exclusively for Sikh studies, Punjabi, Sikh religious affairs etc to gain help. Pawan Singh Arora, who is in the chancellor’s office, is assisting Zaidi,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-looks-for-a-sikh-to-head-nanak-varsity/articleshow/78095977.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Publish rare, out-of-print books, Akal Takht jathedar tells SGPC||JALANDHAR: With several important books and booklets published by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) going out of print over the recent and distant past, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has asked SGPC to re-publish all the titles published by it since inception. The SGPC has published several books and booklets. Many of these have great academic and historical value while others include scholarly works. “I have asked the SGPC not only to reprint all its titles but also to purchase two buses to hold book exhibitions. These buses should go to different places so that Sikh literature reaches maximum people,” the Jathedar said on Sunday. The rarity of some of these titles can be gauged from the Jathedar’s own experience of a booklet on the massacre of 1947. “I had been looking for it and then I came to know that it was available with the library at Gurdwara Nanak Mata. I called the president of the Gurdwara management committee there and he said it was in the catalogue but it was not in the library. After a few days, they managed to track it down and found that it was now with them. It is important to make the treasure of books published by the SGPC in the past available to people,” he said. Important works, including those on the Gurdwara Reform movement, books based on articles by Akali stalwart Master Tara Singh, which provide a glimpse into political and religious issues as well as the controversy around language, have been out of print. Some titles have been missing from the catalogue published by SGPC. “Saachi Sakhi” by Kapur Singh ICS, which is considered quite an important work and is often cited, is not available. Prof Puran Singh’s “Punjab Jionda Guran De Naan Te” and celebrated Punjabi poet Lala Dhani Ram Chatrik’s “Dharambeer” (ballads on Sikh martyrs) have been out of print for quite some time. At least till February this year, “Akali Morche Ate Jhabbar” in Punjabi and its English translation based on the daily diary maintained by Kartar Singh Jhabbar, one of the most important leaders of the Gurdwara Reform movement, were not available at book stores run by SGPC, including the one at the entrance of Darbar Sahib Amritsar. Kartar Singh Jhabbar played a crucial role in the movement, risking his life to throw out corrupt mahants. However, books written or edited by SGPC officials are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/publish-rare-out-of-print-books-akal-takht-jathedar-tells-sgpc/articleshow/78095976.cms||IP Singh
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 15 IPS officers suspended in 3.5 years||LUCKNOW: The Yogi government has suspended 15 IPS officers in the past three and a half years on various charges, including corruption. While seven out of 15 are still under suspension, eight of them have been reinstated. Six of them were suspended this year. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had shown his intention since the onset when he suspended IPS officer Himanshu Kumar on March 25, 2017 -- barely a few days after taking over -- for indiscipline. Kumar had done a controversial tweet on government biases against a particular caste. Next to face action was Subhash Chandra Dubey for failing to control caste-based clashes in Saharanpur on May 24, 2017. In 2018, two district police chiefs were suspended on the same day on July 16. Then SP Sambhal SP RM Bhardwaj and then Pratapgarh SP Santosh Kumar Singh were suspended for failing to control law and order in their districts. The CM had also directed a departmental action against them. In the same year, after the Deoria shelter home abuse case, the CM shunted out SP Rohan P Kanay and initiated departmental action against him on August 15. Taking a tough stand against corruption, on April 4, 2019, he also suspended SP Barabanki, Satish Kumar, for complaints of extortion of Rs 65 lakh. Last year, it also began on a strong note and first suspended then ADG rules and manual, Jasvir Singh, on February 19 for indiscipline. It also put under suspension N Kolanchi, for alleged gross irregularities in the transfer and posting of police station in charge while his stint as SP Bulandshahr on August 3. In the same month SSP Prayagraj Atul Sharma was suspended on August 20 for failing to control law and order. This year, the first to be suspended was then SSP GB Nagar Vaibhav Krishna, for misconduct on January 10. Later, for laxity in a abduction-cum-murder case, Aparna Gupta, who was then posted as SP South in Kanpur Nagar was suspended on July 24. Last month, the government suspended Arvind Sen posted as DIG, PAC, Agra, and DIG (rules and manuals, Dinesh Dubey for allegations of corruption and then recently, it suspended SSP Prayagraj, Abhishek Dixit, for corruption and laxity, and finally SP Mahoba, Mani Lal Patidar, for corruption. The government has been very strict and taken stern action in not only complaints against corruption but also for failure to control law and order. It could gauged from the fact that a recent report by the anti-corruption organisation shows that as many as 150 officers were nabbed red-handed taking bribes while assistance and coordination with other government departments helped it solve as many as 153 other cases which had involvement of different non-gazetted officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15-ips-officers-suspended-in-3-5-yrs/articleshow/78096423.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Don’t rush to open schools: Khaunte to CM||PANAJI: Given the spike in Covid-19 cases in Goa, the government’s decision to reopen schools needs to be reviewed, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte on Sunday. He said that it will be extremely difficult to follow Covid protocols or prevent rapid transmission amongst the students in classrooms. Expressing his apprehensions, Khaunte has appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant, who holds the education portfolio, to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of opening schools with teachers and parents. “It will be extremely difficult to ensure Covid protocols or negate a rapid transmission possibility amongst the students,” said Khaunte. “I also have serious concerns as a parent myself, regarding the government decision to open up schools especially for standard 9th to 12th,” he said. The former revenue minister pointed out that with a majority of Covid-19 patients being asymptomatic, there is no clear way to keep students away from the virus. Khaunte agreed that regular classes are the most beneficial for students but given the spike in Covid-19 cases, regular classes pose a bigger risk. “I fervently urge the chief minister not to rush into a decision. There’s a need to mull over the pros and cons with the teaching community and parents to formulate a safe way to conduct regular classes, if the same are absolutely unavoidable,” Khaunte added. The Porvorim MLA also lauded health minister Vishwajit Rane’s initiative to provide free Covid kits to those who opt for home quarantine. However, Khaunte said that he is also apprehensive about the government’s intentions while distributing the free medicines and equipment. “Past examples of these corrupt masterminds finding opportunities even in adversity prompts me to request the chief minister to ensure that at least this single good initiative is implemented without mismanagement, political favouritism and corruption. I do hope there will be a uniformity of distribution with transparency of facts and figures regarding recipients and funds,” Khaunte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-rush-to-open-schools-khaunte-to-cm/articleshow/78095984.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||SIT grills 26 cops in security of on-the-run former DGP||Mohali: Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who is evading arrest in a case over alleged disappearance and elimination of Balwant Singh Mulatni, left Chandigarh on August 12 along with his security cover, but asked the escort Gypsy to return from Karnal bypass. The revelation came following the questioning of 26 police personnel posted in the security of former DGP, who is the prime accused in the 1991 case, by the Special Investigating Team (SIT) on his hot pursuit. The SIT also discovered that Saini was present at his Panchsheel Park residence in Delhi from August 12 to 22 and then returned many police officials, including his driver, back to Chandigarh. Since then, his security staff members are not aware of his whereabouts. The former DGP was been found missing from his Chandigarh house when a policeman had gone to serve a notice on him informing about addition of Section 302 (murder) of the IPC to the FIR registered against him. Therefore, the notice was pasted outside his house on August 22 when Saini, according to his security staff, was present at his Delhi residence. Sources in the SIT said all the 26 police personnel have joined the investigations, including three inspectors, four sub-inspectors, six assistant sub-inspectors, 10 head constables and three constables. They have been attached with him for the last 30 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-grills-26-cops-in-security-of-on-the-run-former-dgp/articleshow/78095974.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 14, 2020||Mysuru||Man injured in sloth bear attack||Mysuru: A 50-year-old villager was injured after he was attacked by a sloth bear in Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary on Sunday. Foresters said Chinnappa, 50, a resident of Ramegowdanahalli village at the foot of MM Hils, was injured on his leg and shoulder after he was attacked by a sloth bear at Holevoddu forest under Maruru Beat around 3 pm. However, Chinnappa managed to escape after which villagers and foresters rushed him to a hospital in Ramapuram. MM Hills wildlife division DCF V Yedukondalu said Chinnappa was safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-injured-in-sloth-bear-attack/articleshow/78094017.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Check finds sewage in Gurdwara Panja Sahib sarovar||Amritsar: Officials of Pakistan’s Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) were embarrassed when Prime Minister Imran Khan’s special assistant Zulfiqar Hussain Bukhari aka Zulfi Bukhari found sewage water in the holy pond or sarovar of Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Hassan Abadal, on Sunday. Sources said Bhukhari took strong exception to the gross negligence on the part of the ETPB. The board, also known as the parent body of Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC), claims to have done extensive development work on Hindu and Sikh shrines left in Pakistan after partition in 1947. In this case, ETPB officials refused to comment on how the pond water was contaminated. ETPB public relations officer Aamir Hashmi told TOI that Zulfi directed the local administration to provide all possible support to overcome the problems. “He was briefed about the issues faced by yatrees, including diversion of the nullah from the gurdwara, improving the link road and possible construction of a star category hotel,” said Hashmi. On September 9, Zulfi held a meeting with ETPB officials in Islamabad, where the board proposed to introduce religious tourism packages for Sikh and Hindu devotees from across the world. Sources said a group of Sikh businessmen from the US, UK, Canada and other international destinations were likely to visit Pakistan to explore the possibility of investing in Sikh religious tourism infrastructure in Pakistan. Zulfi’s visit to Gurdwara Panja Sahib is being seen as an attempt to monitor preparations made by ETPB and to prevent any awkward situation during the Sikh entrepreneurs’ visit to Pakistan, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/check-finds-sewage-in-gurdwara-panja-sahib-sarovar/articleshow/78095978.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Businessman, shot at after accusing SP of graft, dies||LUCKNOW: Mahoba-based crusher dealer Indrakant Tripathi who had levelled allegation of corruption against the then district police chief Mani Lal Patidar, and was shot at on September 8, succumbed to his injuries at a Kanpur hospital late on Sunday evening. The suspended IPS officer, Mani Lal Patidar, and several others who were booked for attempt to murder by Mahoba police late on Friday evening in this case, now also face the murder charge. Patidar was Mahoba police chief till Wednesday but was suspended by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on charges of corruption. Tripathi was shot in the neck while he was returning home from Banda road on September 8. He was later taken to district hospital from where doctors referred him to Regency Hospital in Kanpur Nagar, where he succumbed to his injuries. Tripathi was on a ventilator for the past few days. His brother Ravi Kanth lodged the FIR charging the IPS officer with the attempt to murder on Friday. Tripathi was shot a day after he released a video on Monday in which he accused Patidar of seeking bribe for allowing him to run his business of crusher. Others booked along with Patidar on Friday are a suspended inspector, Devendra Shukla, trader Suresh Soni and some unidentified cops. Ravi Kant said in his FIR that his brother was a licence holder for carrying out crushing works in the district. But former SP of Mahoba, Patidar, had been illegally demanding Rs 6 lakh for running vehicles engaged in transportation of stone chips. “When his demand was not met, vehicle owners were harassed through the suspended SHO, Kabrai, Devendra Shukla,” the FIR says. He also stated in the FIR that his partners, Kishore Diwedi and Purushotam Soni, who have proper licences of doing crushing work were asked to appear in person by cops and pay Rs 6 lakh to Pathidar. However, when my brother could not pay the amount, the then SHO, Kabrai, Devendra Shukla instructed him to meet on September 3. “My brother met Patidar and begged before him that he would not be able to pay the money because of losses. But it had no impact on him and he began abusing him and threatened to get him eliminated,” he stated. An FIR has already been registered against Patidar under the charges of Prevention of Corruption Act on Thursday after he was suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/businessman-shot-at-after-accusing-sp-of-graft-dies/articleshow/78096428.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Corp to check land grab near MG Road||Kochi: Kochi corporation councillors, on Monday, will conduct a site inspection at the 16 cents of land owned by the local body on MG Road. Opposition councillors raised the issue that the land was being alienated as local body authorities remain mute spectators. At a time when shortage of land has stalled various development projects in the state, corporation authorities’ failure to use the land shows its apathy. The land could be used for setting up multi-level car parking, bus bays etc. TOI had carried a series of stories demanding better use of land with the help of funds from agencies like Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). “It was as part of the drive in 2007 that the 16 cents of land was evicted. Even after 13 years, corporation authorities haven’t utilised the land for any projects,” said K S Dileep Kumar, president, Ernakulam Vikasana Samithi. “The land near a textile shop on MG Road could have been used for many purposes. As authorities remained mute spectators, shopping complexes in the area again encroached upon the land,” he said, adding that they had taken up the issue with the corporation several times, but failed to take any action. “A cent of land on MG Road is priced at around Rs.2 crore. So, the total cost of the said land will come up to Rs.32 crore,” Kumar said. At the council meeting held on Friday, LDF councillors raised the issue and demanded that corporation authorities and councillors should conduct a site visit to assess the situation following which the ruling front agreed to conduct a site visit on Monday. “We already have a proposal for setting up a multilevel car parking in the said land. It couldn’t be implemented due to certain technical issues. We will be visiting the said land on Monday and chart out further course of action,” corporation deputy mayor K R Premakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-to-check-land-grab-near-mg-road/articleshow/78095073.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Info that cricketers are involved wrong’||BENGALURU: Speculation is rife that some Karnataka cricketers used to regularly attend parties hosted by event manager Viren Khanna, an accused arrested in the drugs scandal case. The names of two cricketers are doing the rounds, but there is no confirmation from the police. Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime), however, said it is just a rumour. “It is wrong information. There are no such names in the ongoing investigation into drug racket so far,” Patil said. Police said they are verifying social media posts including photos and videos of the accused in the case. However, one officer said, “Just because we find someone’s photo or video posing or along with an accused person, it does not mean they are suspects in the case.” Elsewhere, Sriram Khanna, Viren’s father, told reporters that his son had done no wrongdoing and that he had informed police prior to hosting any party. “My son organised parties for several years and he routinely took permission from jurisdictional police stations. We are ready to give the details of such parties to the police,” Sriram Khanna told reporters after visiting the CCB office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drugs-scandal-police-say-ktaka-cricketers-not-on-their-radar/articleshow/78094466.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Newbie goons eye Vikas Dubey’s Rs 60 crore financial empire||KANPUR: Chaubeypur and Bilhaur police stations in the Bikru hinterland are flooded with calls with clues on holed-up lieutenants of slain gangster Vikas Dubey. Other SOS calls veer around extortion threats by newbie goons, trying to fill the don’s vacuum by invoking his name. While many are trying to frame rivals and settle personal scores, extortion calls are a bid to tap into the Rs 60crore financial empire of the slain gangster, whose name still spells terror. Recently, a man claiming to be a Bikru resident wrote to police, seeking registration of an FIR against a Dubey aide, who grabbed land in the village. “He’s terrorising villagers and grabbing land,” he wrote, providing address details of the alleged henchman. Police rushed to the village to locate his whereabouts, only to discover it was a ghost address with fake telephone numbers. Further investigation revealed the complaint was filed to settle personal scores. This is not an isolated case. “At least 100 such complaints have poured in at offices of IG-Range, DIG and circle officer, Billhaur, and 55% are fake. Villagers are encashing Dubey’s name and filing complaints against rivals,” said a police officer. Complaints are not limited to personal rivalries. Other SOS calls are about extortion threats from goons, who want to fill the gangster’s shoes. Recently, an Armyman posted in Nagaland rushed back to Chaubeypur after he received series of threat calls from a man who introduced himself as a friend of Vikas Dubey. The caller threatened him to take care of his estranged wife and take her to Nagaland or he would be eliminated. Earlier, a computer institute owner was threatened by an extortionist to cough up money by invoking the don’s name. A police official told TOI that dealing with such cases is a new challenge and there’s a surge in such complaints. The department is making a list of complainants to book them under law. “The initiative will curb unnecessary cases being filed at police stations and save time and energy. We have already initiated action against those making extortion calls and an accused was recently arrested from Barra South. He confessed to police he was running out of money and decided to extort from an institute, where he had pursued a diploma course,” said IG range Mohit Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/newbie-goons-eye-bikru-dons-rs-60cr-financial-empire/articleshow/78096429.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Peso carries out disaster mapping of Cochin Port||KOCHI: To avoid a Beirut-like explosion in Indian post, the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (Peso), which overlooks the safety compliances of all chemical and hazardous products, has done a disaster mapping and put safety lines in place at Cochin Port. This is the only port which is handling storage and transfer of petroleum products in the state. “There are a few hazardous industries also in the port vicinity. So we have done a disaster mapping and beefed up safety measures. As part of this, we conducted safety review meetings with all the stakeholders,” said deputy chief controller of explosives (Ernakulam) R Venugopal. “A review of the single-point mooring (SPM) which is situated around 19.2km from the shore was also done and safety measures were updated,” he said. The SPM terminal set up by BPCL in the Arabian Sea receives crude oil from very large crude carriers, through sub-sea pipelines into storage tanks located at the Shore Tank Farm (STF) at Puthuvype. The crude oil is then pumped into the Kochi Refinery. SPM is a strictly prohibited area. Peso, which is the sole explosives regulator, celebrated its foundation day on Wednesday with a message to ensure that regular safety audits should be done by people and organizations when handling hazardous material. The latest feather in the cap for Peso, Ernakulam, was ensuring the successful and safe demolition of the implosions at Maradu. “We are ensuring that there is no shortage of oxygen supply to the hospitals especially in the wake of Covid-19. Also, all companies handling chemicals have been asked to set up pre-start review committees before opening after the lockdown. This is to aviod Vizag-like accidents,” said Venugopal. Peso regulates major industries BPCL Kochi Refinery, Cochin Shipyard, FACT, The Kerala Minerals & Metals Ltd and The Travancore Cochin Chemicals. “For ensuring cooking fuel in the state, the Peso office regulates nine LPG bottling plants of BPCL, IOC and HPCL at Kazhakoottam in Thiruvananthapuram, Ambalamugal, Irumpanam and Udayamperoor in Ernakulam, Kanjikode in Palakkad and Chelari in Malappuram. The five oil Installations and depots in Ernakulam and Kozhikode are also regulated by this office,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/peso-carries-out-disaster-mapping-of-cochin-port/articleshow/78095101.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 14, 2020||Kochi||Queen’s Walkway cleared of waste||Kochi: The Queen’s Walkway along Chathiyath Road that remained unclean due to disposal of food waste has been cleaned on Sunday after the intervention of revenue department. The walkway, which has become one of the busiest waterfront hangouts in the city, has been losing its sheen due to misuse of the place by the people. Following complaints from the walkers and runners about the lack of hygiene, Kanayannur tahsildar Beena P Anand directed the Kochi corporation administrative officer to take measures to clean the walkway. Following this, a team led by the health inspectors of the corporation cleaned the walkway and emptied the waste bins that were filled with food waste. The tahsildar has also asked the authorities to ensure the proper upkeep of the walkway. TOI had earlier reported that the main problem at the walkway was the dumping of waste along the road near the walkway. Also, most of the steel chairs are in a dilapidated condition with the steel rods being removed by people. Stray dog menace is another issue faced by the visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/queens-walkway-cleared-of-waste/articleshow/78095096.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Madurai||DMK youth wing worker hacked to death||Madurai: A 32-year-old DMK functionary from Tirunelveli district was hacked to death by an armed gang when he was on his way to his house in South Valliyur on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as M Muthuraman, from South Valliyur village. He was a key functionary of DMK’s youth wing in Tirunelveli East District. He had gone to Valliyur in his car along with his friends on Saturday evening. While returning, the road was blocked by barrels. When he got down from his car and tried to shift the barrels, a gang surrounded him and hacked him. They then immediately fled the place. His friends took him to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. A police team led by the Tirunelveli superintendent of police, N Manivannan, visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the Panagudi police station. A police officer said that they are yet to identify the motive behind the murder and have not arrested anyone so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-youth-wing-worker-hacked-to-death/articleshow/78096433.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||64% of penalties imposed by Hry info panel not paid||Chandigarh: Around 64% of the total penalties imposed by the Haryana state information commission (SIC) in the past five years are yet to be recovered from the state public information officers (SPIOs). The SIC had imposed a penalty of Rs 3.02 crore on the SPIOs for delay/default in providing information to the applicants between January 1, 2015 and July 31, 2020. However, the commission is yet to recover Rs 1.91 crore of the total penalty from the SPIOs. Information in this regard has been provided by the commission on September 7 to the Gurgaon-based RTI activist Aseem Takyar and advocate Shakti Singh of Karnal on two separate applications filed under the RTI act. “The imposed penalty of Rs 3,0241,999 from January 1, 2015 to July 31, 2020, Rs 1,06,10,207 has been recovered... the amount of 1, 96,31,783 is yet to be recovered for which the government has issued strict instructions,” says the information provided by the commission to Takyar. The commission, however, has been issuing letters periodically for recovery of the penalty amount. The RTI Act provides no power to the commission to take any action against the SPIO who did not deposit penalty amount. However, the state government in August 2019 had issued strict instructions for recovery of amount from the erring SPIOs. As per the information provided by Yagya Dutt Chugh, SPIO-cum-under secretary, SIC regarding process of recovery of penalty amount, if the drawing and disbursing officer will not deduct amount of penalty from the salary of the SPIO, he is liable for disciplinary action as per the Haryana Civil Services (Punishment & Appeal) Rules 2016. “In case the SPIO is retired without depositing the amount of penalty, it can be recovered from pension,” the commission SPIO has clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/64-of-penalties-imposed-by-hry-info-panel-not-paid/articleshow/78095991.cms||Ajay Sura
September 14, 2020||Lucknow||Wajid Ali Shah’s great grandson dies of Covid||LUCKNOW: The great grandson of Awadh's last king Nawab Wajid Ali Shah and grandson of Nawab Birjis Qadr, Prince Kaukab Quder Sajjad Ali Meerza, died in Kolkata on Sunday evening. The last surviving great grandson of Wajid Ali Shah and Begum Hazrat Mahal, the 87-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago, his family said. He is survived by his wife, Badr-un-Nissa 'Badr' who belongs to Lucknow's famous Khandan-e-Ijtihad and is the daughter of poet Fazl Naqvi. The couple has two sons and four daughters. He last visited Lucknow in May 2017 at the screening of a film on his great grandmother Begum Hazrat Mahal. The 26-minute documentary was commissioned by the Films Division and premiered in Lucknow for the first time on the 137th death anniversary of the queen. Kaukab was also a senior trustee of the Sibtainabad Imambara Trust in Matiaburj, Kolkata, where his great grandfather, King Wajid Ali Shah lies buried. After doing his doctorate in Urdu from Aligarh Muslim University on the 'Literary & Cultural Contributions of Wajid Ali Shah', he joined the same university as a teacher and retired as professor of Urdu in 1993. "Also known as Dr M Kaukub, he was a popular figure in the billiards and snooker fraternity of the country. He was the founder-secretary of The Billiards & Snooker Federation of India, The West Bengal Billiards Association and also The Uttar Pradesh Billiards & Snooker Association," his son Irfan Ali Mirza said. He was the chief referee of the first World Snooker Championship held at the iconic Great Eastern Hotel in Calcutta in 1963-64. He remained the chief referee of the National Billiards & Snooker Championship till it left the Palm Court of the Great Eastern Hotel in the 70s. The rolling trophy of the IBSF World Snooker Championship, the M M Baig Trophy, was designed by him, and to this day remains the prestigious rolling trophy of the World Championship. He had made his daughter Manzilat Fatima play the Junior National Snooker Championship in 1980 in Ahmedabad, thus making her the first female ever to participate in the National Snooker Championship, the son said. He had also taken out a pioneering Billiards magazine, The Baulkline, in the 1970s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wajid-ali-shahs-great-grandson-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78096438.cms||Yusra Husain
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Minor among 7 held during raids at hooch dens in Garhwa||GARHWA: Police on Sunday raided hooch dens and arrested six persons and detained a teenager from different villages in the district. The arrested included Vikaram Chandravanshi, Shiv Kumar Saw and a teenager from Duldulwa village of Meral Police station area, Shyam Sundar Saw of Chapri village (Bhawnathpur), Vishnudhari Chaoudhary and his son Sakendra Chaoudhary from Haradag village (Ramna) and Binu Saw of Tamge village (Ranka). Police also seized 200kg fermented mahua, which serves as raw material for manufacturing country made liquor, 275 litre liquor, two motorcycles, two gas cylinders and liquor making equipment. Garhwa SDPO Bahaman Tuti said, “We conducted raids and arrested six persons and detained a teenager from different villages who were involved in the illicit liquor trade.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/minor-among-7-held-during-raids-at-hooch-dens-in-garhwa/articleshow/78095103.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Myanmar man escapes from detention centre in Hazaribag||HAZARIBAG: A 27-year-old Myanmar national identified as Mohammad Abdullah escaped from the foreigners’ detention centre (FDC) here on Sunday morning. Police launched a manhunt to nab him but were not successful so far. Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand said, “The man managed to escape from the FDC, located outside the Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail, by breaking the grills with a sharp weapon. He then walked out on foot.” Anand said teams have been dispatched to track him down and his photographs are shared with all police stations in the district to alert them. The authorities are anticipating that the fugitive will not be able to go far because of the lack of public transport. The DC further said Abdullah’s escape was a security lapse as the FDC is guarded round the clock. “An inquiry committee has been set up under a magistrate and a DSP-rank official to find out the lapses. Based on their findings, action will be taken against any personnel found guilty,” he added. Kumar Chandrashekhar, the superintendent of Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail, said show-cause notices have been issued to four policemen on duty at the FDC and an FIR has been lodged at the local police station. Abdullah was arrested by the Railway Police Force (RPF) personnel from the Barhwarwa railway station in Sahibgunj district on November 10, 2016, for not having a valid visa. He was produced in a railway court on May 25, 2018, which convicted him to 18 months of imprisonment in the Dumka jail under Section 14 of the Foreigners’ Act. His jail term ended in January this year and the Dumka district authorities had reached out to the Myanmar embassy for his repatriation. However, the embassy is yet to respond. On February 27, he was shifted to the FDC, district officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/myanmar-man-escapes-from-detention-centre-in-hazaribag/articleshow/78094953.cms||Abhijit Sen
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Cong slams land mutation bill, BJP plans statewide stir||Ranchi: A week after the Hemant Soren cabinet passed the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, voices of protests have now started surfacing against it both from the ruling and the opposition camps, demanding its rollback. While BJP has announced to launch a stir across the state, Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey threatened to tear the copy of the bill if it is tabled in the upcoming monsoon session. Talking to reporters on Sunday, BJP’s leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi, also an MLA from Dhanwar, said this bill is anti-people. He said, “The bill aims to provide protection to land and revenue officers from any kind of action/cases even if they commit any mistake. Will any sane government tend to do it? We would have welcomed if the bill empowered common people rather than the babus.” Marandi added, during the Raghubar Das regime, the state cabinet rejected this bill twice. “I wonder how the new cabinet passed it. It is clear that either the cabinet ministers didn’t understand the contents of the bill or were misled by officials. The bill must not come to the assembly ahead of the monsoon session. If it is passed, it will be a black day for Jharkhand. BJP will go all out to block this bill irrespective of what it takes to do,” warned Marandi, Jharkhand’s first chief minister. Tirkey, who has been a long crusader for tribal rights and has been safeguarding their lands, said the Hemant Soren government had come to power by safeguarding tribals and poor land holders from land sharks. “But this bill is completely opposite to the coalition government’s electoral stand. I will to the chief minister to make him understand why this bill will be dangerous for all. I will tear the bill if it comes up in the upcoming monsoon session,” he said. According to Tirkey, land sharks’ connivance with government officials has been one of the biggest problems in Jharkhand. By providing immunity to land and revenue department officials, there will be a free-run for land loots. Tirkey also questioned why the Jharkhand government often relies on the old and archaic laws of Bihar to devise its own laws. “Aren’t our IAS officials competent enough to prepare our own laws? Why should we always base our laws on those which exist in Bihar even after two decades of being bifurcated? But unlike in the Bihar’s law, this land bill ceases power to protest and complaint. The government will be in a soup if it is passed as it will lead to widespread protests,” said Tirkey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-slams-land-mutation-bill-bjp-plans-statewide-stir/articleshow/78094892.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Farmers threaten protest over Mapusa ODP||SALIGAO: Mapusa Farmers Association has threatened to hold an agitation outside the municipality as a mark of protest for allegedly excluding their names from the town’s outline development plan (ODP). The president of the association, Sanjay Barde, alleged that the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) along with the elected representatives of all seven constituencies in Bardez were responsible for the exclusion of farmers’ names from the new Mapusa ODP. “The farmers sacrificed most of their fields for the town’s development, but the MMC, instead of being grateful, has excluded their names from the new OPD,” alleged Barde. Among those present at the meeting were Congress North Goa district president Vijay Bhike and president of Camarkhazan Farmers Association John Lobo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-threaten-protest-over-mapusa-odp/articleshow/78096005.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s death leaves Lalu Prasad ‘shocked, speechless’||RANCHI: When the news of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s passing away reached Lalu Prasad in Ranchi on Sunday morning, the jailed RJD chief was so shocked that he did not speak for several minutes, Lalu’s aides told TOI. The septuagenarian RJD chief was sitting at the drawing room of Kelly’s Bungalow, the official residence of the director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, and flipping through television channels when the news of Singh’s death caught his eye. प्रिय रघुवंश बाबू! ये आपने क्या किया?मैनें परसों ही आपसे कहा था आप कहीं नहीं जा रहे है। लेकिन आप इतनी दूर चले गए।… https://t.co/WVU3k9SToR— Lalu Prasad Yadav (@laluprasadrjd) 1599979561000“He was so shocked that he got up and stood like a statue and stared at the television screen for several minutes. As if he did not believe what he was hearing. There was a look of disbelief in his eyes and his hands were folded together in prayers,” Irfan Ansari, Lalu’s personal help, said. Turning towards Ansari, Lalu said, “It was you who took my last letter to the jail (Birsa Munda Central Jail in Hotwar) authorities to send it to Babu Raghuvansh Ji.” Ansari said Lalu did not utter a single word after that. It was only 48 hours ago that Lalu had penned an emotional letter to Singh to dissuade the latter from his stand of quitting RJD. Reminiscing about the political journey and camaraderie which spanned across four decades, Lalu wrote, “You should first recover and then we will talk about it. You are not going anywhere.” RJD, which went into mourning, lowered its party flag at half mast to pay respects to its departed leader. “His demise is an immense loss for Indian politics and people,” RJD’s state chief Abhay Singh said. मुख्यमंत्री श्री @HemantSorenJMM ने पूर्व केंद्रीय मंत्री रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह के निधन पर शोक व्यक्त किया है। मुख्यमं… https://t.co/h1V7jOH2lz— Office of Chief Minister, Jharkhand (@JharkhandCMO) 1599981776000Condolences poured in from Jharkhand’s political bigwigs. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who met Lalu a day ago to finalise the contours of JMM’s alliance with RJD in Bihar polls, tweeted, “Raghuvansh Ji was a simple man and a mass leader. His demise is an irreparable loss.” समाजवादी नेता और पूर्व सांसद श्री रघुवंश प्रसाद सिंह के निधन का दुःखद समाचार मिला। मैं उनके चरणों में श्रद्धासुमन अ… https://t.co/7p9HrFMkXZ— Raghubar Das (@dasraghubar) 1599980078000Like Hemant, former chief minister Raghubar Das also condoled Singh’s death. “I am hurt by Raghuvansh Ji’s demise. His life was dedicated to the development of Bihar. He always abided with the highest standards of social life,” Das wrote on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/raghuvanshs-death-leaves-lalu-shocked-speechless/articleshow/78094977.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||BJP lends support to asst policemen’s stir, demands regularisation of jobs||Ranchi: The ongoing protest by assistant policemen at Morhabadi has raised the political temperature in the state. On Sunday, BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi met the protesters and extended his support to their agitation, while another BJP leader, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra, went to the dharna site to arrange civic amenities. Whereas JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya blamed the earlier BJP regime for the problem being faced by 2,500 assistant policemen. He said the previous government went on appointing people on contract by ignoring the rules and regulations. “The erstwhile BJP government could have designated the appointees as civic volunteers and not as assistant policeman,” he said, adding that the present government might face similar problems in different departments where contractual appointments were made flouting the norms during Raghubar Das’s tenure. Former chief minister Raghubar Das wrote a letter to CM Hemant Soren in July reminding the government about the expiry of tenure of contract policemen and asking him to make appropriate changes in the recruitment provisions for regularizing them. Das in his letter stated that 2,500 assistant policemen were appointed on contract in 12 districts of the state in 2017 for a period of three (2+1) years and their contract was going to expire in August 2020. “I would request you to appoint them directly as constables after due amendments in the recruitment regulations of 2014 notified by the then government vide notification number 6992 on October 20, 2014,” Das had said. BJP leaders alleged that the incumbent government is insensitive about the unemployment problem and challenges faced by youth. Addressing the media, Marandi said, “The protesters are coming from all directions but they are being stopped at the borders as the government is scared of a protest by its own policemen.” A member of Jharkhand Policemen’s Association, Imran Khan, who was also part of the delegation that met the CM’s principal secretary on Saturday evening, said that the protesters were not in a mood to call off the stir. “They had agreed initially to call off the agitation, but now they want nothing less than direct appointment,” he said. Jharkhand police IG Suman Gupta said that the agitators were not regular policemen but refused to comment if action would be taken against the latter for wearing uniforms even after expiry of their contract. Nearly one thousand protesters who gathered at Morhabadi ground were in police uniform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-lends-support-to-asst-policemens-stir-demands-regularisation-of-jobs/articleshow/78094854.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 14, 2020||Jamshedpur||JSCA stadium gets bio-bubble for T20 league||RANCHI: A bio-bubble has been created at the Jharkhand State Cricket Association’s stadium complex in Dhurwa — which is set to host the country’s first cricket tournament following the lockdown, the Karbon Jharkhand T20 League, from September 15 to October 2. JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay said the bio-bubble or bio-secure environment is set in accordance with all the safety norms pertaining to Covid-19 in order to prevent the virus from spreading among the players and other officials. “All the officials and the players will put up at the stadium. The players will undergo medical check-ups and thermal screening daily and a medical desk will operate round-the-clock. Only those who test negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to play. A committee has been set up under the chairmanship of JSCA president Dr Nafis Akthar for enforcing the Covid regulations,” he added. A bio-bubble was first created during the West Indies’ tour of England in July. Meanwhile, the players have already arrived at the venue and the practice sessions commenced from Saturday. The JSCA’s upcoming tournament has six teams playing total of 33 league matches till September 29. Semi-finals will be held on October 1 and final the next day. All the matches will be telecast live on FanCode app, available on all smartphones. The tournament can also be viewed at www.fancode.com. JSCA sources said that while all the league matches will be played at Dhurwa stadium, they are exploring options to hold the semi-final and the final in Jamshedpur’s Keenan stadium. “Talks are on in this regard with the local district administration and the Tata Steel management which owns the stadium. A formal announcement will be made once are discussion is finalised,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jsca-stadium-gets-bio-bubble-for-t20-league/articleshow/78108838.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||JSCA stadium gets bio-bubble for T20 league||RANCHI: A bio-bubble has been created at the Jharkhand State Cricket Association’s stadium complex in Dhurwa — which is set to host the country’s first cricket tournament following the lockdown, the Karbon Jharkhand T20 League, from September 15 to October 2. JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay said the bio-bubble or bio-secure environment is set in accordance with all the safety norms pertaining to Covid-19 in order to prevent the virus from spreading among the players and other officials. “All the officials and the players will put up at the stadium. The players will undergo medical check-ups and thermal screening daily and a medical desk will operate round-the-clock. Only those who test negative for Covid-19 will be allowed to play. A committee has been set up under the chairmanship of JSCA president Dr Nafis Akthar for enforcing the Covid regulations,” he added. A bio-bubble was first created during the West Indies’ tour of England in July. Meanwhile, the players have already arrived at the venue and the practice sessions commenced from Saturday. The JSCA’s upcoming tournament has six teams playing total of 33 league matches till September 29. Semi-finals will be held on October 1 and final the next day. All the matches will be telecast live on FanCode app, available on all smartphones. The tournament can also be viewed at www.fancode.com. JSCA sources said that while all the league matches will be played at Dhurwa stadium, they are exploring options to hold the semi-final and the final in Jamshedpur’s Keenan stadium. “Talks are on in this regard with the local district administration and the Tata Steel management which owns the stadium. A formal announcement will be made once are discussion is finalised,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jsca-stadium-gets-bio-bubble-for-t20-league/articleshow/78095087.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand education minister on foundation-laying spree, rides on bike to 18 sites||BOKARO: At a time when cabinet ministers in the state are choosing online inauguration and virtual meetings over physical appearances, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto went on a foundation-stone-laying spree in Giridih on Sunday when he inaugurated 18 projects in a span of few hours. Mahto drove through the Maoist-hit areas of Nawadih block in Giridih on his bike and inaugurated projects which include PCC roads, culverts and guardwalls, among others. There were no announcements made prior to his visit, the locals said. “There was no announcement, no speech and no gathering at the inauguration spot. The minister came riding his motorbike, broke a coconut, offered puja and left saying I will come soon after the project is complete. He wrapped up his visit within 15 minutes,” said Ghanshyam Ganju, a resident of Belgada village where Mahto laid the foundation of a PCC road. He laid the foundation stones of nine schemes in Pokharia panchayat, seven in Palamu and two in Lahiya panchayat. In Pokharia, the women apprised him of the problems being faced by them owing to the lack of development in the area. Mahto assured them of resolving their issues and said every village will be connected to one another. He added that they are taking initiatives to widen the roads in the rural areas. He further said that road construction projects in areas like Uppperghat will be taken up on a priority basis. “No village in Upperghat area will be deprived of pucca roads. Proper road connectivity increases business prospects,which, in turn, play an important role in the development of an area,” Mahto added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/edu-min-on-foundation-laying-spree-rides-on-bike-to-18-sites/articleshow/78094850.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt failed to provide jobs to migrant workers: Raghubar Das||JAMSHEDPUR: The Hemant Soren-led mahagathbandhan government has failed to protect the interests of migrant labourers during the Covid-19 pandemic, said former chief minister Raghubar Das. Das said on Sunday: “After the migrant workers from various parts of the country started coming back to Jharkhand, Hemant had promised to provide them jobs in Jharkhand itself. But he failed to do so and now the workers are going back to their workplaces.” The former CM added that unemployed migrant workers have no choice but to return to their employers, who had abandoned them during Lockdown. He said that the Hemant government has also failed to help the trading community, which has suffered economic losses for around three months. Moreover, Das alleged that JMM and its allies were promoting religious conversions in the state. He said: “In the recent past, some members of the Mukhi community in Dhatkidih area were being converted. The matter when raised by the media was hushed up by the administration.” Das added that during his tenure, the anti-religious conversion law was passed in 2017. He said that this law should have been made just after the formation of Jharkhand, so that innocent tribals were not victimized. Das demanded that the state government take up the conversion issue and punish the guilty. Meanwhile, replying to a question, Das said his followers want him to contest the Bermo or Dumka bypolls on BJP ticket, but he is not willing to do it and wants to serve the party as an ordinary worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-govt-failed-to-provide-jobs-to-migrant-workers-raghubar/articleshow/78094859.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 14, 2020||Goa||13 Newton Goencho Ekvott||Oppose infa projects passing through Mollem: Goencho Ekvott to Collem localsTimes News Network Pics mailed Panaji: Goencho Ekvott, along with the residents of Collem, held an awareness programme on Sunday to inform locals about the environmental damage likely to occur due to the three mega infrastructure projects passing through Mollem. Appealing to locals to fearlessly oppose the destructive projects, the group’s vice-chairman, Julio Cedric Aguiar, said the three projects will have irreparable effects on the environment, which will in turn devastate their tourism-based economy. “All of Goa needs to come together and protect the beautiful Western Ghats from destruction. We appeal to all elected representatives to give Goa priority,” Goencho Ekvott chairman Creson Antao said. The campaign has also received support from another citizen-centric group, Goencho Avaaz, with the group’s co-convenor, Viriato Fernandes, urging locals to fight to protect their villages, forests and rivers. Fernandes also accused the state government of working only for the profits of crony capitalists and not for Goa. Former AAP Benaulim candidate Royla Fernandes, who is an executive member of Goencho Ekvott, informed locals that the three projects being taken up in the Western Ghats would lead to destruction of the Goa’s water resources. A local youth from Mollem, Krishna Zore said that the government had not informed locals about the projects passing through Mollem. “Without telling us about the transmission lines and other projects, the government has cut down trees mercilessly during the Covid lockdown. Repeated appeals to the panchayat for information have also remained unanswered,” Zore said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/13-newton-goencho-ekvott/articleshow/78096027.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||House plan: Congress to oppose 4 ordinances, quiz government on LAC||NEW DELHI: In the backdrop of farmer protests in Haryana and Punjab, Congress said on Sunday it will, along with like-minded opposition parties, oppose three ordinances on agriculture and one pertaining to banking regulation in the monsoon session of Parliament, apart from raising issues of border tensions with China and the state of the Indian economy. Congress argued that the abolition of APMCs — agri-mandis—will benefit agri-traders rather than farmers and that the government is trying to wriggle out of its commitment to procure foodgrains at their minimum support prices from Food Corporation of India. The party’s opposition to the Banking Regulation Act, senior MP Jairam Ramesh said, is because it is against cooperative federalism, “anti-States and anti-people”. He also said cooperative banks ought to be regulated by states not Centre. Congress said it objects to the ordinance as all key financial intermediaries will come under the Centre and lead to greater centralisation, especially since it empowers the Centre to change the financial and membership structure of cooperative banks. Ramesh also said the ordinance vests more regulatory responsibilities in RBI, and with the central banks mixed performance on that front, that there is no justification for doing so. “While it is true that we don’t have the numbers in Lok Sabha, we will do everything to ensure that these bills are referred to the standing committee for deeper scrutiny,” Ramesh said. The prevailing situation on the LAC and the state of the economy will also see the government and opposition parties come head-to-head. Ramesh alleged that India’s position vis-a-vis China was “weakened” because of PM Modi’s own statement. “We need a discussion on China. Parliament is a place for debate and discussion, not for running away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/house-plan-congress-to-oppose-4-ordinances-quiz-government-on-lac/articleshow/78096886.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM leads from front as dengue fight enters second week||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday changed the water of the pots in his house following a 10-minute-long inspection that he has planned to carry out every Sunday for the next eight weeks. The last inspection was carried out on September 6, when Kejriwal had launched the campaign, 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minutes, to help Delhi defeat the menace of the vector-borne disease. "On the second Sunday of the campaign against dengue, I inspected my house and replaced the stagnant water with clean water. It took only 10 minutes. You also must do checking in your house. Delhi will once again defeat dengue (sic)," the CM stated on Twitter. A helpline has also been launched for the public if they require assistance with dengue. They can call on 011-22300012 and WhatsApp on 8595920530.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cm-leads-from-front-as-dengue-fight-enters-second-week/articleshow/78096929.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||Jawaharlal Nehru ignored intelligence report of Chinese road in Indian territory in 1957: Book||NEW DELHI: In early 1957, an audacious secret mission into Aksai Chin that saw an Indian Army officer and a havildar join a group of yak grazers in disguise actually provided first-hand evidence that China had illegally built a road in territory claimed by India. Unfortunately, the efforts of Lt Col R S Basera of Kumaon Regiment and Havildar Diwan Singh of the Corps of Engineers went abegging despite the immense risks and hardships they undertook as then defence minister V K Krishna Menon and then PM Jawaharlal Nehru remained sceptical about the road’s exact location. It would be a full two year later before the Indian government admitted in Parliament that the road had indeed been built. In a soon to be out book, ‘End of an Era, India Exits Tibet’, well-known China expert Claude Arpi has set out in exhaustive detail, based on Nehru Memorial Library papers, de-classified Indian and Chinese documents and personal interviews, how even voluminous reports by its own agencies about the ominous consolidation of China’s occupation of Tibet failed to prod India into action. The theme of the book is about India losing all its influence in Tibet, helping China press aggressive claims along the border with India. This came at the cost of letting down opinion in Tibet that looked up to “Chogyal Nehru” and felt India could come to their aid in preventing “Sinofication” of their culture and ways. Arpi’s research however, indicates that India did have options. At the time, the Indian Air Force was clearly superior to China’s military air arm and could have aided in helping Tibetan resistance, which was significant. The diplomacy itself, given India’s strong presence through trading centres, could have been forceful. Indian reports from Tibet spoke of the speed with which motorable roads were being built but failed to stir New Delhi. The roads enabled Chinese troops to reach India’s borders quickly. The long preparation saw Mao Zedong, annoyed by the asylum to Dalai Lama and Nehru’s attempts to “undermine” China’s leadership in the Third World, to order attacks on Indian positions on October 1962. Lt Col Basera’s trip actually reached the road and took its measurements. But on return, Menon and Nehru asked the director of military intelligence if the road could be confirmed by a map. The secret patrol had, however, carried no maps for security reasons. This was not the only evidence of the road. Even earlier, British mountaineer Sidney Wignall went to Tibet with the knowledge of the Indian military. He was captured but released at a high pass and reached India after an incredible journey. His report of the Aksai Chin road was dismissed by Menon in Nehru’s presence as CIA propaganda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jawaharlal-nehru-ignored-intelligence-report-of-chinese-road-in-indian-territory-in-1957-book/articleshow/78096926.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
September 14, 2020||Business||Dollar Inds growth||Kolkata: Dollar Industries has witnessed a 27.4% growth in PAT in the first quarter of this fiscal to Rs 16.4 crore from Rs 12.9 crore in the same period last year. Total Revenue for Q1FY21 stood at Rs 160.1 crore. Berger Q1 numbers: Berger Paints has witnessed a 47.9% drop in revenue to Rs 826 crore in the quarter ended June 30, 2020. tnn PBDIT (Profit before Depreciation, Interest, Tax and Other Income) for the quarter was Rs. 113.5 crore against Rs. 286.5 crore in the corresponding quarter last year, representing a decrease of 60.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dollar-inds-growth/articleshow/78096223.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Business||Emami immunity||Emami Healthy & Tasty Smart Balance Immunity Booster Oil is helping kirana shop owners spread awareness of the need for immunity from within. Keeping in mind the health of these essential store retailers, Emami thus has installed protective chains and covers in front of many grocery stores to maintain necessary social distancing. tnn According to the company, these chains and covers are enabling the kirana shop owners to run their business easily with proper social distancing with their customers without worrying about their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/emami-immunity/articleshow/78096238.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mumbai||Will remove ‘CM’s mask’, speak on opposition ploy one day: Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: In a warning directed at the opposition, but without naming the BJP, Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said one day he would remove the ‘mask’ he wears as chief minister and speak on the politics being played and the conspiracy hatched to defame Maharashtra. Thackeray was addressing the public in the backdrop of political allegations by the BJP over the demolition of the alleged illegal portions of actor Kangana Ranaut’s Bandra bungalow and the handling of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case by the Mumbai police. “If I have not been speaking on the issue, that does not mean that I don’t have answers. But being the CM, I have to respect the chair,” Thackeray said. ‘Plot to destroy Thackeray, Pawar brands’Thackeray assured that he would fight on both fronts—Covid-19 pandemic and political crisis. A day after Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 10-lakh mark, Thackeray said his government has done effective work to tackle the pandemic. “A few people might have thought that the Covid-19 pandemic is over and now they can continue politics. They might have started it again; it is not an issue. But as of now, I do not want to speak about politics.” Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP and executive editor of the party mouthpiece Saamna said it was ‘unfortunate’ that the BJP was backing Ranaut, who has compared Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and dubbed the BMC ‘Babar’. Raut, in his weekly column Rokthok, said that efforts are being made to limit the importance of Mumbai. He alleged that by supporting Ranaut and through its stand in the Rajput case, the BJP wants to win the Bihar assembly polls with the upper caste Rajput and Kshatriya votes. “While doing this, it doesn’t matter if Maharashtra is insulted. Not one Maharashtra (BJP) leader was sad over the manner in which the state has been humiliated,” Raut said, and appealed to Marathi manoos to unite and back Thackeray in this difficult time. Calling ‘Thackeray’ and ‘Pawar’ the brands of Maharashtra’s self-esteem, Raut said: “There is a conspiracy to destroy these brands and take control of Mumbai. MNS chief Raj Thackeray is also a component of the same brand and he may also get affected in future. Though there may be differences with the Shiv Sena, the ‘Thackeray’ brand should have a strong presence in Mumbai and the day it collapses, Mumbai will start to collapse.” Watch Will remove ‘CM's mask’, speak on opposition ploy one day, says Uddhav Thackeray||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-remove-cms-mask-speak-on-opposition-ploy-one-day-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/78096942.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
September 14, 2020||Goa||Over 5 hours inside exam halls, but students glad to answer NEET||PANAJI: On Sunday, for the one-day National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate seats, exam centres in Goa started admitting students three hours before the three-hour exam scheduled at 2pm. This was done as per the pre-decided norms to ensure that students enter at staggered timings and that there is no crowding outside the exam centres. Most students remained inside the exam hall for five to seven hours. Despite this, by the end of the exam, parents and students said that they were happy with the implementation of the SOPs set by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Most parents said that though the timings seemed a bit uncomfortable, they were glad NEET was conducted so the process of admission to medical, dental and other programmes can progress. “Since the students will be inside the exam hall for prolonged hours, they are being provided a biscuit packet and a water bottle, in addition to one of their water bottles, which they are already allowed to carry on their own,” said a school head, whose institute was a centre. Barricades had been erected to keep parents and guardians accompanying the students at a distance. From this point on, staff wearing gloves, masks and face shields were seen ensuring that the SOPs are strictly followed at every step. The attendance appeared to be good, despite the pandemic. “With masks and social distancing it was a bit difficult,” said student Maitreyi Nadkarni. “The pandemic has totally damaged our mental situation right now,” said another seat aspirant Kirti Gawas. The students, however, expressed their relief that the exam was finally held. Some parents though were not comfortable with the idea of admitting students as early as 11am. “They should have kept maximum staff and taken students in faster by ensuring social distancing,” said a parent Narayan Gawas. At the exam centre, it was a tough job at hand for schools to ensure the SOPs of NTA are followed to the hilt. “The question papers had to be brought from bank lockers as early as 6am,” said a school head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-5-hours-inside-exam-halls-but-students-glad-to-answer-neet/articleshow/78095634.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 14, 2020||Business||GST row: 13 states submit options||NEW DELHI: At least 13 states have given their borrowing options, proposed by the GST Council, to meet their compensation shortfall and six more states — Goa, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh — are expected to do so shortly, finance ministry sources said on Sunday. The 12 states that preferred the borrowing option 1 are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, UP, Uttarakhand and Odisha. So far only one state — Manipur — opted for the second option. A few states have submitted their views to the chairperson of the GST Council and are yet to decide on the options. The Council, in its 41st meeting in late August, had provided two borrowing options to the states to enable them meet their compensation shortfall at the lowest possible rate of interest at the RBI’s single window facilitated by the finance ministry according to their individual choice. Option 1 offered the states to borrow the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, estimated at Rs 97,000 crore approximately, through issue of debt under a special window coordinated by the finance ministry. The second option has offered the states to borrow the entire compensation shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including the Covid-impact portion) through issue of market debt. Several states, particularly those ruled by the opposition parties, had rejected the options given by the Centre, saying they would put them under a huge debt burden and cripple their finances further. They had asked the Centre to borrow on behalf of the states. The last council meeting had taken place against the backdrop of the opinion of the attorney general on the compensation cess issue where he had said that there is no obligation on the Centre under the GST laws to compensate for the loss of revenue. According to the attorney general, it is the GST Council which has to find ways to meet the shortfall in compensation and not the Centre. It was discussed in the meeting that in the current economic scenario it may not be possible to increase tax rates or do rate rationalisation to meet the compensation shortfall. However, borrowing could be an option to address this challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-row-13-states-submit-options/articleshow/78096963.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray scolds Mumbai again, announces drive to visit all households and chase coronavirus||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed concern over the increase in Covid-19 cases in the city and rural parts of the state as he warned about the re-imposition of a strict lockdown in an address to the state on Sunday. Announcing the launch of a campaign called ‘My family, my responsibility’ in the state from Tuesday where health workers would visit every household twice to chase the virus, he said if people failed to adhere to all norms when in public he would reverse the clock on the easing of the lockdown. As part of the campaign, he appealed to all elected representatives, from MPs and MLAs to corporators, to take up the responsibility of their respective constituencies in the fight against Covid-19. He said the health workers would identify vulnerabilities such as people above the age of 50 years with co-morbidities in each household and treat them. In his 35-minute address, Thackeray said people were not following physical distancing norms and other measures in the city. He said that the state had to fine people for not using masks or for crowding, as was being done in other countries. Referring to the World Health Organisation (WHO), Thackeray said the pandemic might pose a greater risk soon. “I have not opened up {the state] completely because cases are still increasing,” he said. He appealed to the Maratha community to refrain from agitating or hitting the streets, as the government would put up a strong fight in the Supreme Court for reservation for it. He termed the stay order on Maratha reservation by the Supreme Court as unexpected. He said a delegation of restaurant and gym owners had met him. He indicated that their establishments might be allowed to reopen soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-uddhav-thackeray-scolds-mumbai-again-announces-drive-to-visit-all-households-and-chase-coronavirus/articleshow/78096962.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||NEET 2020: Distancing norms go for a toss outside exam centres||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: Physical distancing norms went for a toss outside several National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) examination centres on Sunday. Nearly 55,000 candidates appeared for the exam, which is the sole gateway into undergraduate courses in government and private medical colleges. The examination was conducted at 112 centres across the state. Most candidates reached exam centres by 10:30am and waited hours for the exam which was scheduled at 2pm. Candidates and their parents gathered in large numbers outside the centres. Despite requests from examination authorities and the police, distancing norms were largely ignored. In the absence of public transport, candidates and parents paid steep prices to reach examination centres. Parents gathered outside exam centres in Vijayawada complained that cabs and auto-rickshaws charged abnormally high fares. In adherence to Covid-19 containment measures, students were given staggered timeslots to enter the exam halls. The number of candidates allowed per room was 12. Frisking was performed using metal detectors without physical contact. Officials allowed candidates to enter the centres from 11am after thermal screening. Students had to submit a self-declaration regarding their health at the time of entry. In Krishna district, NEET was conducted across 40 examination centres. Out of 16,200 applicants, 14,500 appeared for the exam. Around 11,000 students appeared for the examination at 35 centres in Visakhapatnam district. Candidates who appeared for NEET-UG said that they found the question paper in accordance with the NCERT syllabus. S Mahalakshmi, one of the candidates, said that most of the questions were ‘standard’. Ramesh Kumar, who took the exam for the second time, said that the question paper was easier than previous year’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/neet-2020-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss-outside-exam-centres/articleshow/78093858.cms||Venu Lanka
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Veerraju rejigs BJP state unit||Amaravati: BJP state unit president Somu Veerraju on Sunday appointed a new executive committee. Senior leaders Vishnukumar Raju, Malathi Rani, P Surender Reddy were named vice-presidents along with new entrants Ravela Kishore Babu and C Adinarayana Reddy who served as ministers in the previous TDP government. Nehru Yuva Kendra vice-chairman S Vishnuvardhan Reddy, MLC PVN Madhav and N Madhukar are the new general secretaries. Former Guntur ZP chairman and TDP leader Pathuri Nagabhushanam was accommodated as secretary. While Satya Murthy was named as state treasurer and head quarter in-charge, P Srinivas has been appointed as state party office secretary in Vijayawada. Veerraju had also appointed Surendra Mohan (Yuva Morcha), Nirmal Kishore (Mahila Morcha),Sashibhushan Reddy (Kisan), Devanand (SC morcha), K Umamaheswara Rao (ST Morcha) and SK Baji (minority morcha) as new heads to the frontal bodies. Veteran hands Pudi Trinatha Rao, Suhasini Anand, Chandu Sambasiva Rao, K Anjaneya Reddy, S Srinivas and Bhanu Prakash Reddy were named as official spokespersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/veerraju-rejigs-bjp-state-unit/articleshow/78093871.cms||Samdani MN
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||DGP calls for safety audit of all places of worship in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: After the Antarvedi chariot fire mishap took a political turn, the police department has launched an operation to conduct safety audits of all places of worship in the state. DGP D Gautam Sawang held a videoconference with unit officers from the district-level to SHOs (station house officers) On Sunday and directed them to identify all places of worship and undertake safety audits. According to a report submitted by the unit officers to the DGP, more than 100 places of worship belonging to several religious groups have been identified as ‘vulnerable’ and ‘prone to accidents’. At many such places, chariots such as the one in Antarvedi are kept without any access control and are exposed to all weather conditions. Sawang directed officials to complete geo-tagging of all places of worship within two days. He instructed to coordinate with managements of these places of worship so that they take safety precautions like installing CCTV cameras, lights and barricades. He further directed the police officials to cover the sanctum sanctorum of all temples with locked house monitoring system (LHMS) cameras. The DGP observed that some religious fundamentalists are raking up emotions to create law and order problems. He appealed to all religious groups to exercise restraint and said that the investigation into the Antarvedi incident is going on in a professional manner and the state police will cooperate with the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-calls-for-safety-audit-of-all-places-of-worship-in-ap/articleshow/78093883.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Specialised educational institutions to come up in tribal parts||VISAKHAPATNAM: The tribal pockets of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts would soon have various specialised educational institutions, including a Tribal Engineering College, Central Tribal University and a medical college. A central team recently visited Kottakki village in Pachipenta mandal as part of identifying a suitable land pocket for construction of the permanent campus of the Central Tribal University. The CTU is currently being operated from a transit campus in Vizianagaram for the last one year. Around three weeks ago, the state government, in an order, gave its nod to set up a Tribal Engineering College in Kurupam in Vizianagaram district with about Rs 153 crore. The TEC would be one of the constituent colleges of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Kakinada. The JNTU-K, which prepared the detailed project report for the college, would contribute Rs 10 crore from their own resources for the establishment of the college. The TEC is likely to start functioning from this academic year itself. Meanwhile, the state government on Saturday gave an administrative sanction to establish a medical college with about Rs 500 crore in Paderu. The Union government earlier approved the proposal of establishing the medical college under the Centrally Sponsored Schemes with a contribution ratio of 60:40 between the central and state government. The college would have an intake of 100 MBBS seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/specialised-educational-institutions-to-come-up-in-tribal-parts/articleshow/78093898.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Two youths die in road accident||Visakhapatnam: Two youngsters died in a road accident after their bike hit a car near Dondaparthi area under Four-Town police station limits at around 3am on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as M Koteswara Rao and S Sarath, both 19-year-olds. Police said that the bike was overspeeding and hit a car which was coming down the flyover. Following the accident, they were taken to King George Hospital where they passed away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-youths-die-in-road-accident/articleshow/78093909.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||Hizbul threatens politicians in Jammu region, cops register FIR||JAMMU: Police have registered an FIR after a senior Congress member received a letter from Hizbul Mujahideen threatening to target mainstream politicians of the Jammu region, including Union minister Jitendra Singh, if they did not relinquish politics, officials said on Sunday. The two-page letter, written in Urdu on the terror group’s letter pad, was delivered by post to senior vicepresident of J&K Congress and former minister Raman Bhalla on Friday, officials said. “We have registered a case and a probe is on,” SSP Jammu Shridhar Patil said. “We won’t be cowed down by such threats from anti-national elements,” Bhalla said. The letter, signed by a selfstyled divisional commander of Hizbul Mujahideen, named 17 senior politicians of various parties including Union minister Singh, Bhalla, J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina, former deputy chief minister Nirmal Singh, National Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana and Dogra Swabhiman Sangathan member Choudhary Lal Singh among others. “We warn you to renounce politics and support our cause for freedom otherwise death warrants have been issued against you. No security cover will safeguard you from us,” the letter read. “In coming days, no Indian or politician supporting India will be left alive in Kashmir. Half of Jammu is with us but there are some politicians who are an obstacle to our cause for freedom,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hizbul-threatens-politicians-in-jammu-region-cops-register-fir/articleshow/78096980.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Notorious burglar duo arrested in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police have arrested a 45-year-old burglar, K Mohana Rao, who used to break into homes to steal naked, and his associate V Santosh Kumar. DCP (north zone) Aishwarya Rastogi said that the police received complaints of several burglaries. A probe into the CCTV footages revealed a burglar entering homes naked. Police said that Rao is accused to have been involved in 60 thefts and had been arrested previously before being released on June 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/notorious-burglar-duo-arrested/articleshow/78093915.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Help construction workers: JS chief||Vijayawada: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan on Sunday demanded that the state government support the 22 lakh registered construction workers in the state. He said that the state government’s sand policy has impacted the livelihood of construction workers and demanded that the government release funds for welfare of these workers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/help-construction-workers-js-chief/articleshow/78093925.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Permissions for cell towers in process||PANAJI: With the telecom infrastructure policy being notified, the PWD has begun processing applications from telecom companies who plan to setup new cell towers. The department has received around 40 applications, PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar said. PWD has appointed a nodal officer to process and issue permissions. “Right now companies are applying and we are processing them,” Parsekar told TOI. Goa Technology Association and Goa IT professionals had urged the government to improve network connectivity in Goa. Due to the pandemic, many sectors in the state have shifted to a work from home model, but the lack of reliable over ground and underground telecom infrastructure has affected productivity, IT professionals had said. In the first week of August, chief minister Pramod Sawant had promised to grant permissions for additional cell towers within 15 days. The Economic Revival Committee had also called for improvement in digital connectivity. “The applicants have to submit certain documents and some of the documents were missing and we are intimating them,” Parsekar said. As per Goa’s telecom infrastructure policy, PWD has to setup an online single window mechanism within three months to clear all applications. Till the online process is developed, PWD is clearing applications through an offline process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/permissions-for-cell-towers-in-process/articleshow/78095797.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: 42 people held for gambling in Calangute resort||CALANGUTE: Goa police arrested 42 persons for gambling from a resort in Calangute at around midnight on Saturday. Rs 10.03 lakh in cash, 5,739 gambling chips, each worth Rs 1,000, two card swipe machines and 52 mobiles were seized during the raid. The arrested persons are from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. Police said they received a tip-off that a gambling racket was being operated in a resort at Gauravaddo in Calangute. On receiving the information, North Goa district police, under the supervision of SP (North) Utkrisht Prasoon, formed a team comprising Calangute PI Nolasco Raposo, PI Vijaynath Kavlekar and other police personnel and raided the resort. The accused were caught red-handed while they were gambling with cards. The organisers of the racket had rented two rooms on the fifth floor of the resort where the gambling was going on. The 42 persons, including the organisers, are charged under sections 3 and 4 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Gambling Act. PI Raposo is further investigating the case. Police said they would be writing to the tourism department and the Calangute panchayat to take necessary action against the resort management for allowing their premises to be used for gambling activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/42-persons-held-for-gambling-in-calangute-resort/articleshow/78095808.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Liquor worth Rs 11 lakh, seized at Patradevi||MAPUSA: Liquor worth over Rs 11 lakh, which was being illegally transported by truck to Maharashtra, was seized by the excise department at the Patradevi checkpost early Sunday morning. The truck was intercepted by excise officials at the checkpost and the driver of the truck was asked to produce the documents. The driver said the consignment belongs to the Indian Navy and was being transported from Mangaluru to the Pune base of the armed forces. However, when excise officials insisted on seeing the documents, the driver fled leaving behind the truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/liquor-worth-rs-11l-seized-at-patradevi/articleshow/78095812.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||‘One day will lift CM mask, expose plot’||MUMBAI: In a warning to the opposition, without naming BJP, Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that one day he will remove the ‘mask’ he wears as chief minister and speak on the politics being played and the conspiracy hatched to defame Maharashtra. Thackeray was addressing the public in the backdrop of political allegations by BJP over the demolition of the alleged illegal portions of actor Kangana Ranaut’s Bandra bungalow and the handling of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case by the Mumbai Police. “If I have not been speaking on the issue, that does not mean that I don’t have answers. But being the CM, I have to respect the chair,” he added. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP and executive editor of the party mouthpiece ‘Saamna’ said it is ‘unfortunate’ that BJP is backing Ranaut, who has compared Mumbai to PoK and has called the BMC ‘Babar’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/one-day-will-lift-cm-mask-expose-plot/articleshow/78097003.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
September 14, 2020||Goa||11-member committee to assess Goa’s groundwater utilisation, renewability||PANAJI: The water resources department (WRD) has formed a state-level committee to assess groundwater resources in the state and prepare a report within six months. The 11-member committee will have to estimate the annual replenishable groundwater resources and identify the utilisation of groundwater. An analysis by the Central Ground Water Board in 2017 found that Goa utilises only 34% of its groundwater and continues to be in the safe zone in terms of groundwater utilisation. There are concerns that Goa may exploit groundwater resources due to tourism and population growth, but the WRD sticks to the Central Ground Water Board’s 2017 findings that Goa only extracts 60,000 hectare metre annually. The government plans to conduct a fresh study and had constituted the committee on March 31 with the secretary for water resources serving as the chairman of the committee. The regional director of the Central Ground Water Board will serve as the member secretary. The other members of the committee are the WRD chief engineer, PWD chief engineer for water supply and sanitation, agriculture director, industries director, planning, statistics & evaluation director, NABARD general manager and three other officials from WRD, including a senior hydrogeologist. Many of the industries in Goa are located on narrow plateaus where they generally obtain water supplies from boreholes into underlying aquifers. Groundwater resources are becoming stretched due to industrial and population growth and there are concerns amongst villagers and farmers in the surrounding plains that local wells, springs and tanks are being affected by this industrial pumping. A committee headed by the chief engineer meets every month to scrutinise requests for such extraction of groundwater by industries for new construction and by individuals for sale by tankers. According to WRD chief engineer Shrikant Patil, the committee can also co-opt other members or experts. While all the officials will be paid by their respective departments, the expenditure on non-official members will be borne by WRD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/11-member-committee-to-assess-goas-groundwater-utilisation-renewability/articleshow/78095824.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Vigilance department finds 197 mangroves cut at Piligao||BICHOLIM: Officials of the vigilance department inspected Murdiwada-Tarwada areas of Piligao in Bicholim on Saturday to take stock of the massive cutting of mangroves that was clandestinely carried out recently. The officials instructed the forest department to submit a detailed report stating the total number of mangroves that have been cut. The massive cutting of mangroves took place on September 2, following which, villagers had lodged a complaint with the Union ministry of forest,environment and climate change, the state forest department and the vigilance department. During the inspection, it was found that at least 197 mangroves had been cut. The complainant Ujwala Shetye, panchayat member Anil Naik, and locals Vithal Shetye and Ramakant Shetye were also present during the inspection. Dattaram Salgaonkar from Murdiwada said that about 1,500 mangroves from the area have been cut since October 2019. Locals also said that prior to this, another complaint had been lodged with the Piligao village panchayat in October 2019 after some unidentified people had tried to cut the mangroves. “The mangroves are vital for controlling tidal water from entering into the villages and ecological imbalance,” Suresh Chodankar from Tarwada said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vigilance-department-finds-197-mangroves-cut-at-piligao/articleshow/78095843.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: More showers likely this week says IMD||PANAJI: Cloudy conditions and light rain are likely to prevail this entire week with isolated heavy rainfall, the India meteorological department (IMD) said. The IMD has attributed the reason to back to back weather systems. On September 16, there is a likelihood of slight reduction of rainfall. However, the formation of another system from September 17 may bring more rainfall. Heavy rainfall will not be widely distributed and may prevail in one or two locations in either district. “A system over the Arabian Sea has moved further northwards over the Gujarat coast from the Maharashtra coast. Meanwhile, a low pressure area has formed over the Andhra Pradesh coast. This system will prevail for a few days. A new system will occur over the Bay of Bengal, which will bring clouding and rainfall activity,” IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-more-showers-likely-this-week-says-imd/articleshow/78095855.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Sore over unhygienic state of spring, Davorlim locals warn of legal action||MARGAO: Villagers of Layamati, Davorlim have written to the local panchayat demanding that the village spring (zhor) and the surroundings be cleaned forthwith and action be taken against unauthorised roadside vendors selling fruits and fish that turn the place filthy besides obstructing traffic flow. They have threatened to take recourse to legal measures if the panchayat fails to heed their demands within 10 days. In a letter addressed to the sarpanch of the Rumdamol-Davorlim panchayat, the residents have pointed out that following the Ganpati visarjan during Ganesh Chaturthi, a lot of nirmalya (discarded flowers) and garbage has been lying about around the spring. Pointing out that while the panchayat would clean the spring every year before Ganesh Chaturthi, it had failed to do it this time, leading to an unhygienic situation in the locality thereby posing a health hazard to the residents. The residents, while accusing the panchayat of having failed to enforce the SOPs for Ganpati visarjan resulting in people burning fireworks thereby disturbing peace of the night, demanded that the panchayat impose a ban on idol immersions in the spring if it fails to issue necessary guidelines and strictly impose them. They have said that the wild bushes along the road sides obstruct visibility for vehicles coming on to the main road, and have demanded that the panchayat clear them immediately. The letter also complains about miscreants consuming liquor during night hours on that stretch and causing nuisance to the public. “The panchayat had taken a resolution to install CCTV cameras at various places in the village, but there has been no action on that so far. A security guard was also posted in the locality by the panchayat following complaints by locals, but since the last six months he has been shifted elsewhere,” said a resident, Nilesh Pandit, demanding immediate re-deployment of the guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sore-over-unhygienic-state-of-spring-davorlim-locals-warn-of-legal-action/articleshow/78095883.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||Upgrade of Margao’s waste management facility proposed||PANAJI: Margao, known as the state’s commercial capital, generates nearly 60 tonne of waste daily. However, for long, the city has been plagued by garbage management issues. Now, to address these issues, the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) has proposed the upgradation of waste management facility of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC). It further proposed that upgradation be taken up in two phases. The first phase proposes the setting up of an integrated dry waste management facility and bio-digester plants with a cumulative capacity of 15 tonne per day. It will also include the construction of proper roads leading to the shed, remediation of legacy waste to generate space for construction of a shed, shifting of high tension line and repair and commissioning of existing landfill at Sonsoddo. In the second phase, it proposes the setting up of bio-digester plants having cumulative capacity of 20 tonne per day, construction of a leachate disposal line which will connect to the main sewerage line and avenue planting. Speaking to TOI, a senior GWMC officer said that the actual work on upgradation of the facility will begin once MMC accepts the proposal. Of the nearly 60 tonne of waste generated daily in Margao, 18-22 tonne is dry waste, 14-18 tonne is wet waste while mixed waste constitutes 26-28 tonne. The officer said that the existing dry waste system has a daily capacity of just 3-4 tonne and the balance dry waste, nearly 20 tonne, is not being handled as per SWM Rules 2016. Meanwhile, the available area in the existing shed is sufficient to handle about 20 tonne of wet waste daily by windrow composting. The officer said when GWMC officials inspected the Sonsoddo site, they made several observations and suggestions which were then handed over to MMC for better functioning of the facility. Among the suggestions were that RDF bales be stacked properly and necessary measures should be taken pertaining to fire hazards. They also suggested that bailing machines should be installed inside a shed to ensure that the process is not interrupted during the monsoon. Among some other suggestions made were that MMC process dry waste on a daily basis and it should be segregated as recyclable and non-recyclable for further processing. Wet waste should be pre-sorted by making the pre-sorting trommel operational and that all non-biodegradable matter and tender coconut shells should be removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/upgrade-of-margaos-waste-mgmt-facility-proposed/articleshow/78095929.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Debt-ridden Andhra Pradesh couple seeks to sell kidney, duped of Rs 17 lakh||VIJAYAWADA: A debt-ridden couple who tried to sell their kidney fell prey to cyber fraudsters and lost 17 lakh. In the desperation of coming out of debt, the couple further slipped into the debt trap as their hopes of getting 2 crore, promised by fraudsters, were dashed. Penamaluru inspector M Satyanrayana said that N Bhargavi (34) and Kameswar, residents of Yanamalakuduru, used to run a medical shop at Patamata with some other partners. They incurred losses after disputes with their business partners. To come out of their financial woes, they decided to sell one kidney of Bhargavi and started searching for potential buyers on the internet. In the process, they came across with one Sakra World Hospital at Delhi. A man identified himself as Chopra Singh who negotiated with the couple and offered 2 crore in return for one kidney. Kameswar and Bhargavi fell for the offer and agreed to the deal. Taking advantage of their desperate situation, the man told them to pay processing fee for the transaction. He lured them by saying that the entire processing fee will be refunded once the deal is done. On the pretext of some or the other fee, the fraudsters collected Rs 17 lakh from the couple in 24 transactions. Bhargavi and Kameswar borrowed money from their acquaintances and even took loan from a bank to pay the fraudsters. Like in any other cyber fraud, they have realised that it was a fraud only after losing the money. As they insisted for the promised 2 crore from Chopra Singh, he demanded another 5 lakh for the deal to take place. It was then they realised that they were duped by the fraudsters and approached the police. Penamaluru police have registered a case and are investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/debt-ridden-andhra-pradesh-couple-seeks-to-sell-kidney-duped-of-rs-17-lakh/articleshow/78097013.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 14, 2020||Goa||‘Stop expansion of religious structures along roadsides’||PANAJI: The Goa RTI Forum has requested the chief secretary, district collector and Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP)commissioner to “put a stop to unauthorised roadside constructions and expansions irrespective of religion”. A petition has also been filed in the High Court. Alleging that such unauthorised road works are in violation of Supreme Court (SC) orders, the forum has complained about the construction and expansion activities of the St Anthony shrine next to Miramar Circle. “The Supreme Court of India has banned all unauthorised, new and future construction of places of worship on public land and sought strict compliance of its orders from the Union and state governments. Furthermore state governments have been directed to maintain strict vigil and ensure that new structures do not come up,” joint secretary of the forum Sandeep Heble stated. “From observing works going on at the said place where footings and columns can be seen being constructed, it is clear that works being carried out are not mere repairs but large expansions of the existing religious structure,” he alleged. He added that such constructions will turn out to be a hindrance for implementation of future road-expansion plans and can also result in breach of peace and tranquillity on roadsides and in public places. The forum has asked the government to inspect all new constructions that have come up post the SC order, and also order the removal of all such structures. “When Goa is blessed with beautiful temples, churches and other places of religious worships, such religious structures on roads and in public places tarnish the fair name of religion and state governments and its authorities must not permit this to happen,” Heble further stated. City mayor Uday Madkaikar told TOI said, “I cannot comment as a petition has been filed in High Court. Our advocate will respond to the petition on Monday.” Activists in the past had also raised objections to the construction of a religious structure abutting the highway near GMC at Bambolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-expansion-of-religious-structures-along-roadsides/articleshow/78095960.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||With launch of CCP’s mobile app, come flood of civic complaints||PANAJI: Less than a week after it was activated, the Corporation of the City of Panaji’s (CCP) app called ‘I change my city (ICMYC)’ has been flooded with complaints; 56 and counting as of Sunday from citizens and businessmen. The mobile app was launched so that Panaji residents can report grievances directly with the corporation. “Almost 80% of the complaints have been resolved so far,” CCP said. Most of the complaints deal with cleanliness of the city, including clearing waste from various pick-up points, failure of CCP workers to clear garden waste within Panaji, and requests to remove construction debris. The app allows users to take pictures and upload them along with the complaint. Users have highlighted potholes, clogged drains and damaged footpaths as well as the menace of stray animals. Set for an initial launch on September 1 with issues such power failures, picking up roadkills, open urination, cleanliness, door to door garbage collection, the app launch was postponed after CCP added three more violations – sale of ghutka, spitting and sale of polythene bags. The app went live on September 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-launch-of-ccps-mobile-app-come-flood-of-civic-complaints/articleshow/78095975.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra testing 5 high-risk and 10 low-risk contacts per patient||MUMBAI: The state has traced an average 15 contacts for every positive patient, including five high-risk and nearly 10 low-risk contacts, an analysis by the public health department has revealed. Contact tracing (CT) is a crucial tool which, combined with testing and early treatment, is considered the key to contain the rapid transmission of the virus and reduce critical cases. The analysis shows the CT average in 24 of the 35 districts is lower than that of the state. Palghar district has the highest contact tracing average at 27, while tribal-populated Nandurbar has the lowest at 3. Ten districts, including Nagpur, Parbhani, Osmanabad, Nagpur, Sindhudurg, Bhandara, Kolhapur and Nandurbar, feature at the bottom half, having traced less than 10 contacts per case. Within districts, corporations have better tracing ratio than the nearby peri-urban and rural areas. Dhule and Akola rural areas, for instance, have a ratio of four and five, one-fourth of the ratio seen in their corporation areas. Mumbai has done reasonably well compared to many other districts, tracking an average of nine high-risk and nearly 16 low risk contacts for every positive case. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the CT average ranged between 10 and 31. Among corporations, Panvel is on top of the chart having traced an average of 35 contacts per patient. Intriguingly, Ulhasnagar, which holds the second position among corporations in tracing an average of 32 contacts, however seems to have found way more low-risk contacts (30) compared to high-risk (2). While there is no benchmark about the ideal ratio, experts are unanimous the state average of 15 is low. Recently, CM Uddhav Thackeray had said at a review meeting that the state’s contact tracing ratio must be above 30. Epidemiologist Giridhar Babu told TOI that contact tracing can make a crucial difference in the dynamics of an outbreak when deployed early. “However, in cities like Mumbai, Bengaluru or Delhi, where there is likely local transmission, the priority should be to find cases and treat them and then employ resources to trace contacts,” he said. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean, however, said rapid contact tracing and testing is important for early detection as that can reduce mortality. Dr Archana Patil from the Directorate of Health Services said the state was using the Arogya Setu app combined with physical history of patients to reach contacts. In Kolhapur, that has the second lowest CT ratio (4), officials said for every positive case, at least 3-4 family members are testing positive. “Our ratio is actually 11 and the lower numbers are because of delay in updating on the portal,” said Dr Yogesh Sale, district health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtra-testing-5-high-risk-and-10-low-risk-contacts-per-patient/articleshow/78097020.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 14, 2020||Goa||National Education Policy panel should have no politician, says Velingkar||PANAJI: Former long-time Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar, who has long battled with the state government over its recent medium of instruction (MOI) policy for primary schools, has opposed the appointment of former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar to head a panel on the national education policy (NEP) 2020. “Some work for implementation of the new policy in Goa has already begun with former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar appointed to head a committee, which will deliberate on the NEP’s provisions at the higher education level. The entire procedure for implementation of the policy should be handed over to educationists only and there should be no involvement of politicians in any way and this would also be the right administrative and legal approach,” said Velingkar, as a member of Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch (BBSM). He said that in 2013 former CM Manohar Parrikar had similarly formed a committee under him on the MOI issue. Velingkar said that when Parrikar realised that the committee’s proceedings are not going as he desired, he declared that the decision will be taken by him alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nep-panel-should-have-no-politician-says-velingkar/articleshow/78095992.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Goa||4 arrested after two groups clash in Ponda||PONDA: Four persons were arrested after two groups clashed at Bazarmol, Ponda, on Sunday afternoon. In all, eight persons have been booked in two separate cases. Ponda police said the incident was triggered after Mulla Muzawar Karim, Kamran Muzawar, Adnan Muzawar, Rehan Muzawar and Sayyad Tayyab allegedly assaulted Zahiruddin Aga, a resident of Cotwada-Ponda, and their driver Altaf Sindupur, a resident of Zuarinagar-Sancoale, and damaged a van used by Aga for their fish vending business. Following a complaint filed by Zahiruddin’s father Badruddin, the police booked all the five accused. In a counter complaint filed by Karim, police arrested Badruddin, Zahiruddin and Sindupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-held-after-two-groups-clash-in-ponda/articleshow/78095995.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Jamshedpur||Yoga, PT made must for Seraikela-Kharsawan cops to ward off Covid||JAMSHEDPUR: Seraikela-Kharsawan district police have incorporated yoga and physical training (PT) in the daily routine of police personnel to reduce stress amid the pandemic duty and to boost their immunity. On Sunday, Yoga and PT sessions were held in 13 police stations and seven town out posts. “We included yoga and PT in the daily routine to boost immunity among our men and help them de-stress,” said Seraikela sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Rakesh Ranjan. With over 100 cops infected of Covid-19 in the district, social distancing and use of face masks have been made mandatory at the daily drill sessions. Sunday’s session received a warm response from the cops, said Chandil circle inspector Sushma Kumari. “Such programs must be held regularly as it motivates the personnel,” she said. Adityapur police station in-charge Rajendra Mahato said although the yoga and PT programmes were held at all the police stations as per the directions from the higher-ups, at Adityapur police station, they have been conducting yoga for cops at regular intervals for quite some time. Notably, Seraikela-Kharswan district has reported 1,950 Covid-19 cases till Saturday night. Of them, 100 are cops who were infected while on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/yoga-pt-made-must-for-seraikela-kharsawan-cops-to-ward-off-covid/articleshow/78095209.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 13 Covid deaths, 1,014 fresh cases||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported 13 Covid deaths two days after the state witnessed a dip in the number of casualties. The number of single-day fresh cases continues to be above the 1,000-mark in the state as 1,014 cases were reported on Sunday. With the 13 deaths, of which two were reported late on Saturday, the toll has now increased to 555. East Singhbhum, which has the highest number of deaths in the state, reported six casualties. Two deaths each were also reported from Godda and West Singhbhum while Dhanbad reported one. The remaining two were reported from Ranchi and Seraikela late on Saturday night. The state unit of National Health Mission (NHM) said 544 deaths were reported till Saturday of which 77% (419) were males and 23% (124) are females. The highest mortality is detected among people in the age group of 51 to 70 years with 271 of them succumbing to the infection and followed by 133 patients of above the age of 70 years. Another 115 patients in the age group of 31 to 50 died from the virus whereas only 22 died in the age group of 11-30 years. Three children below 10 years also died, the NHM said. Meanwhile, the positivity rate continued to maintain its streak at 6.8% as 1,014 out of 14,731 samples tested on Sunday returned positive. Ranchi and East Singhbhum remained the top of districts with the highest number of positive cases with the capital city reporting 399 cases and the latter detected 115 new cases. Dhanbad with 68 and Saraikela with 61 cases also reported a significant increase. On Sunday, the state’s caseload stood at 61,474 while 1,509 recovered. Of the total cases, 14,336 are active while 46,583 have recovered. The ratio of recoveries to new infections has also improved after 75% of the infected patients were cured. The national recovery rate stands at about 77%. The weekly growth rate saw a minor increase and stood at 3.96% in comparison to the national average of 2.16%. However, the weekly doubling rate (18 days) continues to be around 14 points ahead of the national average of 32 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-records-13-covid-deaths-1014-fresh-cases/articleshow/78095342.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 14, 2020||Ranchi||Doctors on Covid-duty shifted from JSCA stadium||RANCHI: Twenty-eight government doctors deployed on Covid-19 duty at the Paras Hospital, a private healthcare centre acquired by the government for treatment of Covid patients in April, were shifted from their accommodation at the Jharkhand State Cricket Association stadium in Dhurva because of the T20 cricket tournament scheduled from September 27. The doctors rued they have been shifted at the Hatia guest house where they are put up in double and triple sharing rooms. They alleged that apart from high chances of contracting the infection in sharing rooms, the guest house does not have basic facilities required under the guidelines. Earlier, they were housed at the stadium because of its proximity to the hospital. District authorities said they are trying to accommodate the doctors at another guest house. DDC Ananya Mittal said, “The issue has been brought to our notice and we have identified another guest house in the Hinoo area and as soon as we get it, we will allot it to them.” Talking to TOI, one of the doctors said, “We were asked by our reporting officer to shift from the JSCA stadium to the Hatia guest house with immediate effect. When we went there, we saw that there are only 13 rooms which are not enough to accommodate all of us.” On the lack of facilities, another doctor said, “We have been treating Covid patients and as per guidelines, we are supposed to take a hot water bath after duty but there is no provision for hot water at the guest house. Moreover, there is no electricity and the generator works only after 6 pm. Apart from sharing rooms, a room has only one washroom. When we are asking everyone to maintain social distancing to beat the virus, we are not provided with the required facilities even after treating Covid patients.” District civil surgeon in-charge Dr R N Sharma said, “The doctors were shifted by the district administration and I have no authority over the matter. However, we have informed the district administration and it has assured us to make the necessary changes.” Notably, doctors working at different Covid care centres of the district are provided hotel accommodation. Sharma, however, said: “I cannot authorise hotel accommodation for them as I haven’t been given the financial powers of a civil surgeon. Our incumbent district civil surgeon, Dr V B Prasad, is admitted to a hospital after testing positive for the virus. In his absence, the district administration has to take a call on the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/docs-on-covid-duty-shifted-from-jsca-stadium/articleshow/78095243.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker found hanging in Goghat, party cries foul||Goghat/Canning: A 60-year-old BJP worker was found hanging from a tree near the railway station in Goghat, Hooghly on Sunday morning, sparking tension in the area. BJP claimed Ganesh Roy was murdered while police registered a case of unnatural death. Residents spotted Roy hanging in a spot 2km from his home in Khanati village, within Goghat police station limits, and informed his sons, who are labourers. Roy had been missing since Saturday evening; his family had been looking for him. “He had said he was being threatened by a few Trinamool supporters over the past few days. But who would have thought he would be killed? We want a proper investigation,” said son Bapi Roy. BJP’s Arambagh president Biman Ghosh said: “Roy was our active worker and we are sure he was murdered.” “Had he committed suicide, the body should have been suspended in the air. But his feet were touching the ground,” he added. BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee said: “This brutality needs to stop. Where are the champions of democracy and why are they silent on these never-ending killings of BJP workers in Bengal?” Trinamool’s Goghat MLA Manas Majumdar, however, pointed a finger at BJP infighting. “BJP supporters are behind this incident,” he said. Trinamool’s youth wing district president Dilip Adak said Roy had no BJP link. “Whoever is dying is surprisingly being termed a BJP worker. Roy was once a CPM worker. I do not know when he joined BJP,” he said. Hooghly SP (rural) Tathagata Basu said: “He had a drinking problem; we are looking into that as well.” Meanwhile, clashes erupted between Trinamool and BJP workers in Chhoto Mollakhali area of South 24 Parganas on Saturday night. As rival supporters clashed in Radhanagar Bazaar area, police brought the situation under control. Four Trinamool and two BJP supporters were arrested. On Sunday morning, Trinamool supporters went to Sunderban Coastal police st-ation to submit a deputation, renewing tension. Brickbats were thrown at police and a police vehicle was torched. Trinamool’s Gosaba MLA Jayanta Naskar claimed his party’s workers were demonstrating peacefully when BJP supporters attacked them again. BJP’s district secretary Sanjay Nayak said Trinamool was trying to intimidate his party’s workers. “People are unhappy and Trinamool workers can feel that too. When police arrested their supporters, they retaliated by vandalizing the police station area,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-worker-found-hanging-in-goghat-party-cries-foul/articleshow/78096081.cms||Falguni Banerjee
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||4 die in Bankura accident||Bankura: Four people were killed early on Saturday when an asbestos-laden lorry coming from Chadrakona collided head-on with another from Bankura loaded with stone chips at Morar in Bishnupur. The accident occurred around 1.30 am. The drivers and helpers of both trucks died on the spot. On impact, both vehicles caught fire and the materials they were carrying were scorched. Locals brought out the bodies of the four and doused the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-die-in-bankura-accident/articleshow/78096033.cms||Falguni Banerjee
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro passes exam-day soft launch, faces tougher test today||KOLKATA: Sunday’s special 10am-7pm NEET run served as the perfect soft launch and a successful dress rehearsal for the Kolkata Metro ahead of the resumption of its commercial services on Monday. The country’s oldest rapid transit system will be back on track at 8am on Monday after a 174-day hiatus. Even as just 1,648 people took the ride on Sunday, NEET examinees and their guardians were all praise for the carrier for ferrying them to their examination centres across the city. Till 4pm, 677 candidates and their guardians used the service, and the day’s earnings for Metro Railway was Rs 68,660. Very few took the East-West line, which is currently in its truncated avatar. Sinthee resident Manashi Maita said she rarely used the Metro in normal times, but it was an absolute life-saver on Sunday. “We reached Dum Dum station at 9.10am and took the first train to Narendrapur, where my son, Srijon, had his exam centre,” she said. In all, 74 trains plied on the north-south link and 50 in East-West Metro, at 15- and 20-minute intervals respectively. Only NEET aspirants and one accompanying person were allowed in stations and on trains on Sunday. Paper tickets were issued to those who did not have smart cards. Everyone went through thermal screening inside the station. They had to sanitize their hands at sanitizer-dispensing units upon entering the premises. “We got the opportunity of checking whether all the new normal measures were in place,” said a Metro official. Inside the station, sections have been marked with tape in order to ensure social distancing. On trains, stickers with “cross” signs have been pasted on alternate seats. Only NEET aspirants were allowed to walk in upon showing admit cards on Sunday. At Mahanayak Uttam Kumar, a man pleaded with the waiting Kolkata Police sub-inspector to be allowed into the station to recharge his smart card; he was flatly refused. From Monday, the same city police personnel will be checking e-passes before letting a commuter in. The boarding pass, a unique feature of the new SOPs for Metro Railway, were available after clicking the URL https://pathadisha.com/metro from 8.20pm on Sunday, exactly 12 hours before Monday’s first train. The passes will not be needed for the other line, East-West Metro, inaugurated in February, since its 5km from Sector V to Salt Lake stadium is an elevated stretch and very few people use it. More than 6,000 passengers booked e-passes in the first hour on Sunday. The windows were opened at 8.20pm instead of 7.59pm because of the server load. Many people couldn’t generate e-passes. Finally, three servers were deployed and downloading became possible. “The social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols that are being stringently implemented in the Metro was extremely reassuring. I think I will use the Metro again,” said Sonarpur resident and NEET candidate for Behala’s SS Public School, Kushal Dewanjee. He boarded the train from Kavi Subhas to Mahanayak Uttam Kumar. From Monday, only smart cards, and no token, will be issued. Six stations — Esplanade, Park Street, Rabindra Sadan, Kalighat, Rabindra Sarobar and Tollygunge — will have smart card-vending machines. Later, all stations will have the facility, to avoid physical contact during transactions. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm. Travel time will also increase in the new normal, as trains will stop at each station for 30 seconds instead of 20. In all, 110 trains will be operated on the north-south line and 74 on the East-West line every day, except on Sundays. Under Unlock 4.0, Metro started operating from September 7 in other parts of the country in a graded manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-metro-passes-exam-day-soft-launch-faces-tougher-test-today/articleshow/78096568.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||2 Bengal MPs test Covid+ ahead of House session||Kolkata: Two lawmakers, one each from BJP and Trinamool Congress — Sukanta Majumdar and Shanta Chhetri — tested Covid-19 positive during a mandatory test a day before the monsoon session of Parliament starts. Both of them took to social media and asked whoever had come in touch with them over the past couple of days to remain in isolation. BJP’s Balurghat MP Majumdar tweeted his report on Sunday and said, “I have tested Covid-19 positive today. I am doing well and taking doctor’s advice. Requesting all those who have come in contact with me in the last few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptom.” Trinamool MP Dola Sen had met Chhetri in Darjeeling a few days back. She, along with 19 others who were at the meeting, however, tested negative. Earlier, BJP MP Jayanta Roy and Locket Chatterjee had tested Covid-19 positive. While Chatterjee has recovered, Roy is in isolation. TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Chhetri also took to her Twitter handle and wrote, “I am the latest victim of Covid-19. I request all those who have come in contact with me in the past two weeks to go for a test. Follow government procedure till your reports are out.” Meanwhile, Trinamool MPs have raised concerns over the scrapping of Question Hour and curtailing of Zero Hour. “This government continues to mock Parliament. They have cancelled Question Hour and slashed Zero Hour by half. They want to rush bills without any scrutiny and create an ordinance raj,” said Derek O’Brien, TMC’s parliamentary party leader in Rajya Sabha. TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee said that “cancelling Question Hour is akin to curtailing the democratic process in Parliament. Government has said that a lot of bills are pending. They should also realize that we have a lot of grievances pending over these six months. Government has to give enough time to the opposition to raise those issues”. BJP lawmakers are likely to raise concerns over the “mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation in Bengal” during Parliament’s monsoon session. “There were severe lapses when the state government should have been proactive to tackle the pandemic fallout. Teaching hospitals have turned into dedicated Covid facilities and non-Covid patients are not allowed there. Migrant workers, who wanted to return home, were helpless after the state government mismanaged the entire episode,” said BJP’s Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-bengal-mps-test-covid-ahead-of-house-session/articleshow/78096114.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 14, 2020||Kolkata||Minor found dead, neighbour held||Kolkata: A 12-year-old boy, missing since Friday evening, was found buried in bushes behind his neighbour’s house in Joynagar Uttarpara on Saturday night, allegedly kidnapped and killed for ransom. Neighbour Monirul Sheikh, 22, has been arrested. Police said he confessed to killing Tushar Chakraborty for money. “Tushar was very close to Monirul and went to his house on Friday evening because he had been promised a parrot. When Tushar didn’t return, we went to Monirul’s place and he said Tushar hadn’t come. He even joined family members in the search for Tushar,” said the boy’s cousin sister Trisha Chakraborty. The family finally lodged a complaint with Joynagar police station. On Saturday evening, Tushar’s brother Tanmoy received an SMS in Hindi demanding a Rs 5 lakh ransom to be brought to Diamond Harbour. Suspicious of Monirul, police interrogated him for two hours. He confessed he had killed the boy and buried him behind his house, police said. “It seems Monirul had some debt and needed money for that. We will interrogate him further,” Baruipur SP Rashid Munir Khan said. According to police, Monirul was involved in a second-hand mobile business and had run up a debt of Rs 60,000. “He could have asked me for money,” said Tushar’s father Bhaskar, who owns a shop and a nursing home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/minor-found-dead-neighbour-held/articleshow/78096089.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
September 14, 2020||Thane||Covid-19 claims 35 cops from Maharashtra in 13 days, toll now 192||MUMBAI: September could turn out to be the worst-hit month for the state police force, with 35 personnel having succumbed to Covid-19 in the first 13 days of the month. In August, a total of 54 personnel had died due to the virus. In the last 48 hours, four police personnel died due to the virus—two from Mumbai, one each from Thane and Amravati. The death of a Nagpur railway police constable, who died on September 4, was recorded in the state report on Sunday. The state police toll is now 192. Assistant sub inspector Laxman Sawant (56), of Mankhurd police, died on Sunday. He had completed 36 years in service on September 1. Sawant, who had comborbities, is surivived by a wife and son. Inspector Xavier Rego (53), of Vakola police, died due to the virus on Sunday. Rego was recovering from a road accident at home, when he had a heart attack. His Covid test report came positive after his death. Sub inspector Madhukar Gherde (57), of the East Control Room, breathed his last at a Thane hospital on September 11. He had comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-claims-35-cops-from-maharashtra-in-13-days-toll-now-192/articleshow/78097039.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
September 14, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 claims 35 cops from Maharashtra in 13 days, toll now 192||MUMBAI: September could turn out to be the worst-hit month for the state police force, with 35 personnel having succumbed to Covid-19 in the first 13 days of the month. In August, a total of 54 personnel had died due to the virus. In the last 48 hours, four police personnel died due to the virus—two from Mumbai, one each from Thane and Amravati. The death of a Nagpur railway police constable, who died on September 4, was recorded in the state report on Sunday. The state police toll is now 192. Assistant sub inspector Laxman Sawant (56), of Mankhurd police, died on Sunday. He had completed 36 years in service on September 1. Sawant, who had comborbities, is surivived by a wife and son. Inspector Xavier Rego (53), of Vakola police, died due to the virus on Sunday. Rego was recovering from a road accident at home, when he had a heart attack. His Covid test report came positive after his death. Sub inspector Madhukar Gherde (57), of the East Control Room, breathed his last at a Thane hospital on September 11. He had comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-claims-35-cops-from-maharashtra-in-13-days-toll-now-192/articleshow/78097030.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
September 14, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: More than 22,000 infections in Maharashtra for 5th straight day||MUMBAI: The state added 22,543 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the fifth consecutive day of recording a 22,000-plus figure. The overall tally rose to 10,60,308. There were 416 deaths counted, the third highest for any day. The toll rose to 29,531. In terms of cases, the state may soon cross Russia, which with 10.62 lakh cases is the fourth most-affected country in the world. The city added 2,085 cases in 24 hours, taking the overall caseload to 1,69,741. The active caseload in the city crossed 30,000 to touch 30,316. The last time the city had such a high volume of active cases was in early July. On July 1, the active caseload was 29,715 in the city. While the share of the city in active cases in the state was 38% then, it is 11% now. Pune district recorded the highest number of active cases at 77,624, followed by the city. Next was Thane at 29,531. The big surge in active cases pulled down the state recovery rate to below 70% once again, leading the state towards 3 lakh active cases. In the daily count, Pune circle was at the top with 6,029 and the city stood at 5,357 cases. CM Uddhav Thackeray expressed his concern over the surge and appealed to people to take more precautions and follow the social distance norms strictly. He appealed to people to take responsibility for their families and said the state-wide campaign ‘My family, my responsibility’ would be launched from Tuesday for a month. BMC officials said 70% of the cases were from high-rises. “In the northern suburbs of Kandivli, Borivli and Dahisar, almost 85% of the cases are from high-rises,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. In a review done on Sunday at least one positive case was found in each of 522 buildings in Kandivli. After a dip, the city for the third day crossed the 40 mark with 41 deaths, taking the toll to 8,150. The state health department said that of the 416 deaths, 261 occurred in 48 hours and 121 were from last week. The remaining 34 were older than a week. Of the 34 deaths, six occurred in Ahmednagar, five in Nagpur, four each in Amaravati and Thane, three in Sangli, two each in Pune, Akola and in Solapur, and one each in Buldhana, Hingoli, Kolhapur, Washim, Palghar and Aurangabad. The highest death count in a day was 448 on Thursday, the second highest was 423 last Monday. In Navi Mumbai, 90 inmates of an ashram for the destitute tested positive. Three ward officers and several other municipal officers were down with Covid-19. Hospitals in the state discharged 11,549 patients, taking the total to 7,40,061. The recovery rate dipped to 69.8% from 72.6% on September 3. ( Inputs by Vijay Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-more-than-22000-infections-in-maharashtra-for-5th-straight-day/articleshow/78097059.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid stigma drives Andhra Pradesh couple to suicide||ELURU: An elderly couple allegedly died by suicide after they tested positive for Covid-19 in West Godavari district on Sunday. Andhra Pradesh has thus far witnessed at least 35 suicides related to Covid-19 fears and its associated social stigma. According to the police, the couple identified as Sirigina Pullayya, 75, and Lakshmikantham, 68, jumped into an agricultural canal. Earlier, they had tested positive for Covid-19. They were residents of Velivennu village in Undrajavaram mandal of West Godavari district. The police have recovered the body of Lakshmikantham at Peravalli village. Search is on for the body of Pullayya. Undrajavaram police sub-inspector Avinash said the couple had tested positive for novel coronavirus after they underwent a test following symptoms. Unable to digest the fact that they are carrying the dreaded virus, the couple decided to end their lives fearing social stigma. The couple went to an agricultural canal in Velivennu and jumped into it. All irrigation canals are full due to discharge of flood waters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-stigma-drives-andhra-pradesh-couple-to-suicide/articleshow/78097071.cms||Samson Raj
September 14, 2020||India||This documentary should make you quit social media||NEW DELHI: The Social Dilemma, the new Netflix documentary, tells a story most of us are familiar with, but conveys it with a scalding urgency. What are we submitting to, as we sleepwalk through our lives, staring at our screens, twitching to our notifications? What will it take to wake up? Silicon Valley insiders, engineers, ethicists, investors and scholars describe how the internet has been taken over by social media oligopolies, and their power to change the very fabric of our reality. Whether it is Google, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube or Snapchat, these “attention merchants” are in the business of harvesting our minds, hacking our psychologies, to sell to us more efficiently. We give ourselves away with every click, we are mercilessly profiled, and we are bought and sold: to advertisers, corporations, political actors, anyone who profits from it. Why does this matter, and why aren’t we resisting this manipulation? Because it’s so very pleasant, like being on drugs. Social media companies exploit our own hardwired human need to speak and listen to others, to care about social approval. And once we’re hooked, they experiment on us. A range of persuasive technologies is turned on — every morning, we are prompted to think thoughts we didn’t intend to, because of our phone’s notifications. Every “pull and refresh” that brings new content is like the thrill of playing a slot machine, every tagged photo is a fresh dose. When you see bubbles that show someone is typing, it magnetises your attention. These are not choices we consciously make, they suck us in at a deeper, helpless level. Social media platforms know each of us minutely, can predict our tendencies, and can also mould our behaviour at scale. Facebook has run massive contagion experiments, it has the capacity to cause unrest or get people to vote or trigger waves of social unrest, anywhere it chooses to. Does this seem exaggerated? After all, every new technology has caused a moral panic, including the telephone and the television. But this time it’s different, warns the documentary. With exponential increases in processing power, this is a whole new species of power and influence, with artificial intelligence and constantly learning algorithms. You and I don’t stand a chance against a phenomenal machine that knows everything about us, it’s not a fair fight. Steve Jobs once spoke of the internet as a “bicycle for the mind”, a benevolent tool that enhances human capacities— but these platforms are not our tools, we are their tools. It didn’t have to turn out this way. Those in their 30s or older still remember the magic of the internet before this hyper-commodification, what a generous resource and community it used to be. There are still traces of that old humane ethic; Lanier points to Wikipedia where all of us see the same information, it is not spying and calculating and giving us our own customised reality. While we know, in concept, that social media locks us into our own echo chambers, we don’t quite understand what this means. The Social Dilemma jolts us into realising how our realities are composed of a stream of thoughts. If you and I are fed content meant to pander our own personal enthusiasms and trigger our fears, fake or real, then soon we come to inhabit entirely different realities. We don’t even realize that others are not seeing what we are seeing. That explains why political differences, arguments over climate change or coronavirus, seem so bitter and intractable now. Our shared truths, our common sense, the very basis for reason and compromise, are being shredded because of the commercial imperatives of social media platforms. The documentary recognises that the problem is not the technology itself, but the social forces that it amplifies. A handful of Silicon Valley platforms have become the richest companies in the history of humanity, threatening democracy. Extractive capitalism is built not to care about the effects, just as it recklessly mined the earth and destroyed entire species, it has now turned on us. When tech barons now say “data is the new oil”, they mean that this time, our humanity is the basis of their profits. For all the fine reassurances of tech CEOs, this change is hard for them to roll back. Algorithms cannot restore the truth, they have no way of knowing it. There is continuous pressure on them to grow, shareholder interests to consider. Recovering control has to come from us, from massive public determination. As individuals, we can make small tweaks, pay for services, turn off notifications, erect privacy barriers. Governments must realign their financial incentives — by taxing data collection or data assets, or regulating them as privately owned infrastructure. Can this be done? When confronted with the concentrated power of these companies, and the fragile grip of democratic institutions, the status quo seems overbearing. But the future is open, all change depends on the hell we raise now. And the last line of the Social Dilemma puts it simply: “We have to”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/this-documentary-should-make-you-quit-social-media/articleshow/78097098.cms||Amulya Gopalakrishnan
September 14, 2020||India||Government to call meeting of parties on China debate||NEW DELHI: Amid a concerted push by opposition parties for a discussion on border tensions with China, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said on Sunday that a meeting of members from various parties will be held on Tuesday to decide whether such a debate should be held in the House. Joshi, however, added that the government was ready to discuss all issues decided by the business advisory committee (BAC) and appealed to parties for their cooperation. In the absence of the traditional all-party meeting ahead of the Parliament sessions, the meeting of the BAC became the ground for opposition parties to press for discussions on various issues, including the LAC situation, economy and coronavirus. On Sunday, the Lok Sabha BAC decided that on the opening day, Parliament will take up for consideration and passage the Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020, to replace the ordinances in force. Additional business of the House will be decided during the second meeting of the BAC, scheduled on September 15. It was also decided that both Houses will adjourn for an hour after paying obituary references to former President Pranab Mukherjee. The BAC also decided, unanimously, to pass without discussion two bills pertaining to salary cuts for ministers and MPs. The Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, and the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, legislation pertaining to a 30% reduction in sumptuary allowances of ministers and MPs is scheduled to be taken up for passage on Wednesday. The decision to reduce the allowances has been taken for a period of one year and is in light of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic. The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which amends the Act to include protection for healthcare personnel combating epidemic diseases and expands the powers of the central government to prevent the spread of such diseases, has been allocated three hours for discussion and passage on Wednesday. After the adjournment, while Lok Sabha will take up legislative business, the Rajya Sabha is scheduled to hold elections for the post of deputy chair man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-to-call-meeting-of-parties-on-china-debate/articleshow/78097105.cms||Swati Mathur
September 14, 2020||India||Cong’s strategy group in charge while Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are away||NEW DELHI: Congress’s parliamentary strategy group will be in charge of handling day-to-day affairs of the party strategy in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha while Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are away for the former’s treatment. Sources said the broad canvas of issues that need raising during the monsoon session were already discussed during the group’s September 8 meeting that was chaired by Sonia, with the key focus areas being coronavirus, LAC and China, and the economy. The strategy group had also decided to raise the issue of restoration of question hour in both Houses during the session. In the coming days, with Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh helming the group as convenor, the strategy group will meet on a need-to basis to decide on party-related matters pertaining to issues that need raising in Parliament. The group also comprises former PM Manmohan Singh, Ahmed Patel, Ghulam Nabi Azad, A K Antony, Anand Sharma, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, K Suresh, K C Venugopal, Gaurav Gogoi, Manickam Tagore, Ravneet Bittu and Manish Tiwari Senior leaders confirmed that while Rahul is expected to return in 8-10 days, before the Parliament session concludes, both Sonia and Rahul will continue to remain available for virtual meetings “as and when the need arises”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congs-strategy-group-in-charge-while-sonia-gandhi-and-rahul-gandhi-are-away/articleshow/78097120.cms||Swati Mathur
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Questioned for peeing on road, brothers attack locals, arrested||CHENNAI: Police on Sunday arrested two brothers for assaulting residents who questioned them urinating in public, near a water tank, in Alandur. Police sources said the duo was allegedly in an inebriated state and created ruckus in the neighbourhood. The arrested were identified as Rasheed, 26, and Hameed, 24, residents of Laskar Street in Alandur. On Saturday night, the two were visiting a relative in another area in Alandur. Hameed had urinated in public besides a water tank in the neighbourhood, when one of the residents, Padmanaban, 63, chided him and asked him to refrain from doing so. A verbal duel ensued and it soon escalated into a brawl, with Hameed assaulting the elderly man and abusing his family members who came to his aid, before fleeing the place. Later, around 11pm, Hameed returned with four others and picked up an argument with the residents. Deenadayalan, a DMK functionary who resides in the neighbourhood, intervened and questioned their behaviour. The gang threw stones at him, breaking his teeth and injuring him and another resident. Based on Deenadayalan's complaint, the St Thomas Mount police arrested the siblings on Sunday. A search is on for their accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-questioned-for-peeing-on-road-brothers-attack-locals-arrested/articleshow/78097130.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Six Karnataka districts with high cases on Centre’s watch||BENGALURU: The central government is closely monitoring six Karnataka districts with a high Covid-19 caseload. These are: Bengaluru Urban, Davanagere, Koppal, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru. Parameters such as positivity rate, active infections and case fatality rate are being analysed and plans are being made to strengthen hospital infrastructure, from ventilators to supply of oxygen. “Review meetings have been happening with the Centre. At the last meeting, six districts were seen as the worst-affected,” said health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey. He added vigorous testing was being done in the six districts. Officials of the state health and family welfare department have been conducting regular videoconferences with heads of private and government hospitals in the regions to monitor Covid-19 management. Some new measures include increasing the number of ventilators in Dakshina Kannada, which has reported 440 Covid-19 deaths so far. After Bengaluru, Mysuru has logged a high number of cases in the past few weeks. Currently, the district has more than 7,000 active infections. The case fatality rate stands at 2.2 per cent, which is higher than the state average of 1.6 per cent. Pandey said there was greater focus in the six districts on protecting vulnerable population groups such as pregnant women, elderly people with comorbidity and patients with tuberculosis or HIV. Field staff and the Apthamitra helpline are being used to check their health status. But ensuring adequate numbers of trained personnel is a challenge, he said. “We are getting 900 PG students in our health system for one-year compulsory service. Finalyear nursing students are also on the job,” he added. Doctors in north Karnataka shared a worrying trend: patients in home isolation selfmedicate and rush to hospitals at the last hour. “There are also problems with ICU management and that’s why deaths are rising,” said a senior doctor in Koppal, which has seen 189 deaths. Another Koppal doctor said instead of collaborating, officials were trading blame. “Doctors are avoiding Covid-19 duty after seeing their colleagues work for 12 to 13 hours. Officials are unable to provide an eight-hour shift as there are not enough doctors,” he said. An official in Ballari said the focus should be on reducing mortality, and the number of cases should not cause panic: “If the tally of cases is climbing, it means that hidden clusters are being detected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-six-karnataka-districts-with-high-cases-on-centres-watch/articleshow/78097128.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: It's going to be a cloudy Monday with light rain, says Met forecast||CHENNAI: The city is likely to experience a cloudy Monday with light rain mostly towards the evening. Many parts of the city, especially neighbourhoods in the south, west and central parts, received rain on Sunday evening and night. Nungambakkam received 0.6mm rain and Meenambakkam 0.4mm rain on Sunday. A Met department official said the city received rain because a low pressure area has formed over Westcentral Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh coast. "It is likely to become more marked. It was a cyclonic circulation yesterday. Now, it has become a low pressure. We may get more rain on Monday." A Met department forecast for Monday said, "The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Light to moderate rain is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 30oC and 26oC." Private weather blogger Pradeep John in a post said, "intense storm is marching from Northwest of Chennai. It has been a while since Chennai core city got decent rains." It was cloudy for most of the day on Sunday and the evening rain brought down the day temperature to close to 30oC from the 35oC experienced a few days ago. Live satellite images on online weather tracking portals showed a thunderstorm over the Bay of Bengal closer to the Andhra coast on Sunday night. A large part of Kancheepuram district too experienced heavy rain with thunder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-its-going-to-be-a-cloudy-monday-with-light-rain-says-met-forecast/articleshow/78097139.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Medical care requires personal touch, distance is testing doctors’||BENGALURU: As the pandemic unfolded, medical oncologist Dr Niti Raizada worried about patients who had received a cancer diagnosis months ago and were delaying treatment over virus concerns. Obstetrician-gynaecologist Dr Hema Divakar deliberated on the tricky logistics of bringing expectant mothers to the hospital because, as she niftily puts it, you cannot lock down a pregnancy. Doctors across specialities have witnessed an intense reversal of normal times, wrestling with questions not just about Covid-19 but about the entire healthcare process. Is it safe to call a patient for a check-up or a procedure; should a problem be allowed to fester to avoid possibly bigger complications the virus may cause; are video consultations helpful; how to protect and reassure stressed-out and stretched staff? These are some of the urgent concerns. Medical professionals have had to rethink their approach as counselling or treatment for conditions other than Covid-19 cannot be deferred indefinitely. Eminent women doctors, some of whom are part of national healthcare discussions, spoke to TOI about the new changes and challenges. “We had to completely reorganise our services, from patient admissions to staff shifts,” says Dr Pratima Murthy, head of psychiatry at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences, or Nimhans, in Bengaluru. “We have special wards with long-time patients, who are old or have other illnesses. An infection would be dangerous here, so we reverse-quarantined the older patients. New admissions are also nursed separately. Everyone is tested.” A limited number of personnel are allowed inside wards, and preventing burnout is a key concern. “People management is crucial. People make up the system and their health, physical and mental, and functionality determine how well it runs. We had to balance their and the hospital’s requirements,” says Dr Murthy. “As a healthcare worker, your biggest fear is you will carry the infection home to your family. We ease anxieties and ensure staff safety and patient care don’t suffer.” A big ask for doctors has been to broaden their focus from treatment to organisational protocols, revamps and webinars while simultaneously creating safe access, and peace of mind, for everyone. “We made arrangements that were not limited to patient care. In the early months of Covid-19, we retrained staff and shifted our emergency unit. A lot of liaising inside and outside the institution, especially when an employee or a patient tests positive,” she says. “Figuring out how to extend support to patients wary of coming to the hospital was also very important. Telehealth helped us continue our communication.” Changing guidelines are an irritant for most medical professionals. “They change while you are setting up a new system... Protocols are mostly set now, and we have held things together by working collectively and adapting,” says Dr Murthy. According to Dr Hema Divakar, medical director of Divakars Speciality Hospital in Bengaluru, the pandemic-induced distance is testing doctors. “In India, more than systems, it’s the specialist’s personal touch and relationship that reassure patients. We are personally invested in ensuring our patients’ health. The distance created by Covid, where in-person consultations cannot happen regularly, is challenging for us,” she says. “The standard way of practice, which we followed for decades, has changed. New protocols require a complete change in behaviour with numerous precautions. But we are also learning that some ground can be covered through video consultations.” Uncertainty is a stressor for both care seekers and givers. “Some procedures can be put off, but the question troubling everyone is: what next and when? Childbirth, for instance, cannot be postponed. Thousands of deliveries will happen in the coming months. Thankfully, pregnant women take great care of themselves and stay safe,” she says. Medical professionals are expected to have the right answers, but the pandemic has left them with many questions. “When patients pose queries now, especially on complications caused by Covid, we don’t have definitive answers as the understanding about the virus is still evolving. Every day, there’s new information. Being unsure is not a position any doctor likes to be in,” Dr Divakar says. Managing facilities amid staff shortages and creating the right conditions for patients to make a hospital trek take up a large part of the day. “We have to screen everyone. Missing an ailing person, whether they are entering or leaving the premises, is not an option. Many patients don’t want to use public transport or cabs, so we have to arrange transport to get them here,” Dr Divakar says. “Retraining staff and making them confident is so important because they are the first point of contact. They must constantly remind everyone to follow distancing and wear a mask. It’s tough as people don’t always understand. For instance, childbirth is a joyous moment and relatives naturally want to see the baby at the hospital and celebrate. This is not advisable right now.” Many hospitals are under a strain even as they support government efforts. “People expect the medical fraternity to be kind and compassionate, and waive charges. We don’t consider our work as a business, but there are realities: we need to pay the staff, we need to pay for the consumables. No one is giving us things for free,” she says. Dr Murthy and Dr Divakar highlighted the challenging situation of veteran doctors, who are advised to stay off active hospital work as their age or pre-existing health condition puts them at a risk. “There’s been a general advisory for some time now that doctors aged above 60 should get into digital consultations and let juniors take over at the hospital. But senior doctors are not particularly comfortable with e-consultations and junior doctors lack the expertise to attend to patients. There’s a disconnect between what’s expected and what can be done on ground,” says Dr Divakar. “In many places, senior doctors are the only help available, so they continue to work despite the risks.” According to Dr Murthy, experienced medical professionals who cannot help people in a healthcare setting right now are in anguish. “It’s hard to suddenly stop doing the work you have known for years. Patient contact is a very important aspect of the work, and doctors are solely missing being able to help patients,” she says. Dr Radha S Murthy, co-founder and managing trustee of the Nightingales Medical Trust, which focuses on eldercare, welfare and dementia, says providing regular mental support to patients is crucial now. “Most of my patients are elders, who are prone to multiple health issues. Covid has forced them into extreme confinement, and this has affected them physically and emotionally. As a doctor who pioneered home medical care in 1996, I am in touch with many elderly patients; every day, I attend several calls. More than medicines, aged patients need interactions, eye-to-eye contact and empathy,” she says. Despite risks to her health — a new reality for all medical professionals — she personally sees patients. “I could have managed them over the phone, but knowing their psychology, I decided to be in the field. Patients feel better this way and their caregivers, who toil 24/7, are motivated. Though telemedicine is promoted widely, it cannot be the ultimate solution to the health concerns of elders” she says. “We have developed new systems, made modifications to infrastructure and constituted a core group to monitor the situation (at our centres).” She is actively involved in the care of more than 140 people with dementia and 55 elderly destitute women. “In our setups, physical distancing and making patients wear masks won’t always won’t work as dementia patients need physical help for all their daily activities. It’s a huge challenge to take care of them during a pandemic. With strict safety protocols, we have kept Covid at bay from our residential care centres,” she says. Dr Niti Raizada, director of medical oncology and hemato-oncology and transplant physician at Fortis Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, notes Covid-19 has complicated the straightforward dimension of treatment. “In cancer care, regularity of treatment is critical. The pandemic has disrupted this frequency. Since March, people have been avoiding hospitals. It takes time to persuade them and explain that medical attention is high priority. When they finally come in, they are very sick and in severe pain,” she says. “Suppose, a diagnosis was made in February and you visit the doctor again only in September. You have allowed a lot of time for things to go wrong.” Covid-19 tests before every medical investigation is another pain point. “It delays the process. Once we have a vaccine, it should stop,” she says. “One advantage of telemedicine is approachability, but the expectations of patients, their relatives or children who are settled abroad are high. Some things you cannot evaluate on video. You need to examine the patient physically. Not all pieces can be put together through video consultations.” A lot of energy goes into maintaining a safe hospital environment. “Oncology is not a facility that is mixed with normal care. We’ve separate entrances and exits. In case of a bone marrow transplant, we test doctors and nurses and allow only the family member who tests negative to be with the patient. We limit external exposure,” says Dr Raizada. But it’s impossible to maintain that tight control once the patient leaves. The multiple challenges have meant longer work hours for doctors, whose in trays are full. “I start working at 7.30am and finish at 9.30pm. There’s OPD time, teleconsultations, webinars and reports. Often, I work on Sundays, too, as staff members cannot make it without public transport. I’ve adjusted to the work profile that has changed,” says Dr Raizada. “We have discussions among peers about how to manage time. All of us know we have to commit more hours and put in more effort.” Dr Murthy of Nimhans doesn’t remember taking time off in the past six months: “The hours have stretched, and for us, there’s no scope of work from home.” Dr Divakar ruled out a break for gynaecologists. “You can put almost everything on hold. But how do you lock down a delivery? Even in the worst of the situations, we have to be at work,” she says. “It’s only now that I am reflecting on the stress of these past months. There was just no time.” Many doctors are coping by doing simple things right first. “You need to deal with things calmly. Being agitated or overdoing things doesn’t help. It’s a big reset for all of us (as a society). We've all become hands-on with many things and are more compassionate,” says Dr Raizada. Dr Murthy of the Nightingales Medical Trust notes that the Covid-19 crisis caused a lot of stress to medical professionals, but the situation is gradually changing. “Initially, there was no clarity. Now, we know a lot about how the virus behaves,” she says. “We should learn how to live with it safely. As hospitals are high-risk areas, they must be more careful and make changes in how they treat patients. These changes may not be permanent, but they will stay for a long time.” Dr Murthy of Nimhans points out that no one can be fully prepared for a pandemic, but prioritising can help. “My thinking was to not allow myself to get overwhelmed. Step back and see what are the things that need resolution first. Consulting colleagues on possible solutions and working with teams. Mutual support is important,” she says. “A resident doctor recently told me: ‘We underrate normalcy’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/medical-care-requires-personal-touch-distance-is-testing-doctors/articleshow/78097161.cms||Harsh Vora
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru sees 2nd highest Covid cases after Delhi||BENGALURU: Bengaluru has overtaken Mumbai to report the second highest number of Covid-19 cases among the country’s major metros. The Karnataka capital has reported 1,70,662 cases till Sunday, second to Delhi with 2,18,304 cases. Mumbai follows Bengaluru closely with 1,69,741 cases. Among districts, Pune has reported 2,32,840 infections till date. Karnataka reported over 9,000 new cases in a day for the 11th time on Sunday. According to the health department, the state saw 9,894 new cases taking the total number of the infected to 4,59,445. Karnataka became the fourth state to register over 4.5 lakh cases. The state saw 104 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 7,265.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-sees-2nd-highest-covid-cases-after-delhi/articleshow/78097159.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Bengaluru||6 Karnataka districts with high Covid burden on Centre’s watch||Bengaluru: The central government is closely monitoring six Karnataka districts with a high Covid-19 caseload. These are: Bengaluru Urban, Davanagere, Koppal, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru. Parameters such as positivity rate, active infections and case fatality rate are being analysed and plans are being made to strengthen hospital infrastructure, from ventilators to supply of oxygen. “Review meetings have been happening with the Centre. At the last meeting, six districts were seen as the worst-affected,” said health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey. He added vigorous testing was being done in the six districts. Officials of the state health and family welfare department have been conducting regular videoconferences with heads of private and government hospitals in the regions to monitor Covid-19 management. Some new measures include increasing the number of ventilators in Dakshina Kannada, which has reported 440 Covid-19 deaths so far. After Bengaluru, Mysuru has logged a high number of cases in the past few weeks. Currently, the district has more than 7,000 active infections. The case fatality rate stands at 2.2 per cent, which is higher than the state average of 1.6 per cent. Pandey said there was greater focus in the six districts on protecting vulnerable population groups such as pregnant women, elderly people with comorbidity and patients with tuberculosis or HIV. Field staff and the Apthamitra helpline are being used to check their health status. But ensuring adequate numbers of trained personnel is a challenge, he said. “We are getting 900 PG students in our health system for one-year compulsory service. Final-year nursing students are also on the job,” he added. Doctors in north Karnataka shared a worrying trend: patients in home isolation self-medicate and rush to hospitals at the last hour. “There are also problems with ICU management and that’s why deaths are rising,” said a senior doctor in Koppal, which has seen 189 deaths. Another Koppal doctor said instead of collaborating, officials were trading blame. “Doctors are avoiding Covid-19 duty after seeing their colleagues work for 12 to 13 hours. Officials are unable to provide an eight-hour shift as there are not enough doctors,” he said. An official in Ballari said the focus should be on reducing mortality, and the number of cases should not cause panic: “If the tally of cases is climbing, it means that hidden clusters are being detected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/6-karnataka-districts-with-high-covid-burden-on-centres-watch/articleshow/78097170.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 14, 2020||India||Covid deaths surge by 14.5% in a week||NEW DELHI: India recorded over 8,000 Covid-19 deaths in the past week, a sharp rise of 14.5% over the previous week, with fatalities averaging more than 1,100 per day. Fresh cases reported during the week also rose by 11%, as more than 6.4 lakh cases were detected. Both the count of cases and the death toll in India during the week (September 7-13) were the highest in the world. While India has been reporting the highest number of Covid cases in the world since August, the country’s rising death toll has overtaken other countries in September so far. The sharp rise in deaths last week would be a source of worry, especially since fatalities had hitherto been rising only gradually. As against 8,069 fatalities and a growth of 14.5% during the week, deaths in the previous week had risen by 1.7% with a count of 7,050. For the first time, the national death toll remained above 1,000 on all days of the past week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-deaths-surge-by-14-5-in-a-week/articleshow/78097178.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||Amit Shah in AIIMS for ‘complete med check-up’||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah was admitted to AIIMS late Saturday night for a “complete medical checkup”, the premier hospital said in a statement on Sunday. The hospital said Shah, who was admitted to AIIMS on August 18 for post-Covid care, was readmitted ahead of Parliament’s monsoon session beginning on Monday. News agency IANS had said on Saturday that the home minister was taken to AIIMS after he complained of breathing problems. Sources said he has been lodged in the CN tower, a facility reserved for VVIPs. He is under the care of AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and his condition is said to be stable. Shah had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2 and was admitted to Medanta Medicity in Gurgaon. He was discharged on August 14 after he tested negative. However, he had to be admitted to AIIMS on August 18 after he complained of fatigue and body ache. At the time of his discharge on August 31, AIIMS had issued a statement saying the minister had fully recovered and was fit to resume his routine activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-in-aiims-for-complete-med-check-up/articleshow/78097200.cms||---
September 14, 2020||India||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh: Humble man of maths who seldom got equations wrong||NEW DELHI: During the punishing summer of 1997, Raghuvansh Babu would sometimes take the ride back from Parliament to his official residence at Delhi’s Ashoka Road in the ramshackle, non-AC Maruti 800 of this reporter, abandoning the comfort of the official vehicle which was provided to him as a Union minister in the United Front government.One often wondered why a man of his stature would abandon his air-conditioned Ambassador for an old vehicle which he had fondly named ‘CMP’. Referring to the UF’s common minimum programme, which was constantly a bone of contention between Left and other UF partners as well as Congress, which supported the two successive governments of the Front, he would say: "CMP chal to raha hai sarkar mein aur iss desh mein. Jaise tumhara vahan chal raha hai. Ye CMP hai, AC wagerah nahin to kya hua (Just like your car is running without frills, this government is implementing the CMP in the country)."Remaining grounded even after climbing peaks in his political career was a quality that Raghuvansh Prasad Singh was known for and he found ways to accomplish that – be it his constituency Vaishali in Bihar that he had nurtured over decades or Lutyens’ Delhi, which became his second home after he debuted in Parliament with his victory in the 1996 Lok Sabha election.Raghuvansh died at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday, leaving his party RJD and its boss Lalu Prasad in shock, as his demise comes three days after he had written a personal letter to Lalu saying he was quitting the party and the latter cajoling him by writing back that he was not going anywhere.Reacting to his death, Lalu tweeted on Sunday: "What have you done, Raghuvansh Babu? I told you that you are not going anywhere. But you have gone so far away. I am speechless, sad. I will miss you a lot."The passing of Raghuvansh is not only an emotional setback for Lalu, as the former had vehemently stood by the RJD chief and his family ever since his tribulations in the fodder scam began more than two decades ago, it is a big jolt for the party ahead of the assembly elections as barring Lalu – who remains in jail – there are very few people who are deeply connected to the masses the way Raghuvansh Babu was.While in Delhi, during the monsoon months, Raghuvansh would often summon to his residence the roadside hawkers selling blackberries. Sitting cross-legged, he would prod them about their living conditions, about the rainfall and the crop situation back in their villages, while nibbling at his favourite fruit with a childlike glee. He always made it a point to pay them handsomely, irrespective of whether they belonged to Bihar.It was his connect with the rural masses that landed him in departments and ministries like rural development, animal husbandry and dairy. It was because of Raghuvansh’s role in the rollout of NREGS as rural development minister during UPA 1 that the Congress leadership at one point, according to speculations, was keen on giving him the same portfolio in UPA 2 even though his party was not part of the government.With a doctorate in mathematics, a robust memory and interest in grappling with complexity of facts ensured that he acquitted himself well.Raghuvansh "babu", as he was affectionately addressed by almost all, rivals included, continued to enjoy the affection of Congress benches. His booming voice could be heard over the din and he used that to tremendous advantage in the duels with BJP, often transgressing the time limit laid down for an MP who had only three colleagues in the 15th Lok Sabha. But he would turn into a rule-enforcer in his role as Presiding Officer: a role he played with relish.Rajput by caste and someone with a solid reputation for honesty, Raghuvansh was often seen as providing Lalu cover against charges of rampant corruption, lawlessness and MY (Muslim-Yadav) Raj. He often seemed uncomfortable with RJD's politics, but never publicised his grouses perhaps because of the votes of Yadavs and Muslims that he needed.With the passage of time, his equation with Lalu also changed - from a colleague to a staunch loyalist. He did not quite become a courtier, but found himself playing the supremo's defence attorney in utterly controversial situations.The arrangement worked well for long. But political calculations went awry from 2014 onwards for the RJD veteran. He was defeated by the local Rajput rival, Rama Kishore Singh of LJP in 2014 Lok Sabha polls and by Bina Devi from the same party in the next parliamentary elections. Ironically, it was efforts by Lalu’s son Tejashwi to induct Rama Kishore Singh into the RJD – a move which was put on hold by the RJD supremo – which prompted Raghuvansh to write the letter saying he was quitting the party he had co-founded with Lalu and warm up to Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/humble-man-of-maths-who-seldom-got-equations-wrong/articleshow/78097221.cms||Alok Sharma
September 14, 2020||Delhi||Unlock-4: Gyms and yoga centers to open in Delhi from Monday, weekly markets permitted till September 30||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has permitted gyms and yoga institutes to open and extended permission to weekly markets to function till September 30, an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority late on Sunday evening stated. The gyms and yoga institutes can open from Monday provided they strictly follow all the Covid guidelines and the standard operating procedure issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. “The Covid situation in Delhi has been reviewed and it has been decided that present arrangement of opening of the weekly markets on trial basis i.e. one weekly market per day per zone in all three municipal corporations/New Delhi municipal council/Delhi Cantonment Board (except in containment zones) may be continued till September 30 and gymnasiums and yoga institutes may also be allowed to open subject to strict compliance of standard operating procedure issued by the ministry of health and family welfare in this regard,” the order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the chairman of DDMA’s state executive committee, stated. The SOP entails that these centres exclude people who come under vulnerable categories like those above 65 years, below 10, people with comorbidities; visitors must wear face covers all the time they are inside these centres, two yards distance must be maintained, spas, steam bath, swimming pools will remain shut, minimum of 15-30 minutes gap must be kept between batches, sanitization and disinfection must be carried out between two shifts among various other requirements that these centres have to meet. #Delhi govt permits gyms and yoga centers to open under #Unlock4 weekly markets permitted till September 30.— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1600018107000No gym or yoga institute located within the containment zone will be allowed to open. Delhi currently has 1,488 containment zones spread across 11 districts. The district magistrates and other authorities concerned have been asked to ensure that the gyms and yoga institutes strictly adhere to the SOP and the Covid guidelines. “In case of any violation, the owner and manager of the premises will be liable for prosecution under Delhi Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides sealing of such premises,” the order stated. The order has come as a big relief for over 5,000 gym owners and a large number of yoga institutes which have been closed for over five months since the Covid-19 lockdown started. Almost all of them are under deep financial distress due to their sources of income drying up. Under the various stages of unlocking, the DDMA had permitted markets, restaurants, hotels, bars and several other economic activities to resume but the gyms and yoga institutes were not permitted in Delhi despite the ministry of home affairs on July 29 permitting gyms and yoga institutes to open across the country. Gyms and yoga institutes in neighboring cities in NCR and many other states were functioning since the first week of August. It forced the gym and yoga institutes owners to resort to protests at different places in the city including outside lieutenant governor Anil Baijal’s residence. Some of them were also booked for it. The AAP government had been pushing for permission for the gyms and yoga institutes to open but the DDMA – which is chaired by the LG – did not permit them to open due to fears of coronavirus spread through these centres. Delhi Gym Association’s Chirag Sethi said the permission has come as a major relief for gym owners and around 1 lakh people who are directly or indirectly connected to the gyms for livelihoods. “All the gyms will strictly follow all the existing guidelines,” said Sethi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unlock-4-gyms-and-yoga-centers-to-open-in-delhi-weekly-markets-permitted-till-september-30/articleshow/78094145.cms||Alok KN Mishra
September 14, 2020||India||I’m speechless: Lalu on Raghuvansh death||NEW DELHI: Jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad on Sunday mourned the death of close aide and former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying he was “speechless”. “I had told you only the day before yesterday that you are not going anywhere. But you have gone so far away. I am speechless, I am sad. You will always be in my memory,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/im-speechless-lalu-on-raghuvansh-death/articleshow/78097227.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Business||TikTok picks Oracle over Microsoft in Trump-forced sales bid||NEW YORK: The owner of TikTok has chosen Oracle over Microsoft as its preferred suitor to buy the popular video-sharing app, according to a source familiar with the deal who was not authorized to speak publicly about it. Microsoft announced Sunday that its bid for TikTok was rejected, removing the tech giant from the running a week before President Donald Trump promises to follow through with a plan to ban the Chinese-owned app in the U.S. over spying concerns. TikTok declined to comment Sunday. Oracle didn’t return a request for comment but has previously declined comment. The Trump administration has threatened to ban TikTok by Sept. 20 and ordered ByteDance to sell its U.S. business, claiming national-security risks due to its Chinese ownership. The government worries about user data being funneled to Chinese authorities. TikTok denies it is a national-security risk and is suing to stop the administration from the threatened ban. It’s not clear if the proposed acquisition will only cover TikTok’s U.S. business, and, if so, how it will be split from the rest of TikTok’s social media platform, which is popular worldwide. Bytedance also owns a second app, Douyin, for the Chinese market. Read AlsoWhat happens to TikTok app after Donald Trump ban goes into effect?It's looking increasingly likely that TikTok won’t be able to sell its US operations by the mid-September deadline imposed in an executive order issued by US President Donald Trump last month. That doesn’t mean the video app beloved by tens of millions of teens will go dark overnight.Any deal must still be reviewed by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, known as CFIUS, a U.S. government group chaired by the Treasury Secretary that studies mergers for national-security reasons. The president can approve or disapprove a transaction recommended by the panel, though Trump has already voiced support for Oracle as a “great company” that could handle the acquisition. Microsoft said in a Sunday statement that Bytedance “let us know today they would not be selling TikTok’s US operations to Microsoft.” Microsoft added it was “confident our proposal would have been good for TikTok’s users, while protecting national security interests.” The company said it “would have made significant changes to ensure the service met the highest standards for security, privacy, online safety, and combating disinformation.” TikTok, which says it has 100 million U.S. users and about 700 million globally, is known for its fun, goofy videos of dancing, lip-syncing, pranks and jokes. It’s recently become home to more political content such as the comedian Sarah Cooper, who drew a large audience by lip-syncing Trump’s own often-disjointed statements from public appearances. But the app has also raised concerns because of its Chinese ownership. The White House has cracked down on a range of Chinese businesses, including telecom equipment makers Huawei and ZTE and messaging app WeChat, over worries that they would enable Chinese authorities to get U.S. user data. Republican and Democratic lawmakers have raised concerns about censorship and children’s privacy. Read AlsoTikTok ban in US may set wrong precedent, says head of InstagramWith TikTok staring at a ban in the US unless it quickly finds a buyer, the head of Instagram has said he is far from enthused by the prospect of a drastic step to prohibit the functioning of the short video-sharing platform in the country as it may set a wrong precedentTikTok denies that it has shared user data with the Chinese government or that it would do so if asked. The company says it has not censored videos at the request of Chinese authorities and insists it is not a national-security threat. TikTok has sued to stop the ban, but not the sale order. The negotiations have been complicated by several factors, including Trump’s repeated demands that the U.S. government should get a “cut” of any deal, a stipulation and role for the president that experts say is unprecedented. In addition, the Chinese government in late August unveiled new regulations that restrict exports of technology, likely including the artificial intelligence system TikTok uses to choose which videos to spool up to its users. That means ByteDance would have to obtain a license from China to export such technology to a foreign company. The deal had come together rapidly after the administration ramped up its threats against TikTok this summer, despite TikTok’s efforts to put distance between its app and its Chinese ownership. It installed former Disney executive Kevin Mayer as its American CEO, but he resigned in August after just a few months on the job, saying the “political environment has sharply changed.” Both Microsoft and Oracle are known more for their business software offerings than for those intended for consumers. Oracle primarily makes database software. It competes with tech giants such as Microsoft and Amazon that provide cloud services as well as business-software specialists like Salesforce. Some analysts see Oracle’s interest in a consumer business as misguided. Oracle should focus on enterprise-market acquisitions and not invest in a consumer app like TikTok that doesn’t fit with the rest of its business, said Jefferies analyst Brent Thill, who compares the idea to Delta Airlines buying a motorcycle company. “It doesn’t make any sense,” he said. Thill suggested that TikTok competitors like Facebook and Snapchat should be “cheering on Oracle” as a buyer, because Oracle wouldn’t “add a lot of value to the app.” Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison is unusual among tech executives for his public support of President Donald Trump, hosting a fundraiser for him in February at his Rancho Mirage, California, estate. The company also hired a former top aide to Vice President Mike Pence; its CEO, Safra Catz, also served on Trump’s transition team. The president said on Aug. 18 that Oracle was “a great company” that “could handle” buying TikTok. He declined to state his preference between Oracle and Microsoft as buyers. Watch TikTok rejects Microsoft, picks Oracle in Trump-forced sales bid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/tiktok-picks-oracle-over-microsoft-in-trump-forced-sales-bid/articleshow/78097257.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Discom U-turn on line shift leaves 2 Dwarka Expressway flyovers in limbo||GURUGRAM: A last-minute U-turn by the Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) over shifting of 400kV high-tension (HT) power lines is delaying completion of two flyovers on the Dwarka Expressway. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said the delay is leading to losses of around Rs 50 lakh daily and has sought immediate resolution of the matter. In a letter to the managing director of HVPNL sent on September 10, NHAI stated that even after giving approval for shutdown of the power lines from September 7 to September 25 so that they can be shifted for the completion of a cloverleaf flyover and a trumpet flyover on the expressway, the discom hasn’t done it so far. The highways authority also reminded HVPNL of several commitments made and specifications agreed upon by it in 2017. According to NHAI, the discom asked for the design specifications of the new HT towers on September 7, the very day the lines were to be shut down. NHAI and Power Grid Corporation of India (PGCIL), which is coordinating the shifting of the lines, claimed that they provided the technical clarifications sought the next day. The highways authority had roped in PGCIL in 2017 to facilitate the shifting after HVPNL expressed its inability for carrying out the work. The shifting work began in January last year. NHAI officials said it is only now that HVPNL objected to the technology used in the new HT towers being erected by PGCIL and NHAI, though updates were being given regularly in weekly review meetings with the discom since shifting began. HVPNL, on its part, asserted that they will be accountable for operating and maintaining the HT towers that are being erected, so they need to follow the guidelines of their design team. While PGCIL claims to have used high temperature low sag (HTLS) conductors, which are more efficient, HVPNL wants to stick to the previous design of quad moose conductors. Discom officials said if any snaps happen due to the design difference, over 30% of the city will be pushed into a blackout. “Our assessment has revealed that there are performance issues with HTLS conductors. Moreover, our design team has categorically specified use of quad moose conductors,” said a senior HVNPL official. Meanwhile, NHAI said the discom seems to be deliberately dragging its feet. “It appears as if they want to delay the project for reasons best known to them. They had nearly two years to discuss the issue of the technology being used, but they chose this time when the work is almost completed and all we need is the shutdown,” a senior NHAI official said. “HVPNL officials don’t want to adapt to newer and better technologies and want to escape the process of training their ground staff, which may be required if the new conductors are installed,” the official added. New sector residents have warned that they will stage protests if the state government fails to address the issue soon. “I’ll request Nitin Gadkari sir (the Union transport minister) to intervene and speak to the CM. All residents will be forced to stage large-scale protests if HVPNL doesn’t sort this out immediately,” said Prakhar Sahay, a homebuyer and former joint secretary of the Dwarka Expressway Welfare Association, a buyers’ body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/discom-u-turn-on-line-shift-leaves-2-dwarka-expressway-flyovers-in-limbo/articleshow/78096462.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Selja flays BJP over Pesticide Management Bill||Chandigarh: Launching a fresh round of attack on the BJP government at the Centre and the state, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Selja on Sunday said a proposed legislation on pesticide management would add to the miseries of farmers, who were already faced by the threats of three ordinances passed by Centre. “BJP government has committed itself to act against interests of farmers,” said Selja”, after meeting party leaders in NCR. She accused BJP of making policies detrimental to the interests of farmers and in favour of a handful of private companies. “The government has already passed three ordinances to deprive farmers of their natural rights. Now, it is planning to present Pesticide Management Bill, but it would ruin farmers and small businessmen,’’ she said. . Selja said the bill promoted imports, which would raise the cost of pesticides. “The government is just showing fase dreams to farmers, of their income doubling by 2022, but it is just making policies which would adversely affect their income,” she siad. Selja said apart from the financial impact on farmers, the bill would promote “inspector raj”. The bill proposes re-registration of companies under the new legislation, even tough they had been registered under the Insecticides Act, 1968. The registration committee in the bill has been empowered to reject any of the applications of the pesticides manufacturing companies seeking registration in the new bill. This would not only increase corruption, but lead to small Indian manufactures of pesticides not getting an advantage, she said. “This would also lead to delay in availability of pesticides to farmers at the time of need. Also, no provision has been made in the bill to help farmers at the time of emergency such as attack of locust,”she said. She said pesticides manufacturers had also opposed the bill. Selja said the government was prepared to pass the ordinance in Parliament session starting on Monday. “However, neither farmers nor farmer associations have been taken in confidence before proposing the ordinance. Farmers are actually the backbone of our economy, but they are not apprised of the policies that are being framed regarding their impact,” she said, adding that even political parties were not made a part of discussion before proposing such ordinance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/selja-flays-bjp-over-pesticide-management-bill/articleshow/78095998.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||In Ahmedabad, 616% rise in mask rule violations||AHMEDABAD: When it comes to wearing helmets and now masks, Amdavadis show the same level of defiance and apathy. Even though the Gujarat government increased fines on August 15 for mask and social distancing violations from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000, the citizens have not shown much behavioural change. Violations on the contrary increased by 616%. On Independence Day, when the fine was increased, there were 212 violations and the police collected Rs 2.12 lakh in fines. On Sunday, a new record was set when the police fined 1,520 violators and collected Rs 15.20 lakh in fines. Police officers claim that Amdavadis are habitual in breaking this law the same way they did not adhere to the helmet rule. DCP city control, Harshad Patel, said that people are still taking coronavirus lightly. “When people are caught not wearing masks, they give excuses like they are not comfortable wearing it or they have a strong immune system. Some of them even said that they got infected with the virus earlier even though they kept wearing the mask,” said Patel. No helmet, but fined for no mask!DCP city control, Harshad Patel says, “The number of offenders will keep increasing as we have been intensifying the drive.” A resident of Rakhial, Kaleem Siddiqui, said that the cops are just completing their targets. "I was caught in June by cops near Indira Bridge as I was not wearing helmet. But they chose to give me a memo for not wearing mask. When asked, they said that they have been given targets by senior officers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-ahmedabad-616-rise-in-mask-rule-violations/articleshow/78097246.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Metro back, auto drivers pin hope on commuters||GURUGRAM: Having had a difficult time finding commuters in the past few months, Ajit Thakur, an auto driver, is upbeat about the resumption of metro services. “In the pre-lockdown days, I used to earn Rs 1,000-1,500 a day. Then the lockdown crippled us. Since Unlock 1, I have hardly been making around Rs 500 a day. The metro reopening is a ray of hope for us,” he says. Like Ajit, several other auto and e-rickshaw drivers are now pinning hopes on metro passengers to recoup the losses they suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Before the lockdown, both the autos and e-rickshaws provided last-mile connectivity for commuters in the Millennium City. Huda City Centre metro station alone had a daily footfall of around 1.5 lakh before lockdown. “Before the lockdown, 5,000 autos were catering to the metro commuters to and from Huda City Centre, now there are hardly 200. The metro station is where we find the bulk of passengers. But the number of passengers these days is very less. We hope the numbers will increase in the coming days,” says Pramod Kumar, another auto driver. The resumption of metro operations has also raised hopes among the e-rickshaw operators of an increase in commuters, which would help them recover from the financial losses they suffered in the past five months. “Many of our fellow drivers converted their e-rickshaws into delivery vehicles and started working with online grocery companies to make their daily ends meet. Now, we plan to return to the metro stations,” says Ramesh Mishra. Residents, however, said they would not be comfortable using shared autos or e-rickshaws. “I am instead planning to buy a bike to commute to the metro station to travel to my office in Noida, when the work-from-home arrangement ends,” says Manish Singh, an IT professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/metro-back-auto-drivers-pin-hope-on-commuters/articleshow/78096460.cms||Bagish Jha
September 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Liquor shop near Emaar Palm Hills illegal, say residents||GURUGRAM: Opening of a liquor shop near Emaar Palm Hills in Sector 77 has evoked concerns among the residents, who have demanded immediate action from the excise department and district administration. Residents further alleged that the shop violates government guidelines which restricts a liquor shops from being set up within 100 metres of any residential complex. Moreover, with only one entry gate for the society, the liquor shop will invite unnecessary crowding and pose a threat to the security of the residents, the complainants claimed. “The shop is right outside our entry gate and we are sure that it’s illegal because of its proximity to a housing complex. It’ll create nuisance in our area as many anti-social elements will crowd there, risking the daily lives of residents. Moreover, during peak office hours it’ll lead to jams as the entrance is on the southern peripheral road (SPR) connecting the national highway, which is usually congested,” said Akanksha Gupta, a resident. The excise department, however, claimed that the construction of the liquor shop is as per the state government rules and their investigation into the matter didn’t reveal any apparent violations so far. “We are only following the rule of law. Our officials have inspected the shop and its construction is per the norms laid by the government. We didn’t come across any violations,” said a senior excise department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/liquor-shop-near-emaar-palm-hills-illegal-say-residents/articleshow/78096467.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers to burn copies of agri ordinances||Hisar: A meeting of the Haryana state committee of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) was held in Hisar on Sunday. AIKS state unit chief Phool Singh Sheokand said during the meeting, lathi-charge by police on farmers during the rally in Pipli was condemned and participants demanded withdrawal of cases registered against all farmers and commission agents. AIKS descibed the policies of the state and central governments as anti-farmer. AIKS state executive secretary Sumit Singh said Parliament session was starting on Monday, so copies of the agriculture marketing ordinances would be burnt and farmers would stage demonstrations across Haryana on September 15. “Today, cotton and moong crops have been destroyed in large areas of the state, including Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Sirsa and other districts, causing heavy losses to farmers. Farmers have been protesting for several days demanding to take stock of the loss, but the government and officials are not paying any attention . Therefore, on September 17, revenue minister Dushyant Chautala’s Uchana office will be gheraoed to seek special girdawari of the damaged crops, withdrawal of cases registered against farmers and new tubewell connections,” Sumit said. Sheokand said AIKS would campaign in all districts on September 20. In the meeting, Kisan Sabha accused the government of not listening to the problems of farmers and thousands of farmers were waiting for tubewell connections, but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-to-burn-copies-of-agri-ordinances/articleshow/78096082.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid hit efforts to create build-up for farm ordinances: MPs||Chandigarh: A three-member committee of BJP MPs, constituted to have a dialogue with various farmer groups, said on Sunday that the Covid-19 outbreak emerged as a major hurdle for the state government, which could not create the necessary build-up for the three agriculture ordinances. The three-member committee, comprising Hisar MP Brijendera Singh, Bhiwani MP Dharamvir Singh and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, held several rounds of meetings during the day with farmer groups in Panchkula and Karnal. “These ordinances will have a long-lasting impact in the favour of farmers. The state government and its leaders could not create the desired build-up to make farmers understand the benefits of these ordinances. Covid-19 has really impacted this, as the leaders and representatives could not move freely in June,’’ said Brijendera. However, during their meeting with the representatives, they have taken their queries and tried to give their answers, he said, adding, “We have also taken all kinds of feedback from farmer leaders and farmer groups.” Consequent to the violent agitation by farmers on Thursday, which forced the police to use mild force, Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar constituted the three-member committee to have dialogue with farmers. Farmers are opposing the agriculture sector-related ordinances and the one related to pesticides management. The ordinances will be presented in the monsoon session of Lok Sabha commencing from Monday. Meanwhile, farmer leaders in Panchkula and Karnal have expressed their apprehensions about the existence of mandi system as well as MSP after the implementation of new laws. They also opposed the ordinances over the issue of contract farming, claiming that this system would make farmers bonded labourers to corporate houses. BOX Hooda questions MPs’ panel Haryana leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday questioned the role and working of the MPs’ committee constituted by Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar. “Is it just to mislead the farmers and the farmer leaders in the name of dialogue? Does this committee have any constitutional sanction? If yes, why haven’t they asked for cancellation of criminal cases registered against farmers? Secondly, when the agriculture minister has already refused to amend or roll back the decision, what is the point in setting up this committee?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-hit-efforts-to-create-build-up-for-farm-ordinances-mps/articleshow/78096084.cms||---
September 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Two SITs to probe liquor smuggling in Haryana's Ambala||AMBALA: Two special investigation teams (SITs) have been formed to probe a recent illicit liquor smuggling case in Ambala. While one team has been set up by district police, the other has been formed by the district, said deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma on Sunday. On the night of September 11, a truck loaded with 290 boxes of illicit liquor, was seized under the Panjokhra police station (PS) area in Ambala. The smugglers had tried to show the contraband as aloevera bottles. Tracking down the source of illicit liquor, police and excise teams struck upon two godowns in Mandour village of Ambala and seized 1,012 boxes of illicit liquor on Friday and Saturday. On Saturday, a case was registered against an accused identified as Nikhil A Patel of Gujarat under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Excise Act at Panjokhra. Patel had allegedly taken the godowns at Mandour on lease for stocking aloe vera extract, police said. Sources said a fact-finding team had been formed by the Haryana excise and taxation commissioner (ETC) to find out how such a huge quantity of liquor was illegally stocked in the godowns. A senior officer of excise and taxation department in Ambala said: “In all, 15,626 bottles of four popular Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) brands were seized from the truck and godowns. As per the labels, the liquor is bottled in four distilleries of the region, including three in Karnal, Samalkha-Panipat, and Sonipat in Haryana, and one in Punjab’s Dera Bassi. None of the bottles had any mention of distilleries in Ambala.” From the truck, police seized 142 boxes (1,704 bottles) of McDowell’s No 1 and 148 boxes (1,776 bottles) of Royal Challenge on Friday night. Both had been marked ‘for sale in Haryana’. From the godowns, police seized 293 boxes (3,516 bottles) of Imperial Blue ‘for sale in Chandigarh’ and 719 boxes plus two extra bottles (8,630 bottles) of Old Monk Rum ‘for sale in Haryana (CSD)’, said the officer. DSP Ambala Madan Lal, who is heading police SIT, said, “We have collected samples of the recovered liquor and sent the same to laboratory for checking whether the liquor is genuine or spurious. The investigation is being done to trace the main accused who stocked liquor at Mandour village.” “We have to check whether the labels and holograms on the seized bottles are genuine or fake, and the concerned companies and distilleries will be roped in to verify the same,” said an excise department officer. DC Sharma said the two teams will carry out “parallel” probes. “The police SIT will be tracing out accused involved in stocking such a huge quantity of illicit liquor, while district SIT will investigate how liquor reached godowns,” said the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-sits-formed-to-probe-liquor-smuggling-stocking-cases-in-ambala/articleshow/78096088.cms||Jaskaran Singh
