September 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Slain trader's business partner held, villagers gherao police station||MAHOBA (UP): Angry villagers on Monday demonstrated at Kabrai police station in the district where a business partner of slain stone trader Indrakant Tripathi was held soon after the merchant's cremation. Tripathi, 44, who had levelled allegations of corruption against the former Mahoba Superintendent Manilal Patidar, now under suspension, was shot at under mysterious circumstances and succumbed to injuries at a hospital in Kanpur on Sunday. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the murder of the trader. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, meanwhile, was detained by police while on his way to meet the slain trader's family. Indrakant Tripathi's cremation took place amid heavy police presence, police said. The situation suddenly took a turn for the worse when Indrakant's business partner Purshottam Soni was picked up by the police and whisked away in a police vehicle to Kabrai thana. "As we were returning from the cremation ground, my brother's business partner Purshottam Soni was picked up by the police. He was taken in a police vehicle to the Kabrai police station. This angered the villagers who gheraoed the thana," Indrakant's brother Ravikant Tripathi said. He also said, "Mahoba Additional SP picked up Soni. He (additional SP), however, left the Kabrai police station as soon as Mahoba District Magistrate Avadhesh Kumar Tiwari reached there. The gherao of the police station was then lifted." But, the villagers camped near the police station pressing for Purushottam Soni's release. Ravikant alleged that the police was trying to shield the suspended SP. "The new SHO brought the post-mortem report (along with the body) from Kanpur, but till now, section 302 of IPC has not been added to the case," he said. A case of attempt to murder was registered against four persons, including the suspended SP, the suspended SHO, and Indrakant's business rival Suresh Soni on a complaint lodged by Ravikant, police had said on Saturday. "Stone trader Indrakant Tripathi was injured after he was allegedly shot at under mysterious circumstances," Circle Officer Rajkumar Pandey had said on Saturday. On the police complaint lodged by Ravikant, a case was registered against the suspended SP, the suspended SHO of Kabrai Police Station Devendra Shukla, Suresh Soni and another person under various sections of the IPC, including the attempt to murder (307) and the Prevention of Corruption Act. The FIR was registered on Friday. According to Ravikant, his brother was found injured in his car with gunshot wounds on the Banda-Kabrai road at around 2.30 pm on Tuesday. He alleged that the suspended SP had demanded a bribe of Rs 6 lakh from his brother and threatened to kill him or send him to jail in case of non-payment within a week. "My brother uploaded a video on social media on September 7 and 8...on Tuesday (September 8), he was found with bullet injury," he said. On September 9, Patidar was suspended with immediate effect by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on corruption charges. The chief minister had also ordered a vigilance probe into the properties of Patidar. Ballast transporters in the district had accused Patidar of demanding money from them for allowing the transportation of mined material and when his demand was not met, the vehicle owners were harassed by the police," UP Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi had said in an official statement. UPCC chief Lallu and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Misra Mona were stopped in Ghatampur area of Kanpur Dehat while they were on their way to Mahoba to meet Tripathi's family, the party's media convenor Lalan Singh said here. Both the leaders along with some other party workers have been kept at a guest house in Ghatampur without being given any reason for the detention, Lalan Singh said. Earlier in the day, Priyanka Gandhi had tweeted, "The murder of Mr Indrakant Tripathi, the trader of Mahoba is a question mark on the working style of the entire UP government." "Crime and corruption are at its peak in the BJP government and now the officers of this government are giving supari of those who are raising voice against corruption. This is a dreaded form of jungle raj," she said in the tweet in Hindi. Amid the demonstration by villagers at the Kabrai police station, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav demanded the arrest of the suspended Superintendent of Police Patidar. “The government should not indulge in the artificial suspension but must arrest the accused officials involved in the Indrakanat Tripathi's murder,” said Yadav in a tweet in Hindi. “Why is there so much laxity in initiating action against the SP and the DM? Under what right the police are trying to stop public representatives from meeting public and raising issues of public interest?” asked Yadav, adding if the government has any stake in saving the erring officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/slain-traders-business-partner-held-villagers-gherao-police-station/articleshow/78114134.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||Battle against Covid-19 still far from over, bold decision of lockdown prevented 37-78 thousand deaths: Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday said that the battle against pandemic was still far from over and told the Parliament about its balanced approach of unlocking to revive the economy while seeking for sustained community support to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19. Making a suo-moto statement on Covid-19 situation, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said a total of about 40 lakh persons had been kept under surveillance as on September 11 to break the chain of transmission. Calling the lockdown, a "bold decision", he said the decision prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78 thousand deaths. On the vaccine front, the minister informed the members that there are around 145 candidate vaccines globally in pre-clinical evaluation while 35 vaccines are currently in clinical trial. "In India, a major focus has been on facilitating the development of Covid-19 vaccine. More than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development, three candidates are in advanced stage of Phase I/II/III trials and more than four are in advanced preclinical development stage," he said. It was the health minister’s third statement on the Covid-19 situation with the first two being delivered in February and March, respectively. Speaking about the current situation, Vardhan said, "We have now moved from ‘managing travel related cases’ to containing clusters and large outbreaks due to local transmission to wide spread of infection to urban, peri-urban and rural areas." On the ongoing efforts, Vardhan said the government was proactively identifying gaps and building an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) that would be able to take challenges of similar pandemics, epidemics and disasters in future. He said an expenditure finance memorandum of over Rs 65,560 crores under Prime Minister ‘Atma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana’ was under consideration. "This includes investment in research, healthcare and public health infrastructure with particular focus on pandemic management," said Vardhan. On the spread of the pandemic, he said, "As per WHO, there are more than 2.79 crore confirmed cases across the world with more than 9.05 lakh deaths, with a case fatality rate of 3.2%. As on September 11, a total of 45,62,414 confirmed cases and 76,271 deaths (Case Fatality Rate 1.67%) have been reported in India." The minister informed the members that the maximum cases and deaths have been primarily reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Kerala and Gujarat. All these states have reported more than one lakh cases. "With our endeavour to manage Covid-19 through a whole of government and whole of society approach, India has been able to limit its cases and deaths per million to 3,328 cases per million and 55 deaths per million population respectively, which is one of the lowest in the world as compared to similarly affected countries," claimed the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/battle-against-covid-19-still-far-from-over-bold-decision-of-lockdown-prevented-37-78-thousand-deaths-harsh-vardhan/articleshow/78114293.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 15, 2020||World||US President Donald Trump predicts climate to cool down in wildfires briefing||SACRAMENTO: President Donald Trump on Monday suggested global warming will reverse itself and dismissed climate change as a cause of ferocious fires engulfing swaths of the US West during a briefing with local officials in California. Trump, who flew into Sacramento in central California on the third day of a reelection campaign swing, pushed back against state leaders who said that climate change underlies the ever-stronger blazes. "It will start getting cooler. You just watch," he insisted to Wade Crowfoot, the head of the California Natural Resources Agency. The official responded: "I wish science agreed with you." This was Trump's first visit to California since the devastating blazes began there and in Washington and Oregon. Minutes earlier, Democratic challenger Joe Biden branded Trump a "climate arsonist" whose policies are contributing to natural disasters. On arrival in McClellan Park, near Sacramento, Trump repeated his argument that the wildfires are due instead to insufficient maintenance of forest areas to make them less combustible. "There has to be strong forest management," the Republican said. "With regard to the forests, when trees fall down after a short period of time, about 18 months, they become very dry. They become really like a match stick," he said. "They just explode." But at the briefing, California governor Gavin Newsom, a Democrat, countered that the fires are driven mostly by global warming. Newsom acknowledged that "we have not done justice on our forest management," though he pointed out that more than half of the land in California is under federal, not state control. But he said the overwhelming cause of the problem is far bigger. "The hots are getting hotter, the dries are getting drier," he said. "We submit the science is in and observed evidence is self-evident: that climate change is real and that is exacerbating this." After the briefing was over, Crowfoot sought to get the last word, tweeting: "It actually won't get cooler, Mr. President" over a graph showing relentlessly rising temperatures in California since the 1980s. Watch US: Trump, California officials clash over climate change||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-president-donald-trump-predicts-climate-to-cool-down-in-wildfires-briefing/articleshow/78115702.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||Plastic shields, MPs seated in galleries Parliament's new normal||NEW DELHI: Despite the elaborate rehearsals, it was still a surreal scene on the first day of the new session of Parliament, with mask-wearing MPs seated behind plastic shields, and widely dispersed to ensure social distancing. Both the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha functioned in a relative calm that enhanced a sense of altered realities in the time of Covid-19. The dispersal of MPs over both the chambers was succinctly summed up by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu who noted that people who were never elected to Lok Sabha were sitting in the chamber and the same was true of several MPs from the lower House who found themselves in the House of Elders. Given that MPs were sitting in the visitors’ galleries too, Naidu asked them to raise a hand to be spotted when called on to speak even as Speaker Om Birla noted the high attendance despite the pandemic. While some seniors opted out, veterans like Mulayam Singh Yadav and Farooq Abdullah turned up, though the ageing Samajwadi patriarch needed help to get around. Another veteran, JMM leader Shibu Soren, took oath as Rajya Sabha MP, with Naidu encouraging the Dishom Guru to speak loudly as a mask muffled his voice. Given the task of organising complex seating, Naidu and Birla seemed pleased that the proceedings got underway with minimum fuss and disruption. The decorum may be tested as contentious issues and bills are taken up, but the first day saw presiding officers use the Covid-19 rule of speaking while sitting, rather than rising, to good effect to keep MPs and leaders nailed to their places. Naidu could be heard telling Congress's Jairam Ramesh not to move around the House and this might well curb the usual on-the-floor discussions that take place. Despite the Centre's advisory to parties that MPs above 65 years could avoid attending, most reached in time with the Lok Sabha attendance standing at 359, even higher than on some normal days. The seating arrangements saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi alone in the two-seat bench to the right of the Speaker and deputy leader of the House Rajnath Singh, who usually shares the bench, moving to the next chair. Textiles minister Smriti Irani, who has a seat in the front row, was one row back. The front seats of opposition benches were occupied by DMK's T R Baalu and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of Congress. “Chambers of the two Houses and the galleries, where members are seated, will be considered as part of Lok Sabha when the House proceedings are on,” Birla said. Opposition members protested suspension of question hour but left it at that. Some members like Trinamool Congress leader Kalyan Banerjee wore face shields in addition to masks. There were a few covering their faces with “gamchhas” (scarves) too. Watch Plastic shields, masks, MPs seated in galleries Parliament's new normal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/plastic-shields-mps-seated-in-galleries-parliaments-new-normal/articleshow/78115815.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 15, 2020||Business||No regulation needed for communication apps: Trai||NEW DELHI: In key recommendations regarding operations of global communication apps in India, telecom regulator Trai has said services such as WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, Apple FaceTime, Google Chat, Skype, Telegram and even newer players such as Microsoft Teams, Cisco Webex and Zoom should not be bound by a regulatory regime as of now and there should not be specific rules that would mandate them to intercept user calls and messaging. Making interception mandatory (such as prescribed for telecom companies) may weaken the protective architecture of the communication apps or expose them to “unlawful actors”, Trai said in views that were immediately criticised by mobile operators’ grouping COAI. Accusing the regulator of going against level-playing field, COAI alleged the OTT players “remain a threat to national security” in the absence of such scrutiny. Trai’s much-awaited recommendations run in complete variance to the strong stand taken by telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who has time and again argued for greater control and scrutiny. Not opportune moment, says TraiTelecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had even asked WhatsApp to disclose the original source of unlawful messages and help intercept the creators of inflammatory communication after the spate of lynching incidents across the country in 2018. Times ViewSocial media platforms like Facebook have been among the biggest disseminators of news and information for quite some time and they are now even planning to launch news services. There is absolutely no reason, therefore, why they should not be held to account for the content they carry just as any other medium would be. If a newspaper or TV channel can face charges for, say, inciting violence or hostility among communities because of something they print or air, how does it make sense that the same content on a different medium will invite no action other than asking them to remove it? It is time our laws adjusted to the reality that social media is just another form of media and must be regulated and held to the same standards as any other.The American instant messenger, a group company of Facebook, has, however, steadfastly refused to do so, saying all communication on its platform is encrypted. Trai did not name any firm in its recommendations on the ‘regulatory framework for over-the-top (OTT) communication services’ that were submitted to telecom secretary Anshu Prakash. The government will take a final view on the recommendations. OTT communication services are basically those internet applications that ride on the network of mobile operators and are competitors to the telcos when it comes to providing voice and messaging communication. “Trai recommends that it is not an opportune moment to recommend a comprehensive regulatory framework for various aspects of services referred to as OTT services, beyond the extant laws and regulations prescribed presently,” Trai said. “The matter may be looked into afresh when more clarity emerges in international jurisdictions, particularly the study undertaken by International Telecommunication Union (ITU).” Trai said while a few jurisdictions have started exploring possibilities to regulate “some aspects of a few OTT services” through legal and technical measures, these efforts are still in nascent stage and the overwhelming majority of jurisdictions and the ITU are still studying various aspects of OTTs. On the issue of security and privacy, Trai said that “no regulatory interventions are required… at the moment.” It said the architecture of OTT communication services has been evolving to protect the end-users and encryption technology has been deployed in a manner that prevents intermediaries from getting the communication in a clear text or in an intelligible form. “Imposition of any requirements to cater to get the details of communication in an intelligible form or clear text would either lead to change in the entire architecture of such OTT services which might not provide same level of protection as offered today or would require to introduce provisions which may make the agents involved in the communication vulnerable to unlawful actors,” Trai said. COAI was unhappy. “While telecom companies have to abide by a strict regulatory and licensing framework... no regulatory/licensing framework is applicable on those OTT players. We are of the view that these OTT services are substitutable to the services provided by the telecom firms and hence a case of non-level playing field exists,” COAI DG SP Kochhar said. Watch No need to regulate communication apps: Trai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-regulation-needed-for-communication-apps-trai/articleshow/78115916.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 15, 2020||Goa||FDS is reliable evidence for a fixed match: Sportradar||PANAJI: In the past 11 years, Sportradar’s Fraud Detecting System (FDS) has reported more than 5,000 suspicious matches. These matches have been played at all levels and in many sports. From third and fourth-tier competitions in football to high-profile leagues, and from tennis to snooker, match-fixing is inescapable. Match-fixing in Indian sports is not an alien concept. Cricket’s issues with match-fixing have been well documented. Football too isn’t far away with Sportradar’s red-flagging of six suspicious matches in the Goa Professional League – exclusively reported by TOI -- bringing the issue into sharp focus. So what exactly is FDS, the system that helped Sportradar red-flag highly suspicious football matches in Goa? “Primarily first and foremost, FDS is an odds-monitoring system. It monitors odds in the markets over 600 bookmakers and these bookmakers are of different kinds and from different countries, different regions and so called grey market or illegal operators, we prefer to call them poly regulated operators, betting exchangers and every relevant bookmakers covered in system,” Tom Mace, director of global operations for Sportradar’s integrity services, told TOI in an exclusive interview. It is for this reason the NBA, NFL, NHL, and Fifa, among others, trust the system well enough to make Sportradar its partners. And contrary to popular understanding, FDS is not all about machines. “The FDS is setup to track changes in odds and it then generates alerts when there is potentially suspicious and an unusual movement in the market which is flagged to the tenth,” said Mace. Once an alert has been flagged, the analysts then take over. “It is important to understand that the machine doesn’t do everything. The platform is there to monitor the data and highlight when something might be suspicious. It’s the actual human analyst, the experts, who then interpret and analyse these betting patterns. “All our integrity analysts have inside out knowledge of the betting markets of different sports which we are monitoring for our partners and that is what enables us to make qualified judgements and assessments on betting patterns. We have experts who are making a decision,” explained Mace. Once a suspicious match has been red-flagged in real time, Sportradar spends the first 24 hours on information gathering. This can come from open source, private contacts and local experts on the ground in a given country. “In the next hours, the team will discuss and debate together. It’s not an individual person who is making a decision on any given match. We have a large team with over 50 analysts globally. Any suspicious match will usually be analysed and discussed and debated by 10-15 of these analysts and experienced managers,” said Mace. Several fixers have escaped the long arm of the law for lack of evidence. Their report, say Sportradar, is just the “start point” and unlike what the Goa Football Association (GFA) is doing in the state, should be investigated further. “We always recommend further investigation once we have the monitoring report. We need to strengthen the case, the federation needs to construct their own investigation and disciplinary case around the FDS report. “The FDS report more or less shows the match is fixed and this is confirmed by other disciplinary cases. The CAS (court of arbitration for sport) has ruled on six occasions in favour of FDS. The quote from them is that FDS is reliable evidence to consider that the match is fixed,” said Mace. The FDS has been detecting betting-related manipulation in sport since 2005. It is this system that has detected suspicious matches in India, many of which the authorities have now swept under the carpet. While FDS, as Mace says, cannot show which players have conclusively fixed the match, they can surely highlight persons of interest. “We may be able to highlight persons of interest, which means it needs to be investigated further. Perhaps some player involvement in unusual match incidents, perhaps getting sent off, scoring own goal, these type of things we leave it to the PCA from fixers in football,” said Mace. The PCA, or principal component analysis, is a term in machine learning, usually used in data crunching or to reduce the dimensionality of large data. “People who make conclusions of the suspicious and manipulated matches know what they are looking at. That’s extremely important for us and that’s why over the years we were able to detect over 5,000 suspicious matches,” said Mace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fds-is-reliable-evidence-for-a-fixed-match-sportradar/articleshow/78112935.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 15, 2020||India||Pakistan truce violations in 9 months highest in 17 years||NEW DELHI: In yet another indicator of the collusive military threat along Indian borders, Pakistan has hugely cranked up cross-border artillery and mortar barrages as well as small arms firings in Jammu and Kashmir this year, amid the ongoing troop confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh. Ceasefire violations (CFVs) by Pakistan across the 778-km-long Line of Control (LoC) in just the first nine months of this year have already beaten all annual records for the last 17 years. Latest figures tabled in Parliament on Monday showed India recorded 3,186 CFVs along the LoC from January 1 to September 7. Another 242 incidents of ‘cross-border firing’ took place along the 198-km international border in J&K, which is largely manned by the BSF, in the January-August timeframe. As per Army records, the total CFVs along the LoC stood at 971 in 2017 and 1,629 in 2018. The number jumped to 3,168 in 2019, with major spikes being registered first after the Balakot air strikes and then the nullification of Article 370 and bifurcation of J&K. This year, the CFVs have averaged around 350-400 every month, with Pakistan keeping up the momentum ever since India’s military confrontation with China erupted after People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers intruded deep into eastern Ladakh at multiple locations in early May. “Pakistan is obviously supporting its ‘iron brother’ China. It also wants to push as many terrorists and arms as possible into J&K before the mountain passes get blocked with snow. Our troops respond effectively to each and every CFV by Pakistan with targeted strikes,” a senior Army officer said. The two-front challenge, with nuclear-armed neighbours, has become a grim reality for India. But though the Army’s attention is currently focused on the military confrontation with China, with as many as 50,000 soldiers each as well as tanks, howitzers and other weapon systems amassed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, it has not diluted its operational readiness along the LoC with Pakistan. The clearly-demarcated LoC has been volatile for decades, with Indian troops permanently deployed in posts, bunkers and camps all along its length as well as in the hinterland for counter-terrorist operations. But now, India will also have to cater for an ‘active’ LAC, which stretches 3,488-km from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh. “If China wants to turn the LAC into something like the LoC, with stepped-up permanent troop deployments and posts, we are ready. Yes, it will be tough and expensive. But our troops are used to the harsh climate and terrain, unlike the PLA,” another officer said. Apart from the LoC, Indian soldiers have also been deployed on virtually all the dominating heights in the Siachen Glacier-Saltoro Ridge region since April 1984, when they pre-empted a similar move by Pakistani troops by launching ‘Operation Meghdoot’ in what is the world’s highest and coldest battlefield. Watch Pakistan truce violations in 9 months highest in 17 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-truce-violations-in-9-months-highest-in-17-years/articleshow/78115994.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 15, 2020||India||Prices go up as states face oxygen shortage due to surge in cases||NEW DELHI: As Covid cases surge across India, some states already face an oxygen shortage. Many others are dependent for part or most of their oxygen supply on units outside the state. These face the threat of shortage as some states have tried to prevent oxygen being moved outside their borders, forcing the Union health ministry to issue a letter asking states not to restrict the movement. The ministry letter was issued in response to the Maharashtra government’s order under the disaster management law that sought to prohibit movement of oxygen out of the state. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka faced a shortage after Maharashtra stopped supplies on September 7, by upping the share of oxygen production to be kept for itself from 50% to 80%. It was reported that four patients died in Dewas district in MP due to oxygen shortage, which the government denied, but admitted that there was a shortage. Four districts — Dewas, Jabalpur, Chhindwara and Damoh — faced oxygen shortage last week after Nagpur-based units suddenly stopped supply. Punjab, too, imposed restrictions on state-based manufacturers selling to other states even as it reached out to Himachal, Uttarakhand and Haryana to augment its supplies. Similarly, there was a shortage in Agra as the demand surged in Delhi and the supplier to the city depended on plants located in the Delhi region. Jhansi and the rest of Bundelkhand in UP were hit when there was a surge in demand in Indore and Bhopal in neighbouring MP. In Kerala, though 60% is supplied by a company located within the state, the rest is by companies with units located in Tamil Nadu. However, there has been no shortage so far in the state. In Karnataka, in mid-August, 13 of the 19 district hospitals did not have in-house oxygen cylinders and 50 patients had to be shifted out of a hospital in Bengaluru due to oxygen shortage. The state is still struggling. The demand has shot up to 500 metric tons per day from just 100-150 metric tonnes pre-Covid, said Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary, department of commerce and industry, who heads the committee to ensure oxygen supply. He said the demand was being met by augmented supply. Along with shortages, many states are also seeing an escalation in oxygen prices though the ceiling price per cubic metre of oxygen was fixed by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority last year at Rs 17. In Telangana, after the authorities started importing oxygen from northern states, the prices jumped from Rs 10 per cubic metre to Rs 50 per cubic metre. In Andhra Pradesh, though prices have not increased much, private hospitals are charging way higher than they used to for oxygen beds. In Karnataka, the price depends on the type of contract with the manufacturer. For old contracts between manufacturing companies and hospitals, it costs Rs 13-18 per cubic metre, whereas for new contracts the cost is Rs 24-25 per cubic metre. For spot contract during emergency supply, it costs Rs 40 per cubic metre. For private hospitals, the price went up from Rs 20-22 to Rs 30-35 and then to Rs 40 per cubic metre. Private hospitals had agreed up to Rs 7,000 per day charge for government-referred Covid patients when they need high-flow nasal oxygen, but treatment now cannot be given at this price, said Dr Prasanna HM, managing director, Pristine Hospital in Bengaluru. In Uttar Pradesh, officials confided that the cost has gone up about three-fold. The price of a small cylinder of oxygen, for instance, has gone up from Rs 130 to Rs 315-350. Some companies have doubled the security amount taken against each small cylinder from about Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000. In Bihar, Gaurav Rai, a Covid-19 patient who started an oxygen bank after recovering, said 10-litre oxygen cylinders being sold for Rs 8,500 during the crisis were earlier available for about Rs 7,000. In Gujarat, too, the price of one litre of oxygen has jumped from Rs 8.5 to Rs 28-35. In Odisha, the price of a cylinder has gone up from Rs 6,500 in July to Rs 10,000 now. For refilling of cylinders (10 litres), the price has more than doubled from Rs 350 in July to Rs 900 these days. Smaller private hospitals are bearing the brunt. Big corporate hospital say there is no implication on supply and pricing for them because they have annual contracts with suppliers. Many hospitals in Mumbai complained of shortage in supply. "The real problem behind the shortage is the differences between suppliers and private hospitals on prices. Both the parties have to iron out their disputes," said Panvel City Municipal Corporation deputy commissioner Sanjay Shinde. Kharghar-based Polaris Hospital manager Ashok Kumar said, "There’s no regular supply. Our demand is 25 to 30 cylinders of 7,000 litres a piece. But we get less than half of it." Dr Hema Bindu of Satyam Hospital, Kalamboli, said, "The consumption of medical oxygen for critical covid patients has increased manifold in the last few days. This has led to demand-supply mismatch. We are getting the supply with much difficulty." Watch Covid-19: Oxygen prices go up as states face shortage due to surge in cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prices-go-up-as-states-face-oxygen-shortage-due-to-surge-in-cases/articleshow/78116041.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Business||EPF withdrawals totalled over Rs 39,000 crore during March-August: Government||NEW DELHI: Members of the the retirement fund body, Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), withdrew Rs 39,402.9 crore between March 25 and August 31 this year, labour minister Santosh Gangwar told Parliament in a written response on Monday. The maximum amount of EPF withdrawals during the period was done in Maharasthra (Rs 7,837.8 crore), followed by Karnataka (Rs 5,743.9 crore) and Tamil Nadu, which totalled Rs 4,984.5 crore, Gangwar said. The minister said the government took various measures under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) and Atmanirbhar Bharat schemes to mitigate the distress of migrant workers’ distress. The measures include payment of 12% employers' share and 12% employees' share under EPF, totalling 24% by the government for six-wage months from March to August for all the establishments having up to 100 employees with 90% of such employees earning less than Rs 15,000 monthly wage. The ministry also said it reduced EPF contribution from 12% to 10% of wages for May, June and July, apart from unveiling a non-refundable Covid advance, which was facilitated by amending the EPF scheme. These measures were aimed at providing relief to employees during the lockdown period. Soon after the lockdown was imposed in late March, the government had provided a window to formal sector employees to withdraw a part of their investment to deal with the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/epf-withdrawals-totalled-over-rs-39000-crore-during-march-august-government/articleshow/78116137.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||PM sets the tone, calls upon House to back jawans on the China front||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said he believed that Parliament and its members would give an unequivocal message that the country stood strongly with soldiers at a time when they were deployed in tough terrain on the borders under adverse circumstances. “This House, particularly this session, has one more crucial responsibility. Today, the brave soldiers of our Army are on the borders. They are defending the borders with great courage and high spirits, in difficult terrain. And the rains are going to begin in a few days,” the PM said. Speaking before the start of the 18-day monsoon session, Modi said that just like the faith with which soldiers were standing, determined to protect the motherland, Parliament and all members of the House too would send out a message in a unanimous voice, spirit and resolve — that the country stands in support of the Army. “Sadan ek swar se, ek bhavana se, ek sankalp se yeh sandesh dega ki sena ke jawano ke saath pura desh khada dai,” the Prime Minkister said. His remarks were in reference to deployment in eastern Ladakh where the Army is engaged in a tense standoff with Chinese troops. “The entire House stands with the brave soldiers of the country. I believe this House and all the honourable members too will give out a very strong message,” Modi said. His remarks come at a time when most opposition parties have been demanding a debate on the border tension.  Sources said defence minister Rajnath Singh will make a suo motu statement on the subject in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The PM said the session was taking place under special circumstances. “There is a corona pandemic on one hand while our obligation towards fulfilling our duties on the other; and all MPs have chosen the path of duty. I congratulate and thank all MPs for this initiative,” he added. He said the Budget session had to be wrapped up ahead of schedule but this time, Parliament would be functioning twice a day, with Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha sitting one at a time. “The shift timings had to be changed too. The weekend breaks on Saturday-Sunday too have been cancelled this time. But all the members have accepted this, welcomed this and have decided to continue on the path of duty,” he added. Urging lawmakers to participate in discussions, Modi said several important decisions would be taken in this session. “Our experience tells us that the more we discuss in LS, the more diverse the discussion is in the House, the more beneficial it is for the country and solving the issues at hand. Lets add value to this great tradition,” the PM said. Reiterating the importance of being careful until a Covid-19 vaccine was ready, the PM said, “We have to follow the rules and move ahead with great precautions. And it is also clear that we cannot afford any laxity in our approach unless there is a medicine. We are hoping that a vaccine would come up from any corner of the world as soon as possible, and we can succeed in getting everyone out of this crisis.” Watch Hope MPs will give unequivocal message that country stands with our soldiers: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-sets-the-tone-calls-upon-house-to-back-jawans-on-the-china-front/articleshow/78116210.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 15, 2020||India||Days after JP Nadda’s attack, Mamata Banerjee tries to woo Hindus||KOLKATA: Four days after BJP president J P Nadda accused Mamata Banerjee of being “anti-Hindu”, the Bengal CM on Monday announced a host of measures for the Hindu community — including monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 for “poor Brahmins” (purohits) — in a clear attempt to negate the criticism that her government’s policies are directed towards appeasing Muslims. Imams and muezzins in Bengal have been getting a similar dole from the state board of waqfs, which in turn receives grants from the TMC government. Mamata also announced the establishment of a Dalit Academy and expansion of the Hindi Academy and the Rajbanshi Academy. Besides, she unveiled a scheme to restore mandirs, masjids and gurdwaras in districts, with a special emphasis on restoration of 14th century heritage temples in Bankura’s Bishnupur, as part of her government’s “sarba dharma samanway” approach. TMC also formalised the structure of its Hindi cell and appointed MP Dinesh Trivedi, one of its prominent non-Bengali faces, chairman. Read AlsoJP Nadda accuses Mamata Banerjee government of being anti-HinduTrinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien refuted Nadda’s allegations that the state government was hindering development in Bengal. He said the Trinamool government had launched Swasthya Sathi scheme in 2016, two years before the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat.The state also decided to give Brahmins land in Kolaghat to set up a “tirthasthan for Sanatan Hindu Dharma”. “Don’t take it otherwise. About 8,000 poor Brahmins made a request to me. We have decided to give them a monthly stipend of Rs 1,000 and build houses for them under Bangla Abas Yojana. This is an honorarium. We’re going to consider such requests from Christian pastors too. The 8,000 Brahmins will get the stipend from the Puja months of October/November,” Mamata said at the state secretariat. Watch West Bengal: CM Mamata Banerjee announces host of schemes for Hindus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/days-after-jp-naddas-attack-mamata-banerjee-tries-to-woo-hindus/articleshow/78116280.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||Congress targets government, uses China, corona and farm ordinances as ammo||NEW DELHI: On the opening day of the Parliament session, Congress opened a three-front attack on Modi government, accusing it of mishandling the pandemic and of bringing in three farm ordinances to enfeeble the farmers so that they are at the mercy of corporates. It also demanded a discussion on the Chinese aggression while seeking government response on reports of Chinese surveillance of India through industry. Juxtaposing the mounting Corona infections with the Prime Minister’s famous photograph feeding a peacock, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to take a dig at Narendra Modi. “Corona infection figures will cross 50 lakhs this week and 10 million active cases. The unplanned lockdown is a product of one person's ego causing the corona to spread across the country. Modi government said all should be self-sufficient i.e. save your life yourself because PM is busy with peacocks,” he said in a sarcasm-filled post. On the opening day in Lok Sabha, the party leadership of Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Gaurav Gogoi robustly protested against disallowing of discussion on Chinese incursion as well as against the three ordinances passed by the government during the lockdown as “farming reforms". With Rahul Gandhi later weighing on the issues through Twitter, Congress practically laid out its agenda for the current session. “Farmers are the only ones who buy in retail and sell their produce at wholesale prices. The three 'black' ordinances of the Modi government are a fatal attack on peasant-agricultural labourers so that neither do they get MSP nor their rights, and farmers are forced to sell their land to capitalists. Another anti-farmer conspiracy of Modi,” Rahul tweeted, as the Centre prepares to bring legislations to replace the three ordinances. China too figured prominently in the party agenda as Chowdhury repeatedly tried to raise the Ladakh standoff in the Lower House. Gogoi later told reporters that it was disappointing that the defence minister did not respond to the issue or clarify when a discussion will be taken up. AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala asked the government to clarify on reports of Chinese surveillance of India. He asked why was Modi government repeatedly “failing” on national security front. The congress demand for a discussion on China will be taken up in the meeting of business advisory committee of both houses on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-targets-government-uses-china-corona-and-farm-ordinances-as-ammo/articleshow/78116372.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
September 15, 2020||India||Battle against Covid-19 still far from over, bold decision of lockdown prevented 37-78 thousand deaths: Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday said that the battle against pandemic was still far from over and told the Parliament about its balanced approach of unlocking to revive the economy while seeking for sustained community support to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19. Making a suo-moto statement on Covid-19 situation, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said a total of about 40 lakh persons had been kept under surveillance as on September 11 to break the chain of transmission. Calling the lockdown, a "bold decision", he said the decision prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78 thousand deaths. On the vaccine front, the minister informed the members that there are around 145 candidate vaccines globally in pre-clinical evaluation while 35 vaccines are currently in clinical trial. "In India, a major focus has been on facilitating the development of Covid-19 vaccine. More than 30 vaccine candidates have been supported which are in different stages of development, three candidates are in advanced stage of Phase I/II/III trials and more than four are in advanced preclinical development stage," he said. It was the health minister’s third statement on the Covid-19 situation with the first two being delivered in February and March, respectively. Speaking about the current situation, Vardhan said, "We have now moved from ‘managing travel related cases’ to containing clusters and large outbreaks due to local transmission to wide spread of infection to urban, peri-urban and rural areas." On the ongoing efforts, Vardhan said the government was proactively identifying gaps and building an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) that would be able to take challenges of similar pandemics, epidemics and disasters in future. He said an expenditure finance memorandum of over Rs 65,560 crores under Prime Minister ‘Atma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana’ was under consideration. "This includes investment in research, healthcare and public health infrastructure with particular focus on pandemic management," said Vardhan. On the spread of the pandemic, he said, "As per WHO, there are more than 2.79 crore confirmed cases across the world with more than 9.05 lakh deaths, with a case fatality rate of 3.2%. As on September 11, a total of 45,62,414 confirmed cases and 76,271 deaths (Case Fatality Rate 1.67%) have been reported in India." The minister informed the members that the maximum cases and deaths have been primarily reported from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, Telangana, Odisha, Assam, Kerala and Gujarat. All these states have reported more than one lakh cases. "With our endeavour to manage Covid-19 through a whole of government and whole of society approach, India has been able to limit its cases and deaths per million to 3,328 cases per million and 55 deaths per million population respectively, which is one of the lowest in the world as compared to similarly affected countries," claimed the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/battle-against-covid-19-still-far-from-over-bold-decision-of-lockdown-prevented-37-78-thousand-deaths-harsh-vardhan/articleshow/78114225.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 15, 2020||India||Can’t legalise same-sex marriage: Government||NEW DELHI: Two years after the Supreme Court decriminalised Section 377 IPC, four LGTBQ community members requested the Delhi high court to legalise same-sex marriage under the Hindu Marriage Act, but ran into stout opposition from the Centre, which said this fell foul of several criminal and civil laws recognising marriage only between a “biological man and woman”. The petitioners — Delhi-based Abhijit Iyer Mitra and Gita Thadani along with Madurai-based Gopi Shankar M and G Oorvasi — told a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that Section 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1956, provides that “a marriage may be solemnised between any two Hindus” and hence there could be no objection to same-sex marriage between two Hindus of the LGTBQ community. Same-sex marriage runs counter to laws: SGThe petitioners sought a declaration that since Section 5 of Hindu Marriage Act, 1956, does not distinguish between homosexual and heterosexual couples, the right of same-sex couples to marry should be recognised under the Act. But the Centre, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, registered its opposition to the petitioners’ plea. He said he had no instructions from the government on the specific issues raised by the petitioners. However, he said he could off-hand argue that same-sex marriage ran counter to several criminal and civil laws recognising marriage between “biological men and women” only. He said India’s social norms and cultural ethos were codified in statutory laws, like prohibited degrees of relationships and ‘sapinda’ marriages, and added both conditions had varying criteria for a man and woman entering into a matrimonial alliance. In a same-sex marriage, who will be the man and who will be the woman to fasten this statutory condition, he asked. The SG said there were different age criteria for men and women in a marriage and asked how that was going to be enforced. In case of domestic violence in a same-sex marriage, who will be the woman for enforcement of her rights under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, he asked. Mehta also cited Section 498A of IPC, which punishes a husband and his relatives for inflicting mental and physical torture on the wife for a jail term of up to three years. Judicial interpretation of laws also provide that if a woman commits suicide or dies an unnatural death within seven years of marriage, then cruelty would be presumed and the case would be investigated. He drew the HC’s attention to the problems in enforcing this provision in a same-sex marriage. He said at the moment, he could think of these legal complexities that could arise if same-sex marriage was legalised, and said since it would require amendments to many criminal and civil laws, it would be best to leave this issue for determination by Parliament through debate. When the bench asked the SG whether the Centre would file a reply affidavit to the petition, he said, “The issue raises pure questions of law, which I am flagging. I will file a note. Questions of law don’t require filing of an affidavit at this stage.” The HC acknowledged that world over, things were changing even if the position in law might be different and it may or may not be applicable to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-legalise-same-sex-marriage-government/articleshow/78116471.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 15, 2020||Business||SBI General will not buy Future Generali||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: SBI General Insurance has dismissed reports that it is looking at acquiring Future Generali and said it hasn’t had any discussions with the private insurer and is focused on organic growth. According to SBI General Insurance MD & CEO P C Kandpal, the company’s current growth rate will get it a market share of 10% among private companies and a valuation of over Rs 50,000 crore in a few years. Speaking to TOI, Kandpal said SBI General has managed to grow 20% despite the lockdown. The company has generated new business premium of Rs 2,607 crore from April to August in the current fiscal as against Rs 2,187 crore in the year-ago period. The highest growth has been in health and fire cover segments. The rise this year has come on the back of a 45% growth last year. On Monday, SBI General also signed a bancassurance agreement with Yes Bank. “Expanding business for SBI group, which is present across the length and breadth of the country, is not a problem. We know how to increase reach and distribution in one go. We have access to 22,000 branches, 40,000-50,000 business correspondents, which provide us access to 5 lakh villages,” said Kandpal. He added that although a number of small private companies were on the block because of reversal in the GDP, SBI General was not interested in acquisition because it would raise cultural issues. While listing of the company was a medium-term strategy, SBI General would not go public until it can get a valuation of Rs 50,000 crore, which could take a few years, said Kandpal. “We want to work on value creation for the customer and without a cultural fit, there is no value creation. We do not want to lose the trust generated by SBI brand,” he said. Kandpal said that in future, the three-pronged strategy would be to tap rural India or Bharat, innovation in products, and the use of a combination of assisted digital to reach out to customers. The next big growth opportunity, according to Kandpal, is in the health segment providing cover to the ‘missing middle’ where the government was focused on. This refers to the millions who are not covered under the social welfare schemes or private health insurance schemes. The government plans to address this by giving insurance companies responsibilities for specific states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-general-will-not-buy-future-generali/articleshow/78113629.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 15, 2020||---||Narendra Modi invokes Bihari pride, sets the tone for elections||PATNA: In his address to the people of the state ahead of the October-November assembly elections, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday invoked ‘Bihari smita (Bihari pride)’ to catch the imagination of the people of all age groups, hoping that they would root for the NDA candidates in the assembly elections. For, if the NDA wins the elections this year, it would be the alliance’s third win in the state after 2005 and 2010. The BJP and its the then alliance partners had won only 58 of the 243 assembly seats in 2015, having lost to the Grand Alliance. On Sunday, the PM reserved the major part of his speech on the invocation of the Bihari pride, when he called the state a “powerhouse of talent” that now has several institutes of repute – like IIT, Chandragupta Institute of Management, two central universities, not to say of medical, engineering, IIIT and other institutes – to fire the imagination of youths, as they are purported to cater to the fulfilment of the dreams of aspirational Bihar. Indeed, the PM shed the traditional parameters of regional identity – like religion, language, history and culture – and instead presented the framework of developmental aspirations. He said the natural gas pipeline would help revive the fertilizer and crude oil refinery plants at Barauni (Begusarai) and the installation of the LPG bottling plants, CNG units and gas-based industries would bring “modern industries” to Bihar with a potential to transform it into a developed state. State BJP leaders like Anil Sharma and Pramod Chandravanshi hailed the PM for presenting the old idea of ‘Bihari Smita’. “This is a new thrust that the PM has given to the thinking of the people of the state. It will help the NDA win support of the people,” Sharma said.  “There was a time when the rulers said the state did not require good metalled roads, as the poor did not walk on them!” the PM said, alluding to the frequently quoted statement of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Addressing a virtual rally of JD(U) last week, even CM Nitish Kumar had asked his party workers to inform the new generation of the 15-year ‘misrule’ of the RJD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/pm-invokes-bihari-pride-sets-the-tone-for-elections/articleshow/78123801.cms||Abhay Singh
September 15, 2020||Patna||Narendra Modi invokes Bihari pride, sets the tone for elections||PATNA: In his address to the people of the state ahead of the October-November assembly elections, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday invoked ‘Bihari smita (Bihari pride)’ to catch the imagination of the people of all age groups, hoping that they would root for the NDA candidates in the assembly elections. For, if the NDA wins the elections this year, it would be the alliance’s third win in the state after 2005 and 2010. The BJP and its the then alliance partners had won only 58 of the 243 assembly seats in 2015, having lost to the Grand Alliance. On Sunday, the PM reserved the major part of his speech on the invocation of the Bihari pride, when he called the state a “powerhouse of talent” that now has several institutes of repute – like IIT, Chandragupta Institute of Management, two central universities, not to say of medical, engineering, IIIT and other institutes – to fire the imagination of youths, as they are purported to cater to the fulfilment of the dreams of aspirational Bihar. Indeed, the PM shed the traditional parameters of regional identity – like religion, language, history and culture – and instead presented the framework of developmental aspirations. He said the natural gas pipeline would help revive the fertilizer and crude oil refinery plants at Barauni (Begusarai) and the installation of the LPG bottling plants, CNG units and gas-based industries would bring “modern industries” to Bihar with a potential to transform it into a developed state. State BJP leaders like Anil Sharma and Pramod Chandravanshi hailed the PM for presenting the old idea of ‘Bihari Smita’. “This is a new thrust that the PM has given to the thinking of the people of the state. It will help the NDA win support of the people,” Sharma said.  “There was a time when the rulers said the state did not require good metalled roads, as the poor did not walk on them!” the PM said, alluding to the frequently quoted statement of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Addressing a virtual rally of JD(U) last week, even CM Nitish Kumar had asked his party workers to inform the new generation of the 15-year ‘misrule’ of the RJD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-invokes-bihari-pride-sets-the-tone-for-elections/articleshow/78113102.cms||Abhay Singh
September 15, 2020||Patna||‘LPG bottling plants to benefit 40 lakh households, boost local economy’||PATNA/BHAGALPUR: Around 40 lakh households in Bihar and Jharkhand will benefit from the newly launched LPG bottling plants in East Champaran and Banka districts. The plants, inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi through videoconferencing on Sunday under the PM Ujjwala Yojana, are expected to supply LPG cylinders to lakhs of domestic and commercial consumers in Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Araria, Kishanganj, Katihar, East Champaran and West Champaran districts. With a combined bottling capacity of 80,000 cylinders per day, the plants will also provide direct and indirect employment to over 1,000 people in these areas. Vibhash Kumar, executive director of Indian Oil-Bihar and state coordinator of oil marketing companies (OMCs) in the state said the two LPG bottling plants would help supply clean fuel to the poorest of poor households. “This will emancipate the women from harmful kitchen smoke. Over 85 lakh families in Bihar have got free LPG connection under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana till now. Just 25% of families in Bihar had LPG connection in 2014. The penetration has now gone up to 77%. With the establishment of these two plants, our aim is to provide LPG cylinders to at least 95% households in the state,” Kumar added. The LPG bottling plant in Banka is the second major investment by any public sector undertaking (PSU) after Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Station (KhSTPS) of NTPC. Eastern Bihar Industries Association general secretary Alok Agarwal said the launch of LPG bottling plant in Banka would have a positive ripple effect on the socio-economic condition of the people of Banka and Bhagalpur districts. “Besides making LPG supply to the consumers easy, the plant will also provide employment opportunities to local youths, including migrants. Small shops, eateries and some commercial activities will come up around the area too,” he said. Situated approximately 38km away from Bhagalpur and 9km from Banka on Bhagalpur-Banka-Dumka road, the IOCL’s LPG bottling plant was set up with an expenditure of Rs 132 crore. The LPG bottling plant of HPCL at Harsidhi in East Champaran district, on the other hand, was built with an expenditure of Rs 136 crore. Ashwini Jha, a resident of Banka, said, “The money inflow in the form of salaries to IOCL employees and others will also be spent in the local market, which will give a boost to business activities. Markets at Bounsi, Rajoun and Jagdishpur will also flourish. Also, the cost in making provisions of additional cooking means, including kerosene and wood, would also go down with easy availability of LPG cylinders,” Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lpg-bottling-plants-to-benefit-40-lakh-households-boost-local-economy/articleshow/78113551.cms||Arunima Lal
September 15, 2020||Mangaluru||CM directs health dept to help doc install ECGs in PHCs||Mangaluru: In a major boost to the activities of the Cardiology at Doorstep Foundation — an initiative led by Dr Padmanabh Kamath, professor, and head, department of cardiology, KMC, Mangaluru — chief minister BS Yediyurappa has directed the officials from the department of health and family welfare to help the doctor install ECGs in PHCs. This was possible after Bantwal MLA Rajesh U Naik informed the CM about Dr Kamath’s work and requested the government to extend support. In the letter, the MLA stated that 250 ECGs in primary health centres of 20 districts have been installed by CAD and work in 10 more districts is remaining, due to lack of response from PHCs. Reacting to the CM’s directions, Dr Kamath told TOI: “This is going to make our job easy. Though everyone is worried about Covid-19, heart diseases are known to be the leading cause of death in the country. This gesture by the CM will help us reach our purpose with ease.” Cardiology at Doorsteps (CAD) is a flagship WhatsApp group initiated by Dr Kamath in February 2018 to help patients in rural and remote parts of the country. With ECGs at rural health centres, before patients reach a clinic/hospital, their reports will be handed over to the cardiologist, through CAD WhatsApp. Next week, ECGs will be installed at Kollegal in Chamarajanagara district. By next year, Dr Kamath hopes to cover all PHCs in the state. Recently, Cardiology at Doorstep Foundation also launched a dedicated website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cm-directs-health-dept-to-help-doc-install-ecgs-in-phcs/articleshow/78113300.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Activist to go on hunger strike seeking free healthcare for elderly||Mangaluru: A campaign launched by a young activist seeking free healthcare for the elderly in the state, regardless of their socio-economic condition, has garnered much support on social media portals. Deepu Shettigar has launched and been a part of various campaigns against corruption, nepotism and inequality in society. Shettigar told TOI that he would launch a hunger strike in Mangaluru once the rain in the coastal city receded. “We have seen many elderly people suffer owing to lack of quality healthcare and timely medical attention. Pandemic has made it even more difficult for the senior citizens, who have more or less lost all access to healthcare services. The few of them who do are forced to cough up a lot of money, which means it is eating into their retirement benefits. Even those elderly citizens classified as APL are finding ir hard to afford medical treatment owing to prohibitive costs. All elderly citizens must be provided free treatment at government and private hospitals. Let the Aadhaar or any other government ID card be made mandatory for free service. A scheme that will be more effective that the current government healthcare initiatives,” Shettigar added. Shettigar said that the indefinite hunger strike would be held keeping in mind all the safety procedures. “We have received support from activist Udaya Poojary from Biruver Kudla. The hunger strike will continue till the government accepts our demands,” he added. As many as 5,000 Facebook users have ‘Like’d Shettigar’s campaign, and expressed their support for the cause. “We are always with you for your good intentions,” wrote Ramakrishna KS. “I extend my moral support to Mr Deepu,” said Ganesh S in a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/activist-to-go-on-hunger-strike-seeking-free-healthcare-for-elderly/articleshow/78113738.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Patna||‘Issues of Bihar close to Harivansh’s heart’||PATNA: JD(U) Rajya Sabha member Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was re-elected deputy chairman of the Upper House of Parliament on the first day of the monsoon session on Monday, did not sever his connection with Bihar even during his short first term. Singh was first elected deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha on August 9, 2018. The JD(U) had nominated him for the Rajya Sabha for his six-year term first time in 2014. During his first term, he allotted all of his MP local area development (MPLAD) fund to IIT-Patna and Aryabhatta Knowledge University for conducting research on the Ganga, sources said. The river had earlier been on the agenda of the then Mahagathbandhan government led by Nitish Kumar on account of the acute problem of siltation that had led to annual inundation of the banks of the river from Bhagalpur to Buxar district, causing floods. Sources in Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), Patna, said Singh had also been key speaker at its two-day international seminar held here on the issue having bearing on Bihar. The seminar had been organised by International Growth Centre, ADRI and four other civil society organisations working on the gender issues. While the seminar was held on December 6 &7 last year, its theme was, ‘Closing the gender gap: Health, education and economic development’. In his address, Singh, had presented perspective on the issues, backing them with both statistical data and other human details from the state. State science and technology minister Jai Kumar Singh said it has been a matter of satisfaction that Singh’s performance as Rajya Sabha deputy chairman during the first term won appreciation from all the members. Information and public relations department minister Neeraj Kumar said Singh had excelled as a journalist and he also set a milestone in the capacity of the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/issues-of-bihar-close-to-harivanshs-heart/articleshow/78113634.cms||Abhay Singh
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman files plaint against husband, in-laws||Ahmedabad: A woman Sejal Danidharia has lodged a complaint at Krishnanagar police station on Sunday against her husband Dhaval Danidharia, father-in-law Shantibhai, mother-in- law Harsha and two sisters-in-law, Dhara and Kajal Dudhrejia, alleging mental and physical torture. The complainant has alleged that she was threatened that if she doesn’t work in the house they would forcibly pour acid down her throat to kill her. Inspector of Krishnangar police station said that they have registered an offence and are verifying the detail mentioned in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-plaint-against-husband-in-laws/articleshow/78114418.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man facing rape charge booked for forgery||Ahmedabad: Ashwin Sardhara, 40, of Bapunagar lodged a complaint on Monday against a rape accused, Sunil Bhanderi, of Hirawadi alleging that Bhanderi used his identity documents to open a bank account. Sardhara says his documents were used by Bhanderi to open an account in Saraspur Nagrik Cooperative Bank. According to the complaint, in 2012 Bhanderi, his father Dhiru Bhanderi, and the complainant had bought land at an Amreli village. Sardhara and the Bhanderis each owned 50% of the land. Sardhara had given Sunil Bhanderi his identity documents for the paperwork related to the land. Bhanderi misused those documents. “Bhanderi has made fraudulent transactions in Sardhara’s name,” said a crime branch official. “We have registered a complaint against Bhanderi for cheating and forgery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-facing-rape-charge-booked-for-forgery/articleshow/78114584.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC driver’s garbage cheating caught on camera||Ahmedabad: A video exposing the flaw in the garbage collection system of the AMC went viral on Monday. In the video, said to be of a society in Shastrinagar area in Ghatlodia, the house garbage-collection van is seen standing at the end of the society and returning soon without collecting the garbage.AMC officials said that garbage-collection vehicles are fitted with global positioning system and their movements can be traced. “The vehicle has to enter the society and make an announcement so that the residents can dispose of the garbage,” said an official.The officials said that the drivers in order to complete their trips quickly have been resorting to this tactic. “The video is an eye-opener,” the officials said.Director solid waste, Harshad Solanki, said, “I am out of the city and have not seen the video, so I cannot comment on the issue.”This is not the first time that such practices have come to the fore. In the past, a contractor was found pouring water in the garbage to increase its weight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-drivers-garbage-cheating-caught-on-camera/articleshow/78114452.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heated arguments between AMC officer, trader||Ahmedabad: A video went viral on Monday in which a trader is seen arguing with an official of the estate department of the South West Zone. Though it is not clear from the video as to what the issue was, the officer is heard telling the trader to meet one Ghanshyambhai. At some point, the trader too loses his cool. After heated arguments, the officer entered into a scuffle. Later the matter reached Vastrapur police station. However, after intervention by senior officials, both the trader and the officer did not register any complaint.If sources are to be believed, the trader was issued a fine of Rs 1,000 by the JET team of Chandlodia ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heated-arguments-between-amc-officer-trader/articleshow/78114469.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Patna||20 primary schools to impart education with fun||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has forced people and institutions to explore so many things. Now, the Bihar State Building Construction Corporation (BSBCC) is designing the walls and floors of classrooms so as to impart education with fun in government schools of the state. The BSBCC is doing it at 20 primary schools in rural areas of Patna. BSBCC managing director Amit Kumar said when children return to their classrooms on reopening of schools, they would get a different look of their campuses. The work began about a month ago and is likely to be completed soon under the BSBCC’s corporate social responsibility by utilizing a part of the profits earned during 2019-20. “Primary schools are the first educational institutions in one’s life. Hence, it was decided to introduce the new teaching methods through wall paintings in those schools,” Amit said. Various lessons, topics of general knowledge and quotes related to moral values and useful for children from Class 1 to V are being attractively painted on the walls of classrooms, verandah and other common spaces. With a view to double up the classrooms as fun rooms, the popular children’s games like snake and ladder and ludo are being painted on the floors so that children may pass their leisure time with fun, he said. Alphabets, numbers, tables, mathematical symbols, geometrical structures, season’s cycle, days and months, calendar and planetary system are the other important features appearing on the walls of classrooms. This ‘teaching walls’ concept is being implemented in selected schools of Sampatchak, Punpun, Bakhtiyarpur, Barh and Danapur. Amit said more rural schools in Patna would be selected for this initiative later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-primary-schools-to-impart-education-with-fun/articleshow/78112565.cms||VK Tripathi
September 15, 2020||Patna||Lockdown fails to restrict lovebirds from elopement||PATNA: Prolonged lockdown and restrictions under subsequent Unlock measures due to Covid-19 pandemic failed to restrict the flight of lovebirds in Bihar as several girls and boys eloped from their homes for marriage against the wishes of their families. As per the State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB) statistics, 398 girls eloped with their boyfriends for marriage purposes between April and June. Moreover, 434 people were abducted for marriage in the state during the same period. The maximum 232 elopement cases were reported in June, followed by 103 in May and 63 in April. Likewise, 81 incidents of kidnapping for marriage took place in April, 138 in May and the maximum 305 in June. However, according to the SCRB data, the figures were less compared to the corresponding period in 2019 when 1178 girls had eloped from their houses for marriage and 1333 cases of kidnapping for the same purpose were reported in the state. A senior police officer said, “Though there has been no rise in elopement cases during the lockdown, the disconcerting trend continued in the state despite complete ban on movement of people and vehicles. It shows that lovebirds remained connected through mobile phones.” For example, a 15-year-old girl from Mahishi in Saharsa eloped and reached her boyfriend’s home in Madhepura district. She reportedly pressurized him for marriage. The girl, stated to be a Class IX student, had fallen in love with the boy when he was at Mahishi for taking coaching classes. “We came in contact with each other at the coaching institute. Later, our friendship turned into love. We have been known to each other for the last three years,” the girl told the police. Ghailadh police station SHO Pramod Kumar said the girl was recovered from her boyfriend’s house. Both the girl and her boyfriend were minors, he said. Theirs is not an isolated case. One Amit Kumar reached his girlfriend’s house at a village under Rajapakar police station in Vaishali district on September 10. The 19-year-old, stated to be a resident of Mirzapur in Vaishali, was spotted talking with his girlfriend late in the night. Initially, some local residents thrashed Amit. However, he expressed his wish to marry his girlfriend Seema Kumari, an undergraduate student. The marriage was solemnized at a local temple in the presence of SHO Naushad Alam, sarpanch Rinku Kumari and others. Similarly, a 19-year-old youth from Karjadih reached his girlfriend’s house under Sadar police station in Muzaffarpur and eloped with her to New Delhi a week back. The girl, stated to be a minor, and her boyfriend Dipak Sah were traced in New Delhi and subsequently brought to Muzaffarpur. IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar said, “It’s high time the parents should keep surveillance on their children’s activities. Mobile phones have proved a handicap for them. At the same time such cases have become a headache for the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-fails-to-restrict-lovebirds-from-elopement/articleshow/78113438.cms||Ramashankar
September 15, 2020||Patna||Complete revision of voter list: Poll panel||PATNA: A two-member Election Commission team held meetings with DMs and SPs of districts falling under Tirhut, Darbhanga, Saran and Patna divisions on Monday to assess the ground situation in the run up to assembly elections in the state. Deputy election commissioners Sudeep Jain and Chandrabhushan Kumar first went to Muzaffarpur where they got feedback from the DMs and SPs of 12 districts. IGs and DIGs were also present at the meeting. They directed police officers to accelerate the process of execution of pending warrants and property attachment orders. The deputy election commissioners asked the DMs, who happen to be district election officers, to complete the revision of voter list and ensure that no elector, who fulfilled the criteria, was left out. “The role of district election officers is very important in elections,” an IAS officer quoted the EC’s officials as saying. The visiting members asked the officers concerned to ensure maximum participation of electors, including disabled ones. The DMs were told to increase the number of entry points in the buildings that houses more polling booths in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The EC officials said since the number of polling booths has been increased in order to maintain social distancing norms, additional arrangements have to be made for the voters. The DMs were asked to seek the help of Asha workers, anganwadi sevikas and those working under panchayati raj institutions to create awareness among electors. On Tuesday, the team will hold meeting with DMs and SPs of seven districts in Bhagalpur and Bodh Gaya. The team will also take inputs from the state chief secretary and other senior officers before leaving for New Delhi on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/complete-revision-of-voter-list-poll-panel/articleshow/78113464.cms||Ramashankar
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai unlocked, now hope holds the key||CHENNAI: For the past two weeks, Chennai’s roads have been buzzing with activity. Life has begun a slow march towards normalcy. Public transport has resumed and malls have opened after lockdown restrictions were lifted on September 1. Greater Chennai Corporation changed its strategy in containing Covid cases and residents stepped out of their homes to socialize. But for many, normalcy is a far cry. While those involved in the business of essential services and goods have had their share of profits, those selling non-essentials, and plying buses and cabs have found very few takers. Every day, retailers enter deserted malls and MTC staff take empty buses around the town. They miss the smiling faces, the usual chatter and hum of people around them. Many said the familiar city looked strange every day. “We have opened a week ago and get only about two customers a day now. We hardly see people at the malls,” said D Sanjeev, manager at a retail unit at a shopping mall. Retailers at malls have drawn up plans to attract customers, putting more focus on safety and hygiene. Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO, Retailers Association of India, said only if the local governments gave assurance that there would be no more lockdowns, sales could recover in the festive season. “We have started witnessing some green shoots in states that are allowing retail to operate with fewer restrictions,” he said. “During the lockdown, retailers had worked to develop SOPs that are in line with the Centre’s guidelines. We are confident that if things continue the way they are, sales can even be better than last season,” said Rajagopalan. But taxi drivers don’t see such windfall. The number of trips has halved and those commuting mostly go to hospitals and bus terminals. Auto drivers wait for the railway station to become fully functional so that they get back to business soon. Amid the buzz, TOI spoke to people to find out what difference unlock has made to their lives and profession. ‘It’s frustrating to wait so long for a customer’As the wait for the customer continues at the malls, Ashwini Murthy, manager at a famous food joint in a mall, said she didn’t know how to pass her time. The 24-year-old used to attend to hundreds of customers every day and hardly had time for herself. “Now, it’s so boring. We are so used to the crowd at the malls that seeing it deserted like this makes us feel so unenthusiastic at work,” she said. She was ecstatic when the mall reopened as it meant she would meet her friends and colleagues from other shops who had returned to their hometown in March. “We worked from home for a few months and some of us were engaged in other branches. But nothing compares to coming to the joint every day wearing the uniform. The first week was fun as it was like a reunion for all of us,” she said. But reality kicked in slowly. “Sometimes, it’s so frustrating to wait so long for a customer. And we hardly see children anymore. In the evenings, some people turn up but most of them are college students,” she said. Ashwini found the last weekend “the most depressing”. “I hope that this weekend it is better.” ‘At CMBT, not even 5% of commuters have returned’Durai Govindarajan and K Manivannan, the conductor and driver duo, couldn’t have waited a day more to wear their uniforms and travel in an MTC bus. When the lockdown restrictions were removed, it was a relief for them. For the past 25 years, they have woken up at 3am, put on their uniforms and taken bus number 70V from Red hills to CMBT. They became friends with some regular commuters and some became their ‘enemies’. Now, they miss them both. The Koyambedu terminal is empty and Durai doesn’t like the sight. “Not even 5% of the commuters have returned to the facility. So much has changed,” he said. Durai wears a mask now and cannot whistle. “I miss it,” he said. Durai and Manivannan joined duty 10 days ago but the wait for the commuter continues. Bus journeys in Chennai can be entertaining with commuters fighting for seats and change. “Many gossip and we laugh at stupid jokes together. We hope after a few weeks, normalcy will return,” said Manivannan, adding that it is the fear of infection that is keeping people away from buses. “A city is back to normal only when the public transport is in full occupancy. We hope the situation will improve once train services resume,” he said. ‘Unlock is the only way to redeem myself’The lockdown changed the life of P Anandhan, a cab driver, forever. He became a vegetable seller, a construction worker and did odd jobs to make ends meet. He is still deep in debt and his children have had to shift from a private school to a government one as he couldn’t pay the fees. His wife, who was a homemaker turned a breadwinner by working at a supermarket as a saleswoman. From sitting luxuriously in his air-conditioned car in early March, he was out selling garlic in the hot sun in May. “I used to earn Rs 3,000 back then every day and led a decent life. Now I earn only Rs 1,000. This unlock is the only way to redeem myself,” he says. “I miss the traffic now as I drive around the city. I do around four trips a day now, but that is not enough. I am waiting more than anyone for normalcy to return,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-unlocked-now-hope-holds-the-key/articleshow/78114105.cms||Komal Gautham
September 15, 2020||Patna||Urban areas of Patna district see sudden rise in Covid-19 cases||PATNA: Coronavirus caseload on urban areas of Patna district has increased manifold in the recent days when compared to the rural areas. As Covid-19 testing has been ramped up in the district, the urban areas are witnessing a steady rise in number of active cases. The rural areas of the district, on the other hand, are witnessing declining trend as far as spread of the virus is concerned. According to the data provided by the district administration, of 1,804 active Covid cases in Patna, urban areas account for 85% caseload. About 1,404 active cases are from Patna sadar, covering 721 homes in containment zones and 2,978 people. Maximum active cases are from Kankarbagh (148), Shastri Nagar (115), Kadamkuan (113), Gardanibagh (109), Patrakar Nagar (74) and Pirbahore (67). In Danapur sub-division, there are 152 active cases, Barh sub-division accounts for 106 cases, Paliganj sub-division 68, Masaurhi sub-division 55 and Patna City 19. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said daily Covid cases in the district have reduced due to strict enforcement of safety norms, like wearing masks, social distancing, contract tracing of positive patients, mobile testing in containment zones, diaras and taals and timely detection of new cases. “Not only in Patna, the trend has changed in other districts like Buxar, Bhojpur and Nalanda too. Now, more cases are coming from urban areas due to resumption of commercial activities. However, the only silver lining is that number of per day cases has come down significantly in Patna district,” Agarwal added. The district authorities have also observed that apart from containment areas, active cases are being reported from other localities as well. A district official said the active cases are unevenly distributed across Patna. “Two weeks ago, maximum cases were coming from containment zones in Patna City, Rajiv Nagar and Danapur. However, positive cases are now being recorded in other localities too,” the official said. The number of containment zones in Patna district has come down to 55 from 102 a month back. Patna sadar has 30 containment zones, Danapur 13, Barh five, Patna City and Paliganj three each and Masaurhi one. Altogether 3,362 homes fall containment zones, involving 25,141 population. “The number of containment zones might increase as the district administration is in the process of identifying new localities which are recording large number of positive cases. Sealing will be done in limited areas, including lanes and apartments, where Covid patients are found,” Patna DM Kumar Ravi said. The district administration has also taken several measures to ensure strict implementation of safety norms as commercial activities are resuming fast. The DM said since several festivals would be celebrated in October and November, the district administration is on its toes to ensure safety of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/urban-areas-of-patna-dist-see-sudden-rise-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78112523.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 15, 2020||Patna||RJD chief Lalu Prasad missing from party poster||PATNA: A huge poster with a life-size photo of only Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at the RJD headquarters caught the attention of even passersby. It is probably for the first time that incarcerated party chief Lalu Prasad is missing from any RJD poster in the state. Is RJD trying to give more space to the younger Yadav scion, who gets overshadowed by his father’s aura and charm? The poster put up some five days back has a tagline, ‘Nai sooch-Naya Bihar, Yuva sarkaar-Abki Baar’. It has a map of Bihar in the background and showcasing a developed place with tall buildings, industries, tractors and RJD symbol lantern. However, RJD’s state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said there was no need to create controversy over this poster. “The banners or posters have some messages and photos are put accordingly. Tejashwi ji has initiated a fight for the rights of youths. He is a young leader and our party is working hard to have a government headed by him, with the blessings of seniors. Do you think Lalu ji’s photo would have gelled with this poster? Also, it is a known fact that he is our guardian and his blessings are on Tejashwi ji. We know our opposition members are trying to create an issue out of it,” he said. “Lalu ji is our party’s founder and his photo is prominently there in the background poster inside party office. In fact, former CM Rabri Devi ji and great men like Gandhi ji, Lohia, Karpoori Thakur are there on the posters,” he added. Another senior RJD leader said both the Yadav scions can never replace their father. “They are nothing in front of their father. RJD means Lalu and no one can replace him. Even now, the entire political affair is being managed by him.” JD(U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad, however, said the poster reflects Tejashwi’s hunger for power. “He is trying to woo his young party workers, but can never replace senior seasoned politicians who have worked on the ground. Forget leaders like Shivanand Tiwary and Jagdanand Singh, he has even removed his parents from the poster. I do not want to comment on Raghuvansh babu now,” he said. State BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said this poster reflects what late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had told about RJD. “He had said in one of his letters that the photos of five members of a family has replaced socialist leaders. No matter who is there on the poster, all these are decided by one family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-chief-missing-from-party-poster/articleshow/78112715.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 15, 2020||Business||PUBG ban boosts rivals’ downloads||CHENNAI: Even as the South Korean makers of popular game PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG) attempt to reverse India’s ban on it by cutting ties with China’s Tencent, rivals Call of Duty Mobile, Garena Free Fire and Battlelands Royale — all first-person shooting games — are reaping rich rewards. These gaming apps have seen roughly around 9x, 2x and 2x surge in new installs, respectively, since the government banned PUBG on September 2, data sourced by TOI from global app intelligence firm Apptopia showed. Daily downloads in India for Call of Duty was an average 7,500 in the 10 days prior to PUBG’s ban, but new installs during September 3-7 averaged 67,000. There were over 3.3 lakh new installs of Call of Duty in India in the five-day period. The surge in traction also reflected in the usage of the app. The games’s daily active users (DAUs) ballooned by almost 50%, peaking at 4.8 lakh on September 7, compared to average DAUs of 2 lakh prior to the PUBG ban. Another action game Free Fire had average daily downloads of about 80,000 before the ban. But in the five days after the curbs, daily installs from India stood at 1.6 lakh on average. Free Fire had around 8 lakh installs during the period. The DAUs of Free Fire increased by roughly 5% after PUBG’s exit and stood at a high of 45.5 lakh on September 7. Battlelands Royale, a more casual shooting game, saw a 41% rise in its active user base from India. Call of Duty Mobile is from the house of American games publisher Activision that recently cut distribution ties with Tencent’s TiMi Studios. Free Fire is a survival shooter game developed by Singapore-based developer Garena (parent company is Sea) and Battlelands Royale was developed in Finland. These online multiplayer survival games have last-man standing strategy as a key theme. Free Fire, Call of Duty, Hunter Assassin and India’s own Ludo King consistently found a place among the top five games on Google’s Play Store charts during the five-day period. Fortnite, another PUBG rival, was removed from app stores on August 13 and hence is not accessible by gamers. India banned 118 apps of Chinese origin, including PUBG, on September 2. The South Korean makers of the app, PUBG Corporation, subsequently announced that they are in talks with Indian authorities and are cutting distribution ties with Chinese company Tencent in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pubg-ban-boosts-rivals-downloads/articleshow/78113931.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plan was to surrender and run drug racket from jail: Cops||Ahmedabad: Main accused in the mephedrone smuggling racket — Sahejadhussain Tejabwala and Imran Ajmeri — who had jumped interim bails, had planned to surrender in front of jail authorities and run the drug racket from inside jail, crime branch sources said on Monday.In two separate operations, police had nabbed five persons with a drug consignment. While ASI Firozekhan Nagori, Kazi and Imran Padhiyar were held from a car carrying the consignment from the CTM Crossroads on Saturday night, Tejabwala and Ajmeri were detained from Mumbai on Sunday morning. Police said Tejabwala has a chain of drug distributors in the city, who used to deliver the stuff to their customers. “Tejabwala and Ajmeri had planned that at regular intervals their men would visit the jail as their relatives and apprise them of the situation outside,” said an investigator. The cops are yet to nab the main supplier of the drug who had given the accused 995g of mephedrone worth Rs 1 crore. “Tejabwala and Ajmeri had thought that even if the consignment is confiscated, it would be difficult for the prosecution to prove their involvement as they would be in jail by then,” the official said. According to the police, the accused had bought 300g of MD about a month ago which turned out to be of low quality. “Tejabwala and Ajmeri met the drug trafficker in Mumbai and received the present consignment in lieu of the poor stuff,” the investigator added. The cops said after jumping bail in July, Tejabwala had fled to Hyderabad and was staying with his second wife. “Ajmeri and Tejabwala used to buy the stuff from the drug traffickers in Mumbai and then call Nagori, Kazi and Padhiyar to Mumbai to carry the drugs from Mumbai to Ahmedabad and give to the suppliers here,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plan-was-to-surrender-and-run-drug-racket-from-jail-cops/articleshow/78114388.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||48-year-old man dies suspiciously||Hyderabad: A 48-year-old garment store worker died at the shop under suspicious circumstances on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as Vikas Kumar, a native of UP. On Sunday night, Vikas returned to the shop at 9.30pm in a drunken condition. When the owner, Ravi Kumar failed to wake him, he called 108 ambulance. After examining him, ambulance staff declared him dead. Police registered a case under section 174 of CrPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/48-year-old-man-dies-suspiciously/articleshow/78115340.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Acid attack threat||Ahmedabad: A 21-year-old man has lodged a complaint with Sola police on Sunday that one Ravi Vaghela of Gota threatened to throw acid on his sister’s face. His sister had in January this year filed a case against Vaghela. He is currently on bail. According to the complaint lodged on Sunday, while his sister was going to attend her duty at about 8pm on her scooter, Vaghela intercepted her near Gota Water Tank and said that he wanted to talk to her.The complainant has alleged that Vaghela told her to withdraw the case which she had earlier filed against him in January 2020. “When his sister declined to take the case back, Vaghela got agitated and allegedly threatened to throw acid on her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acid-attack-threat/articleshow/78114400.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Patna||Daily Covid cases see a falling trend; tally set to cross 1.6 lakh||PATNA: The number of daily Covid cases in Bihar registered its lowest figure in September so far with 1,137 new cases reported on Monday. However, the state is on the verge of crossing the 1.6 lakh-mark with the tally reaching 1,59,526. Nine deaths officially reported, taking the toll to 831 while the active cases in Bihar now stand at 13,674 with 1,45,019 recoveries. Monday’s Covid cases reported from over 1 lakh samples tested in 24 hours. From September 1 to 12, Bihar’s daily average was nearly 1,700 and 1.2 lakh samples the average testing was. Asked about the drop in reported cases, AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “It will be too early to comment on the drop in cases. As far as today’s figure is concerned, there has been some drop in the number of samples tested too. We have to wait until October to analyze the trend.” Another doctor said more use of rapid antigen test could be a reason for the fall, but added, “The RT-PCR method still needs to be increased.” State IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar informed that Bihar’s recovery rate has reached almost 91% and it was 13% above the national average. Another silver lining is the decrease in the death rate in the state. As per data shared by the Union health ministry, Bihar’s case fatality rate is 0.52% and is the fourth-lowest in the country. “Early intervention has helped people. Doctors are more experienced in handling cases now, hence there is a drop in the hospital admission at the terminal stage,” said state IMA senior vice president Dr Ajay Kumar. As per data shared by the health department, three deaths were reported from Kishanganj, followed by two deaths each from Muzaffarpur and Purnia and one death each from Nalanda and Saran. AIIMS-Patna reported one death and the deceased was a 68-year-old male from Lakhisarai. While eight positive patients were admitted on Monday, six were discharged. No death was reported from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. As far as new cases are concerned, Patna registered 191 cases, followed by Muzaffarpur with 78 cases. Covid-19 cases from some other districts include Supaul (66), Saharsa (61), Lakhisarai (53), Nalanda (52) and Bhagalpur (50).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/daily-covid-cases-see-a-falling-trend-tally-set-to-cross-1-6l/articleshow/78112504.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 15, 2020||Patna||RJD questions veracity of Raghuvansh’s letters||PATNA: A day after his death, RJD founder member Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s letters written from AIIMS-Delhi were in controversy on Monday. While RJD MLA Bhai Birendra questioned the authenticity, timing and place of the letters, ruling JD(U)-BJP leaders criticized the party led by Lalu Prasad for not giving proper treatment to Raghuvansh even after his death on Sunday. Raghuvansh had written several letters dated September 10, including the one to chief minister Nitish Kumar. While his letter to Lalu saying he would be no longer with him went viral the same day, three other letters were uploaded to his Facebook page on September 11 and one the next day. Talking to a section of media, Bhai Birendra questioned as to how could someone write letters from the ICU. He alleged ‘some conspiracy’ behind it and even demanded a probe. BJP MP Gopal Narayan Singh said the allegation was wrong. “In ICU, one is given oxygen support and that person can interact and use his hands and pen. Hence, RJD should get out of such misconceptions,” he said. Singh also said Lalu’s sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav should evaluate themselves and safeguard people like Raghuvansh in the party, or else “RJD will not survive”. BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said questioning Raghuvansh’s letter was like humiliating him. “What respect can one expect from the crowd of illiterates? He was insulted when alive and even after death. He was compared to a pot of water. Raghuvansh Babu had expressed his desire for some development work and PM Modi has assured these will be done. Even chief minister Nitish Kumar has assured to fulfil his wishes,” Nikhil said. Congress Legislature Party leader Sadanand Singh cautioned everyone against doing politics in such a situation. He also said Raghuvansh was not happy during his last few days. Citing Kabir’s couplet, Sadanand said Raghuvansh, despite being in politics, had no black spot. “This is the reason why all people from RJD, JD(U), Congress or BJP respected him. His efforts in the implementation of MGNREGA during former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s tenure made PM Narendra Modi bow in front of him,” said Sadanand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-questions-veracity-of-raghuvanshs-letters/articleshow/78112674.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 15, 2020||Patna||Cured? Eat chyawanprash, do yoga||PATNA: Health experts have appealed to recovered Covid patients in the city to religiously follow the guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare to stay healthy. According to the guidelines, Covid-recovered patients should eat chyawanprash, practice yoga and take immunity boosting AYUSH medicines for a holistic post-Covid health management. President of state unit of Indian Academy of Paediatrics-Bihar, Dr Arun Shah, said post-Covid complications affect vital organs of the body, including the lungs, heart and kidney. Complications such as pulmonary fibrosis affect the exercise tolerance of recovered patients and causes breathlessness in them. “There is an urgent need to self-monitor the clinical status of recovered Covid patients in order to rule out such complications. Medical parameters such as pulse rate, oxygen saturation, temperature and blood pressure should be monitored on a regular basis after recovery. Symptoms like shortness of breath, palpitation and confusion, if persist for long time after recovery, should be brought to the notice of doctors,” Dr Shah added. The health ministry has also suggested recovered patients to consume freshly cooked nutritious meals, which are easy to digest. Besides, adequate sleep and rest throughout the day is recommended. Smoking and consumption of liquor is prohibited post recovery. Rajendra Nagar resident Shilpi Singh, who recovered from Covid-19 in August, said she has been adding herbs and spices in her gargling concoction for curing her sore throat. “Even after taking allopathic medicines for weeks, my sore throat refuses to go. I am now trying alternative treatments to alleviate residual symptoms of Covid,” she said. In a bid to create awareness and dispel the stigma attached to Covid-19, the health ministry has encouraged recovered individuals to share their positive experiences with their friends and relatives using social media. Patients experiencing psychological distress are advised to seek psychosocial support from peers, community health workers and counsellors. The guidelines also called upon healthcare facilities to set up the first follow-up visit within seven days after the discharge of a cured patient. Subsequent follow-up visits can be to the nearest qualified AYUSH practitioner for immunity boosting treatments. Boring Road-based AYUSH practitioner Dr K K Prasad said while allopathic medicines are used for symptomatic treatment of the disease, ayurvedic medicines have antioxidant properties that enable the body to heal on its own by boosting immunity. “I prescribe a home-made ‘kadha’ to Covid patients and their families. The ‘kadha’ consists of giloy, tulsi, cinnamon, ginger and cloves. Raw turmeric is also prescribed to patients experiencing post-Covid complications, such as weakness and nausea,” Dr Prasad added. Former president of the state chapter of Indian Medical Association Dr Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said although there is no overwhelming evidence supporting the effectiveness of alternative medicine in post-Covid complications, a holistic healthcare approach has shown good results in many patients. “Low-impact yoga asanas should be practised post recovery for maintaining joint flexibility. Also, mild breathing exercises such as pranayama should be done to improve lung health. Meditation can also help alleviate psychological stress in recovered patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cured-eat-chyawanprash-do-yoga/articleshow/78112601.cms||Arunima Lal
September 15, 2020||Patna||Beware of RSS, Owaisi both, says Digvijaya at Congress rally||PATNA: The Congress ‘Bihar Kranti Mahasabha’ virtual rallies in the state covered Siwan and Goplaganj districts on Monday with senior party leader Digvijaya Singh urging people to unite against the RSS and also beware of the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM. He was backed by the party’s minority wing national head, Nadeem Jawed, who, too, cautioned Muslims against Owaisi. Digvijay said BJP along with Owaisi would soon start distracting people in the name of religion ahead of the polls. He also trained guns at chief minister Nitish Kumar for betraying his old friend and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Former parliamentarian Shakeel Ahmad cautioned people not to get swayed by politicians who play politics with the religious sentiments of the people. He said BJP, which portrays itself as a pro-Hindu party, was in reality affecting them the most. “Majority of the youth who are unemployed or have lost jobs are Hindus,” said Shakeel. He asked people to ask PM Narendra Modi how much money was spent from the package he had announced before the 2015 assembly polls. Congress’s Uttrakhand former president Kishor Upadhyay criticized the policies of Nitish government and claimed they were not meant for the welfare of people. Wooing the voters ahead of the assembly polls, Congress national spokesperson Amrita Dhawan said, “Bihar election will have an impact on the political scenario of the entire country. We all have to unite against the NDA government.” Party’s state president Madan Mohan Jha talked about the problems being faced by sugarcane farmers and sugar mills of that area. “I think CM Nitish Kumar forgets the promises he makes,” said Jha. Ex-JD (U) MLA joins Congress: Former JD (U) MLA from Barbigha, Gajanand Shahi, on Monday joined Congress in a Milan Samaroh organized at Sadaqat Ashram on Monday. Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha welcomed Shahi into the party, who earlier had also been Congress’s member before shifting to JD (U). “Your presence will give Congress an upper hand in Sheikhpura district,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/beware-of-rss-owaisi-both-says-digvijaya-at-congress-rally/articleshow/78112694.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 15, 2020||Business||Paytm gets Sachin Tendulkar to bat for game app||BENGALURU: Ahead of IPL, Paytm’s gaming unit Paytm First Games, the joint venture between Paytm and Alibaba’s AG Tech, has roped in former Indian cricketer Sachin Tendulkar as its brand ambassador. It will also spend Rs 300 crore on marketing, 50% of which will be spent during the T20 league starting on Saturday, as it aims to reach a total of 100 million users during the highly followed cricketing event. Paytm First Games has about 80 million registered users. Paytm’s gaming unit roping in Tendulkar comes at a time when mobile-based games are seeing higher usage among consumers amid the pandemic. Paytm First Games had 5-6 million monthly active users in December last year, a number that has grown to 20-25 million now, according to company COO Sudhanshu Gupta. Other firms in the space also have a line-up of cricketers as brand ambassadors. Dream11, one of the leading fantasy gaming platforms, has former and current Indian cricketers like M S Dhoni and Rohit Sharma representing the company, while Sourav Ganguly is a brand ambassador for My 11 Circle. Banking on cricket’s popularity, fantasy gaming platforms are betting big on IPL amid the pandemic. Dream11 also closed a $225-million financing on Monday and it’s also the title sponsor for IPL this year. A recent report by startup think tank IndiaTech said 80% of users of fantasy gaming in India play for free, while the rest opt for pay-to-play format. “With Sachin as a brand ambassador, we wish to inspire mobile gaming enthusiasts to experience fantasy sports, which are about tactics, strategic planning and research,” added Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/paytm-gets-sachin-to-bat-for-game-app/articleshow/78113890.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Five tourists held in fake notes racket in Goa||PANAJI: Police on Monday arrested five persons, who had come to the state from Chandigarh, for using fake Indian currency in parts of Panaji and Porvorim. Fake currency of different denominations, totally worth Rs 2.9 lakh, has been recovered and seized. North Goa superintendent of police (SP), Utkrisht Prasoon told TOI that the accused arrived in the state around a week ago and were staying at a hotel in Calangute. The accused were supposed to head back to Chandigarh two days later. “They were tracked using technical surveillance and the search has led to recovery of currency notes of different denominations — Rs 100, Rs 200 and Rs 2,000 — and the total amount of fake currency seized is around Rs 2.9 lakh,” Prasoon said. Panaji police said they commenced investigation after receiving two complaints from shops about fake currency. Police zeroed in on the accused and placed them under surveillance. Later, when it was found that they were staying at a hotel at Calangute, police conducted a search of the premises. A case has been registered under Sections 489 A, 489 B and 489 C of the India penal Code (IPC) at the Panaji police station. Further investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-tourists-held-in-fake-notes-racket/articleshow/78115300.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Patna||Manjhi blames Lalu Prasad and his family for Raghuvansh’s death||PATNA: Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi on Monday made a searing attack on RJD president Lalu Prasad and his family saying they were responsible for the death of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. In response, talking to media persons, the RJD functionary and the party’s Maner MLA Bhai Birendra ignored Manjhi, and instead, made a frontal charge that it was CM Nitish Kumar and the JD(U) who were doing “politics over the dead body of Raghuvansh Babu,” implying in the process that Manjhi was just a decoy in such a game. Singh (74) died at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday. He had been admitted for recovery from the second attack of Covid-19 virus that ultimately proved fatal. His body was brought to Patna from where he was taken first to the state legislature premises and then to his residence at Kautilya Nagar for people to pay their last respects. “In some ways, it is the murder of Raghuvansh Babu, and the murderers are no less than Lalu Prasad and the Lalu family,” Manjhi said in a video clip released on Monday. “It is due to the insult heaped on Raghuvansh Babu he died. (He) has not died, and instead, the Lalu family has killed him under a conspiracy,” Manjhi added. He further said Lalu should have taken action against RJD MLA and his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav for his “insulting remarks” against Singh, but it was not done, and, therefore, the grief and shock expressed by the Lalu family was nothing but “shedding crocodile tears”. An hour later, Manjhi explained as to what he meant by “insult heaped by Tej Pratap” on Singh, recalling his remarks after Singh relinquished the post of the party’s vice-president that “taking away a ‘lota (brass pot)’ of water from the sea will not make any difference.” The “sea’ was a metaphor for RJD, which meant Singh’s quitting or his possible exit, will not make any difference to the party and its base, observers felt. “It was too insulting for Raghuvansh Babu to bear. Lalu should have taken action against Tej Pratap, but it was not done, and he died in deep, unbearable anguish,” Manjhi said in the video clip. Expectedly, RJD functionary Bhai Birendra reacted sharply, without even deigning to take the name of Manjhi. He alleged before media persons that CM Nitish, JD(U) and Rakesh Singh, son of late Singh senior, together were “doing politics over the dead body of Singh,” as Rakesh was enticed by the allurement of making him an MLC. Bhai Birendra also said Raghuvansh had always been a “respected leader and the backbone” of RJD, so much so that he defined the principles on which Lalu ji worked. The letter of resignation that Raghuvansh is purported to have written to Lalu, besides the one to CM Nitish asking for the development of his parliamentary constituency, was “done under a conspiracy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-blames-lalu-family-for-raghuvanshs-death/articleshow/78112687.cms||Abhay Singh
September 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Truckers go on indefinite strike||PATNA: The supply of essential commodities is likely to hit in the state as thousands of trucks remained off the roads on Monday, which was the first day of an indefinite strike called by the Bihar Truck Owners’ Association (BTOA). The lorry owners also launched ‘Chaka Jam Hartal’ in protest against the provisions of Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019. The penalty amount for breaking traffic norms has been increased. The BTOA demands include allowing empty trucks on JP Setu, Rajendra Setu and other bridges in the state, ensuring supply of sand at fixed rates, eliminating unnecessary no-entry points on highways, waiving off road tax for current fiscal and reducing diesel prices. BTOA president Bhanu Shekhar Prasad Singh said the state government failed to pay heed to the demands despite requests made several times. “We met the transport department officials regarding our demands, but no action was taken. We are facing losses amid the pandemic. The state government will wake up only after realizing the impact of our strike.” Associations’ general secretary Rajesh Kumar said over 5 lakh truck owners in Bihar went on indefinite strike and only 1% trucks were on roads. “We will continue with the strike till the state government assures us of meeting our demands,” he said. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, however, said the strike has minimal effect as another association has backed off. “Magistrates have been deployed in each district. Vehicle movement has not been hampered by the strike,” he said. Some of the lorry owners staged demonstration at new Bypass in Patna on Monday in support of their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-truckers-go-on-indefinite-strike/articleshow/78113368.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman’s RT-PCR test +ve day after she dies and 11 days after sample taken||PUNE: A 59-year-old woman’s RT-PCR test report showing that she is Covid-19 positive reached her family members on September 12, a day after she had passed away and a shocking 11 days after her swab sample was collected. Kamal Dhukate of Rupeenagar in Pimpri Chinchwad died on September 11 at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) because of acute respiratory failure. Her family members said she and her husband had taken both the RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests on September 1. The rapid antigen test reports for both of them had come negative. Now, even as Kamal’s RT-PCR test has returned positive, the husband’s report is yet to come, the family said. The family said Kamal was admitted to YCMH after she started feeling uneasy on September 9. A day after she passed away, they got a call from the health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) saying that the test result was positive and that they would be sending a vehicle to pick her up for admission to hospital. PCMC additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil admitted to a delay in the test result. “At the municipal level, we have only one laboratory at YCMH to test samples. Six staffers at the laboratory tested Covid-19 positive in the past few days, putting tremendous load on the system. The uploading of test results on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal was also delayed,” he said. Patil said results of over 150 samples were still pending. “If the YCMH staffers had communicated the test result pendency to us, we would have diverted it to a private lab,” he said. Woman’s RT-PCR test +ve day after she diesKamal’s son Swapnil said the authorities had failed to take timely action. “After their rapid antigen test results returned negative, my parents thought they had nothing to worry about and went about their routine work. My parents live with me, my wife and our three daughters. After my mother’s death, we all went to the same Yamunanagar-based testing centre to find out if we have contracted the infection. We were told that the results would take time and that if we wanted them urgently, we could always go to a private hospital,” he said, adding that this was a “mockery of the poor”. Chandrakant Gourampotghan from Mohannagar is also spending anxious moments because his Covid-19 test result has been pending for the past five days. He said his swab sample was collected on September 9 at the Shahunagar-based testing centre. “I have been there at least twice and have been told that the test result has not come. I don’t know what to do,” he said. Social activist Maruti Bhapkar has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding that RT-PCR results be conveyed within two days. Bhapkar has mentioned Kamal’s death in his letter to the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/womans-rt-pcr-test-returns-ve-day-after-she-dies-11-days-after-sample-taken/articleshow/78115304.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||MP sees highest 1-day jump, Covid count crosses 90,000-mark||BHOPAL: The coronavirus count in the state crossed 90,000 mark on Monday — with the highest ever single day jump of 2,483 cases in Madhya Pradesh. Monday is the fifth consecutive day when over 2,000 cases were reported in the state. With these fresh infections, the corona tally in the state is now 90,730. What is even more alarming that the positivity rate on Monday in the state was 11.9% — and this is the third consecutive day when the positivity rate was above 10% in the state. On Sunday,the positivity rate was 10.4% and on Saturday, the positivity rate was above 10%. The overall positivity rate in the state till September 13 is 5.3%, it was only 4.6% till August 31. Despite higher positivity rate and considering the 25,000 tests target set by government for 5% positivity rate, the number of tests being conducted in the state is still lower than 25,000. On Monday too, only 20,855 samples were tested. As testing will be ramped up, the number of cases is also expected to increase. In September, 26,765 fresh cases were reported in the state. This is 29.4% of the total cases reported in the state so far. Apart from the new cases, 29 deaths were also reported in the state. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 1,791 in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-highest-1-day-jump-mp-count-breaches-90k-mark/articleshow/78114104.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mysuru||Forest dept prohibits grazing at Chamundi Hills after sighting of leopard||Mysuru: The forest department has prohibited grazing of livestock at the Chamundi Hills in the wake of increased sightings of leopards in the region. The reserve forest area around Chamundi Hills has been a habitat for leopards and the increasing concretisation atop the hills to provide facilities for the devotees has threatened the natural habitat of leopards. Several instances of devotees spotting leopards, especially during night, have been reported, according to forest officials. The animals have also been regularly sighted at Uttanahalli, Bandipalya, Gowri Shankar Nagara and near Mysuru Zoo. The leopards, which are basically shy animals, come out from hiding places during night to hunt and occasionally enter nearby human habitat to catch stray dogs which are easy prey. In the second week of September, few youths who were returning in their bikes in the night, after having darshan of the deity at the Sri Chamundeshwari Temple, sighted a leopard sitting on the parapet wall along the road on the hills. The youths captured the leopard in their mobile phone and the video clip went viral on social media. Although there have been no incidents of leopards attacking humans at the Chamundi Hills, there are instances where they have lifted stray dogs in the nearby layouts and forest department, based on the complaints of residents, has captured several leopards. Mysuru division DCF K C Prashanth Kumar told TOI that Chamundi Hills is a natural habitat of leopards. “Hundreds of people visit the hills daily, but there have been no incidents of attack on humans. There is no need for people to panic,” he said. Prashanth Kumar said that the camera trap studies by the forest department confirm that there are leopards in the hills. “Department does not allow grazing of livestock in the Chamundi Hills. If we find any person from the surrounding villages entering the forest area with their cattle for grazing, the patrolling staff will immediately send them out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-dept-prohibits-grazing-at-chamundi-hills-after-sighting-of-leopard/articleshow/78112244.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Saudi Arabia to allow entry of essential employees from India||Mangaluru: In a big relief for expats, Saudi Arabia’s ambassador has assured that permission will be granted to companies to fly their most essential employees from India through special flights. Former deputy chairperson of NRI Forum of Karnataka, Arathi Krishna, told TOI that most of the Indians, who returned home during the pandemic, will have to wait till November to fly back to Saudi Arabia. However, companies may contact the foreign affairs ministry in Saudi Arabia to fly their most essential employees back through special permission, said Arathi, who held a discussion with Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to India in New Delhi. “I spoke to Dr Saud Mohammed Al-Sati, Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to India and discussed on issues like Covid-19, geopolitics, employment and Air Bubble. Doctors and nurses working in emergency department will be able to travel as of now, while rest might have to wait till this November. He has assured that, if companies need to call in the most essential employees, they can contact the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs and fly on a special flight through the Saudi embassy with the permission of the ministry of external affairs of India,” she said. Arathi, who has assisted many expats and companies in various foreign countries to obtain necessary permissions from the governments for the repatriation of Indians during pandemic, said, “A few companies in Saudi Arabia have already contacted me seeking help. I have been helping them without me holding any position. I am doing only through my personal contacts,” she added. Currently, Saudi Arabia’s ambassador has assured that companies will be allowed to fly only most essential employees from India. Others will have to wait till November due to increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in India. They are yet to issue SOPs related to the travel of other employees, Arathi said, adding that she has met Sanjay Bhattacharya, secretary of NRI division, ministry of external affairs, and discussed about various issues relating to NRIs, especially about those who have returned due to job loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/saudi-arabia-to-allow-entry-of-essential-employees-from-india/articleshow/78112541.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Business||Rush for mid-, small-cap stocks stokes bubble fears||Partha.Sinha@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Speculators are rushing into the equity market, betting on a smart rally in small- and mid-caps. The move comes despite a Sebi clarification on Sunday evening that it was open to a discussion to ensure a smooth transition to rejig assets of multi-cap schemes in favour of mid- and small-cap stocks, from being large-cap heavy currently. As a result, in Monday’s relatively quiet market in which the sensex fell by 98 points, or about 0.3%, the small-cap index rallied 4% and mid-cap 1.5%. Among the mid-cap stocks on the BSE, Mphasis rallied 9.2%, Kaisai Nerolac 7.1%, while Oberoi Realty closed 6.4% higher. Among the small-caps, Ramkrishna Forgings closed at the 20% upper circuit, VIP Industries closed 14.4% up and Persistent Systems 14.2%. According to a report by KELP, a knowledge management outfit for the investment industry, going by aggregate assets of multi-cap funds as on August 31, Rs 28,000 crore worth of assets need to be re-deployed by January 2021. “This could lead to a rush of money into quality small-caps, inflating the prices artificially... (fund houses) may also be forced to buy lesser quality small-caps as liquidity in the above dries up. Investors expecting a significant gain in small-cap valuations may rush to buy small-cap funds or stocks, pushing the demand further, leading to a price bubble,” the report said. On Friday, Sebi had asked all fund houses that, by January 2021, multi-cap funds should have at least 75% of their corpus equally invested in large-, mid- and small-cap stocks. Since almost all of the 35 multi-cap funds in the industry are now heavily invested in large-cap stocks, to rejig the portfolios, the fund managers were expected to sell some of their large-cap holdings and at the same time shift the money to mid- and small-caps. The consequent balancing was expected to lead to a rush towards mid- and small-caps, triggering a strong rally, especially by speculators trying to front-run the fund managers. This could have also led to a bubble in these stocks, especially among small-caps, analysts and market experts had predicted, and some unexpected hurdles for multi-cap funds. On Sunday evening, Sebi said it was willing to discuss with the mutual fund industry a smooth transition process to rejig portfolios of multi-cap funds, provided these funds stuck to an appropriate good benchmark and to the scheme label.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rush-for-mid-small-cap-stocks-stokes-bubble-fears/articleshow/78114138.cms||Partha Sinha
September 15, 2020||Allahabad||Traders’ communityopposes move to keep eye on turnover||Prayagraj: In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, the traders’ community here has resented the decision of the commercial taxes department to investigate any unexpected increase or fall in the turnover of the businessmen of the district, and written to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath seeking his intervention. The special investigation branch (SIB) of the department has been instructed to keep an eye on such businesses and initiate an inquiry in case any unexplained or unexpected growth is observed. According to an order from the commissioner, commercial tax UP, signed by Amrita Soni, the SIB has to conduct an investigation of at least 10 businessmen per month whose turnover exceeds Rs 10 crores. Apart from these, such businessmen would be on SIB’s radar, against whom complaints of GST theft are constantly being received. SIB will also tighten its noose around traders who have adjusted tax in the input tax credit (ITC) or deposited less cash tax. “We have received the order and formed several teams to implement the instructions of the headquarters,” said AK Singh, officer in charge of SIB at Prayagraj zone. Sources inform that SIB has been given their target on a monthly basis. On the basis of the given target, the department would initiate its investigation on at least five businessmen who have annual turnover of Rs 10 crores or more, three businessmen with annual turnover between Rs 5 to 10 crores, one each having an annual turnover of Rs 1.5 crores to Rs 5 crores and one below Rs 1.5 crores of turnover. Meanwhile, the Confederation of All-India Traders (CAT) has decided to oppose this decision of the commercial tax department pertaining to initiating investigation of traders. CAT state president Mahendra Goel said that this action will increase harassment on businessmen. According to Goel, the businessmen will protest against this decision which has been introduced at a period when the businesses, across the segments, is already in doldrums during the present corona crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/traders-communityopposes-move-to-keep-eye-on-turnover/articleshow/78114423.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Love Guru’ brought to Gandhinagar||Ahmedabad: The arrested ‘Love Guru’ Dhaval Trivedi, 50, a teacher who had eloped with nine of his students, including minor ones, was brought to Gandhinagar CBI office on Monday. Absconding since 2018 after coming out of jail on parole, he had vanished with yet another student from Chotila. He was nabbed by a joint team of the CBI and the inter-state, crime branch of Delhi police from Salon of Himachal Pradesh. He was working there as a guard. According to the CBI, Trivedi was convicted for life imprisonment in a case registered under Pocso at Paddhari police station of Rajkot in Gujarat. As Gujarat police and CID crime of Gujarat were unable to trace him, the investigation of the case was transferred to CBI by the order of Gujarat high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/love-guru-brought-to-gandhinagar/articleshow/78114622.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hubballi||HSBRTS resumes issuing smart cards||Hubballi: Here is good news for commuters of Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS). BRTS has restarted monthly concessional smart card and e-purse, which were after the nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Covid-19. A monthly special concessional pass has been introduced for travelling in the city and suburban areas in NWKRTC buses, stated a Hubballi-Dharwad City Transport Division release. To get the monthly concessional smart card for the first time, commuters need to provide a photocopy of their Aadhar Card and Rs 150 processing fee. Passengers can avail the smart cards at Mitra Samaj BRTS bus station in Dharwad, New Bus Stand and Hubballi CBT and Old Bus Stand in Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hsbrts-resumes-issuing-smart-cards/articleshow/78113637.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Over 5 lakh employees ran a campaign on social media||Jaipur: In the third phase of state government employees’ protest against salary cut, over 5 lakh employees ran a campaign on social media sites such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram on Monday demanding withdrawal of the order.The employees changed their profile pictures on WhatsApp with a common photo carrying the slogan “Main Vetan Katauti Ka Virodhi Hoon”. “We will have a meeting on September 18 to have discussions on how to execute the campaign ‘leaving whatsapp groups’ in the next phase (September 21 and 22). We have also sought time to meet the chief minister (Ashok Ghelot). Let’s see,” said Tej Singh Rathore, general secretary, All Rajasthan State Government Employees Federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-5-lakh-employees-ran-a-campaign-on-social-media/articleshow/78115306.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||City records slight rise in temperature||Ahmedabad: The city on Monday recorded a slight rise in temperature with maximum temperature reaching 34.7°C and minimum temperature at 26.3°C. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in a forecast on Monday mentioned that all districts, including Ahmedabad, are likely to get light to moderate showers on Tuesday. From Thursday to Saturday, coastal areas of Saurashtra and south Gujarat are likely to get heavy rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-slight-rise-in-temperature/articleshow/78114547.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two flights cancelled||Ahmedabad: The departure of two flights was delayed from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on Monday. These include flights to Delhi and Hyderabad, which as is learnt, were cancelled owing to operational constraints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-flights-cancelled/articleshow/78114559.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Vaishali bids adieu to son of soil; Tejashwi, ministers attend||PATNA: The mortal remains of Raghuvansh Prasad Singh were consigned to flames with full state honours at Hasanpur Ghat in his native Vaishali on Monday evening. His younger son Shashi Shekhar, 40, lit the funeral pyre. The former Union minister, who helped Lalu Prasad establish RJD as a political force, passed away while undergoing post-Covid treatment at AIIMS-Delhi on Sunday morning. Slogans such as “Raghuvansh nahi aandhi tha, Bharat ka dusra Gandhi tha”, rent the air throughout the 140km journey to his village Shahpur in Vaishali district. The funeral procession left Patna around 7.30 am. Hundreds stood along the Hajipur-Vaishali Garh road for a last glimpse of the departed leader, who represented Vaishali in the Lok Sabha for five consecutive terms before being defeated for the first time in 2014 by criminal-turned-politician Rama Kishore Singh alias Rama Singh of LJP. At Vaishali Garh, the body was kept for a while for people to pay floral tributes. Politicians were seen jostling with each other to pay their last respect to the socialist leader, who is credited with building roads in every corner of the district. The scene turned emotional when the flower-decked vehicle carrying the body halted at Rampur Ramhar village near Jandaha, the “sasural” of the departed leader. “We are proud to be associated with the socialist leader in the true sense of the term,” said 75-year-old old Satyendra Singh, who is close to Raghuvansh’s in-laws. His wife had passed away in 2013. As the funeral procession entered Raghuvansh’s ancestral Shahpur village, many in the crowd were seen with tears in their eyes as they bid their goodbyes to the son of the soil. After completing the last rite rituals at his home, the procession left for Hasanpur Ghat near Mahnar where Raghuvansh’s younger son Shashi Shekhar lit the pyre accompanied by his elder brother Satya Prakash. Politicians from all parties attended the funeral. The list of prominent personalities included, cabinet ministers Neeraj Kumar and Jai Kumar Singh, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, RJD MLAs, Bhola Yadav, Alok Mehta, Surendra Rai, MLCs Sunil Kumar Singh, Subodh Kumar, former minister Narendra Singh, MLAs Umesh Kushwaha, Prema Choudhary and Shiv Chandra Ram. Even those with no political connections had gathered to pay tribute to the departed soul. IPRD minister Neeraj along with his supporters chanted ‘MNREGA man amar rahe’ (long live MNREGA man) as soon as the funeral pyre was lit. Harendra Kumar, a close confidante of Raghuvansh, said, “Raghuvansh babu belonged to rare breed politicians.” Raghuvansh’s close associate and Vaishali resident P K Choudhary said, “For people of Vaishali, it’s a huge loss. We have lost our guardian. Had he been alive, he would have done more development work in the region.” RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said Raghuvansh’s death has shaken the party. “We all were emotionally attached to him. We have lost one of our guardians,” said Chitranjan, who too was at the funeral site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-vaishali-bids-tearful-adieu-to-son-of-soil-tejashwi-ministers-attend/articleshow/78112903.cms||Ramashankar
September 15, 2020||Business||IL&FS gets Sebi nod to transfer road assets||MUMBAI: In a move that will reduce the debt of the IL&FS group by Rs 13,000-15,000 crore, the beleaguered infrastructure and financial services provider has received approval to carve out 11 major road assets from IL&FS Transportation (ITNL) into InvITs, or infrastructure investment trusts. An InvIT uses a mutual fund-like unitised ownership structure to raise funds for large projects. The proposal, which was approved by the lenders, was awaiting clearance from the markets regulator Sebi. IL&FS had earlier looked at selling the road projects to long-term investors. However, a glut of road projects on offer and the absence of many long-term investors compelled the board to look at the InvIT route. With Sebi’s clearance, lenders will convert their debt into units at the InvIT. They may not be able to recover their funds immediately as the lockdown has reduced the earning prospects for toll projects. However, they can raise money some years down the line by placing the units with other investors. “IL&FS has received in-principle approval from Sebi for its proposed InvIT. It is planned to include seven SPVs (special purpose vehicles) in phase 1 and four SPVs in phase 2 under InvIT,” said IL&FS spokesperson Sharad Goel. He added the InvIT units will be eventually distributed to the ITNL lenders. He did not specify the quantum of debt that will be addressed as the same is subject to the valuation exercise that is currently being undertaken. The projects that will be bundled into the InvIT include Moradabad Bareily Expressway (MBEL - Rs 2,486 crore), JRPICL (Rs 2,387 crore), Baleshwar Kharagpur Expressway (Rs 614 crore), Road Infrastructure Development Company of Rajasthan (RIDCOR - Rs 2,699 crore), Sikar Bikaner Highway (Rs 561 crore), Western Gujarat Expressway (Rs 222 crore), East Hyderabad Expressway (Rs 218 crore), Thiruvananthapuram Road Development (Rs 224 crore), Barwa Adda Expressway (Rs 1,941 crore) and recently added Pune Sholapur (Rs 2,000 crore).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ilfs-gets-sebi-nod-to-transfer-road-assets/articleshow/78114097.cms||Mayur Shetty
September 15, 2020||Business||Tata JV company names rival SP’s PR firm’s head director||MUMBAI: Even as the legal fight between Tata Sons and its estranged minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji Group intensifies, a Tata operating company, in a surprising move, has approved the appointment of the head of the public relations firm that handles the latter’s mandate as its director. In a September 10 regulatory filing, Taj GVK Hotels, in which Tata Sons owns an indirect stake, said its board has approved the appointment of Dilip Cherian, chairman of Perfect Relations, as an independent director of the company. Perfect Relations handles SP’s public relations account, including communications regarding its four-year-old legal battle with Tata Sons. Cherian’s appointment, subject to shareholders’ approval at Taj GVK’s annual general meeting to be held in 2021, will be for a period of five years from September 10 till September 9, 2025. The appointment falls under ordinary resolution, which requires more than 50% of the shareholder votes to be in favour of the proposal. Tata Sons, through Indian Hotels Company (IHCL), owns about 26% stake in Taj GVK. IHCL’s three key personnel, including MD Puneet Chhatwal, serve on the board of Taj GVK. In its filing, Taj GVK Hotels said that Cherian, also the founding partner of Perfect Relations, is not related to the promoters as well as members of the promoter group and is not debarred from holding the director’s office by any regulatory body. Besides Indian Hotels, G V K Reddy and his family (who recently inked a deal to sell their interests in Mumbai airports to Adani) hold 49% in the south India-based company, which owns and operates properties in Hyderabad, Chennai and Chandigarh. The remaining 25% in Taj GVK is held by the public. Tata Sons and SP have been locked in a legal battle ever since the latter’s scion Cyrus Mistry was removed from the chairman’s post at the holding company of the Tata Group in October 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-jv-co-names-rival-sps-pr-firms-head-director/articleshow/78113982.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 15, 2020||Business||Dream11 valuation to double to $2.5 bn after $225m round||BENGALURU: New York-based investment firm Tiger Global Management, along with private equity majors ChrysCapital, TPG and Footpath Ventures, have bought about 10% stake in Dream Sports, which runs fantasy gaming platform Dream11, for $225 million. The deal is expected to more than double the valuation of the company — which has been in the news for recently bagging IPL sponsorship rights — to over $2.5 billion, said sources briefed on the matter. Dream11 was valued at about $1.1 billion in April last year when hedge fund Steadview Capital picked up shares. “A large part of the money is being used to buy shares from existing shareholders,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier. Investors like Kalaari Capital, Think Investments and Multiples Equity have made a partial exit in the current round. TOI had reported on August 30 last year that Dream11 was in talks with multiple investors, including Tiger Global, to raise funding at a valuation of $2-2.5 billion. Avendus Capital was the adviser to Dream Sports on the deal. The fresh fund-raising comes as Dream11 is going on a big marketing blitzkrieg with the upcoming IPL, where it won title rights for Rs 222 crore recently as compared to Rs 440 crore that Chinese smartphone brand Vivo was paying. Vivo had to withdraw its sponsorship due to growing sentiment against Chinese businesses in the backdrop of the ongoing border confrontation. Dream11 is also expected to spend aggressively on marketing and advertisement during the IPL, which accounts for a majority of industry revenues. While Dream11 also counts China’s Tencent as a shareholder, it did not participate in the ongoing round unlike it was planning last year. Tencent, which invested in the company in 2018, is a minority shareholder with less than 15% stake. It is not clear if Tencent has sold a part of its stake in the round. At the same time, the Mumbai-based company has also been expanding its business into other areas with content platform FanCode and DreamX, an accelerator to back other sports tech startups. “In the last two years, we have grown beyond fantasy sports to sports content, merchandise, streaming, experiences, and there is much more to come. Our vision is to ‘Make Sports Better’ for India and Indian fans through sports technology and innovation,” said CEO Harsh Jain, who co-founded the company with Bhavit Sheth in 2008, and now has over 400 employees. Revenues of online fantasy sports players increased to Rs 2,400 crore in FY20 on the back of IPL and World Cup, from Rs 920 crore in FY19, according to a report by industry body FIFS with KPMG. The platforms have also seen a rapid increase in their user base year-on-year, from 2 million in 2016 to 90 million in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dream11-valuation-to-double-to-2-5bn-after-225m-round/articleshow/78114118.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kamdhenu Aayog to pitch for cow education in schools||AHMEDABAD: To increase the knowledge about cows among schoolchildren, the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog plans to approach the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). The aayog will urge the council to include in school syllabi the varied uses and benefits of products made with cow milk, urine, and dung. The aayog’s chairman, Vallabh Kathiria, said: “Lessons on the cow can be part of language, history, and science textbooks. We have prepared a whole set of booklets which will be handed over to the NCERT.” The majority of the participants at a webinar organized by the aayog earlier this week said that the benefits of gomutra have been scientifically documented. They said cow dung is used to make a wide range of products, including fuel. The speakers, however, said that the present generation of students have little or no knowledge of the value of products from the cow. Amitabh Bhatnagar, one of the participants, said: “That is why I wrote a book on this topic and used paper made from cow dung.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kamdhenu-aayog-to-pitch-for-cow-education-in-schools/articleshow/78114491.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
September 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala decides to hand over Popular Finance scam to CBI||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI: The state government has decided to hand over investigation into the Popular Finance scam to the CBI. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that the decision was taken after it was revealed that the fraud involves several deals and investments made outside the state and also outside the country. After news of the scam broke out, several investors had approached the high court seeking a CBI inquiry. They insisted that this was the only way to protect their interests. Earlier in the day, the government informed the court it is ready to hand over the case to the CBI and that the state has written to the Centre expressing its willingness for the same. It was responding to a petition filed by P Raveendran Pillai seeking an investigation by the central agency. The Pathanamthitta-based Popular Group operated several branches in various states across the country and had been offering gold loans as an NBFC. It was found to be defrauding investors by siphoning off their money to shell companies abroad. A statement filed by Pathanamthitta district police chief with the court, through the senior public prosecutor, said the group operated 238 branches and various shell companies and a complex investigation spread across various locations has to be conducted. Over 3,000 complaints have so far been received from investors, the statement said. The money trail has to be tracked. Close relatives of the accused reside in Australia and the swindled money may be parked in foreign banks and foreign countries under benami names, it said. The accused had promised investors an interest rate of 12% per year or doubling of yield in seven years. Deposits were converted to limited liability shares of nine shell companies. The money was then diverted to an NBFC, three Nidhi companies and then misappropriated, the statement said. After investors approached authorities, firm managing director Thomas Daniel and his wife surrendered before police. Their daughters were arrested in Delhi while trying to flee to Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-decides-to-hand-over-popular-finance-scam-to-cbi/articleshow/78114127.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Accused in child trafficking case tests positive for Covid-19||Rahul Tawar Ludhiana: The Covid-19 positive report of one of the 12 persons arrested on charges of child trafficking has alarmed Government Railway Police (GRP) officials. Soon after receipt of the report, railways officials shifted the accused to a quarantine home.Railway police also got RT-PCR test done on all the 12 accused and the 15 rescued children on Sunday. Rest of the accused and the children tested negative. Police rescued the children from the Bihar-bound Karmabhoomi Express when it arrived at platform number 2 of the city railway station on Friday.Government railway police have issued directions for Covid-19 test of all seven to eight local officials who came in close contact with the accused during preliminary investigations. The government railway police station premises has been sanitised. Balbir Singh Ghuman, SHO, government railway police (Ludhiana), said, “A day after conducting the Covid-19 test of all the 12 accused, one of them was found to be positive on Monday afternoon. We have identified seven to eight local officials of the government railway police who will undergo Covid-19 test in the next few hours.” He said government railway police has also shared details with railway officials, including ticket checking staff who inspected the ticket of all the 12 accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/accused-in-child-trafficking-case-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/78112706.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Pvt firm told to supply 50k litre of oxygen to Raj hosps||Alwar: Amid increasing demand for oxygen in the state, Alwar district administration restricted supply of oxygen from a firm in Bhiwadi industrial area to other states and asked the company to supply 50,000 litres of oxygen daily to hospitals in the state. The company, Inox Air Products Private Limited, supplies oxygen to Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Since the demand for oxygen has gone up significantly in the state, the district administration, using powers under the Epidemic Act, has asked the company to supply 50,000 litre of oxygen to hospitals in the state. Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation has authorized an agency to supply oxygen in three trucks daily from the firm in Bhiwadi. Sources said the stock of oxygen had dipped on Friday night. Bhiwadi’s firm is now fulfilling the need for oxygen in hospitals in Jodhpur, Udaipur and Jaipur. Earlier, Jodhpur and Udaipur region were receiving oxygen from Ahmedabad but as the Covid-19 cases in Gujarat have also increased, the supply has now been interrupted. Apart from Inox company, there is another firm Linde, which supplies oxygen in cylinders to Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. But the government needs supply in tankers. One tanker contains 15,000 litre of oxygen. Tijara’s sub divisional magistrate Khemaram said that in past 10 days, the state’s hospitals have been facing shortage of oxygen. The district administration has requested the firm to supply oxygen to state’s hospitals but the state was not receiving it. Now, the collector has issued directions and deployed tehsildar and patwari to ensure supply of oxygen to Udaipur, Kota, Jaipur and Jodhpur. Trucks from other states are stationed for some days outside the firm for supplying oxygen to their respective states but they are not getting it. A truck driver, Ram Naresh, who had come from Uttarakhand’s Nainital, said that he had been waiting for three days outside the firm but the company officials are denying to provide them any oxygen. Rajiv Gandhi Hospital’s deputy controller Sushil Batra said that they require 40 oxygen cylinders daily and they are receiving the supply regularly. In Alwar’s hospitals, there is no shortage of supply. A new oxygen generation plant is also coming up in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pvt-firm-told-to-supply-50k-litre-of-oxygen-to-raj-hosps/articleshow/78115335.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||This Rajasthan MP tests positive in Delhi and negative in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal expressed his doubts over his two Covid-19 test reports which he shared tweeting on Monday asking which report is correct as the one in Delhi showed that he was tested positive for Covid-19 while the other at SMS Medical College in Jaipur showed that he was tested negative for the virus. It is not the first time that Beniwal has tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier, in July last week, he had tested positive. He remained admitted at RUHS hospital in Jaipur for more than 10 days. After recovering from Covid-19, he was discharged from the hospital. लोकसभा में मेरी हुई #COVID19 की जांच का पॉजिटिव आना व उसके बाद जयपुर में हुई जांच का नेगेटिव आने के मामले में… https://t.co/SE0jtLUYiP— HANUMAN BENIWAL (@hanumanbeniwal) 1600086364000Now, when the report of the test done on the premises of Lok Sabha in Delhi, for which he had given the sample on September 11, showed that he has tested positive, he expressed his doubts. He received a call from Lok Sabha secretariat on September 13 when he was in Jaipur that he had been tested positive. Since he had already been diagnosed for Covid-19 earlier in July, he expressed his doubt. He immediately gave his sample for confirmation after being tested positive in Delhi, he received the report on Monday issued by SMS Medical College showing that he has tested negative. "I have got my Covid-19 test done on the premises of Lok Sabha, the result of which, showed positive, after that, I got tested at SMS Medical College which came negative. Sharing both reports, which one is correct," he tweeted. Both the test reports he shared showed that the test was done by RT-PCR, which is considered as gold standard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/beniwal-tests-positive-in-delhi-and-negative-in-jaipur/articleshow/78115345.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Man arrested for throwing dog in lake||BHOPAL: The man who was seen throwing a dog in Upper Lake in a viral video was arrested by Shyamla Hills police on Monday. Shyamla Hills police had registered a case against the accused under relevant sections of IPC and The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. The accused was presented before the court from where he was sent to jail. SHO Shyamla Hills SI Tarun Singh Bhati said, “The accused has been identified as Salman Khan, 26, a resident of Kargil Colony in Qazi Camp. He works as a photographer.” The accused told police that he and his friend Amin had gone to Boat Club for an outing and were recording a video when he picked up a street dog and threw him the lake ‘for fun’. SI Bhati said “ Salman told police that after throwing the dog into the lake, he tried to rescue the dog. He shared a video with the police in which he can be seen trying to take the dog out of the water.” Salman’s friend told police that he was only recording the video and had no idea that Salman was thinking of throwing the dog. Talking to media persons while in police custody, accused Salman said that he made the video for fun and admitted that he committed a mistake. He held his ears in front of TV cameras and apologized for the act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-who-threw-dog-in-lake-held/articleshow/78114112.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Allahabad||Over 4,600 Covid cases recorded in Prayagraj district from September 1-13||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayagraj’s novel coronavirus (Covid-19) caseload might be inching closer to the 15,000-mark, but the first 13 days of September accounted for 32.4% (4,649) cases recorded in the district. Till Sunday, 14,317 Covid-19 cases had been recorded in the district since the beginning of the pandemic. Prayagraj reported its first Covid-19 case on April 5. The patient was a 35-year-old Indonesian man who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi on March 12-13 and arrived in the city on March 22. He was later diagnosed with the disease. The first Covid-19 casualty in the city was a Lukerganj-based civil engineer who tested positive for the virus on May 1. He died in Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital’s isolation ward on May 5. Health department statistics show that Prayagraj district recorded a spurt in Covid-19 cases June onwards. Till May 31, 87 cases and three deaths were recorded in the city. In over a month, the number had risen by 199 to 286 patients along with eight deaths. The statistics also showed that July and August recorded 2,142 and 7,540 cases respectively. In July, 44 patients succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 52. By August 31, the continuous rise in Covid-19 cases took the tally to 9,668. The toll rose by around 66% to reach 154 in August as 102 more patients lost their lives to the infection. On September 1, Covid-19 cases in the city crossed the 10,000-mark. Between September 1-13, 4,649 more residents were diagnosed with novel coronavirus in the city. The toll has risen to 207 till September 13. A senior health department official said that Prayargaj district’s recovery rate is around 72%. “The recovery rate among patients opting for home isolation is higher than that of residents being treated in hospitals. Till September 13, 6,723 Covid-19 patients have completed home isolation.” he added. The state government allowed home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients on July 24. Health department officials said that asymptomatic patients can opt for home isolation if they have the requisite self-isolation facility at home, while avoiding contact with other family members. They also said that patients opting for home isolation must have a home quarantine kit comprising a pulse oximeter, a digital thermometer, masks, sterile gloves, sodium hypochlorite and, tablets of aswagandha, giloy and vitamin C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-4-6k-covid-cases-recorded-in-prayagraj-dist-from-sept-1-13/articleshow/78114444.cms||Kapil Dixit
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Govt moves court to postpone polls to 6 Nagar Nigams||Jaipur: Amid rising Covid cases in the state, the state government on Monday approached the Rajasthan High Court requesting to extend the time for holding the elections to six municipal corporation in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota up to March 31, 2021.Earlier, the Rajasthan high court had extended the time for holding the elections to Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporations till the end of October. Counsel for state election commission R B Mathur said, “They have given a copy (of the application) to me. I shall be responding to it.” Prior to that, the court had directed to hold the elections by August 31 on the application of the state government which had sought permission from the court to hold elections by December 31.Municipal corporation elections were due in November 2019. The state government assured the court to hold elections in six months following bifurcation of the three municipal corporations. Elections were to be held in April, but the state government filed an application on March 18 seeking six more weeks from the court due to the pandemic.After this, on the application of the state government, the court had given permission to hold elections by August 31. The elections to 129 urban local bodies were also postponed till October 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-moves-court-to-postpone-polls-to-6-nagar-nigams/articleshow/78115310.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Four days after Covid-19 positive report, man confirmed negative||Ludhiana: Four days after verbal confirmation of Covid-19 positive report and even treatment at the civil hospital, a New Madhopuri man received a message from the Punjab health department that he had tested negative for the deadly virus. Shocked and angry, Joginder Pal, 54, who runs a street food stall, said in the last week of August, he started facing breathing problems. He visited a private hospital and got an X-ray done, which revealed chest infection. He was recommended hospital admission. Joginder Pal said, “I was not able to get admission in a private hospital, so my son took me to the civil hospital on August 28. There, the hospital staffers got my corona test done. Next day, the staffers verbally told me and my family about the positive status. I was shifted to a ward where I was the only patient. My treatment also started. My family got tense as I also had a respiratory problem. We are a family of seven members, including my wife, four sons and a daughter-in-law.” He said four days later, he was shocked to receive a message from the Punjab government that his Covid-19 test report was negative. “For a moment, I could not understand what had happened. If I was positive or not. Then I called my son and asked him to talk to the doctors,” he added. His son, Ankush Kumar, said, “On getting information, I rushed to the staffers of the civil hospital and inquired about the actual report. They asked me to come the next day. When I reached there, they said I need not worry as my father was alone in the ward and would not get corona infection from anyone. Thereafter, the treatment of chest infection started. On Saturday night, he was discharged. It is such a big negligence, as my father, who already had a respiratory problem due to chest infection, could have contracted the virus.” However, the family has not lodged any complaint with the health department.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “A couple of cases have come to my knowledge in which a patient was positive, but the SMS released by the government was wrongly sent as negative. I don’t know about this particular case. The patient and kin can check report on the online portal, which is authentic. Besides, I have already told senior officials about such messages giving wrong information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/four-days-after-covid-19-positive-report-man-confirmed-negative/articleshow/78112720.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Toll at 588 as Covid-19 claims 11 lives, 324 test +ve in district||TNNLudhiana: Eleven residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 324 tested positive on Monday.The casualties included a 67-year-old man of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar; a 38-year-old man of Tandhari Kalan, who had tumor; a 70-year-old woman of Dhandran Road, who had diabetes, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease; a 45-year-old man of Iraq village in Samrala, who had diabetes, chronic kidney disease, hypertension; a 70-year-old woman of Kitchlu Nagar with diabetes, hypertension, chronic liver disease; and a 46-year-old diabetic woman of BRS Nagar. The other fatalities included a 75-year-old woman of Urban Estate, Dugri, who had diabetes, hypertension; a 54-year-old man of Basti Jodhewal, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 78-year-old woman of Basti Jodhewal, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 42-year-old man of Pink City on Kakowal Road; and a 70-year-old man of Durgapuri with diabetes and hypertension.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has risen to 588 and that of outsiders to 155.To date, 1,97,422 suspects have been tested.Of the positive cases, 99 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 34 were positive cases’ contacts, 80 from OPD, 11 health-care workers, three pregnant women, 93 through tracing process, one severe acute respiratory infection case, one pre-operative case and two undertrials.Besides, 39 outsiders have tested positive on the day.The district case count now stands at 14,184 and that of outsiders at 1,532.The civil surgeon said to date, 11,738 patients have recovered, which constitutes 82.76% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/toll-at-588-as-covid-19-claims-11-lives-324-test-ve-in-district/articleshow/78112712.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||SBI refunds Rs 6L siphoned off from Temple Trust a/c||Ayodhya: The State Bank of India (SBI) on Monday refunded Rs 6 lakh which was fraudulently withdrawn from the account of Ram Mandir Trust last week. This was the second cyber attack on the Ayodhya temple trust in four months. Secretary of Ram Mandir Trust, Champat Rai, said he had written to the bank demanding refund of money fraudulently withdrawn from the account. Manager of SBI’s Ayodhya branch Priyanshu Sharma said: “The fraudsters had produced cloned cheques at Punjab National Bank. We have refunded the amount to the temple trust’s account bank account and will recover the money from PNB,” Ram Mandir Trust has confirmed the refund. “We have refunded the amount to the temple trust’s account bank account and will recover the money from PNB.” the Trust said. The amount was withdrawn through two cloned cheques with forged signatures of trustees over a 10-day span before the scam was busted during verification of a third fake cheque at SBI clearing house in Lucknow last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sbi-refunds-rs-6l-siphoned-off-from-temple-trust-a/c/articleshow/78115976.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC services likely between Jaipur and Delhi from next week||JAIPUR: Passengers waiting for RSRTC services between Delhi and Jaipur will have to wait for some more days. Though RSRTC has started inter-state buses operations to Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, they are awaiting nod from Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) for resuming services. Though RSRTC had planned to pick and drop passengers up to Sarai Kaley Khan bus stop in Delhi, they have dropped the idea. “We were thinking of sending our buses to Delhi up to Sari Kaley Khan. But we have dropped this idea for the time being. We are now awaiting for the final nod from the Delhi government in this regard,” said a senior officer of RSRTC on Monday. After a meeting, senior officers decided to wait until a nod from Delhi government, which might take another week. RSRTC CMD Naveen Jain said, “We are in constant touch with our Delhi counterparts. We are hopeful to resume our services to Delhi this week.” Earlier, RSRTC authorities had alleged that since the Union government had paved the way for inter-state movement, Delhi government can’t deny resuming services. “We are getting a good passengers load in routes that have been opened. Likewise, our buses to various destinations within the state are also fetching good revenue,” said an officer. Meanwhile, private operators are illegally plying their buses to Delhi for almost a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-services-likely-between-jaipur-and-delhi-from-next-week/articleshow/78115379.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ajmer||Jaipur district surpasses Jodhpur in Covid cases; Rajasthan total at 1.04 lakh||JAIPUR: With 345 new Covid-19 infections, Jaipur surpassed Jodhpur in cumulative cases on Monday and now leads the chart of districts with highest cases. Jaipur has reported 15,332 cases, while Jodhpur’s numbers touched 15,300 with 245 new infections. Jaipur and Jodhpur are the two worst Covid-hit affected districts reporting 29.4% of total cases reported in the state. For the past two months, Jodhpur was maintaining the lead in infections. On July 14, Jodhpur had 4,052 cases while Jaipur’s figure stood at 4002. Monday also saw the state reporting the biggest single-day jump with 1,730 new infections taking the overall tally to 1,04,138. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died taking the state’s toll to 1,250. Udaipur reported its 36th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar 25th, Kota 88th, Karauli 8th, Jhalawar 9th, Dholpur 24th, with two more deaths in Ajmer, its toll rose to 87, Bikaner reported two deaths taking its toll to 94, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its casualties to 123, while Jaipur breached 300-mark with two more deaths touching 301 deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (245), Kota (146), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (66), Udaipur (56), Nagaur (49), Pali (47), Sikar (44), Banswara (38), Hanumangarh (34), Bundi (32), Sawai Madhopur (28), Chittorgarh (28), Sriganganagar (23), Churu (23), Jalore (22), Baran (21), Tonk (19), Jhalawar (18), Jhunjhunu (17), Dungarpur (16), Rajsamand (14), Sirohi (14), Bharatpur (12), Dholpur (10), Barmer (10), Karauli (8), Jaisalmer (7), Pratapgarh (3) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jaipur-surpasses-jodhpur-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78116968.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur district surpasses Jodhpur in Covid cases; Rajasthan total at 1.04 lakh||JAIPUR: With 345 new Covid-19 infections, Jaipur surpassed Jodhpur in cumulative cases on Monday and now leads the chart of districts with highest cases. Jaipur has reported 15,332 cases, while Jodhpur’s numbers touched 15,300 with 245 new infections. Jaipur and Jodhpur are the two worst Covid-hit affected districts reporting 29.4% of total cases reported in the state. For the past two months, Jodhpur was maintaining the lead in infections. On July 14, Jodhpur had 4,052 cases while Jaipur’s figure stood at 4002. Monday also saw the state reporting the biggest single-day jump with 1,730 new infections taking the overall tally to 1,04,138. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died taking the state’s toll to 1,250. Udaipur reported its 36th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar 25th, Kota 88th, Karauli 8th, Jhalawar 9th, Dholpur 24th, with two more deaths in Ajmer, its toll rose to 87, Bikaner reported two deaths taking its toll to 94, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its casualties to 123, while Jaipur breached 300-mark with two more deaths touching 301 deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (245), Kota (146), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (66), Udaipur (56), Nagaur (49), Pali (47), Sikar (44), Banswara (38), Hanumangarh (34), Bundi (32), Sawai Madhopur (28), Chittorgarh (28), Sriganganagar (23), Churu (23), Jalore (22), Baran (21), Tonk (19), Jhalawar (18), Jhunjhunu (17), Dungarpur (16), Rajsamand (14), Sirohi (14), Bharatpur (12), Dholpur (10), Barmer (10), Karauli (8), Jaisalmer (7), Pratapgarh (3) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-surpasses-jodhpur-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78115357.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia tests Covid-19 positive, goes into self-isolation||NEW DELHI: After testing positive for Covid-19, deputy CM Manish Sisodia went into self isolation on Monday. He was scheduled to introduce Delhi Goods & Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in the one-day monsoon session of Delhi assembly, but did not attend the House after developing fever on Sunday night. The Bill was introduced by health minister Satyendar Jain. Sisodia tweeted: “I went for Covid tests after mild fever and have tested positive. I have isolated myself. Currently, I do not have fever or any other symptom, I am totally fine. With your best wishes, I will recover soon and return to work.” Meanwhile, the result of an RT-PCR test conducted on Friday on RK Puram MLA Parmila Tokas, who attended the assembly for nearly an hour on Monday, showed that she was Covid positive. The MLA left immediately after getting to know of it, but panic spread among those who had met her. Six other MLAs could not attend the assembly session after testing positive for Covid-19. Only those testing negative were allowed to enter the assembly. Tokas’s report was awaited till Monday afternoon. Before the session, she underwent a rapid antigen test at a temporary facility created in the assembly premises, but tested negative. Because of this, she was allowed to attend the session. “A doctor has advised her to isolate herself. Another test will be conducted after seven days. She is completely fit and even on Monday did her regular exercises,” said Tokas’s husband.While speculation was rife that Madipur MLA Girish Soni and Karol Bagh MLA Vishesh Ravi attended the House after testing negative on rapid antigen tests and left after learning that their RT-PCR test reports had come positive, speaker Ram Niwas Goel told TOI that they did not attend the session. Earlier, four MLAs didn’t attend the session as they had tested positive. Around half a dozen security personnel and a couple of assembly employees who were tested in special camps organised on three days have been kept under isolation. They did not participate in any activities in the assembly premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-tests-positive-goes-into-self-isolation/articleshow/78115395.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||SHO, clerk suspended for delay in admitting injured woman to hospital, who dies later||Pilibhit: Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav on Monday suspended Neuria police station SHO Kheem Singh Jalal and clerk Avdhesh Kumar for causing delay in referring a 65-year-old injured woman for admission and medical treatment at a government medical facility. Early on Monday, the woman succumbed to her injuries while being shifted to a higher medical facility. The woman, Jamuna Devi of village Bankati, had been brutally beaten by four people of her neighbourhood on September 11, when she tried to rescue her son, Dharmendra Kumar, from being assaulted by the same gang. The incident followed a dispute between the two sides over ownership of a small plot of land. The SP said he had been informed that the injured woman had approached Neuria police station soon after the incident, but instead of being given a police referral for her treatment at a government medical facility, she was advised to manage her medical treatment on her own. Eventually, the victim reached the district government hospital on her own, where she was asked to approach the Neuria community health centre for medical aid, where she was again denied medical treatment, following which she returned to Neuria police station to implore for a police reference, said the SP. This time, Neuria police gave her the reference and she was admitted to the government medical facility around 10pm, but by then, the SHO’s negligence had delayed her medical aid by around six hours, he said. The woman finally succumbed to her injuries at 1am on Sunday. Viewing the unnecessary delay as a probable cause of her death, SHO Kheem Singh Jalal and clerk Avdhesh Kumar were suspended, and Pilibhit Sadar circle CO Pramod Yadav was ordered to conduct an inquiry, the SP said. On being asked why the government hospital failed to provide treatment without police referral, CMO Dr Seema Agarwal said both facilities were bound to provide at least first aid, regardless of availability of a police referral. “If a complaint in the matter is filed to me, I shall order an inquiry and take appropriate action against defaulters,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sho-clerk-suspended-for-delay-in-admitting-injured-woman-to-hospital-who-dies-later/articleshow/78109628.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur district surpasses Jodhpur in Covid cases; Rajasthan total at 1.04 lakh||JAIPUR: With 345 new Covid-19 infections, Jaipur surpassed Jodhpur in cumulative cases on Monday and now leads the chart of districts with highest cases. Jaipur has reported 15,332 cases, while Jodhpur’s numbers touched 15,300 with 245 new infections. Jaipur and Jodhpur are the two worst Covid-hit affected districts reporting 29.4% of total cases reported in the state. For the past two months, Jodhpur was maintaining the lead in infections. On July 14, Jodhpur had 4,052 cases while Jaipur’s figure stood at 4002. Monday also saw the state reporting the biggest single-day jump with 1,730 new infections taking the overall tally to 1,04,138. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died taking the state’s toll to 1,250. Udaipur reported its 36th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar 25th, Kota 88th, Karauli 8th, Jhalawar 9th, Dholpur 24th, with two more deaths in Ajmer, its toll rose to 87, Bikaner reported two deaths taking its toll to 94, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its casualties to 123, while Jaipur breached 300-mark with two more deaths touching 301 deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (245), Kota (146), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (66), Udaipur (56), Nagaur (49), Pali (47), Sikar (44), Banswara (38), Hanumangarh (34), Bundi (32), Sawai Madhopur (28), Chittorgarh (28), Sriganganagar (23), Churu (23), Jalore (22), Baran (21), Tonk (19), Jhalawar (18), Jhunjhunu (17), Dungarpur (16), Rajsamand (14), Sirohi (14), Bharatpur (12), Dholpur (10), Barmer (10), Karauli (8), Jaisalmer (7), Pratapgarh (3) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-surpasses-jodhpur-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78116966.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Udaipur||Jaipur district surpasses Jodhpur in Covid cases; Rajasthan total at 1.04 lakh||JAIPUR: With 345 new Covid-19 infections, Jaipur surpassed Jodhpur in cumulative cases on Monday and now leads the chart of districts with highest cases. Jaipur has reported 15,332 cases, while Jodhpur’s numbers touched 15,300 with 245 new infections. Jaipur and Jodhpur are the two worst Covid-hit affected districts reporting 29.4% of total cases reported in the state. For the past two months, Jodhpur was maintaining the lead in infections. On July 14, Jodhpur had 4,052 cases while Jaipur’s figure stood at 4002. Monday also saw the state reporting the biggest single-day jump with 1,730 new infections taking the overall tally to 1,04,138. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died taking the state’s toll to 1,250. Udaipur reported its 36th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar 25th, Kota 88th, Karauli 8th, Jhalawar 9th, Dholpur 24th, with two more deaths in Ajmer, its toll rose to 87, Bikaner reported two deaths taking its toll to 94, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its casualties to 123, while Jaipur breached 300-mark with two more deaths touching 301 deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (245), Kota (146), Alwar (129), Ajmer (122), Bhilwara (83), Bikaner (66), Udaipur (56), Nagaur (49), Pali (47), Sikar (44), Banswara (38), Hanumangarh (34), Bundi (32), Sawai Madhopur (28), Chittorgarh (28), Sriganganagar (23), Churu (23), Jalore (22), Baran (21), Tonk (19), Jhalawar (18), Jhunjhunu (17), Dungarpur (16), Rajsamand (14), Sirohi (14), Bharatpur (12), Dholpur (10), Barmer (10), Karauli (8), Jaisalmer (7), Pratapgarh (3) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jaipur-surpasses-jodhpur-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78116967.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||Nath asks Kisan Con to uproot anti-farmer govt from state||Nath asks Kisan Cong to uproot anti-farmer govt from stateTimes News NetworkBhopal: Former chief minister and state Congress president Kamal Nath on Monday asked district party presidents, office-bearers and the Kisan Congress (Congress party’s farmers’ wing) to call on the agrarian community to uproot the anti-farmer BJP government in the upcoming assembly bypoll in the state. “Prosperity of farmers bring light and joys to the market. The well-being of farmers should be maintained. This is why, we brought the loan waiver scheme that benefitted 27 lakh farmers and freed them from loan burden,” Kamal Nath said addressing the gathering at his residence in the Civil Lines area. “The loan waiver scheme was being implemented but the Congress’ farmer friendly government was toppled through deals and an auction,” he alleged.The veteran Congress leader said that 70% of the population in the state depends on agriculture for livelihood. “It is necessary that the agricultural sector prospers in this state. And this was the biggest challenge before us,” he said. “My dream was to have the educated youth join the agricultural sector in Madhya Pradesh,” he said.Kamal Nath claimed that during the 15-month Congress regime, he as chief minister tried ways that the farmers’ produce did not go into the hands of middle-men. “They should get better price for their p[roduce and as chief minister, I personally spoke to all district collectors and instructed them likewise,” he recalled. “The state we received from the BJP topped in the suicides of farmers, ranked first in unemployment and crimes against women,” Nath said.He argued that his government worked to change that negative image of the state. In every sector, his government ran campaign against adulteration, domination by mafia and spurious sale of fertilisers.“During BJP rule, no one invested here because the state also ranked first in corruption. We changed that environment in 15-months, faith of investors was reinstated and many showed enthusiasm to invest in Madhya Pradesh,” he said. “The upcoming bypoll will decide the destiny and future of Madhya Pradesh, whether farmers, poor or the people – everyone’s future is linked to this bypoll,” Kamal Nath maintained.The former Union minister appealed to the Kisan Congress to go out with full enthusiasm, strength and dedication to ensure victory for Congress candidates. “Call on farmers, invite them to uproot the anti-farmer government in the state,” he added. The meeting was also addressed by former PCC chief Arun Yadav, former minister for agriculture Sachin Yadav and president of the state Kisan Congress Dinesh Gurjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-asks-kisan-con-to-uproot-anti-farmer-govt-from-state/articleshow/78114129.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Two open fire outside house of hosiery trader||Times News Network Ludhiana: Two miscreants opened fire outside the house of a hosiery trader in Deep Nagar on Sunday night following an old rivalry.Trader Yogesh Maini, 40, has accused the husband of a councillor of conspiring the attack, as he has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the construction of his hotel in a residential locality. Police have recovered two bullet shells from the spot and registered a case against Mohit Sahni of New Deep Nagar and Honey Sahota of Prem Nagar under sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the Arms Act. Yogesh said in his police complaint, “Around 10pm Sunday, I along with my neighbours was standing outside my house when the accused came there in a car and started abusing me. When they left, I went to Kailash Nagar police post to lodge a complaint against them. There, I received a call from my wife that the accused had opened fire outside our house and escaped. I rushed to our house and informed the police.”He alleged that the accused were supporters of Sushil Raju Thapar, husband of area councillor Indu Thapar of Congress. “Sushil is constructing a hotel opposite my house. As some residents of the area and I have approached the HC against it, Sushil holds a grudge against me,” he added.Yogesh’s neighbour Gaurav Kalia, who is a BJP worker, said, “Yogesh and I are good friends. Earlier, the supporters of Sushil had abused us on social media after we posted about our community service. During lockdown, the accused had thrown liquor bottles outside my house after which Yogesh and I had got a case registered against Mohit and Honey.”“Eyewitnesses told us that the accused had pointed the gun at Yogesh’s wife. The bullet missed its mark after two area residents intervened. After firing two shots, the accused escaped from there,” Gaurav added.Sushil, however, said he had no rivalry with anyone. “I have all the permissions and documents for my hotel. Besides, Yogesh has an enmity with Mohit and Honey. During lockdown, Yogesh worked as a police volunteer and had humiliated some migrant workers, which was opposed by Mohit and Honey. Yogesh had also got an FIR registered against the duo. This is the reason for their rivalry. My name is being dragged into the case,” Sushil added.Division 8 police station SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said, “The accused and the complainant have an old rivalry that led to the attack. The role of the councillor’s husband has not emerged. The accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-open-fire-outside-house-of-hosiery-trader/articleshow/78112728.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Police arrest 14 for gambling||Hyderabad: Kushaiguda police arrested eight members of a gang for cards gambling at Kapra on Sunday night and seized Rs 16,000 cash along with playing cards. The organiser of the gambling racket was identified as Sai Kumar, 42, of Kapra. Police also arrested six members of another gang for cards gambling at Chakripuram and seized Rs 8,000 cash. The offenders were booked under the Gaming Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-arrest-14-for-gambling/articleshow/78115368.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Statue to salute service of Covid warriors soon||CHENNAI: A 12-foot-tall granite monument honouring the services of four sections of frontline warriors during Covid-19 will soon come up in the city. “Salute to Service”, being made by senior sculptor Chandrasekhar (Chandru), will have figures of police and doctors represented by women and volunteers and cleaners represented by men and topped off by a Dharmachakra. The former principal of Chennai’s Government College of Fine Arts, who began work on the structure after releasing the sketch a week ago, said the idea came to him during a casual conversation with his friend K Murugan of Goldenrock Granites. “As an artist, one must get involved with the issues one comes across, whether it is political, social or health-related. I believe I have a role to honour the services of cleaners, volunteers, doctors and police through my art. It’s a tribute to their service to humanity,” said Chandru. The statue will be installed at a prominent place to be decided by the state government. The date too will be decided by the government. “The idea of using the Dharmachakra is to create awareness among people about their duty, particularly when a disaster hits the world. I have made the representations simple to make people understand the purpose of the monument,” he said. The sculptor, who has done many statues for the state government including that of Russian revolutionary leader Vladimir Lenin in Tirunelveli, says he was impressed by the services of the four sections of warriors in equal measure, but was particularly moved by the services of the cleaners during the still raging pandemic. “I have seen many corporation workers clean the dust bins risking their lives. Many don’t have any protective gear barring a mask. If I don’t do something for them today, what is my role as an artist?” he said. Chandru also praised the service of the volunteers, several of them ordinary folk struggling to make ends meet themselves. “Many cooked food at their home and served it to the needy. They don’t have any previous experience, but they rose to the occasion. There are several groups that still supply provisions to the needy,” said Chandru. The sculptor is keen on completing the monument as early as possible, but admits that age-related health issues have slowed down his plans. “I want to finish the monument fast, but I was unwell for more than a week. But that doesn’t matter. I will finish the work in a month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/statue-to-salute-service-of-covid-warriors-soon/articleshow/78114130.cms||M T Saju
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj, Uma join hands to woo Lodhi votes for bypolls||Bhopal: Ahead of by-polls on 27 seats in Madhya Pradesh, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP national vice-president Uma Bharti took many by surprise when they shared a common platform at a political rally in Gwalior-Chambal region. They did so after a long while. The two leaders eyeing Lodhi votes in assembly constituencies of Ashoknagar and Bhind districts showered praises on each other and hit out at the Congress for corruption and poor development. Chouhan and Uma Bharti had last shared a dias in 2018 during previous assembly elections but, that was to support her loyalists from Bundelkhand region. After a long gap, the firebrand BJP leader has again surfaced to counter the Congress allegations against Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia's loyalists and to woo 27,000 Lodhi voters in Mungaoli and Mehgaon assembly areas. "It was Shivraj Singh Chouhan who has changed the definition of a chief minister through his simplicity and friendly relations with the common people. This time Chouhan will emerge in a different role and take the state to the first position in the entire country," said Bharti addressing a rally in Mungaoli assembly area, on Monday. Chouhan replied in the same gesture. He owed BJP's return to the power in the state to Uma Bharti and said that she was instrumental to uproot the Congress regime in the state. The chief minister also said that in every welfare scheme launched by the BJP government during the past 15 years, it was the concept of `Panch-J' (five-J), the development model based on five elements, Jal (water), Jungle (forests), Jameen (land), Janwar (wildlife) and Jan (mass), which was the base of every scheme. Chouhan, who has almost completed 14 rallies in his five-day whirlwind tour of 13 constituencies, of the total 16 seats of Gwalior-Chambal region, dedicated development works to the tune of more than Rs 5,000 crore during five days. Chouhan also dedicated development works to the tune of Rs 2,169 crore in Mungaoli assembly area. He said that BJP would relaunch all schemes stopped by the previous Congress government and provide subsidised ration, medical facility and zero percent farm loan to the farmers again. Bharti also made a scathing attack on the Congress leaders saying, "It was 'Mr Bantadhar' (spoilsport) who was responsible for the poor development of MP in 2003 and now for the fall of the Congress government in the state again."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-uma-join-hands-to-woo-lodhi-votes-for-by-polls/articleshow/78114141.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Gangster wanted in five cases arrested from Delhi||Times News Network Ludhiana: Wanted in five criminal cases, including attempt to murder, dacoity and robbery, a notorious gangster was arrested from Delhi on Monday in a joint operation of the Ludhiana counter-intelligence and the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU). The team also recovered two .32-bore pistols with a magazine, five live cartridges of .32 bore and a 9-mm pistol with a magazine from his possession. According to officials, the accused had procured the weapons to execute more crimes. The accused has been identified as Puneet Bains, alias Mani Bains, 25, of Ghora Colony near Cheema Chowk. The Ludhiana team remained in Delhi for four days to nab him. Ludhiana superintendent of police (counter-intelligence) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said Puneet was wanted by Ludhiana Police in five criminal cases, including a snatching, three attempt to murder cases and a dacoity. He was also wanted by Fatehgarh Sahib police for planning a dacoity. When he was arrested from Delhi, three weapons were recovered from him along with live cartridges and magazines. “During interrogation, the accused confessed to have bought one weapon from a Delhi smuggler and two from the one based in Ludhiana. Puneet has an old rivalry with some people, to settle which he got the weapons and was planning to execute more crimes,” she added. She said Puneet was on the run in the gambling den dacoity case in which he, along with 11 accomplices, had barged into a farmhouse in Basant Avenue, Ludhiana, where gambling was on at a big scale on the night of August 14. The accused had opened fire in the air, threatened the gamblers and robbed them of Rs 14.5 lakh in cash and gold jewellery at gunpoint. In this case, Neeraj Kumar Ashu of Ganesh Nagar, Mandeep Singh Manna of Noormehal, Deepak Deepu of Ghora Colony, Vivek Manu Jhangi of Model Gram and Sahil Kanda of New Chandar Nagar have already been arrested. The hunt was on for other accused. Bhatti said on June 9, Division 3 police had registered an attempt to murder case against Puneet and Neeraj Sharma Ashu, Naveen Negi of Tajpur Road, Simranjot Singh of Mohar Singh Nagar, Bunty Nani of Ram Nagar, Ajay Kumar of Ghora Colony and Rocky for opening fire outside the house of a murder bid accused, Rishav Banipal, in Dharampura. Banipal’s family had a narrow escape in the incident. Three jail inmates, who were the main conspirator in the firing identified as Manwinder Singh, alias Nikka Jattana, of Mansa, Manpritpal Singh Pratty of Jamalpur and Krishna Sahnu of Sector 32, were also booked.On May 30, Tibba police had booked local gangster Jatinder Singh Jindi, Puneet and their accomplices for opening fire at a relator, Kuldeep Singh, and his son, Jaspreet Singh, of Mayapuri, Tibba. Before firing, the accused also thrashed Jaspreet over a monetary dispute. On October 8 last year, Puneet and his accomplices had opened fire at a DJ operator at Shankar Dhaba in Transport Nagar following an argument. Other accused were arrested, but Puneet remained at large. ACP Bhatti said, “The accused has named a few more accomplices, who will also be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gangster-wanted-in-five-cases-arrested-from-delhi/articleshow/78112743.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||In 2019, trucks claimed 29% of lives snuffed out in accidents||Ludhiana: A total of 365 persons died in 526 road accidents in Ludhiana in the year 2019 and of all the modes of transport, truck/ lorry accidents claimed maximum lives, according to a data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The latest NCRB data suggests that deaths from truck/ lorry accidents have witnessed a significant increase over the last three years in the district, with out of 365 deaths in 2019, truck/ lorry accidents accounting for 105 or 28.76% of all casualties, which is more than from any other mode of transport.Two-wheeler accidents saw the second-highest casualties at 73 and 62 persons died in accidents involving other motor vehicles in Ludhiana last year. The number of persons dying in car accidents was 45 and accidents of SUV/station wagon/etc caused 18 deaths, while 12 persons died in bus accidents in 2019.Comparison of the data for the last three years suggests that there was a gradual rise in the number of deaths in the accidents involving truck/ lorry from 66 in 2017 to 105 in 2019, while two-wheeler accident casualties went up to 73 that year from 58 two years ago.Similarly, the number of persons dying in accidents of other motor vehicles rose from 13 in 2017 to 62 in 2019, and the number of fatalities in accidents involving jeep increased from four to eight in those two years, while tractor accidents claimed 12 lives in 2019, up five from seven in 2017.The data suggests that car accident-related deaths witnessed a fall from 74 in 2017 to 45 in 2019, those from bus accidents decreased from 15 in 2017 to 12 in 2019 and deaths in three wheelers/ auto rickshaw accidents were down to 10 in 2019 from 12 in 2017, though the casualties from such accidents was 16 in 2018.Road safety experts said as fitness of commercial vehicles was not checked properly, they accounted for majority of road fatalities. “Forty per cent of the road accidents involve old commercial vehicles, including trucks and lorries, among others. The main reason for this is fitness of these vehicles is not checked properly. As a result, unfit vehicles ply the roads. The number of deaths involving two-wheelers, which are victims of big vehicles, is also high,” said Kamaljit Soi, a road safety expert.  Mode of transport & fatalities in LudhianaYear Truck/Lorry Bus SUV/Stn Wagon Car Jeep O V O V O V O V O V2019 4+101=105 0+12=12 1+17=18 5+40=45 0+8=82018 0+77=77 2+11=13 0+9=9 5+54=59 1+5=62017 1+65=66 0+15=15 1+9=10 3+71=74 0+4=4Year Tractor Three-wheelers Other motor vehicles/Auto rickshaw O V O V O V O V 2019 4+8=12 4+6=10 55+18=73 0+62=622018 0+10=10 4+12=16 46+16=62 0+49=492017 1+6=7 3+9=12 36+22=58 0+13=13(O = Offenders; V = Victims)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-2019-trucks-claimed-29-of-lives-snuffed-out-in-accidents/articleshow/78112733.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Adopted son arrested for 70-yr-old woman’s murder||tnnLudhiana: Samrala police on Monday evening arrested grandnephew for the murder of a 70-year-old woman. Deceased Manjit Kaur was the wife of martyr Naik Harnek Singh who had fought the India-China War in 1962. Police officials said after the martyrdom of her husband, Kaur had adopted Jagdeep Singh, son of her nephew Gulzar Singh, when he was four years old. They said Jagdeep, 32, and Kaur lived together in a house. Cops said, “As per villagers, since the accused was hooked to drugs, he would bring other addicts home. So, his wife and daughter had left him.”Police officials said fed up of Jagdeep’s behaviour, Kaur went to live with her relatives in Garhi village some time ago, but the accused brought her back. On Monday between 10am and 11am, Kaur’s neighbours went to her house and found her dead on the bed. They informed the police, who shifted the body to civil hospital for post-mortem and registered a murder case.Samrala SHO Kuljinder Singh Grewal said the accused was arrested from near the village on Monday evening and they would investigate villagers’ allegations about his addiction. Police said Jagdeep had cut the blood vessels near the ankle of the elderly woman with a knife and she died of excessive bleeding. They added that Kaur would get about Rs 12,000 as pension from the Army after her husband’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/adopted-son-arrested-for-70-yr-old-womans-murder/articleshow/78112739.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Varanasi||Deoria gets L2, L3 Covid hosp||Gorakhpur: Uttar Pradesh Agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi on Sunday inaugurated the ‘level 2’ and ‘level 3’ Covid hospital in Deoria district. District Magistrate, Amit Kishore and senior Ophthalmologist, K Singh were also present at the occasion. A team of Covid specialists, paramedical staff and nurses will work at the ‘level 2 and level 3’ Covid Astha hospital which will provide treatment at a rate determined by the government. The hospital is equipped with all the facilities to provide treatment to around 80 patients of level 2 and level 3, CMO Dr Alok Pandey said. “The hospital was essential for the people of Deoria as now they will be able to get treatment in their own district and will save time from running around to Gorakhpur and other districts for treatment,” said Surya Pratap Shahi. “Prevention is the best way to fight this pandemic till we develop a vaccine for the Covid infection. CCTV cameras should also be installed so that the family could get the information about treatment and condition of the patient,” said Shahi. Shahi also asked the hospital to display the rates decided by the government in the hospital and the district magistrate gave instructions for management of medical waste disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoria-gets-l2-l3-covid-hosp/articleshow/78114457.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||MCH doctors fume over pay revision order||Thiruvananthapuram: Medical college doctors have alleged that the government has cheated them while declaring the much-delayed pay revision. Even though the government had declared that the pay revision will have retrospective effect from 2016, the government order has not agreed to pay this. Instead, the order says that the arrears would be given only after receiving the central share. The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) said the government announced pay revision for doctors after waiting for 14 years. “But the government order says that the arrears will be paid only after getting the central share. In fact, in the salary for medical college doctors, there is no central share like that of lecturers under the UGC or AICTE. The entire salary for medical college doctors have to be given by the state government,” said Dr Nirmal Bhaskar, state secretary of KGMCTA. The last pay revision for medical college doctors was done in 2006 and revision has to be made once in ten years. However, for medical college doctors alone the pay revision was not done till 2020. It was after several representations and protests that the government agreed to implement the pay revision. The government had implemented pay revision for all other categories on time but medical college doctors alone were neglected. The government servants received the pay revision once in 5 years and college lecturers received it once in ten years with all the arrears. “The government had agreed to pay the arrears from 2016 since the pay revision was due in 2016. Even after a delay of four years, now the government order lacks clarity in providing the arrears to the doctors,” said Dr Suresh Babu, state president of KGMCTA. The association has urged the government to rectify the anomalies that have come in the pay revision order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mch-doctors-fume-over-pay-revision-order/articleshow/78114147.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Varanasi||MLA raps JE for poor technical knowledge||Gorakhpur: BJP MLA Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal inspected Shatabdipuram in Shivpur Shahbazganj area of the city after locals complained about poor quality construction and pulled up the junior engineer at the site for his lack of technical knowledge. The MLA questioned the JE about the technical specifics of ongoing road construction during inspection but the latter failed to answer. Gorakhpur city MLA Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal on Monday posted a video clip of the incident on his twitter handle in which he is heard asking the JE about the ‘camber’ of the road and is amazed when he fails to give a reply. In the video, the MLA who is a pediatrician, asks the engineer about the height of the camber of the road and asks him to measure it. When the engineer was unable to answer, the MLA said, “I am a doctor and yet I know what is camber, and you are an engineer but still you don’t know what is camber.” Camber is the curvature given to the road surface to ensure rainwater is drained off and there is no waterlogging. It is also known as the cross slope of the road. Bituminous roads crumble early due to waterlogging. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mla-raps-je-for-poor-technical-knowledge/articleshow/78114490.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Dharna outside SGPC office takes place after 17 yrs||Jalandhar: With Sikh groups starting a dharna outside the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) office at Amritsar over the issue of missing birs, the history seems to be repeating itself after a gap of 17 years. It was on February 22, 2003 that Shiromani Khalsa Panchayat (SKP) wanted to stage a dharna outside the SGPC office, but they were stopped and thrashed by SAD supporters of Sikh Students Federation (Mehta) and SGPC Task Force. People from both sides were injured in the violent clash but mostly from the Khalsa panchayat, as the SGPC side had a clear upper hand. Incidentally, it was Rajinder Singh Mehta, then advisor to SAD (Badal), leading the Sikh Students Federation and Task Force combine. Even now, he is leading the charge from the SGPC as its senior vice president and has been doing most of the talking. Sikh groups are now mainly targeting him, along with SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, and have also accused him of giving false statements. The major difference till now this time is that the SGPC has not pushed its Task Force for any physical action as several members of the Sikh groups, mainly Guru Granth Sahib Satkaar Committees, also carry swords and strong wooden sticks. “Moreover, the SGPC is already facing a lot of heat on the issue of missing birs and popular sentiment appears against it,” said a Sikh activist. At that time, the SKP members wanted to stage a dharna after then Akal Takht Jathedar had not taken any action against a dera head over a complaint of sexual harassment of a girl and let him off. Later, the dera head was convicted by a court. The SKP members wanted removal of Akal Takht Jathedar and Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar from their posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dharna-outside-sgpc-office-takes-place-after-17-yrs/articleshow/78115399.cms||IP Singh
September 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sivasankar’s suspension extended by four months||T’puram: The government extended the suspension of IAS officer M Sivasankar by four more months on the basis of the recommendation by a committee constituted to review the suspension of the officer. The panel consists of chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, additional chief secretary (labour and skills) Satyajeet Rajan and additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) TK Jose. Sivasankar was suspended from the service on the basis of the report of a two-member committee consisting of the chief secretary and additional chief secretary (finance) on July 16, for his alleged links with the key accused in the gold smuggling case. The government initiated disciplinary proceedings against Sivasankar and has served the articles of charges to the officer. The charges against are that he misused his official position by providing reference to appoint a person, who was also working as the secretary to the consular general of UAE, in the Space Park (under Kerala State IT Infrastructure) as operations manager. It also said that he frequently associated with a foreign consulate official without the knowledge of the government thereby violating rule 3 (2) and 3 (2B) sub-rule three, five, seven, eight and 10 of the All-India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968 and the Centre’s miscellaneous executive instructions regarding contact of member of all-India services with foreign national and missions. It further said that the government found that his association with a person, who was later arrested for serious criminal activities, sent a wrong message to the public. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sivasankars-suspension-extended-by-four-months/articleshow/78114182.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||Port Pipavav to go green with solar switch||Rajkot: Under its ‘Gujarat Green Gateway’ project to reduce carbon footprint, APM Terminals Pipavav has decided to install rooftop solar power panels inside the port premises.The company will also replace conventional high-power lights with LED lights in cargo handling equipment.. The solar power plant will generate 930 kilowatt-peak and compensate power requirements and help reduce carbon footprints worth 200 MT per year. LED lights on equipment’ project will reduce carbon emissions by around 50 MT per year. Other initiatives such as rubber-tyred gantry cranes (RTGs) electrification, oil recycling, deployment of eCars and LED lights in Port operational and utility areas have already been completed under this programme.Jakob Friis Sorenson, managing director, APM Terminals Pipavav said, “The focus is to ensure that new growth is carbon-neutral as well as help us to become more efficient and effective in our operations. These initiatives will enable us towards our vision of Gujarat Green Gateway.”As a part of health, safety, security & environment (HSSE) policy, the port has planted 2.5 lakh trees excluding the mangroves plantation in over 500 hectares to curb carbon emission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/port-pipavav-to-go-green-with-solar-switch/articleshow/78114184.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Surat||SMC’s deputy commissioner donates plasma||Surat: A deputy municipal commissioner with the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), N V Upadhyay donated plasma after 28 days of recovery from Covid-19. He had tested positive for for the virus on July 21 and was kept under home isolation for a week. He resumed his duty on July 27 soon after he recovered from the infection. “I had decided to donate plasma when I recovered from Covid-19 and on Monday, I donated it to help other patients recover. I also appeal to people to donate their blood as the city is passing through a crisis,” said Upadhyay. The officer had been involved in distribution of food and ration-kits to migrant workers during lockdown in Varachha (B) zone. According to an estimate, more than 900 people have donated plasma so far in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smcs-deputy-commissioner-donates-plasma/articleshow/78112703.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Bad roads irk residents in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: People from the home town of chief minister Ashok Gehlot are paying the price for administrative apathy and the state of indecision. Along the meteoric surge in Covid-19 cases and mortality in the city in past few days, the roads have emerged as an extended sore for the people from the city. But their suffering continues unabated due to the absence of will and zeal of the officers and coordination between the departments. The ongoing monsoon has left many roads of the city absolutely unmotorable, but the administration has been pacing at snail’s pace in resolving peoples’ woes. Divisional commissioner Samti Sharma, who had held a meeting with the officers of all the concerned departments, stated that the work for repairing of the roads would begin from September 15. But these rain-washed roads apart, there are two roads in the city which are the hallmark of apathy and carelessness exhibited by the officers. One of these roads is Olympic Road passing by the MG Hospital to the city railway station and the other is Chopasni Road connecting the city to the Jaislamer highway.While the Olympic Road has awaited finishing for over two months after the JMC dug it up for laying sewerage line followed by pipeline by the PHED, the Chopasni Road has also been awaiting for nearly two months to be finished, causing the commuters and the people around huge trouble. The work on Olympic Road was completed in July but the JMC failed to provide relief to the people by accomplishing the work in time before the monsoon descended in the city and as a result, heavy rains in the city created deep craters on this road. Similarly, the Chopasni Road had been dug by the JDA for the purpose of re-carpeting without any need and now this raw road has been causing trouble to the shops and houses along it, with fine dust covering everything around. “It has been almost two months, since they dug this already good road. While during the rain, the water-slicked road poses threat to the drivers, when dry, it causes severe breathing problems to us shopkeepers,” said one Ratan Singh, a shopkeeper. Interestingly this is the state of affairs after a two-day round of the city by senior officials from UDH department from Jaipur after the chief minister expressed his wish to take care of Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bad-roads-irk-residents-in-jodhpur/articleshow/78115402.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kanpur||‘Ayurvedic medicines cured coronavirus infection in 7 days’||Kanpur: The Ayush ministry has prepared a kit of four ayurvedic medicines to counter coronavirus. The medicines are quite effective and have been observed to have cured the patients who took them. The Ayush ministry has directed UP State Ayush Society to use these medicines on corona patients as well as people having similar symptoms to boost their immunity. In compliance of the directive, the Ayurved department in the state has provided the medicine kit to all districts. Officials said a batch of patients who took the medicines saw reports coming negative in seven days. The medicines are effective in enhancing immunity. According to ministry sources, the medicines cure soreness of throat and breathing problems. The kit consists of Ayush-64 tab, Sanshamani Vati, Anu Tel, and Agastya Haritiki. Dr Nirankar Goel said Ayush-64 and Sanshamani Vati can cure all types of fever. Sanshamani Vati is an effective remedy for virus infection. Putting one drop of Anu Tel in both nostrils opens stuffy nose, cures throat infection and eye problem. Agastya Haritiki Avleha cures breathing problems, TB, asthma and fever. The medicines had already been tested and could be trusted. The medicine has to be taken for seven days under expert guidance. The medicines have been provided to 44 ayurvedic hospitals in Kanpur Nagar and Dehat and are being administered to patients having corona-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ayurvedic-medicines-cured-coronavirus-infection-in-7-days/articleshow/78115584.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Porn clip shocker during school online class||BHOPAL: In a shocking incident on Saturday, a school in Sheopur was forced to suspend all its online classes after a porn clip was run on the school’s WhatsApp group just when an online lecture for class eight was in progress. In view of the raging pandemic, none of the schools in Sheopur are allowing the students to come to the campus and all the classes are being taken, online. On Saturday, students of class eight were shocked and so was the teacher taking English class when instead of English lessons, some porn film started running on everyone’s mobile phones. The parents were obviously enraged and called up the school management, to register their protest. “ We immediately discontinued the online classes and switched off the phones, said a senior government official posted in Sheopur, on condition of anonymity. Most of the students of the school belong to senior government officials and business families in this remote region of MP, bordering Rajasthan’s Sawai Madhopur district. Principal, Rohit John, said, “Yes, such an incident did take place and it looks like the handiwork of some hacker. We have stopped all online classes and they will resume a few days later.” He went on to add, “Now we will strengthen the online security at our end so that such incidents are not repeated.” Later, the activists of NSUI staged a demonstration and reached the police station on Sunday. They registered a complaint and demanded arrest of the people involved. SHO of Kotwali police station , Ramesh Dande, said, “This is a very sensitive case. I have deputed a senior police officer for investigations; he is talking to the school management.” The school management has not filed any FIR yet, leading to anger among parents .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/porn-clip-run-during-online-lecture-all-classes-suspended/articleshow/78114149.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Kasturba Gandhi Hospital nurses protest over pay||NEW DELHI: Nurses of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital on Monday joined their counterparts from the three municipal corporations in their protest between 11am and 1pm against non-payment of salaries for the past three months. Employees from various departments of the three corporations had already joined the protest going on for the past 11 days. TimesViewNurses are often hailed as frontline warriors against coronavirus. It is extremely ironical and a matter of shame that they are made to suffer non-payment of salaries. Their grievances, along with those of other employees engaged in health-related work, must be treated as a top priority and sorted at the earliest.Watch: Nurses of Delhi's #KasturbaGandhiHospital on Monday staged a protest against non-payment of salaries for the… https://t.co/PqUQ7No71N— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1600153270000The nurses of Kasturba hospital took the decision to abstain from work to put pressure on the administration as the number of patients had increased in the maternity ward after being shifted from Hindu Rao Hospital. On Monday, the nurses gathered in the hospital’s premises and raised slogans against the mayor and commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation for being insensitive to their demands. “Vetan nahi to kaam nahi” and “Vetan dedo kaam lelo” were the recurring slogans. BL Sharma, president of Hospital Nurses Union of Kasturba Hospital, said, “After Lok Nayak and Hindu Rao hospitals were declared Covid centres, maternity and paediatrics cases increased threefold. In OPDs, general wards and Caesarean units, there has been a phenomenal increase in the number of patients. As a result, our work pressure has also risen. Despite various hurdles, we have been working relentlessly, but have still not been paid.” The union claimed to have given its representation to the mayor and commissioner a week ago, but was yet to receive a reply. “Even the hospital administration hasn’t come forward to address our issues. We will continue to sit in protest till a concrete solution is provided. We don’t want patients to suffer, but we have no other choice,” Sharma said. The nurses’ association claimed that unlike them, doctors had not been paid for two months because they had gone to court. Watch Kasturba Gandhi Hospital nurses protest over pay in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kasturba-nurses-protest-over-pay/articleshow/78115439.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Metro footfall up as 2nd corridor opens||Chennai: The number of passengers commuting in metro trains more than doubled since CMRL resumed services on its second corridor (between Central Metro and St Thomas Mount) as well. While the footfall was 4,993 on September 7, when metro rail services resumed after a break of five months, it grew to 13,980 on September 9, the day the second line was reopened. A total of 65,038 passengers used the service between September 7 and 13. CMRL officials said the use of QR-code service, a new ticketing facility launched to encourage contactless travel, has also increased from 157 on September 7 to 465 on September 13. At present, CMRL operates services from 7am to 8pm, with trains available every five minutes during peak hours and every 10 minutes during non-peak hours. A top metro rail official had earlier said train frequency will be increased if the footfalls increase. CMRL’s pre-Covid daily average footfall was 1.2 lakh, against a projected 7.8 lakh for the 45km phase-1. CMRL was among a few other metrorail networks in the country that resumed operations on September 7, amid many restrictions and measures to provide a safe commute. The doubling of footfalls once the second corridor was opened, according to officials, could be due to many office-goers from residential locations such as Shenoy Nagar, Anna Nagar, Thirumangalam and Ashok Nagar using metro trains for their daily commute to LIC, Thousand Lights, DMS, Teynampet, Guindy and Airport. On September 10, when CMRL resumed inter-corridor services from Central metro to Airport via Koyambedu, 10,815 people travelled. Passenger footfall went up again on Friday and Saturday when around 12,172 and 11,078 people took metro trains but dropped to 6,619 on Sunday, a day when footfalls would go up in the pre-Covid times. Measures CMRL introduced to provide safe commute include QR-code ticketing service, where people can purchase tickets through CMRL smartphone app, and installation of travel card readers that can be used to recharge smartcards, at all stations. Officials said these two services, besides reducing contact with station staff, would also prevent passengers queuing up at ticket counters or in front of the ticket vending kiosks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-footfall-up-as-2nd-corridor-opens/articleshow/78114206.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kanpur||Jail inmate escapes from Covid facility in Kannauj||Kanpur:A history-sheeter, lodged in a temporary jail in Kannauj, escaped from the facility in the early hours of Monday. He was earlier arrested and brought to the temporary jail after being booked under Arms Act on August 31. Identified as Pramod alias Sonu, he is a resident of Kushalpurwa under Taalgram police station. He ran away from the prison facility after breaking open a window around 4am. In view of the spread of corona pandemic, a temporary jail facility-cum covid care centre had been set up on the premises of St Xavier’s school close to Police Lines. Pramod, a history-sheeter, was lodged in the temporary jail on August 31 under Arms Act registered at Taalgram police station, according to the police. “He was in a room in the Covid care centre for the temporary prison. The inmates who test positive or suspected to be positive at the district jail as well as the temporary facility are treated there. During attendance at around 4 am on Monday by bandi rakshaks, Pramod was found to missing,” said Inspector Kotwali Vikas Rai. “A case in the matter was registered at Kotwali police station and separate teams have been formed and dispatched to possible hideouts of the history-sheeter,” Rai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jail-inmate-escapes-from-covid-facility-in-kannauj/articleshow/78115588.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Blood test to check alcohol content in drunk drivers||PANAJI: With Covid-19 cases rising in the state the traffic cell of Goa police will send those suspected of driving under the influence of alcohol for a blood test instead of using breath analysers a precautionary measure. “Taking the breath analyser test by going too close to the driver in question is risky for us. Also, we cannot use the same device on the next violator for fear of spreading the virus,” deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Salim Shaikh said. TOI had reported on September 2 that Goa police’s traffic cell was going to avoid the use of alcometers for the time being. Shaikh said that as frontline warriors they are ensuring as much social distance from violators as possible “In case we find anyone driving drunk, we have been told to take a violator for blood test to a primary health centre (PHC),” the dySP said. Since bars have opened in Goa and the tourist season is expected to pick up, traffic officials want to ensure that traffic rules aren’t violated. Based on what the blood analysis report shows, the case will be sent to court. By taking violators to a PHC or hospital to get them tested, the traffic personnel are exposing themselves to a health risk, and the department is considering the option of impounding the drunk driver’s vehicle and asking the person to return the next day, sober, to collect the vehicle, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/blood-test-to-check-alcohol-content-in-drunk-drivers/articleshow/78115484.cms||Nida Sayed
September 15, 2020||Kanpur||State Cong prez, others detained on way to Mahoba||Kanpur: State Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, along with other party men, was detained in Ghatampur area on Monday while he was on his way to meet the family of crusher unit contractor Indrakant Tripathi in Mahoba. Indrakant was shot under mysterious circumstances and died during treatment on Sunday. The vehicles in which Lallu and other workers were travelling were stopped by the police after which they started and were detained by the police. Lallu accused the BJP government of ‘crushing’ democracy by misusing police and termed the detention as illegal and undemocratic. To recall, Indrakan had levelled allegations of corruption against the former Mahoba SP Manilal Patidar, who is now under suspension along with the SHO of Kabrai police station. On complaint lodged by Indrakant’s brother, a case was registered against Patidar, former SHO of Kabrai police station Devendra Shukla, Suresh Soni and Brahmadutt under various sections of the IPC, including attempt to murder (307), and Prevention of Corruption Act. Lallu and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Misraand others have been kept at a guest house in Ghatampur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/state-cong-prez-others-detained-on-way-to-mahoba/articleshow/78115625.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Salesman foils loot bid, stabbed outside bank||Udaipur: An alert salesman foiled a loot bid by two miscreants outside the main branch of Axis Bank here on Saheli Marg under the Hathipole police station limits on Monday.One of the men stabbed the salesman who did not let loose his grip on the cash bag he was carrying and ran inside the bank to save himself. The criminals fled from the spot immediately. Customers and staff in the bank were shocked as they did not understand what had happened when the injured man ran inside the bank. He bled profusely and was rushed to the MB hospital, his condition is stable, sources said.Amit Sankhla, a resident of Ambamata area who works for a finance company, had come to the bank to deposit the daily collection amount. He was carrying around Rs 10 lakh and was followed by two men on motorcycle from quite a long distance. As Sankhla reached outside the bank and parked his motorcycle, the miscreants stopped near him and tried to snatch the cash bag after stabbing him. Sankhla ran inside the bank shouting for help, meanwhile the robbers fled from the spot. Police arrived and sealed the area. Cops collected the CCTV footage from the premises to get details about the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/salesman-foils-loot-bid-stabbed-outside-bank/articleshow/78115442.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||JVVNL vigilance squad attacked in Bundi, two guards injured||Kota: Two guards of Vidyut police station of Bundi accompanied by the vigilance squad of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) in Dhakani village under Hindoli police station sustained injuries when 5-6 persons attacked them. The police vehicle was also damaged. The team was there to check instances of electricity theft on Monday morning. The police lodged a case under section of IPC against the accused of a family including women for preventing government functioning, damaging government vehicle and attacking the government personnel.The house where the squad went belongs to one Babulal Meena, said SHO at Hindoli police station, Mukesh Meena. Two guards who were injured have been identified as Laxman and Mahaveer. They were taken to Bundi district hospital.On the report by AEN Kamlesh Meena, police lodged a case against one identified person and 4-5 others unidentified including the women under sections 332, 353, 323, 341 and 506 of IPC.Meanwhile, the police succeeded in arresting three out of five accused of attacking the same squad in Ladpura village under Keshoraipatan police station on Tuesday last week. Last Tuesday five persons of a family attacked the same JVVNL squad when they went to check for electricity theft.Three of the five accused, identified as Chothmal Meena, his wife Santosh and son Hemendra Meena, who allegedly attacked the JVVNL vigilance squad on Tuesday last week, were arrested on Monday afternoon. Sub-inspector at Keshoraipatan police station, Yudveer Singh, said that the three will be produced before the court on Tuesday.Pics - One of the two injured guard Laxman and the police vehicle damaged in attack over JVVNL vigilance squad in Dhakani village under Hindoli police station of Bundi district on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jvvnl-vigilance-squad-attacked-in-bundi-two-guards-injured/articleshow/78115435.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Allahabad||Drug addiction affecting our youth: BJP MP||Gorakhpur: BJP MP Ravi Kishan raised the issue of drug trafficking through China and Pakistan and termed it a conspiracy to spoil and ruin the youth of the country. Speaking during zero hour in the Lok Sabha on Monday, Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan said, “Drug trafficking and drug addiction are rising in our country and it is affecting our youth. Actually it is a conspiracy to ruin our youth.” “It is very unfortunate that our neighbouring countries have a role in this. Every year, drugs are smuggled in huge quantities through Pakistan and China. They are being brought via Punjab and Nepal and sold in the country through local criminals,” he said. The actor-turned-politician further said, “It is sad that many people of our film industry are also found involved in it. The youth looks up to film stars and considers them role models. Undesirable things like this would leave a negative impact on our young generation.” I sought stern action against such activities so that the conspiracy against our young generation is foiled. We need to create awareness among people, especially youth, against the negative impact of drugs, the MP said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/drug-addiction-affecting-our-youth-bjp-mp/articleshow/78114476.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||Biker who tried to avert collision with cyclist, dies of injuries||Pilibhit: A 55-year-old biker who met with an accident while trying to save a cyclist on Saturday, succumbed to injuries on Monday morning in a Bareilly hospital The deceased, Dilip Mistri, of Piparia Colony under Gajraula police station, nearly collided with a cyclist on Saturday evening on Pilibhit-Basti national highway 730 near Bithaura village. In his bid to save the cyclist, he lost control and fell off the bike, sustaining severe injuries. The cyclist, Darshan Chandra, 28, also fell and was severely injured. He is being treated at Pilibhit district hospital, said., Jai Prakash Singh, SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/biker-who-tried-to-avert-collision-with-cyclist-dies-of-injuries/articleshow/78111616.cms||Keshav Agrawal
September 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: CBI registers case as Kandivli firm cheats SBI of Rs 338 crore||MUMBAI: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against a private company, its chairman and director for causing a Rs 338.5 crore loss to State Bank of India (SBI) by obtaining credit facilities based on fake documents. The accused also allegedly diverted funds and cheated SBI, CBI said. SBI had complained against Ess Dee Aluminium Ltd, a Kandivli company that manufactures aluminium foil having applications as packaging material used in pharmaceutical, food and FMCG sectors. SBI alleged the accused and others entered into a conspiracy and submitted fake documents. CBI searched the premises of the accused and company and claimed it recovered documents pertaining to the alleged offence. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cbi-registers-case-as-firm-cheats-sbi-of-rs338cr/articleshow/78114617.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Surat||Donations flow in for ‘braveheart’ doc’s treatment||Surat: Donations are flowing in from several quarters for the treatment of Dr Sanket Mehta, the anaesthetist, who risked his life to intubate an elderly Covid-19 patient, last month.Dr Mehta, who is suffering from lung fibrosis due to the Covid infection, was flown in an air ambulance to the MGM Hospital in Chennai from Surat on Sunday. The Surat Anaesthetists Association (SAA) had appealed for donations to meet the high treatment expense for the possible lung transplantation. The SAA office-bearers, who have created a donation account for the doctor, stated that they have received Rs 20 lakh in the last two days and that majority has come from the doctors in Surat and across the country, industrialists and film fraternity. SAA office-bearers stated that if Dr Mehta doesn’t not respond on the advanced ECMO treatment, he will have to undergo lung transplant which costs about Rs 1.15 crore. Manish Mundra, Bollywood producer whose film ‘Dhanak’ in 2017 won national award for Best Children’s film, has also donated Rs four lakh for Dr Mehta’s treatment. Talking to TOI, Mundra said, “I was touched by the Dr Mehta’s gesture when he was on the hospital bed on high-flow oxygen. Without worrying for his own life, he intubated the Covid-19 patient. I consider myself lucky that I am able to lend a helping hand to the family.” On Sunday, Gujarat BJP President, CR Paatil had also appealed to the state and the central government to provide financial aid Dr Mehta’s treatment. Dr Hiral Shah, vice-president of SAA said, “We are receiving overwhelming response from across the country, especially from the doctors and businessmen. The donations are flowing from all quarters. At present, he is on advanced ECMO treatment. If the ECMO is unsuccessful, the last resort is lung transplant which cost Rs 1.15 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/donations-flow-in-for-braveheart-docs-treatment/articleshow/78112725.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Satish Poonia completes first year as BJP Rajasthan chief||JAIPUR: Satish Poonia completed one year on Monday as BJP state president. Poonia is in quarantine as he tested positive for Covid-19, however, this did not stop him from responding to greetings on the social media. Poonia inherited the stellar victory in Lok Sabha seats in May 2019 but the party was yet to emerge from the defeat in the state assembly polls then. His biggest task was to be counted among senior leaders in the state. Poonia is an old traditional party worker who has travelled across the length and breadth of the state and giving him the much-needed grip on the party cadre. He took the pandemic as an opportunity by introducing mass outreach programmes. “He fast adapted to the new means of communication by holding meetings with plumbers, barbers, scavengers, health workers to doctors, businessmen and engineers via online platforms. Some days he even attended 8-10 such meetings setting an example for his party workers to follow the suit,” said a political observer. He has even reached out to his opponents. He went to see CM Ashok Gehlot as a courtesy call soon after his appointment and gave him a book on Pandit Deendayal Upadhayaya. During the testing times of Rajya Sabha polls and political crisis, Poonia didn’t let the situation of his party get out of hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poonia-completes-1st-yr-as-bjp-state-chief/articleshow/78115467.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||RPSC postpones ACF and forest range officer exam scheduled from Sept 20||AJMER: The Rajasthan Public Service Commission on Monday postponed the examination of assistant conservator of forest and forest range officers which was scheduled from September 20 to 27. The commission stated that because of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases and the upcoming university exams, the decision has been taken to postpone the exam. The new dates will be released by the RPSC. The RPSC had earlier cancelled the exam of senior demonstrator (biophysics) screening test which was scheduled on September 14 in Jaipur and Ajmer just a day before. The exam was cancelled because the posts sanctioned for this exam were withdrawn. Earlier this month, the commission also postponed the interviews of PRO, surveyors, superintendents in ITI, food security officers and RAS exams in the wake of Covid-19 spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpsc-postpones-acf-and-forest-range-officer-exam-scheduled-from-sept-20/articleshow/78117140.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Man dies after falling into pothole in Ajmer||Ajmer: Angry residents of Kanchan Nagar in Khanpura on Monday staged a protest after a man fell into a pothole and died. Residents alleged that in last six months dozens of people were injured after falling into potholes and complaints made to the civic body to repair the road fell on deaf ears. Vijay Babani (45), who owned a grocery shop at Kanchan Nagar, was on his way to open his shop when he fell into a pothole and died on the spot. Resident claimed waterlogging is a major problem in the area since there is no drainage system in the Housing Board colony of Kanchan Nagar. “It is hard to get out from our houses and reach the main road as road is riddled with potholes with drainage water covering those,” added a resident.Later police reached the spot and assured the residents to send their complaint to higher authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-dies-after-falling-into-pothole-in-ajmer/articleshow/78115460.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kanpur||Widow of Vikas Dubey associate Amar shifted to juvenile home in Barabanki||Kanpur: After languishing in Kanpur Dehat district jail for more than two months, the minor widow of a slain lieutenant of gangster Vikas Dubey was on Monday shifted to a juvenile home in Barabanki. Earlier, she was booked under stringent IPC sections, including murder and criminal conspiracy, and was recently declared a juvenile by the Juvenile Justice Board. Her parents had recently claimed in an affidavit before a special court in Kanpur Dehat that their daughter was a juvenile. The girl was married to Dubey’s aide, Amar, just three days before the Bikru bloodbath. Amar was shot by UP Police in an encounter in Hamirpur, days before Vikas surrendered in Mahakal temple in Ujjain. On August 12, the girl’s father Shyam Lal Tiwari had submitted an affidavit before the special anti-dacoity court at Mati headquarters in Kanpur Dehat, pleading that his daughter be tried as a juvenile. He had submitted a copy of the High School certificate and other basic school documents in support of the age of his daughter, which shows her to be a minor as of 2 July, 2020, which is the day of the brutal Bikru carnage in which she is a co-accused. Her lawyer, Shivakant Dikshit, told media persons that as the Juvenile Justice Board had declared her a juvenile, she has been shifted to the Juvenile Home in Barabanki. “Her parents have now moved an application in the court pleading authorities to enhance her security and other measures as their daughter faces a threat to her life in jail, besides she was keeping unwell. We are expecting hearing in the court soon in this regard,” Dikshit added. He said, “The girl’s age was 16 years and 10 months and 12 days on the day of the Bikru incident. Her high school certificate and other documents were enclosed in the affidavit, which show she was born on August 21, 2003. “After hearing the petition, special judge anti-dacoity had sent the file to the Juvenile Justice Board to ascertain her age. The board after going through the facts had on September 1 declared her Juvenile,” he said. The girl was married against the wishes of her parents on June 29, three days before the Bikru carnage and was widowed just nine days after her wedding. The family had also alleged she was innocent and had nothing to do with the Bikru ambush that left eight policemen dead. She was thrown behind bars on July 8, the day her husband Amar Dubey was shot by the Special Task Force. Amar was trying to flee to Madhya Pradesh, when he was intercepted by STF and killed. The police had charged her of conspiracy with regard to the Bikru massacre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/widow-of-vikas-dubey-associate-amar-shifted-to-juvenile-home-in-barabanki/articleshow/78115599.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur discom to introduce smart meters||JAIPUR: Jaipur discom plans to introduce smart meters in select areas of the city in which consumers have the option to prepay their bills and get daily updates on their mobiles of power consumption. The consumers, who opt for pre-payment will get a discount of 15 paise per unit as an incentive. Officials said around 2.8 lakh smart meters will be installed in selected areas of Jaipur and Tonk districts in first phase. The project will be launched by the end of this month will be completed in a year. The meters will be installed areas where power pilferage is high. The present number of consumers in Jaipur city is around 8 lakh of which smart meters will be installed for 2.75 lakh consumers while 5,000 meters are meant for Tonk, an official said. A K Tyagi, superintendent engineer (IT) of JVVNL, said the Rs 193-crore project is funded on a 60:40 ratio by central and state governments. He said the meters have the provision for pre-paid as well as postpaid mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-discom-to-introduce-smart-meters/articleshow/78115459.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||15-year-old girl raped by a youth living in same locality in Budaun||Bareilly: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 22-year-old youth in Bisauli area of Budaun district late on Sunday night. On the complaint of the girl’s father, an FIR was registered and the accused, who lives in the same locality, was arrested. The girl was sent for a medical examination after recording her statement, said police. In his complaint, the girl’s father stated that his daughter was sleeping in the courtyard of their house on Sunday night when he found her missing around 11.45pm and immediately started searching for her. She was found in a cane field adjacent to his house in a semi-conscious condition and her clothes were torn, said the father. The girl told her father that the accused forcefully took her to the cane field and raped her, said police, adding that the accused had also “threatened to kill her and that is the reason why she didn’t shout for help”.Additional SP (rural) Siddharth Verma said, “The accused has been booked for rape and under relevant sections of the Pocso Act. Later, he was arrested as well. The accused will be sent to jail and a charge-sheet against him will be filed after the investigation is over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-year-old-girl-raped-by-a-youth-living-in-same-locality-in-budaun/articleshow/78111631.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 15, 2020||Delhi||BS-VI buses on Delhi roads soon||NEW DELHI: Delhi is all set to become the first city in the country to see a rollout of BS-VI compliant buses for public transport by the end of this month. Total 116 BS-VI compliant, air-conditioned, low floor and CNG-run buses are going to be inducted in the Cluster Scheme fleet over the next few months, with the first batch to be rolled out by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS), which operates the Cluster Scheme, in September. Bharat Stage (BS) are emission standards that regulate the emission of pollutants by motor vehicles. At present, most public transport buses in Delhi are of BS-IV standard but from April 1, 2020 onwards, only vehicles following the stricter BS-VI norms are being registered. “At present, nine of these buses are under inspection and these would be the first BS-VI compliant public transport buses in the country,” a DIMTS official said. These buses are being supplied by JBM Auto Ltd. “Deliveries of the first batch of these buses shall start this month end onwards,” a JBM Auto spokesperson said. Earlier this year, the bus manufacturer had supplied 100 BS-IV low-floor air-conditioned buses under the cluster scheme. “These buses are equipped with Smart Card Ticketing system, Real Time Passenger Information System, Intelligent Transport Management System, CCTVs, wheelchair ramp and other facilities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bs-vi-buses-on-city-roads-soon/articleshow/78115473.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||50% of cow cess for cattle conservation, says CM Gehlot||Jaipur: Facing protest from goshalas, the state government on Monday decided to earmark 50% of the cow cess collected from stamp duty for conservation of cows and gaushalas. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced the decision at a review meeting of the agriculture and allied departments held on Monday. The state government had recently amended the stamp duty Act and raised the 10% cow cess on stamp duty to 20% and made provision that the cess collected could be used for calamities such as pandemic and other natural disaster such as floods and droughts apart from cow protection. The chief minister said he had been receiving reports about protests from various quarters including gaushala owners and cow lovers against the amendment. “So the government decided to earmark 50% of the cess to gaushalas,” he said.The chief minister reviewed ease of doing agriculture, free seeds distribution to farmers, training on innovative farming, crops insurance scheme, crop procurement under MSP, among others. Principal secretary agriculture Kunjilal Meena informed that a kisan portal would be launched soon to help farmers on the ease of doing farming. He said farmers could apply for various grants and schemes through the portal. This would also help department to address the grievances of the farmers as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50-of-cow-cess-for-cattle-conservation-says-cm-gehlot/articleshow/78115477.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Man who tried to immolate self in Pokhran dies||Jaisalmer: A 40-year-old man who tried immolating himself at Pokhran police station succumbed to his burn injuries in Jodhpur on Monday. Girdhari Lal Bheel was disturbed as his water tank was damaged by Ramdeora sarpanch and others at his field on Sunday. Based on the statement given by a witness, police arrested two persons, including the sarpanch, and search is on for three more people.Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi has ordered a high-level investigation into the matter and ordered to provide compensation as per rules to the family of the deceased. The body was haded over to the family after post-mortem.SP Ajay Singh said that Bheel set himself afire and ran inside the police station. He was referred to Jodhpur where he died on Monday while undergoing treatment as he had suffered over 60% burns. Ramdeora sarpanch Samundra Singh and Madho Singh were arrested under Sections 306, 323, 143, 427, 447 and under SC/ST Act. Three more culprits are absconding, he added.The SP said that Bheel was a resident of Sihada police station area in Baap and was currently residing at his field in Ramdeora. According to his statement, he was getting plastering work done inside the water tank in his field when Sarpanch Samundra Singh and Jabbar Singh Tanwar along with 15 others reached his field and damaged the tank. They also assaulted him. He went to the SDM’s office to lodge protest, but it was closed and later he decided to immolate himself while entering the police station.Collector Modi, however, said the disputed land was measured thrice and the water tank that Bheel was constructing was not on his own land. He was adamant on building the tank on the spot. There was no discrepancy on part of the revenue department employees, but still a high-level investigation into the matter has been ordered, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-who-tried-to-immolate-self-in-pokhran-dies/articleshow/78115479.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Why no Fire Safety Act in cities, HC asks||Ahmedabad: The state government’s decision not to make its Fire Safety Act, 2013 applicable in areas under municipal corporations has drawn severe criticism from the Gujarat high court, which also sought an explanation as to why the eight municipal corporations in the state have been exempted from this law. During the hearing of a PIL seeking action in the August 17 Shrey Hospital fire case, Chief Justice Vikram Nath commented that not applying the law in urban areas is like a fraud on the people. This was after advocate Amit Panchal filed the PIL and reminded the HC that the law that the state government enacted in 2014 has penal provisions for defaulters but unfortunately such defaulters in urban areas such as Ahmedabad are exempt. The petitioner-lawyer asserted that as municipal limits are exempted, the authorities cannot take penal action against such defaulters – building owners, managers etc. under the Fire Safety Act. After the Fire Safety Act came into effect, the state government did not implement it for more than a year. This led to the filing of a contempt of court petition in 2015 by the applicant, on whose 2009 PIL the HC had built pressure on the state government to address the fire safety issue. This contempt application had also pointed out this inadequacy by highlighting a special clause in the legislation by which the municipal areas have been exempted. In August 2020, the PIL alleged that the state’s Fire Safety Act proves ineffective when fire tragedies occur like the one at Shrey Hospital, where eight Covid-19 patients were killed, and at Takshashila Arcade in Surat, where 22 young students lost their lives in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-no-fire-safety-act-in-cities-hc-asks/articleshow/78114210.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||37 absentee officials to be issued show-cause notices||Jaipur: District election officer Antar Singh Nehra on Monday said show-cause notices will be issued to 37 officials who absented themselves from election training. On Monday, 250 officials were invited for training. The training of returning and assistant returning officers was held for elections to 70 gram panchayats in the first phase on September 28. Meanwhile, in its guidelines issued on Monday for filing of nominations, state election commission stated that candidates must declare they have a functional toilet in their house. DOP miffed, asks depts to ensure 5% quota to MBCS: The department of personnel on Monday expressed displeasure over not filling the vacant posts as per orders issued and directed all the departments to fill the posts ensuring 5% reservation to the most backward class (MBCs) along with SC/ST and OBCs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/37-absentee-officials-to-be-issued-show-cause-notices/articleshow/78115488.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rly vigilance team to probe flaws in platform design||Jaisalmer: The railway vigilance section has taken the matter of breaking of the corner of the platform after a loaded goods train at Sonu railway station was stuck, seriously and has decided to go for a high-level investigation. Railway vigilance committee visited Sonu railway station last week and reviewed the construction work and took samples after minutely checking the work. The railway team has started reviewing the new railway track, 56 km long, laid between Hamira and Sonu and if any loophole is found in the design of the platform, then it will be made afresh. Decision in this regard will be taken by September 30. According to the information from railway sources, the loophole in the construction work came to fore on August 27, after the starting of Sonu-Hamira railway line project of Rs 350 crore. When limestone was being loaded in the goods train by the big loader, the train was stuck. After lot of efforts, the train did not budge from its place and the corner of the platform had to be broken, after which the train could finally leave. The railway vigilance team took the matter very seriously and has sent a team to investigate the matter.According to sources, the team reached Jaisalmer and after intensive investigation, left for Jaipur. The vigilance team has made the project design and construction work as the main points of investigation to find out the flaw in design, whether substandard material was used in construction, where was the flaw in design as there was tremor when the loader moved on the platform, and the sand and stone pieces under the platform came out and spread on the platform due to which the train got stuck. Sources said that this project, worth Rs 350 crore, was completed by the railways and RSMM, and the railways did the construction work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rly-vigilance-team-to-probe-flaws-in-platform-design/articleshow/78115486.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Green light for all sectors to kick-start economy, but caution is the keyword||BHOPAL: As Bhopal comes to terms with the Covid reality, many of its sectors have been thrown open to the people, even as there is no let up in the number of coronavirus infections. Bhopalites too seem to be moving on with life, albeit carefully. Shops, malls, theatres, gyms and transport are the sectors that have opened up in the city despite the alarming increase in Covid-19 cases. However, the administration, which is treading cautiously, has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) across the sectors. Schools and colleges are not open. Public transport is also open in a limited manner. After launching Unlock-1 in June, the district administration has opened up several important businesses and facilities in Unlock-4, beginning September 1. Offices were started with 33% staff, which was increased to 50% in August. In Unlock 4, 100% attendance has been allowed in offices. Places where people go almost daily in large numbers are still not open. Gardens are still closed. “I was a regular visitor of Shahpura Park. It is surprising that the district administration has still kept it closed. When restaurants and bars have been opened, they should have opened gardens too,” said Arun Mishra, a resident of Shahpura. Local transport has been allowed to run their buses, but the operators have refused to put vehicles back on the roads. Swimming pools and cinema halls continue to be closed even in Unlock-4. Bars and liquor shops are also allowed to open. Initially they were allowed till midnight but now they close at 8.30 pm over Covid fears. Marriage ceremonies, political functions and social gatherings with attendance of a maximum of 100 people will be allowed from September 21. Schools will be allowed to call 50% staff from September 21 and students of Class IX to XII will be allowed to go to school — with the permission of their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/life-in-unlock-4-key-sectors-opened-up-citizens-tread-with-caution/articleshow/78114209.cms||Ramendra Singh
September 15, 2020||Kanpur||Two NDA aspirants killed in accident||Kanpur: Two teenage NDA (National Defence Academy) aspirants, who had gone for sprinting workouts, died after falling off an overbridge due to an alleged hit-an-run by a vehicle on the national highway in Etawah district on Monday. According to police, Anmol (16) son of Ravi Yadav and Raj Yadav (16), son Santosh Yadav of Adda Nihal locality under Ekdil police station, who were preparing for selection in Army had gone for sprinting workouts at the National highway during the wee hours of Monday. “As soon as they reached the overbridge near Ekta colony, a speeding vehicle hit the two from rear and they flung off and landed on the service road underneath — around 15ft below,” said the police. The two, who happened to be cousins, were rushed to the district hospital, where doctors declared them dead on arrival. The driver along with vehicle fled the spot. The police further said that the incident happened around 5 am on the overbridge near Manikpur turn close to Ekta colony on the Etawah-Agra National highway. “A case has been registered under sections 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months) and 304 A (whoever causes the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both) of Indian Penal Code against the driver, who managed to flee the site,” said police. While Anmol was a student of class XIth, Raj was pursuing class Xth. “The two were preparing for NDA exam, and regularly took part in sprinting workouts sessions near the National highway,” said Vikas, brother of deceased Anmol. The police shifted the bodies to mortuary for postmortem examination. “Massive searches are underway to make the arrest of vehicle driver possible,” said SP rural Dr Ram Yash Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-nda-aspirants-killed-in-accident/articleshow/78115605.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 15, 2020||Surat||Gas leak in Jhagadia chemical unit, no injuries||Surat: A major gas leakage was reported in the plant of the Aarti Industries, a chemical and pharmaceutical intermediate manufacturing company located at Jhaghadia GIDC in Bharuch district on Monday.Sources said the incident occurred at around 3pm during the transfer of 3 4-dichloroaniline chemical into the storage tank from the P-55 reactor plant. Two fire tenders of Jhagadia GIDC rushed to the spot but the leak was arrested by the company’s own resources within few minutes. The entire plant was vacated and fumes were seen coming out from the storage tank. There was no injury to anyone in the incident.The leakage happened as the chemical was transferred without proper cooling and due to high temperature. It leaked from the vent and main hole of the storage tank and created a toxic fume cloud, said ND Vaghela, deputy director of industrial safety and health (DISH), told TOI. “There is no casualty in the gas leakage incident. The 3,4-dichloroaniline has toxic property and it has to be stored in the tank with proper cooling. High temperature can result in the gas leakage,” Vaghela said.DISH has sought a detailed report from the company over the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gas-leak-in-jhagadia-chemical-unit-no-injuries/articleshow/78112762.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||India’s Covid toll tops 80,000; September deaths world’s highest||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 death toll in India crossed 80,000 on Monday, with the country recording the highest fatalities in the world over the past fortnight. The last 20,000 deaths have come in just 19 days, at an average of more than 1,000 per day. There were 1,070 deaths reported on Monday, taking the total toll to 80,737, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. In the 14 days of September, the daily death toll dipped below 1,000 only on one day — September 6, when the count was 994. So far, 15,364 fatalities have been recorded this month. Fresh cases dipped sharply on Monday to 80,663, down from 94,000-plus recorded on the previous day. This was consistent with the trend of a drop in cases every Monday because of lower testing as well as shortage of staff on Sundays. However, India has now recorded the second highest number of recoveries from the virus in the world, after going past Brazil’s count of 35.7 lakh. Recoveries in India now stand at 38,49,152, as per TOI’s data. Only the US, with over 39.8 lakh cured patients, has a higher number of recoveries than India, according to worldometers.info. Fresh cases dropped in most of the worst-hit states on Monday, except three that reported their highest spike in infections — Odisha (4,198 new cases), Madhya Pradesh (2,483) and Rajasthan (1,730). Maharashtra, after reporting over 22,000 new Covid-19 cases for the last five days, reported a significant dip at 17,066 cases on Monday, the lowest in 13 days, taking the total cases to 10,77,374. With this, Maharashtra has more Covid-19 cases than Russia, the fourth most affected country in the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-toll-tops-80000-september-deaths-worlds-highest/articleshow/78116497.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Surat||Surt bizman’s suicide: Four accused cops suspended||Surat: Surat city police commissioner Ajay Toma on Monday suspended four cops who are among the 10 accused in the suicide abatement case of Surat businessman Durlabh Patel (74). The accused in the case have also been booked for criminal intimidation.The accused cops were suspended based on a preliminary report submitted by the deputy commissioner of police, Panna Momaya. Meanwhile, the anti-corruption bureau initiated inquiry into alleged disproportionate assets of police inspector L P Bodana, who is one of four cops accused in suicide abatement case. Bodana, along with constables Ajay Bhopala, Kiransinh Parmar and Vijay Shinde were suspended by the police commissioner. Bhopala and Parmar are posted in Rander police station while Shinde is posted in Udhna police station. They were present on multiple occasions when Patel was allegedly threatened by other accused over a land dispute.However, none of the 10 accused were arrested by police and all are on the run. Police have started examining financial dealings of the accused and checking the income tax details related to the case. Since the accused are on run police have initiated process to issue arrest warrant under Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) 70.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surt-bizmans-suicide-four-accused-cops-suspended/articleshow/78112806.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||Unseasonal rain wreaks havoc in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Unseasonal rain along with thunderstorms wreaked havoc in parts of Shahjahanpur district early on Monday leaving an elderly man dead and causing a lot of damage to sugarcane crops. Omkar Singh, 67, a resident of Vikrampur Chakora village, died when a portion of his house wall fell on him while he was asleep. He was buried alive and was alone in the house, according to village head Munnalal. Omkar’s body has been sent for autopsy. Compensation under the state's calamity act has been promised to his family. Several farmers also suffered losses as hundreds of acres of standing cane crops were damaged. Ram Avtaar Kashyap, a farmer from Khargapur, told TOI, “I had sown sugarcane in 150 acres and paddy in two acres of land, but most of the standing crops were damaged due to heavy rainfall. No one from district administration has contacted us to assess the losses." The distressed farmers said that there was no rain in August in Shahjahanpur when it was needed and they had to use generators for irrigation which cost them extra money and now they have suffered losses due to unseasonal rain and storm. "We are not sure how much compensation would be given under the Crop Insurance Scheme,” Kashyap added. Meanwhile, ADM Girijesh Kumar Chaudhary said, “Our teams will assess the total crops damaged due to rainfall and take action according to the guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unseasonal-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78111713.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||12 doctors among 251 new cases reported in Bhopal||Bhopal: Each day brings new Covid cases to the fore and the number is till not receding despite several efforts being made by authorities to curb the pandemic. Monday saw 251 more people diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital. Since the pandemic began, 14367 have been infected in the city, leading to 329 deaths. Seven people of the same family were diagnosed with the infection in Rishi East City (Barkheda). Six cases were reported in same family in Ayodhya Nagar. Five cases were been reported in Old Jail at Jehangirabad and another was reported from EME centre. Three positives in same family were reported in Chhipa Road. Raj Vaid colony (Kolar) reported three positives. Twelve doctors reported Covid-positive in state capital on Monday. It includes four from Chirayu Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and two from Gandhi Medical College (GMC). JK Hospital reported three positives. AIIMS campus reported two positives. SSB Academy (Chandukhedi) reported five positives while Police Academy (Bhauri) reported one positive case. GRP police station and Chhola police station reported one positive each. Halalpur (Lalghati) reported two positives and Orchid Green (Ayodhya Bypass) and Indus Town reported two positives cases each. Firdous Nagar reported four positives. Rohit Nagar reported two positives. Shakun Apartment (Indrapuri) reported two positive cases while Choparakalan village reported three positives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/12-doctors-among-251-new-cases-reported-in-bhopal/articleshow/78114222.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||MLA plea to CM on relief for kin of mishap victims||Kota: Sangod Congress MLA Bharat Singh on Monday wrote to chief minister Ashok Gehlot demanding compensation for road accident victims caused by stray cattle from the cow cess. He claimed that the government had so far collected Rs 1,000 crore from cow cess. At least 10,000 fatalities in road accidents are recorded every year in the state and most of them are caused by stray cattle on the road, Singh said. The MLA refereed to the deaths of an army colonel and a major in an accident caused by stray cattle in Bikaner on Sunday. He also mentioned that cabinet minister Udai Lal Anjana also had a close shave in a road accident caused by a cow a few days ago. Since the state government collects Rs 1 crore everyday as tax in the name of cow, it is the duty of the government to compensate the kin of the deceased killed by cow or stray cattle on the road. The compensation should be in accordance to the ratio of compensation disbursed by the forest department on someone’s death by wild animal, he said, while pointing out that death by wild animal makes greater hue and cry but killing by a cow or ox on the road is termed as ‘religion’. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-plea-to-cm-on-relief-for-kin-of-mishap-victims/articleshow/78115497.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||Graft-accused engg booked||Palanpur: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has registered an offence against an in-charge executive engineer of Sipu Dam at Dantiwada in Banaskantha. Vasant Chauhan was booked for having assets disproportionate to his income. Chauhan was suspended after he was caught red-handed accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 in February this year.  “His income till date was Rs 96 lakh while his investments and expenses amounted to Rs 1.49 crore, 57 % more than his income,”said N A Chaudhary, inspector, ACB. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/graft-accused-engg-booked/articleshow/78114240.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Lack of revenue reforms hits ease of doing biz ranking||Jaipur: In the recently released ranking of ease of doing business for 2019, Rajasthan secured eighth position which was a point higher than the previous year.But government officials in the Udyog Bhawan said the rankings could have improved further by a couple of notches if departments like Registration & Stamps, Revenue, Law, Local Self-government and Labour had implemented reforms.One of the key reform parameters was to integrate records pertaining to data of land transaction deeds for the last 10 years at all sub-registrar offices having name of the buyer, registration number and date on one website, but the piece of reform was not implemented.Similarly, an updated record of rights at all revenue department offices with date of mutation, and data of property tax payment dues was not uploaded on the website.The task of uploading revenue and civil courts case data with date of filing and current status of case was not carried out, pointed out Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) which was anchoring the exercise.It said the website should be publicly accessible. “It will help in establishing property ownership and identify tax encumbrances. The integration should be done for all areas of the state, DPIIT said in its report.The requirement of integrating the mutation process with the registration process and allowing intimation of mutation as soon as the deed is registered was not done.With regard to reforms in the labour department, the task was to undertake measures where the requirement of renewal under The Shops and Establishment Act would be eliminated. Even this was not implemented.“Had these reforms been implemented, the state’s ranking could have improved by a couple of points to 5th or 6th position in the country. Despite periodic engagements with these departments, they could not undertake the reforms. Maybe Covid pandemic could be a reason, but it is for all states,” said the officials.Of the nine reform measures involving land administration, transfer of land and property, only seven were implemented by the state and there was no action on two points. On the labour regulation front, one reform was not implemented, as per DPIIT.Of the total 187 reforms points, Rajasthan implemented 183.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lack-of-revenue-reforms-hits-ease-of-doing-biz-ranking/articleshow/78115492.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||3 youths petition Centre to bring back wives from Pak||Jaisalmer: Three youths from Barmer and Jaisalmer have sent a plea to Union minister Kailash Choudhary requesting him to take initiative in bringing back their wives from Pakistan. The three had travelled to Pakistan around 18 months ago to get married. However, the visa applications of their brides were rejected and they returned leaving them behind. Later, due to the souring of relations with Pakistan followed by the Covid-19 pandemic, all routes from Pakistan to India were closed, thus delaying the visa applications further.Gopal Singh, a resident of Baiya, said the wedding party of his brothers Nepal Singh, 26, and Vikram Singh, 24, travelled to Pakistan in January 2019. They were married to the daughters of Tanerao Singh Sodha and Ranjeet Singh at Shroni in Sindh State.Wives of both brothers had to stay back as they did not get their visa. They also met Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, but to no avail.Gopal said they have now submitted a memorandum to Union minister Choudhary requesting him to initiate the process to bring back the brides. Vikram’s wife delivered a baby boy on October 28 last year.Similarly, Mahendra Singh of Barmer travelled to Pakistan in April 2019 by Thar express. His brother Narpat Singh said Mahendra got married to the daughter of Ransingh Sodha at Shrnoi on April 16. They have requested the Pakistan government to allow their wives on foot from Wagah border.Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said the case has come to his notice and he is talking to his senior officers in Jaipur. Soon efforts will be made on behalf of the state government to bring back the women and the chid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-youths-petition-centre-to-bring-back-wives-from-pak/articleshow/78115491.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Posters rekindle CM candidate issue in AIADMK||COIMBATORE: Even as the turf war in the AIADMK over the next chief minister candidate appeared to have reached a ceasefire, posters have sprung up in Coimbatore, hailing party joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami as the CM candidate for the next assembly election. Though the posters put up in the name of Nethaji Subash Senai chose not to proclaim EPS as CM candidate, it said, “We need Edappadi, again.” The posters which listed out the various government projects as achievements of EPS, called him the “people’s chief minister”. “Let people who criticize Edappadiyar behind his back change at least after reading this,” the poster said, before listing the projects launched by EPS. The posters, however, had the image of deputy chief minister O Panneerslevam too, along with AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran, former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and minister for dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji. Nethaji Subash Senai is a little known outfit based in Madurai. Efforts to reach the outfit’s founder V Maharajan to find the rationale behind the posters in Coimbatore proved futile. The AIADMK, however, disowned the posters saying there were clear instructions to partymen against such wall posters. “We don’t know what the motive behind the posters was. But they don’t have the endorsement of the AIADMK,” said party spokesman Kovai Selvaraj. Posters of similar nature sparked an uproar in the party when they came up in Theni a few days ago, declaring OPS as the CM candidate. What followed was a poster war of sorts by supporters of OPS and EPS, forcing the party to issue a gag order. “We have instructed partymen not to speak about the chief minister candidate in public fora, post content in social media or stick posters,” Selvaraj said. “These posters could be the handiwork of people who want to create confusion in the party,” he said. Meanwhile, state minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju likened Palaniswami and Panneerselvam to the two banks of a river. “EPS and OPS are as important for the AIADMK as the two banks of a river and two eyelids of an eye,” he said while speaking at an IT wing meeting in Madurai on Sunday. The minister said the AIADMK was a banyan tree that can be strong only if all its 17 wings are strong. (With inputs from Padmini Sivarajah)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/posters-rekindle-cm-candidate-issue-in-aiadmk/articleshow/78114220.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||For a decade Gujarat avoided CEA for hospitals||Ahmedabad: There had been some heart wrenching incidents of hospital fires this year, critically ill Covid patients getting asphyxiated in Ahmedabad, or narrowly escaping death in Vadodara and Jamnagar, and yet Gujarat and Goa are the only states which are yet to enforce The Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, (CEA) enacted by the central government since March 2012 and are yet to adopt this law and make rules.According to the proposed CEA standards, any health facility can be punished for not providing safe and secure environment for patients, their families, staff and visitors and should be situated in a place having safe, clean surroundings and shall comply with local by-laws in force, if any, from time to time. There must be a minimum space requirement for carrying out basic functions and emergency evacuation of the facility as prescribed in the CEA rules. Had this law been enacted in Gujarat many tragedies could have been averted.What health authorities point out is that even while CEA was enacted by the central government across all states in 2012, that same year , Gujarat, adopted the Gujarat Regularization of Unauthorized Development Rules 2012 (GRUDA) and kept regularising illegal and unsafe hospital structures and constructions till early 2018, as per sources in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation estate department. “GRUDA should have been avoided for hospitals many existing hospital structures would have been safe under CEA,” says a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/for-a-decade-gujarat-avoided-cea-for-hospitals/articleshow/78114330.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Staffers walk the extra mile to give passengers ‘Metro-quality’ service||KOLKATA: A 55-year-old station superintendent, who lives in Uluberia, was among many who made a few arrangements so that they could report to work on time on Monday when the Metro resumed services after a long gap. “I stayed the night at a relative’s house to be here at 6am on the dot,” he said. Many of his colleagues availed of the retiring rooms organized by Metro Railway for those living in the suburbs. One of them said, “My son is ill, but I didn’t want to miss work on the first day. So I took a bus from Barasat last evening and stayed the night in the retiring room so that I could be on morning duty at Dum Dum on Monday.” “All our efforts will pay off if we manage to get through the Covid outbreak and emerge safe together. The crowd control was excellent on the first day. If people continue to behave like this, I am sure we can tide over the pandemic safely,” he added. All staffers had walked the extra mile to put the system back on tracks. And the first day of services seemed to have reassured the Metro Railway personnel. When TOI had spoken to some of the 2,000-odd staffers on Saturday, 24 hours before the Metro was to operate for NEET examinees, there had been an air of uncertainty over passenger behaviour. “But, on the first day of proper services, we found people adhering to rules and the passenger count was much less than in the pre-pandemic times. If this continues through the pandemic, we can all be safe,” a station superintendent said on Monday. Some of his colleagues had earlier expressed apprehension over re-starting services in Covid times, saying it was their biggest professional challenge ever because passengers may not be keen to follow social distancing and other protocols. “There were issues relating to smartcard recharging or downloading the e-passes. Many had to return without boarding because they didn’t have smartphones and were not able to self-generate the passes. But that’s the idea, isn’t it? To reduce the daily passenger count from 6.5 lakh to barely a lakh?” said an official who handles ticket counters at Esplanade. Another staff member, who has been around from the time Kolkata’s Metro started operations in the Eighties, said, “I think running trains in the pandemic is very difficult. Crowd control is necessary to keep everyone safe. But what happens when it ends? Normally, Metro Railway had to spend Rs 268 to earn Rs 100. Now, losses will shoot up. That’s a disturbing thought.” According to those at stations like Gitanjali, where footfall is usually low, “things have never been this peaceful at the Metro.” However, stations like Dum Dum did see some unrest in the morning. “But these were nothing compared to some of the law-and-order issues we had faced earlier,” a traffic inspector said. “The e-pass system has made crowd control easier,” a Metro official added. The duty roster, too, has changed with the new timings. “Earlier, we would be given night allowance because the evening duty continued till 10.30pm or later. Now, duty is from 2pm to 10pm,” said an employee of Noapara station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/staffers-walk-the-extra-mile-to-give-passengers-metro-quality-service/articleshow/78115493.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 15, 2020||Chennai||30 +ve in Puzhal jail, can’t move Nalini to facility: Prison DGP||Chennai: The deputy general of police (DGP) of prisons in Tamil Nadu has informed the Madras high court that the request made by Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convict Nalini Sriharan’s mother, to transfer her daughter from Vellore central prison to Puzhal, has been rejected. The request was considered and rejected as 30 convicts have tested positive for Covid-19 in Puzhal central prison, DGP Sunil Kumar Singh said in an affidavit. He made the submission in response to a plea moved by Nalini’s mother S Padma. Asserting that Nalini has been allowed to use the video calling facility to contact her lawyer and family, the DGP said, “Nalini, however, never showed any inclination to make optimum use of such facility.” He further rejected Padma’s claim that her daughter was ill-treated and was not permitted to use the video call facility as ‘nothing but a blatant lie’. The petitioner has made the false and unfounded allegation against the prison administration to gain sympathy and malign the prison administration, he added. “Nalini has been picking fights with fellow inmates over frivolous issues and agitating against the prison administration whenever prison staff tend to enforce discipline among prisoners,” he said. Noting that Nalini has been lodged with two other convicts Santhi and Radha since January, he added that there were frequent quarrels between the three over cleaning the block. “Nalini also developed a grudge against Radha thinking Radha tipped prison officers about her possessing a mobile phone. To avoid a quarrel, Radha requested to be moved to another block,” he said. He also added that Nalini was of the impression that Radha had stole her mobile phone and was adamant that the prison staff not shift Radha out until she found her mobile phone. Nalini also threatened to die by suicide, the DGP added. As punishment for her unruly behaviour, her access to prison canteen was revoked for a month, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/30-ve-in-puzhal-jail-cant-move-nalini-to-facility-prison-dgp/articleshow/78114297.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bhopal||No more slow trek: Weekend buzz revives hopes for tourism sector in MP||BHOPAL: The tourism industry seems to have picking up in the state, especially on the weekends. Even facilities on the outskirts of Bhopal have started witnessing an increase in the footfall. “People want to come out to be relieved from the week-long work pressure,” industry experts said. For the past eight days, the Boat Club witnessed a good crowd. This has increased the business of the Wind and Waves restaurant of the MP Tourism Development Corporation. “People are enjoying spending time on the Cruise Boat at the Upper Lake,” said Vikas Khare, a spokesman of the corporation.Other restaurants at the Boat Club have also seen increased business activities. Even the lodging facilities at the nearby Halali Retreat on Vidisha road and Kerwa resort are witnessing a large number of visitors. “People are staying out on the weekends at these facilities,” he said. The situation has also improved after Sunday lockdown was lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-more-slow-trek-weekend-buzz-revives-hopes-for-tourism-sector/articleshow/78114237.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to set up special FRC||Ahmedabad: The state government has decided to set up a special fee regulatory committee (FRC) to consider a cut in fees for non-technical courses run by various universities in the state. The members of the committee will submit a report to the government after examining the issue of reduction in fees for all commerce courses, including BBA and BCA, said sources in the state education department. The committee will be headed by retired Gujarat high court judge Akshay Mehta. There is a demand for fee cuts at various self-financed colleges in the state due to the Covid-19 crisis. The committee will look into the demands of parents and try to ascertain how much its genuine, said sources. Technical courses charge fees from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1,00,000 per annum. Fees for non-technical courses range from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 per annum. The state education department’s had earlier directed all self-financed schools to not collect fees for the period that they remain physically closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the move was to give respite to over 30 lakh students across 20,000 schools, it did not go down well with many schools. The matter landed in the high court after many schools challenged the government decision. The government then proposed, in accordance with the high court’s order, to cut fees at schools by 25%. This was also opposed by the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-set-up-special-frc/articleshow/78114257.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Road rage leads to firing, one injured||NAGPUR: A 25-year-old man, Pritesh Patil, was injured in a firing incident at Hudco Colony on Sunday, an hour after a road rage fight his elder brother Palash had with Punesh Thakre. The latter, politically active with an outfit, also damaged two bikes parked in front of the residence of Patil family. The gun shot, allegedly fired by Thakre, ricocheted off the wall and went past Pritesh, but a stray sharp object had pierced the victim’s abdomen. Presuming he has been injured by the bullet, the armed gang had fled the spot. Palash, a former home guard, is preparing for police and army recruitment. He was returning home along with friends in a car when Thakre’s bike had blocked their way at a turning at Misal Layout. As both wanted the other to move their vehicle back, there was a scuffle and heated exchange of words. The routine incident of road rage turned serious after Thakre roped in accomplices to teach Palash a lesson. While Thakre was carrying a firearm, the others had sharp weapons with them. After the fight, Palash returned home and was having dinner when Thakre and his armed gang landed up at his place. As his parents stood in the way, the gang was unable to drag Palash out. Just then Palash’s brother Pritesh was coming down the staircase, and Thakre fired in his direction. The bullet missed him and hit a wall, but a splinter of the bullet or wall pierced Pritesh’s abdomen. The gang fled the spot presuming he had been hit by the bullet. Jaripatka police have arrested four persons so far, including Thakre, Manoj Kahalkar, Prajwal Paunipagar and Shubham Naranje. Though sources said three empty cartridges were found at the place, police said only one shot was fired. Thakre has told cops he had brought the firearms from Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. DCP Vikram Sali said most members of the gang were rounded up within four hours of the incident. Jaripatka police have invoked attempt to murder case against Thakre and the others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/road-rage-leads-to-firing-one-injured/articleshow/78115513.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife summoned over man’s defamation plaint||Ahmedabad: A banker has turned the tables on his wife after weathering a storm of allegations of domestic violence. After being acquitted in a case filed by his wife, the husband sued the wife for defamation and the court has taken cognizance and summoned the wife for the trial.What went against the wife was her aggressive actions against her husband as she had taken a police vehicle to his house along with a lawyer when she had gone to meet their son. This was an action that could defame a person in society and due to this community members reduced their communication with the man, the metropolitan court observed, while taking cognizance of a criminal defamation complaint filed by the man against his wife for filing a false FIR against him under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The court also observed that the mere filing of complaint for domestic violence and cruelty against husband is not defamation.In this case, this was the second marriage of the banker and his wife. The Bengali couple had a son and settled in Vadodara. The wife insisted on keeping her mother and maternal aunt near their house. The constant presence of the mother-in-law and her sister was one of the reasons for marital discord. The couple also had differences over custody of the child.On Christmas in 2016, the couple had a spat and the wife went to the husband’s house the next day with a police vehicle and her lawyer along. The man was made to sit in the police vehicle and taken to the police station. The woman had lodged an FIR at Gotri police station. A trial took place and the banker got a clean acquittal in May 2019. The court in Vadodara also observed that it had doubts about whether the wife’s allegations were genuine.The man, who is from Ahmedabad, sued his wife in the metropolitan court and sought action against her under Section 499 and 500 of the IPC, for criminal defamation. During the preliminary inquiry by the court, he produced witnesses including a leader of the Bengali community and his colleagues from the Vadodara bank, who told the court that because the woman brought the police vehicle to his house, members of the Bengali community had stopped talking to him. The man’s colleagues also testified that his image took a beating because of the case against him. Interestingly, the man also sued the investigator in the domestic violence case for framing him, but the cop got the benefit of absence of prosecution sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC. Meanwhile, the court concluded that there was a case of criminal defamation against the wife, and summoned her on October 19 for further proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-summoned-over-mans-defamation-plaint/articleshow/78114326.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||‘There were teething issues. But we hope to reach 1 lakh rider count soon’||Metro GM Manoj Joshi talks to Ajanta Chakraborty about the first day’s first show.Q: What was the debut run like?It took off as expected and the operation was smooth. I was monitoring the whole time. There were minor teething issues, mostly related to downloading the e-passes. But that’s natural. People were exposed to the new norms for the first time. So the crowd was less than capacity. In the next two or three days, the passenger count will go up. We can carry about a lakh while maintaining social distancing. We may touch that figure in a few days. Q: How will Metro help in Covid times?Metro is safe and can help reduce the city’s traffic congestion to a great extent. On the first day, some may not have been sure about the e-pass. But if they do it a few times, it will get easier. People will opt for this safer mode of commute once they understand that downloading an e-pass is very simple and convenient. Q: Does the link open to a 24x7 window?Yes. After 8pm on Monday, you can book any ride for Tuesday, between 8am and 7pm. Again, from Tuesday 8pm, you start booking for Wednesday. Q: Didn’t the Metro and the state come up with this effective tool for crowd management?We are grateful to the state for working out the boarding pass system. I should thank state officials for standing by us all through and for the cooperation extended to us in the run-up to the resumption of services. Kolkata Police personnel are checking e-passes at the station gates. That is the most crucial part of crowd management. Law and order is not within our jurisdiction. We couldn’t have done it without the state’s help. Q: Metro was sparkling on the first day. What high standards have you set for yourselves? With three months’ rigorous practice during the lockdown, cleaning and sanitizing has become part of our schedule now. We start cleaning the moment the rake is emptied. We are constantly sanitizing the stations all day. I was very happy to see the public behaving in a very responsible manner on the first day. If passengers are meeting us halfway in this unprecedented time, there is no reason why we can beat the disease. Together, we will make it work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/there-were-teething-issues-but-we-hope-to-reach-1l-rider-count-soon/articleshow/78115511.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 15, 2020||Vadodara||Six graft accused to undergo voice spectrography tests||Vadodara: A special anti-corruption court in the city has allowed voice-spectrography test of six persons accused of graft in four different cases.The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) had approached the court here seeking permission for the test as the six accused – Hasmukh Trivedi, Shivshankar Dikshit, Dipak Andani, Girish Shah, Rajesh Maisuri and Suresh Solanki – had refused to undergo the tests at different occasions after their arrests.“During the course of the traps, there were several audio-visual recordings captured by the trapping officer and these also included conversations between the complainant and the accused. So, their voice samples have to be collected for investigation,” said district government pleader Anil Desai.The court of special anti-corruption and principal district judge M R Mengdey upheld Desai’s arguments and allowed ACB to conduct the tests.Trivedi was a middleman, who was arrested in October 2018 for accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh on behalf of a provident fund officer. Dikshit and Andani, cops of Madhya Pradesh police, were nabbed for taking Rs 8 lakh bribe from a scrap dealer of Vadodara.ACB had arrested Shah and Maisuri from irrigation department for accepting Rs 43,000 to clear bills and Solanki, an office superintendent in the forest department, was trapped while taking Rs 14,000 to give permission to chop off two trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-graft-accused-to-undergo-voice-spectrography-tests/articleshow/78113619.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Diya Kumari brings up discrepancies in GST in Lok Sabha||JAIPUR: Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari highlighted issues related to discrepancies in GST in Lok Sabha under Rule 377 on Monday. Kumari said GST had helped in unifying the Indian market to a great extent and has led to several important reforms in the tax sector. “No relief has been given in the late fees to taxpayers falling under GST 4, which is why they are still unable to file returns,” she said. She urged that the 10% Input Credit Limit and its monthly time period be reviewed and extended to a period of 3 to 6 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/diya-kumari-brings-up-discrepancies-in-gst-in-lok-sabha/articleshow/78115510.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Ripple effect: Autos on Metro route restart ops, reduce load on buses||KOLKATA: Even with limited access for passengers to Metro stations, the restarting of Metro services on Monday brought relief to a lot of passengers and eased the pressure on the bus system. More than 100 auto routes restarted services on Monday, acting as feeder services to the Metro to provide the crucial last-mile connectivity to home-bound Metro passengers in the evening. These auto routes had been closed due to the suspension of Metro services for the past six months. Resumption of autos on these routes also helped people other than Metro commuters. “Though I don’t take the Metro, I take this Metro-bound auto route to reach my office. But the sudden shutting down of services had left me in the lurch. I had taken alternative routes, which took me half an hour more to travel,” said Riya Bhattacharya, a private company employee. “Since we are completely dependent on the Metro for passengers, we had to stop plying for a while. There were no passengers. We somehow managed to survive this tough time,” said Tapas Ghatak, an auto operator on the Ananda Pally-Kudghat station route. The buses along the Metro routes were also a lot less crowded on Monday. “Many of the bus operators complained that they lost a substantial number of passengers to the Metro,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. However, bus and Metro can complement each other efficiently. The resumption of Metro services has encouraged many to come out of their homes. So, some bus routes also gained a few passengers, he added. “Though I could not manage to get a Metro slot for my office trip on Monday, I could travel comfortably to my Dum Dum office since buses along the Metro routes were less crowded,” said Tapan Das, a private healthcare employee. Apart from autos and buses, a large number of bike taxis also ferried passengers to Metro stations. A lot of rickshawpullers also ferried passengers to Metro stations, particularly in South Kolkata. “Beyond Tollygunge, rickshaws played a major role in last-mile connectivity,” said a transport department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ripple-effect-autos-on-metro-route-restart-ops-reduce-load-on-buses/articleshow/78115525.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 15, 2020||Chennai||HC refuses to stop work on Ooty medical college||Chennai: The Madras high court on Monday refused to stay construction of a medical college hospital in Ooty over alleged environmental violations. The court, however, restrained the state from felling trees in the 300-acre land allotted for the hospital till further order. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha also directed the state to ascertain whether the existing buildings of Hindustan Photo Films Manufacturing Company Limited in the said land can be used for hostel and other purposes instead of constructing new buildings. The court passed the interim order on a PIL moved by advocate V Ramesh seeking direction to the state to utilise the land and buildings leased and owned by Hindustan Photo Films for establishing the government medical college hospital. Refusing to pass any positive order, the bench said the entire construction cannot be stalled as a hospital would require special building. Representing the state, advocate-general Vijay Narayan submitted that the government medical college hospital was a long pending demand of Ooty residents and cannot be stalled. “Population is high in Ooty unlike Kodaikanal. Residents of the area have to travel to Coimbatore for medical emergencies,” he said. To this, Ramesh said he is totally not against construction of a hospital for the area. “The land allotted for the project has been earmarked as grass land classification, which is the heartbeat of Nilgiris biosphere. Establishing a college and hospital in the area would result in conversion of grass land to concrete jungle,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-refuses-to-stop-work-on-ooty-medical-college/articleshow/78114333.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Suspected mining mafia attack cops in Bharatpur||JAIPUR: Suspected mining mafia fired and pelted stones at police in Bharatpur when they along with mining department officials were conducting a joint operation to curb illegal mining in Pahadi police station area. While the operation started on Sunday night, the violence took place on Monday. Bharatpur SP Amandeep Kapoor told TOI, “Our team was conducting a joint operation when in the wee hours of Monday certain individuals fired and pelted stones at them though none of our people sustained any injuries. There was retaliatory firing from our end but till now we have not received any information about any civilians being injured.” Following this, cops seized four poclain machines, half-a-dozen bikes, tractors filled with bajri and other raw materials which were being used for illegal mining. “We have rounded up a few persons and will question them. The process of finding those behind the attack on our team is still underway,” the SP said. Mewat region is notorious for illegal mining and less than two months ago a forest home guard was mowed down by a tractor belonging to suspected mining mafia inside Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) after he attempted to stop them along with his colleague. The guard was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Cops had arrested the accused after few days. On January 25, a forest ranger of STR, Jitendra Chaudhary, had to run for his life after being attacked by villagers. The villagers attacked him after he and his 10-member team confiscated 18 sheep and 30 goats for illegal grazing in the tiger reserve. Shootouts between the police and the mafia involved in the illegal trade have been reported on a number of occasions in Dholpur, Alwar, Bharatpur and Karauli where illegal mining is rampant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspected-mining-mafia-attack-cops-in-bharatpur/articleshow/78115516.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Man surrenders after killing wife, mother-in-law in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 39-year-old man killed his wife and mother-in-law in Shivdaspura police station area in Jaipur on Sunday late night following which he went to Chaksu police station with his three children and confessed to the crime. The accused was identified as Ramkishan Saini while the deceased were identified as Manju Saini, 35, and her mother Gaura Devi, 60. Shivdaspura SHO Indraj Marodiya said, “On Sunday night, the accused slit his wife’s and mother-in-law’s throats and took his three children to Chaksu. He went to the police station and confessed to the murder following which the officials got in touch with us as the crime was committed in our jurisdiction. The accused has been arrested.” According to the officials, Ramkishan told the cops that he stayed in Shivdaspura at his in-laws’ residence but did not know the house number, though he could take the police to the crime spot. “We immediately reached the house where we found the bodies of the two women. The accused appeared to be completely in his senses while confessing to the double murder and we have started the investigation.” Preliminary investigation revealed that there were separate motives behind the double murder and the SHO added, “The accused claimed that he doubted his wife’s fidelity because of which he killed her. As per his admission, he killed his mother-in-law because she refused to sell the house in which they were living. On Sunday night, after an argument, he killed both the women.” The FSL team also reached the crime spot to collect evidence while the bodies of the two women were kept in the mortuary. Cops will further interrogate the accused to determine if the murders were premeditated or happened in the spur of the moment. The post-mortem of the deceased will be done after the results of the Covid-19 test arrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-surrenders-after-killing-wife-mother-in-law/articleshow/78115521.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 15, 2020||Goa||Govt should adopt 3T model of truth, transparency, testing: AAP||Saligao: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday asked health minister Vishwajit Rane to work on the 3T model of ‘truth, transparency and testing’. “On the one hand the health minister says that Goa is going to witness 1,000 cases per day and on the other hand he says the storm is over. Instead of sharing the true picture with Goans he is confusing them with two different statements. It seems like he is hiding something. Need of the hour is to speak truth and not to hide facts,” AAP’s Mapusa spokesperson Rahul Mhambre said. While stating that “Goans want to know the truth from the government”, Mhambre said that “it is important that the government works on the 3T model to gain the trust of the people”. AAP further said that the government needs to build a more transparent system for Goans to know about the available Covid facilities in their area. “Where to approach and whom to approach remains the biggest worry. The government should start providing locality-wise hospital beds status on a real time basis. The least they can do is to publish it in the daily health bulletin,” said Mhambre, while adding the testing in the state should be ramped up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-should-adopt-3t-model-of-truth-transparency-testing-aap/articleshow/78115552.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Electricity bill relief for farmers in Rajasthan likely: Govind Singh Dotasra||JAIPUR: The state government is likely to announce relief for farmers in power bills and reopen transfers of government officials shortly, Congress state president and school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said on Monday. Considering the corona pandemic, the transfer applications could be invited online. Also, government officials and public representatives would be asked to hold online public hearings at panchayat, block and district levels at least once a month to address the common man’s complaints at the local level. The modalities of how to roll out the relief steps would be discussed in detail at a cabinet meeting to be held in the coming days. Dotasra held a four-hour long marathon meeting with chief minister Ashok Gehlot late on Sunday to share the party leaders and workers’ feedback received during the visit of Congress in-charge for Rajasthan affairs Ajay Maken last week. Farmers’ ire over stopping subsidy on agricultural power bills and hiking the minimum amount required to be deposited for settling cases of power thefts, government officials’ apathy towards addressing the common man’s grievances in rural areas, streamlining recruitments for youths and restructuring the party’s state organisation were the key issues that cropped up in the feedback programme. Farmers organised a major protest in Jodhpur last month against the state government indirectly hiking the agriculture power bills by doing away with the annual subsidy of around Rs 10,000 and steeply raising the minimum amount required for settling penalties imposed through the electricity department’s vigilance checking reports (VCRs). The protest was called off after a farmer died of Covid-19. The Congress’ feedback programme revealed that farmers across the state were vexed with this indirect rise in power tariff and that the BJP was cashing in on the issue. “Farmers’ resentment against the government order requiring them to deposit 70% of the VCR amount was the main issue that surfaced in the feedback programme. The CM was sensitive towards the farmers’ demand and held discussions with power department officials. He is likely to take a decision in a day or two,” Dotasra said. As had been highlighted by the Sachin Pilot camp during its rebellion in July, the feedback programme revealed that the government officials were ignoring not only the common man but also the public representatives. “Government officials not listening to people and elected representatives was another issue pointed out during the feedback,” Dotasra said. On the quota issue of most backward classes (MBC), Dotasra said, “As rightly pointed out by Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla, the matter rests with the Centre government, which is required to include the MBC quota law in Schedule IX of the constitution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/electricity-bill-relief-for-farmers-likely-dotasra/articleshow/78115531.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Fresh tenders for light & sound shows||Jaipur: After the controversy over light and sound show projects, Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) has again floated tenders worth over Rs 30 crore to enhance visitors’ experience in monuments, temples and sites of tourist interest in the state.The tenders were invited for creating light and sound show infrastructure in Kumbhalgarh fort, Chittorgarh fort, Meera Bai Smarak in Nagaur, Machkund in Dholpur, Jainiwas Udhyaan in Jaipur and laser water show facilities at Pratap Gaurav Kendra, Udaipur, and Sanwaliya Ji temple at Chittorgarh. Under the Prasad Heritage Circuit scheme, Swadesh Darshan and spiritual tourism schemes, Rs 45 crore had been sanctioned by the Centre. While one light and sound show project was cancelled, another in Jaisalmer has been awarded to an agency through a tending process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-tenders-for-light-sound-shows/articleshow/78115540.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Corpn collects Rs 2 crore fine from pandemic rule flouters||Chennai: Greater Chennai Corporation has collected Rs 1.9 crore since March as fines from residents as well as shopkeepers and other establishments found flouting pandemic norms such as not wearing masks and not maintaining physical distancing. Data shows that the officials in Royapuram (zone 5) have been the most active, collecting Rs 44.1 lakh till Monday. This is the highest collected among zones. A fine of Rs 13.2 lakh has also been collected by tahsildars from people who were not wearing masks. GCC officials said special teams have been formed under each of the 140-odd police stations in the city. The special officers are accompanied by officials from the Chennai collectorate and would fine those not wearing masks. Revenue officials from Greater Chennai Corporation will be looking into violations of commercial establishments not following physical distancing norms or insisting on masks. Individuals can be fined up to Rs 500 for violation of pandemic rules, while institutions can be fined up to Rs 5,000 as per the ordinance promulgated by the Tamil Nadu government on September 4. GCC officials said the intention is not to shore up revenue but to ensure that people follow rules as the pandemic has not yet ended. “We have opened up all businesses and public transport as well. It is most important that people take precautions,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-collects-rs-2-crore-fine-from-pandemic-rule-flouters/articleshow/78114342.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Agra||111 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, 159 in Bareilly||Agra/Bareilly: In yet another surge, at least 111 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 4,153. A 45-year-old man also died while undergoing treatment at SN Medical College. Resident of Tajganj locality, he was suffering from chronic renal failure with pneumonia. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 115 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Also, 91 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 4,153 cases reported in the district, 3,223 [77.6%] have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 815 active Covid-19 cases in the district. In Bareilly district, 159 people tested positive for Covid-19 while one died during treatment on Monday. In Shahjahanpur, five people died in the past two days while 69 cases were reported in the past three days. So far, 63 people have died while undergoing treatment in Shahjahanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/111-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-159-in-bareilly/articleshow/78111748.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rlys told to return retiree’s money||Ahmedabad: The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has ordered Western Railway to refund Rs 5.97 lakh to a retired employee, from whose retiral dues the sum was deducted on the day of his retirement without informing him. The case involved Ramarao Marathe, who retired as senior goods guard in April 2015. On the day of his retirement, the department deducted Rs 5.97 lakh from his retirement benefits saying that it was an extra amount paid to him during the course of his service. The department also attributed the deduction to a change in pay scale, leaves obtained etc. Marathe came to know about the reasons for the deduction only after he received a copy of his service books. He filed an application in the CAT, Ahmedabad bench and sought directions to get the deducted amount back. After hearing the case, the CAT ordered the railways to refund the money to Marathe with 8% interest and held that the order to deduct the money was bad in law. He was not informed about the discrepancies that the department was citing to conclude that the amount paid was excess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rlys-told-to-return-retirees-money/articleshow/78114347.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ED attaches assets worth Rs 92 crore in bank fraud case||JAIPUR: The zonal officer of the Enforcement Directorate has provisionally attached immovable and movable properties totalling to Rs. 91.80 crore of the accused Bharat Bomb, Shankar Lal Khandelwal and others under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, (PMLA),2002 in a case relating to Syndicate Bank loan fraud. The attached assets included agricultural land, land plots, shops, offices, flats, bungalows situated in Jaipur, Udaipur and Sriganganagar districts of the state and money in various bank accounts. “We had initiated investigation under PMLA, based on the FIR registered and charge sheet filed by CBI, New Delhi against the officials of erstwhile Syndicate Bank (Now Canara Bank) and private persons. It was found that between 2011 and 2016, the accused in the fraud, Bharat Bomb, an Udaipur based Chartered Accountant, in collusion with bank officials defrauded erstwhile Syndicate Bank to the tune of Rs. 1267.79 Crore. Investigation conducted revealed that proceeds of crime generated out of the fraud were transferred by the accused Bharat Bomb in various bank accounts through complex maze of transactions for placement, layering, and integration,” said a senior officer of ED on condition of anonymity. He had invested tainted money in purchase of immovable properties in the name of himself, his family members, associates, employees, known confidential tribal persons, fictitious firms and companies, conversion of land and development of real estate projects in Udaipur. Identified properties held in name of Bharat Bomb, his wife Pooja Bomb, father Shanti Lal Bomb; his associates namely Mahendra Meghwal and others including Pradeep Nimawat along with assets of accused Shankar Lal Khandelwal’s companies,” the officer added. These attached properties are at various locations in Rajasthan. Out of them, immovable properties worth around Rs 59 crore and Rs 10 crore are situated in Udaipur and Jaipur districts, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-92cr-in-bank-fraud-case/articleshow/78115543.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Agra||BJP MLA sits on SHO chair for filing complaint; video goes viral||Agra: A video of BJP MLA from Aligarh’s Charra constituency Ravendra Pal Singh sitting on the SHO’s chair while filing a complaint in Akrabad police station in Aligarh went viral on Monday.In the video, the MLA can be seen sitting on SHO Umesh Chandra Sharma’s chair for filing a complaint and asking the policeman to give a copy of the FIR to him after registering it. The MLA has gone to lodge a complaint against people for allegedly insulting the tricolour by putting eight spokes in the Ashoka chakra instead of 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-mla-sits-on-sho-chair-for-filing-complaint-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78111766.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Agra||Man shot at by homeguard, dies; kin demand compensation||Agra: Following a land dispute, Satveer (45), along with two other family members, was shot at by homeguard, Ompal Singh, at Preetam Nagar village in Kasganj district. Satveer died during the course of his treatment at the district hospital on Sunday night. His family members and villagers blocked Patyalli-Nardoli road demanding compensation after Satveer’s body reached home in the morning. The traffic movement remained affected for more than four hours. Later, police resorted to lathicharge. On August 28, a 50-year-old man, his son and five relatives had allegedly opened fire at a family leaving three of them severely injured in Kasganj district’s Preetam Nagar village. Satveer, 45, his 22-year-old son Rajeev and Ramsharan, 43, had sustained bullet injuries and were rushed to Aligarh hospital. Prime accused Ompal was arrested along with six others. Police said that both the families were involved in a dispute over a piece of land for several years. Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Aditya Prakash Verma said, “Satveer died on Sunday evening. His body was sent home on Monday morning. His family members and other villagers blocked the Patiyali-Nardoli road and misbehaved with the officials. We are trying to identify all the people involved in disturbing the law and order situation. An FIR will also be registered against them.” “Home guard Ompal Singh had opened fire from his licensed rifle. His son and five others had used illegal weapons in the firing. They have been arrested. Ompal’s rifle has been seized. A recommendation has been sent to the homeguard department for his dismissal from job,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-shot-at-by-homeguard-dies-kin-demand-compensation/articleshow/78111772.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Charges in the controversial FIR may be filed tomorrow||NEW DELHI: The first chargesheet of conspiracy behind the Delhi riots, which is being investigated by Special Cell, is likely to be filed on Wednesday. It was this FIR that generated the maximum controversy as it focused not on the rioters, but on alleged masterminds working behind the scenes. The probe revolved around politicians, student leaders and activists. The chargesheet is expected to name at least 20 people arrested under different charges, over a dozen of them under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The primary sections invoked were of sedition and criminal conspiracy. UAPA was added later. Those being charged include Congress functionary Ishrat Jahan, suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, Pinjda Tod members Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia students Safoora Zargar, RJD’s youth wing member Meeran Haidar, Jamia student Asif Tanha, businessman Khalid Saifi, MBA graduate Gulfisha Fathima, JNU students Sharjeel Imam and Umar Khalid. Over 50 witnesses have been listed in the chargesheet, which is of 200-300 pages with annexures and technical data analysis, including call detail records and WhatsApp chats, running into thousands of pages, a source said. “We began investigating the premeditated conspiracy after a probe in other cases of riots showed meticulous planning, especially accumulation and use of arms and ammunition, stones, improvised weapons, etc. All this couldn’t happen in a couple of days,” said a senior officer on anonymity. While Khalid and Hussain would be the primary focus, the chargesheet is expected to describe in detail how the other accused hatched and executed the plan to push people on the streets, said the source. Police will elaborate on how closed-door meetings allegedly took place along with gatherings in Delhi since December and how the aim was to form Shaheen Bagh-like congregations at different places. Special Cell had reportedly lodged the conspiracy FIR after receiving a tip-off from intelligence agencies and inputs obtained by the special branch. The case was lodged on the statement of a Special Cell cop, who said the communal violence was fallout of a “deep-rooted conspiracy” in which violence was timed with the visit of US President Donald Trump to make treatment of minorities in India and Citizenship Amendment Act an international issue. According to this FIR, the accused were tasked to congregate people in different areas and “make women and children block the roads under Jafrabad metro station to fuel tension in northeast Delhi”. This was something that allegedly triggered the riots. The investigation also focused on the preparations for the riots that saw massive use of firearms, Molotov cocktails and stones. These things were collected inside numerous homes and on terraces over a period of time, police claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/charges-in-the-controversial-fir-may-be-filed-tomorrow/articleshow/78115545.cms||Raj Shekhar
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Modi unlikely to visit Gujarat on his birthday||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is unlikely to visit Gujarat on his birthday, September 17, to seek the blessings of his mother Hiraba, who lives in Gandhinagar, because of the monsoon session of Parliament and the Covid pandemic. After taking over as PM in 2014, Modi has been visiting his mother on his birthday every year. Key sources said, “No instructions have been received so far from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) of the PM’s visit to Gujarat on his birthday. So his visit this week seems unlikely.” Meanwhile, the Gujarat BJP on Monday began its ‘Seva Saptah’ to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi turning 70 on September 17. It will continue till next Sunday. Party leaders said each day of the ‘service week’ will have social initiatives like distribution of aid to 70 ‘divyangjan (disabled people)’ in 70 talukas, spectacles to 70 people in each block, distribution of fruits at Covid-19 facilities, plasma donation drives and blood donation camps. A release said the party will organise 70 webinars to highlight the work and life of the PM, 70 saplings will be planted in each booth and cleanliness drives will be undertaken statewide as part of the celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-unlikely-to-visit-gujarat-on-his-birthday/articleshow/78114350.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Patna||PM Narendra Modi to launch Rs 541 crore projects for Bihar today||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay foundation for seven projects worth Rs541 crore related to urban infrastructure in Bihar via videoconferencing on Tuesday. This will be the third such pre-election event in Bihar by PM. On Sunday, he launched petroleum ministry projects worth Rs903 crore. Earlier, on September 10, Modi launched the Rs20,050 crore PM Matsya Sampada Yojana (MSY) in the country with its benefits to Bihar. He also launched projects of animal husbandry department amounting to Rs294.53 crore in Bihar. Of the seven projects to be launched on Tuesday, four are related to water supply, two to sewage treatment and one to riverfront development. Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (BUIDCo) is the executing agency of the projects under state urban development and housing department. The sewage management plants have been completed under National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) keeping in view the needs up to 2035. BUIDCo chief engineer Ramavtar Sah said the two plants at Beur and Karmalichak would ensure that domestic waste water is not discharged into the river. “Both the STPs would work on old sewer lines for the time being as the work on new pipelines is still underway,” he said. “Karmalichak STP would have 96.54km-long sewerage network while Beur STP has 108km-long pipeline. The new pipelines is expected to be operational by December-end,” he added. Karmalichak would have the capacity to treat waste water up to 37 million litres per day (MLD) and Beur 43 MLD. The PM had laid the foundation for these projects in February last year. An executive engineer in BUIDCo said waste water would be treated through sequencing batch reactors technology and the treated water would be used for irrigation purpose. Water supply projects in Siwan Municipal Council and Chhapra Municipal Corporation would also be inaugurated under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) to provide clean drinking water to the residents. The PM would also lay foundation for water supply projects in Munger Municipal Corporation and Jamalpur Municipal Council areas under AMRUT. Besides, Chandwara Ghat, Poorvi Akhada Ghat and Seedhi Ghat in Muzaffarpur would be developed under Namami Gange Project. The riverfront development would be on par with Patna’s riverfront. It would have basic facilities like toilets, information and sitting kiosks, changing rooms, pathway and watch tower. The foundation for the same would be laid by the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-to-launch-rs541cr-projects-for-state-today/articleshow/78114345.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||48 traders' bodies refuse shutdown||Rajkot: Under severe Covid-19 grip, Saurashtra’s commercial capital is inching towards a self-imposed lockdown by the business community, but not all traders are willing to shut shops saying they have already bore the severe brunt of the prolonged lockdown clamped in March.In a virtual meeting organized by Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI), majority of the traders association refused to close down their establishment, but the famed gold market and Danapith market have already closed considering the spike in infections.Representatives of 48 traders associations including cloth market, Kansara Bazar, Sangarva Chowk, Para Bazaar, Rajkot market yard that come under the jurisdiction of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) were present in the meeting.RCCI president VP Vaishnav said, "Most representatives were of the view that the market should not be closed, so we have decided not to impose self lockdown but continue business by taking all the precautions." Traders said they can ill afford another lockdown looking at the severe financial distress as there are many who operate from rented shops, have loans to repay and have to pay salaries to the employees. The business is anyway bleak after three months lockdown. According to rough estimates, there are over 30,000 shops and establishments covered under these 48 associations. ahesh Mehta, president of Lakhajiraj Road Traders Association said, “We have to consider the problems of traders also. However, the traders on Lakhajiraj Road, Dharmendra Road and Gheekanta Road are mulling to operate shops only in the morning.”The gold market has imposed self lockdown since last Saturday and there are nearly 750 big and small shops that are following a strict lockdown. The decision was taken after the death of 35 persons- traders and workers- in the gold market and over 400 people testing positive in the last three months. Danapith, the biggest grocery and grain wholesale market of the city, also started a partial lockdown from Monday. Around 200 shops remained open from 8am to 3pm only. Danapith is the source of grocery and grains for the Rajkot and Morbi districts. The traders in old city areas are also worried because the markets are highly congested and it’s not possible to maintain social distancing due to narrow roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/48-traders-bodies-refuse-shutdown/articleshow/78113044.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Was jittery about the 6-month gap but glad to be back||It felt nice to be back in the driving seat. My mind had been a little uneasy as the date of reopening approached. We were all jittery about facing the public for the first time in almost six months. But the unease dissipated the moment I stepped inside my cabin and sat down to drive the rake.Honestly, it was a little strange driving a coach with just a few passengers during peak hours. I drove from Dum Dum to Kavi Subhas and back, and turned to watch the passengers. All of them had their masks on and were following the distancing norms. The usual buzz was missing, however. I guess the commuters will need a little time to get used to the new rules. The same feeling is playing on our minds as well. One of my colleagues is still fighting Covid in a hospital. Thankfully, he is recovering. I hope there are no cases while we run the services during the pandemic.All these days, we had been participating in trainings. It was a staggered schedule and it was getting monotonous — attending trainings and appearing for written tests for capacity building. I guess it is important for technical people to be engaged in their normal work and it’s a relief that Metro services have resumed. While driving, I was extra alert because the stoppage time has been increased from 20 seconds to 30 seconds. We will all take a little time to adapt to the new system. At the end of the day, we are all professionals. Of course, with the Covid protocols and sanitization norms in place, our responsibilities have also increased manifold.I had morning duty on the first day and was released after four hours. I am now look-ing forward to being in the driver’s seat again tomorrow. (The motorman spoke to Ajanta Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/was-jittery-about-the-6-month-gap-but-glad-to-be-back/articleshow/78115544.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mumbai||Divert non-Mumbaikars to jumbo Covid centres, BMC tells private hospitals||MUMBAI: Faced with a massive surge in active cases, civic authorities have asked the city’s major private hospitals to divert patients coming from Mumbai Metropolitan Region to jumbo Covid care centres. It has also asked the private hospitals to urgently discharge all asymptomatic positive patients if they are clinically stable. BMC chief I S Chahal told the managements of private hospitals that the load of active cases has soared 50% since September 1 due to increased testing. TimesViewSending patients from outside Mumbai to jumbo centres would be blatantly discriminatory. People from the MMR come to Mumbai's private hospitals because of the absence of health infrastructure outside the city’s limits. A decision on admitting or not admitting patients must be based on their condition and availability of beds, not on the basis of where a patient lives.Active cases in the city have increased to 30,316 on September 13 from 20,067 on September 1. “It is requested that outstation patients may be diverted and asked to go to jumbo field hospitals for treatment and not be allotted Covid beds in private hospitals so as to ensure that the local citizens of Mumbai do not suffer due to non-availability of beds,” Chahal said in a text message to hospitals. The head of a private hospital told TOI the commissioner’s diktat applied to 80% of beds which are under BMC’s control. “For the remaining 20%, we are free to admit anyone,” he said. Another hospital official said the BMC’s ward-level war rooms have not been allotting private hospital beds to MMR patients for a while now. “It’s discriminatory, no doubt, but the state and other MMR corporations are also to blame for not developing infrastructure for years,” he said. The commissioner added in his text the BMC will ensure people from outside Mumbai find a bed in the jumbo centres.With the bed situation getting acute, Chahal reiterated the allotment of 80% beds in private hospitals that are under the BMC’s control must happen through the ward war rooms. Of the 1,418 ICU beds, only 91 were available till Monday afternoon, of which just 27 were in private hospitals. Joy Chakraborty, COO of Hinduja Hospital, though, said many patients who come from MMR don’t require a dedicated covid hospital (DCH). “The BMC communication essentially is to only admit patients who need DCH level of care in major hospitals and refer others to jumbos,” he said, adding no Indian citizen can be refused care anywhere. A member of the Association of Medical Consultants said the BMC was struggling with ICU beds since the closure of 72 nursing homes. About discharging all asymptomatic positive patients, Dr V Ravishankar, COO of Lilavati Hospital, said the average duration of hospital stay anyway is five to six days for mild patients who are discharged after their clinical and biochemical parameters stabilize. “Sometimes, patients request for longer stay if their family members are quarantined or they have smaller homes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/divert-non-mumbaikars-to-jumbo-covid-centres-bmc-tells-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78116053.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||HC issues notice to Rajasthan on Mental Healthcare Act||JAIPUR: Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL), a division bench of Rajasthan High Court on Monday issued notices to the state government asking what steps it had taken to frame rules under the Mental Healthcare Act 2017. The petition stated that the state government was yet to formulate rules in this regard which has delayed State Mental Health Authority and formation of the tribunal at the district level. Advocate Shalini Sheoran had filed a PIL saying the central government enacted the Mental Health Care Act 2017 on May 29, 2018. Under this, provisions were made for mental illness, depression and other diseases. “In order to implement these provisions, the state government had to make rules and in this regard and an authority was to be constituted at the state level to redress the grievances as well as to protect the rights of the victim and their family, but till now the authority has not been not formed,” she said. 7.5% population going through mental pain: Citing a WHO report, petition said 7.5 per cent of total population in the country was suffering from some kind of mental anguish. This figure is bound to increase during pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-issues-notice-to-state-on-mental-healthcare-act/articleshow/78115550.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hubballi||Residents removes or destroy RFID tags following rumours of its use for spying||Hubballi: Driven by misinformation, several residents of the old city destroyed the Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags installed at their residence for waste management. RFID tags were installed at the buildings for effective door to door garbage collection. According to sources, the residents from a particular community panicked after rumours about the tags being installed to track the movement of Covid positive patients and as a larger conspiracy to spy them, started doing rounds. In the wake of complaints by residents that civic workers were not collecting garbage regularly, Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) was asked to install RFID tags on the houses. The civic workers were given tag readers to streamline the process of garbage collection. However, in some parts of Old Hubballi, people misunderstood the tiny box affixed at the houses as spying devices. HDSCL officials said three-four theories are floating among people regarding the tags. “The public was made to believe that tags were installed to track the movement of the kin of Covid patients,” said the officials. Speaking to TOI, HDSCL deputy general manager Channabasavaraj said,“We came to know that some false information was spread among the residents. In a bid to educate public about the RFID tracking system, special jingles are being played by the tippers collecting solid waste.” HDSCL special officer Naregal said they are ascertaining the number of destroyed tags. “HDMC commissioner has been informed about the incident. People should not pay heed to rumours or false news,” he said. Official sources in HDSCL said each RFID tag costs around Rs 50. The civic body has installed 67,524 tags till September 11 in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/residents-removes-or-destroy-rfid-tags-following-rumours-of-its-use-for-spying/articleshow/78114099.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 15, 2020||Mysuru||Relocation of temples delays expansion of Mysuru-Bengaluru highway||Mysuru: The pending expansion of the Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway is one of the most awaited infrastructure projects in Karnataka, but it has been delayed significantly, much to the chagrin of residents of both cities. Among the reasons for the delay in the completion of the project is the time National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is executing it, needs to relocate temples that lay in the path of what will be the broadened road. Thus far, NHAI has relocated 20 of the 51 temples that have been identified as being on the path of the highway. One of the temples that NHAI successfully relocated was the 16th century-old Gadde Ranganathaswamy temple near Brahmapura village in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district. The temple had to be shifted in order to facilitate the construction of a new bridge. Since the temple was constructed when the region was under the rule of the Vijayanagara kingdom, NHAI had to obtain approval from not only the Mandya district administration but also from the department of archaeology and museums, given the structure’s antiquity. NHAI superintending engineer Sridhar said that dismantling and relocation of the Gadde Ranganathaswamy temple had posed fewer problems since it was largely about shifting blocks of stone and pillars. The 56.1km-stretch between Kengeri and Nidaghatta in Maddur taluk constituted one phase of the expansion project, while the 61.2km-stretch from Nidaghatta to Mysuru was the next phase, Sridhar said. “We have so far identified 51 temples on either side of the highway. NHAI is regularly coordinating with officials in the district administration in Ramanagara, Mandya and Mysuru. We are obtaining permission from the muzrai and archaeology departments too before relocating temples to safer places,” he added. Sridhar said that, if the officials in the districts along the way help clear hurdles and ease the land acquisition process, work on the expansion of the highway could be expedited. The expansion of the Bengaluru-Mysuru road is a project being executed under the hybrid annuity model (HAM), under which NHAI will contribute 40% of the project cost, while 60% is provided by the developer. The contractor will receive a fixed annual income, while NHAI will manage the toolbooths at Maddur and Mandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/relocation-of-temples-delays-expansion-of-mysuru-bengaluru-highway/articleshow/78112115.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mangaluru||MIA revival: Puttur teen spearheads 12-hour Twitter campaign||Mangaluru: At 17, when teens his age are busy with academics, this lad from Puttur is busy drumming up support for Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). A student of Ambika PU College, Prasad (name changed on request) will launch #FlyFromIXE, a Twitter campaign on Tuesday with other like-minded people interested in ensuring that the all-weather connectivity to this coastal city by road, rail and air increases optimally. The 12-hour campaign from 6am will strive to draw the attention of the authorities concerned to the declining air traffic at MIA. MIA, which was the second busiest airport in Karnataka after Kempegowda International Airport (KIA, Bengaluru), has slipped one place, and lost the spot to Belagavi airport. Aiding Prasad in this regard will be @mlrairportusers, a Twitter page dedicated to MIA regulars. Supporting Prasad’s campaign idea is the data that MIA authorities shared with TOI. Presently, MIA is handling 72 domestic and 16 international movements per week. It was 196 domestic and 72 international movements same time last year. MIA airport director V V Rao said flights will pick up once educational institutions reopen in the education hub. Incidentally, Prasad also aired his concern on the Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) that department of administrative reforms and public grievances monitors. Airports uthority of India that operates MIA said: “Your complaint, suggestion on CPGRAMS (PMOPG/E/2020/0788812) was examined. For increasing in flights and connectivity to various destinations, we informed airlines.” Prasad said with talks of an airport coming up at Karwar and Kannur International Airport (started in December 2018) attracting passengers in terms of services and amenities, only concerted efforts by all stakeholders can help revive the dwindling fortunes of MIA. “We received the least number of Vande Bharat Mission flights compared to Kannur,” he said, adding this is a clear warning sign on the need for the revival of MIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mia-revival-puttur-teen-spearheads-12-hour-twitter-campaign/articleshow/78112044.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 15, 2020||Agra||RTE violation: No teacher for 128 kids in Agra's juvenile observation home||Agra; In violation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act, the basic education department has removed teachers deputed at the state government's juvenile observation home at Siroli village in Agra district. For the past two months, the 128 children in conflict with law lodged there have been deprived of lessons. The three teachers attached with the observation home till June-end have returned to their base schools on the orders of the basic shiksha adhikari (BSA).It is learnt that the block education officer (Jaitpur Kalan) has also issued a notice to the superintendent of state government's children home for orphans to relieve the only teacher on duty at the centre. There are 28 children above 5 years and below 10 years lodged at the centre. Rajeev Yadav BSA, said, “Following orders of the director general (school education) attachment of teachers at the juvenile observation home and children home were cancelled. The teachers were asked to join duty at their base school. We have sought directions from higher authorities for teaching-learning of children lodged at both the centres.” The teachers at the juvenile home and children home for orphans were appointed by the basic education department following the orders of the Allahabad High Court. Child rights activist Naresh Paras, associated with the NGO, Mahfooz, had moved a PIL in the high court for appointment of teachers at both centres in 2008. Talking to TOI, Paras said, “Removing teachers on duty at the juvenile observation home and children home is a clear violation of the RTE and orders of the high court. I have sent a letter in this regard to the district administration. I will be taking up the matter with the National Commission for Protection of child Rights.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rte-violation-no-teacher-for-128-kids-in-agras-juvenile-observation-home/articleshow/78111778.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Much sought-after sevas resume at Kukke Subrahmanya||Mangaluru: Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple, the highest revenue-earning temple under the muzarai department in the state, formally restarted its much sought-after sevas — Sarpa Samskara, Naga Pratishte and Ashlesha Bali — on Monday. Owing to strict conditions laid down on account of the pandemic, the number of Sarpa Samskara and Naga Pratishte sevas is limited to 30 each, while 60 Ashlesha Bali sevas will be conducted in two batches of 30 each. Temple executive officer M H Ravindra told TOI that the temple is giving preference to those who have booked for these sevas online. “There will be no manual booking for any of these sevas. Also, the number of Mahapuja and Panchamrutha Abhisheka is restricted to 10 each. Only two members will be allowed inside the temple for the sevas,” Ravindra said. The temple will not permit new Sarpa Samskara sevas till the online bookings are exhausted, he said, adding there won’t be special Ashlesha Bali seva in evenings. In view Covid-19 guidelines, devotees performing sevas will be permitted to stay at the temple lodging for two days and others for one day. ‘Anna prasada’ (lunch) will be served only to those offering the seva. The darshan timings, subject to last-minute changes, have been altered. Accordingly, devotees can now have darshan from 6.30am to 11.30am, 12.15pm to 1.30pm, 3.30pm to 7pm, and 7.30pm to 8pm. The temple was kept open from 8.30am to 5.30pm since rules permitting temples to open under Unlock were announced, Ravindra said, adding devotees should wear masks and compulsorily undergo thermal screening before entering the temple premises. The temple that netted Rs 98.90 crore during FY 2019-20 is seeing footfalls of around 3,000-4,000 devotees as against 6,000-10,000 during pre-Covid times on weekdays, he said. The temple is the abode of Nagas where puja is offered to Lord Subrahmanya with serpent king Vasuki. The temple is believed to offer solace for salvation from any sort of Naga doshas and attracts devotees — commoners and celebrities — alike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/much-sought-after-sevas-resume-at-kukke-subrahmanya/articleshow/78113821.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 15, 2020||Agra||SP workers stage protest against Yogi govt||Agra: Samajwadi Party workers staged protests in Aligarh and Mathura on Monday to raise their voice against the state government’s failure to address issues pertaining to the plight of farmers, unemployment, rising cost of education and corruption. The protest was a part of an agitation launched by the party across the state. The workers submitted a memorandum with the district magistrate for the Governor demanding employment for youth and education for poor children. They threatened to intensify their protests if their demands are not met. A police team tried to persuade them to disperse, but the protestors did not relent and continued to raise anti-government slogans. Aligarh police later booked 112 SP workers, including 12 identified ones, for violating prohibitory orders and under section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sp-workers-stage-protest-against-yogi-govt/articleshow/78111785.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Meerut||1 bootlegger caught, 2 flee after police raid nets 40 liquor cartons, illegal arms||Muzaffarnagar: Police arrested a liquor trafficker in an encounter at Muzaffarnagar’s Charthawal area on Monday, and seized 40 cartons of illicit liquor and illegal weapons from his possession. According to sources, the incident occurred on Monday morning, after police were tipped off. They laid a trap and raided an isolated spot in Saidpur village. On seeing the cops, the accused fired at them and tried to escape. But after a long chase, police managed to arrest one bootlegger and seized a pick-up carrying 40 cartons. Later, the arrested accused was identified as Amit, who has several criminal cases registered against him. Police have now launched an investigation and pressed a police team to arrest the rest of the culprits. According to the deputy superintendent of police, “Preliminary investigation has revealed the accused and his associates used to smuggle liquor into Uttar Pradesh and have dozens of cases against them at various police stations. Further investigation is being conducted, and action will be taken accordingly.” ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/1-bootlegger-caught-2-flee-after-police-raid-nets-40-liquor-cartons-illegal-arms/articleshow/78111851.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese students enrolled in colleges in U’khand not able to appear in Kumaun Univ exams||Pithoragarh: A number of Nepalese students enrolled in degree colleges in Champawat and Pithoragarh districts have been finding it difficult to appear in Kumaun University examinations which started from Monday. While most of the students who are stuck in their home country due to Covid-19 restrictions were not able to appear in the exams, a few who did make it, had to struggle to cross the border. A student, who did not wish to disclose his identity, told TOI that he managed to reach Pithoragarh after swimming across the Mahakali river (which acts as a natural border between the two countries). To recall, all entry points between Nepal and India were closed from March 23 onwards when the lockdown was initiated. Estimates are that around 200 Nepalese students are enrolled in degree colleges in the two districts. When queried, BC Pant, principal of the degree collage at Baluakot, said that the students from Nepal studying in his college had not contacted the college authorities yet. “If they contact us, we will take action on the matter,” he said. Yogesh Bhatt, a student leader, though said that district officials had been apprised of the problems faced by the Nepalese students and had been requested to find a solution. CD Sutha, principal of LSM degree college in Pithoragarh meanwhile said that “if students from Nepal are unable to appear in the exam due to Covid restrictions, they will get second chance in November to appear for the examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-students-enrolled-in-colleges-in-ukhand-not-able-to-appear-in-kumaun-univ-exams/articleshow/78110839.cms||Prem Punetha
September 15, 2020||Patna||SC panel lauds road safety measures taken up by Patna||PATNA: The Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety on Monday appreciated the Bihar’s strategy and said it emerged as a standard model for all other states. The committee, chaired by Justice (retd) Abhay Manohar Sapre, praised Bihar’s road safety model at its review meeting through videoconferencing attended by Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar, transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, additional chief secretary (road construction department) Amrit Lal Meena, ADG (CID) and state transport commissioner among other officials. Briefing the SC panel about the steps taken by the state government, the chief secretary said: “Various training programmes for drivers and traffic police are being organized by the transport department. Besides, a special vehicle testing campaign is being conducted in several districts. Areas prone to road accidents have been being identified and strategies have been formulated to mitigate road accidents in those areas. The entire transport enforcement system has been equipped with hand-held devices.” Later, the transport secretary told this newspaper: “There has been a negative growth in road accidents since the last four quarters. The negative growth has been registered after a gap of five years. Hence, it is a big achievement for us.” He added: “During last year’s review meeting, the committee wasn’t impressed with our model. But this year they have lauded our framework. We have worked in tandem with other departments of the state to bring down the rate of accidents. We will deploy the same framework for road safety in the coming quarters to reduce the number of road accidents even further.” The committee was also informed about the transport arrangements made by the state government to bring migrant workers during Covid pandemic. Justice Sapre was also impressed by the presentation made by the transport secretary and lauded him for carrying out excellent coordination with other departments in the state to bring down the number of road accidents in the last four consecutive quarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sc-panel-lauds-road-safety-measures-taken-up-by-patna/articleshow/78114364.cms||Arunima Lal
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||State still undecided on reopening of schools||Ahmedabad: The state government is undecided on the re-opening of schools this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said sources. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama met reprsentatives of various schools, sources said, but the meeting remained inconclusive. The schools made their representations with some suggesting reopening after the Diwali vacations while others suggested that they open next year. “The minster heard the representations but no decision has been taken so far,” said a senior government official. The Centre had earlier sought feedback from parents on re-opening of schools. The latest guidelines say students of Classes IX to XII can visit their schools next week if they have doubts that need to be clarified. In a letter to education secretaries of all states, the central ministry directed them to seek feedback about when to reopen schools and what changes they expect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-still-undecided-on-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78114403.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 funeral system under stress in South Goa||MARGAO: The already strained Covid funeral management system in South Goa is now bursting at the seams following a spike in deaths and not enough space to cremate the bodies. The Mathagramastha Hindu Sabha that runs the Pajifond crematorium — the designated Covid crematorium — has allowed the district administration to use only two slots for funerals of Covid victims of any faith only between 5pm and 6pm. This makes scheduling of more than two funerals a challenge for the funeral management team of the ESI-Covid hospital. To add to the problem, the team has also been additionally tasked with overseeing the arrangements at the third Covid hospital at the new South Goa district hospital. Besides ESI hospital, the team also handles funeral arrangements of victims from Hospicio, Margao and Goa Medical College, as also home isolation patients from South Goa. “With the number of patients succumbing to Covid-19 rising, the authorities should ensure availability of enough space for disposal of Covid bodies. Else, it is likely to throw the system into a disarray,” a source in the ESI-Covid hospital said. As earlier reported by TOI, due to the spike in Covid deaths, an increasing number of Covid bodies are required to be cremated. Earlier this month, South Goa collector Ajit Roy had told all sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to write to the panchayats in their respective jurisdiction asking them to reserve a certain portion in the crematoriums managed by them so that Covid bodies could be cremated by earmarking a time slot for the purpose. Sources, however, said that there hasn’t been much headway into the matter, with local bodies resisting attempts to conduct funerals of Covid victims in the crematoriums managed by them. Sources in in the health department have stressed on the need for putting in place pragmatic solutions for disposing unclaimed Covid bodies. Nevertheless, the storage capacity of the morgue at the ESI hospital is likely to be enhanced soon, with a new unit consisting of nine cabinets proposed to be commissioned soon. Trial runs of the new unit are under way, sources said. TOI had earlier pointed out how the shortage of morgue cabinets was causing hardships for both the kin of the deceased and the funeral management team. As the hospital’s morgue has storage capacity of just eight cabinets, making space available for more bodies in case of a spike in deaths turns out to be an uphill task for the team of administrative and medical officers dealing with the funerals at the ESI hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-funeral-system-under-stress-in-south-goa/articleshow/78115597.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 15, 2020||Meerut||3 assailants attack collection agent, flee with bag having Rs 2.18L||Meerut: Three armed bike-borne assailants waylaid a collection agent, Shahzad, on way to deposit money in a bank on his scooter, attacked him and decamped with Rs 2.18 lakh in Bulandshahar's Gulawati area on Monday morning. The assailants hit Shahzad, a collection agent at a local firm, on the head with the butt of a pistol, snatched the cash bag and fled the spot. An aide, Aurangzeb, who was riding on the pillion, escaped unhurt, police said. Atul Srivastava, Bulandshahr SP (City), said police are investigating the case. All CCTV footage from the area is being scanned to ascertain the identity of the assailants, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-assailants-attack-collection-agent-flee-with-bag-having-rs-2-18l/articleshow/78111870.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||Alcoholic killed by wife, minor son in Pilibhit, arrested||Pilibhit: With the arrest of a woman and her 12-year-old son, Pilibhit police has claimed to have solved the murder of a 40-year-old farmer from a village under Madhotanda police station Giving details, SHO Shahroz Anwar said the deceased's brother filed a complaint with police that the family of five members had gone missing on September 5. On September 8, a special operation group (SOG) found the farmer's body hidden under the heap of straw in his house. Electronic surveillance traced the farmer's wife, 35, in Bihar. A team went there to investigate and the woman confessed to the crime, the SHO said. The woman said she and her three sons were fed up with the torture and abuse by her husband, an alcoholic and womaniser. She claimed that on the night of September 4, her husband came home drunk and fell unconscious. Taking advantage of his condition, she claimed to have hit him on the head with a shovel and her oldest son slit his throat. After hiding the body, she and her children fled to her maternal home in Bihar. The woman has been sent to jail while the minor boy sent to Kishor Sadan (jail for minors) in Bareilly after being produced before the juvenile justice board, SHO Anwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/alcoholic-killed-by-wife-minor-son-in-pilibhit-arrested/articleshow/78110861.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Meerut||Hundreds from west UP march to Gzb to protest ‘unequal’ land rates for Del-Meerut e-way||Meerut: Hundreds of bare-chested villagers from western Uttar Pradesh took out a padyatra from Meerut to Ghaziabad protesting against “unequal compensation” given to them for their land acquired for the Delhi-Meerut Expressway’s Dasna-Meerut section. The padyatra started from Solana village in Meerut and was due to reach Ghaziabad collectorate late on Monday.At several spots, there were heated exchanges between police and farmers, but the protesters kept marching ahead.The protesters belong to 19 villages of Meerut, Modinagar and Moradabad who are demanding compensation for their land at "a similar rate as has been given to residents of Ghaziabad’s Dasna village".Amit Gurjar, one of the agitators, told TOI, “We are protesting against the partiality meted out to us while giving compensation for our land acquired for the expressway. While the villages in Dasna were given the rate of Rs 8,500 per square yard, we were given just Rs 3,500 and in some villages here at Rs 4,500 per yard. This is unacceptable.”Although the villagers had been holding agitations and mahapanchayats for quite some time, they got a boost when the Samajwadi Party workers also joined them on Monday.This comes days after Union minister for MSMEs and road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari tweeted that the “Delhi-Meerut Expressway will be completed in December 2020”.In a recently held meeting, the Meerut divisional commissioner had also asked all the authorities concerned to ensure completion of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway by “December 31 at all costs”.The expressway project is divided into four phases. Two of them –phase 1 (Akshardham Temple to UP Gate) and phase 3 (Dasna to Hapur) – are complete. Phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) and Phase 4 (Dasna to Meerut) are under construction. According to Arvind Kumar, manager (technical), NHAI, “Phase 2 which is 19.2 km is about 75% complete while phase 4 which is 32 km is close to 85% complete.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hundreds-from-west-up-march-to-gzb-to-protest-unequal-land-rates-for-del-meerut-e-way/articleshow/78111882.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Quarantine to be deemed ‘duty’ for docs||Ahmedabad: In a notification issued on Monday, the state health & family welfare department announced that the quarantine period of doctors after Covid-19 service will be considered ‘on duty.’ The state has the Gujarat Epidemic Regulation 2020 in effect since March 13 under which medical services are covered, said department officials. “In a hearing on the duty of doctors and health workers during Covid-19 at the Supreme Court, the issue emerged of considering the quarantine period as leaves in some cases,” mentioned the notification. “In this regard, the department of personnel and training (DoPT) has decided to consider this period as ‘on duty’.” The state will follow the same interpretation, said sources. A senior doctor with a government hospital in Ahmedabad said that they already have 10-5-10 model in practice where doctors perform duty for 10 continuous days in Covid-19 wards, then go into five-day quarantine, and then carry out 10 days of duty in non-Covid wards. “The notification will ensure duty continuity and reduce discrepancies at the finance department level,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/quarantine-to-be-deemed-duty-for-docs/articleshow/78114402.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Meerut||Meerut girl who fled home to dodge marriage is a PCS officer 7 yrs later||MEERUT: Sanju Rani Verma, then 28 years old, was not sure of the perils waiting outside when she left her home after a fight. But she was very sure of those lurking indoors, if she stayed. In 2013, after her ailing mother passed away, Sanju was told to leave the college midway and get married. By then she had completed graduation from Meerut’s RG Degree College and was pursuing post-graduation from Delhi University. As the pressure to “settle down” mounted, she found herself at the crossroads. She had to choose between the family life and her dream. Seven years on, Sanju has no regret that she followed her dream. Last week, she found her name among the list of candidates who had cracked the prestigious state Public Service Commission (PSC) exam. “That year (in 2013) I not only left home, but also the PG course which I was pursuing from DU. There was no money. I took a room on rent and started teaching children. I also got part-time teaching jobs at private schools. Somehow I continued my studies for civil services exams,” Sanju says. She cleared the UPPSC-2018 exam, the result of which was declared last week. And she will soon be joining the service as a commercial tax officer. But, Sanju has her eyes fixed at a higher goal. “I was expecting the post of sub-divisional magistrate. My final aim is to crack the civil services exam and become a district magistrate,” she says. Sanju appeared more content, less bitter now. Recalling the days preceding her decision of leaving the home, she says, “My mother had passed away just a few days ago and my family started building up pressure to get me married. I tried to explain my point but all in vain. It was then that I decided that they cannot see the things from my perspective and I would rather live by my own because I was not ready to settle for anything less.” “They (the family) were upset with me because I started living by myself. But I know they will be happy to see me getting the respect as an officer. I am very much aware about my responsibilities and want to support my family in every way possible. But I do not understand the societal pressure… not letting your daughters study and marrying them off.” Sanju took coaching from Meerut and her teacher Abhishek Sharma has been instrumental in her success. “I remember how the mains got postponed just 18 days before the scheduled day. And I was extremely happy about it because I was suffering from chicken pox. The exam went well and I was sure that I will clear it this time,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/being-forced-to-get-married-girl-leaves-meerut-home-returns-7-years-later-as-pcs-officer/articleshow/78111876.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||State advisory board for open pandal this Puja||KOLKATA: The Global Advisory Committee that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had constituted in April to guide the state government on Covid response policy has suggested ‘open pandals’ during Durga Puja to ensure proper air circulation and minimise the threat of the virus’s spread. Announcing this at the state secretariat on Monday, Banerjee said the proposal had been accepted by her government and would be given further shape when a meeting of puja organisers is convened by Kolkata Police on September 25. The proposal by the GAC essentially calls for pandals that are open on three sides to prevent crowding. It also suggests the deity be placed in such a way that it is easily visible from outside. The GAC comprises Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, WHO communicable diseases former director Dr Swarup Sarkar, Centres for Disease Control and Prevention former director Dr Thomas Frieden, chairperson of the state medical advisory committee Dr Sukumar Mukherjee and IPGMER hepatology department head Dr Abhijit Chowdhury, among others. TimesViewThe focus on Bengal’s biggest festival is welcome. There will have to be some compromises if we have to ensure that it is not followed by a fresh spurt in cases. We are seeing successive waves of infection in several other countries and will have to guard against that.“Durga Puja is approaching. More than a lakh Pujas are held across the state. It is a big challenge. The global committee has advised that open pandals be erected so that there is adequate air circulation and called for a survey of the puja venues. We have accepted the suggestion and will discuss it further at the stakeholders’ meet on September 25,” the CM said. Organizers of several big-budget pujas in Kolkata welcomed the proposal and said they would adhere to the norms and ensure that the idol is visible from a distance to prevent crowding. Naktala Udayan Sangha, a traditional crowd puller, will this year design the pandal in such a way that visitors will not need to enter inside to get a darshan of the Goddess. “We will ensure that no gathering takes place at our Puja. We will also arrange for display of entire puja proceedings through multiple large screens to discourage visitors from gathering near the puja site,” said Bappaditya Dasgupta, one of the key organizers of puja committee. Tridhara near Deshapriya Park, another major attraction in south Kolkata, will also follow the same pandal norm. “We are keeping this year’s puja at its simplest form to observe safety norms during the pandemic. Instead of creating a full-fledged pandal, we will create a platform and worship the divine mother in a traditional manner,” said Debasish Kumar, president of the committee. Chetla Agrani will not allow visitors’ entry into the park where the puja is held. “We will erect the pandal like an open-air stage to enable visitors to view the Durga idol and the theme from the road,” said a member of the organizing committee. College Square Sarbojanin puja will develop the pandal in such a way that the idols are visible from outside. “Our thrust is on traditional puja with modest decoration, illumination,” said Somnath Mullick, joint secretary of puja committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-advisory-board-for-open-pandal-this-puja/articleshow/78114377.cms||Saikat Ray
September 15, 2020||Meerut||Student wings of SP, RLD hold protest against ‘rising crime & unemployment'||Meerut: Student wings of Samajwadi Party (SP) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Monday held a protest at collectorate premises here against what they alleged rising crime, unemployment and pending cane dues. They also handed over a memorandum addressed to the UP’s governor highlighting all the issues they were holding the protests for. Heavy police force was deployed at the main gate of the collectorate as protestors on tractors tried to force their way inside. Senior police officers tried to pacify the agitators. The SP’s district unit has been up in arms against the BJP government. Senior SP functionaries Rajpal Singh and Atul Pradhan have led protests, first against recovery of fake NCERT books and recently over the deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor. The party is planning to hold a ‘mahapanchayat’ on September 16 if their demands of compensation to the families of the deceased and strict action against culprits are not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/student-wings-of-sp-rld-hold-protest-against-rising-crime-unemployment/articleshow/78111901.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||No more Covid 19 random testing in main vegetable market||Rahul Tawar Ludhiana: Protest by local vendors and arhtiyas (commission agents) of the city’s main vegetable market (Jalandhar bypass) forced members of the district marketing committee and health officials to discontinue random testing for Covid-19 inside the market premises on Monday. Members of the Arhtiya association and local vendors objected to the test claiming that the initiative dissuaded local vendors and others from visiting the vegetable market. They said many people were reluctant to get themselves tested for Covid-19. Vinod Sharma, general secretary of district marketing committee said, “After a meeting with district administration authorities along with the state marketing committee, we have decided not to conduct random sampling inside the market premises as we are getting daily inputs from local vendors and arhtiyas about financial losses suffered due to lack of adequate response from local visitors. They are refraining from visiting the vegetable market for sale and purchase.” With this, local vendors hope that footfall in the vegetable market will increase. Rajwinder Singh, a local vendor said, “In the past one week, all local vendors and Arhtiyas faced a tough time due to very low turnout of customers. A large quantity of vegetables was spoiled as it could not be sold to vendors. Many were wary of coming to the vegetable market amid baseless rumours.” Gurkamal Singh, Arhtiya of the main vegetable market said, “Local vendors and arhityas are happy with the decision of the district administration and marketing committee to discontinue random sampling inside vegetable market premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-more-covid-19-random-testing-in-main-vegetable-market/articleshow/78113076.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Inscribed 9th century grinding stone found in Andipatty||CHENNAI: A ninth century old grinding stone with ancient Tamil inscriptions has been found on top of a rock in Andipatty, 60km from Madurai, on the ancient Chera trade route. The inscription in Tamil which reads, “Thenmuttanattu Kannimangalam Kudiyan Sevadi Iduvicha Chekku” (The grinding stone was installed by Kudiyan in Kannimangalam of Thenmuttanattu). “The grinding stone with inscriptions is significant because it belongs to the 9th century. The name “Kannimangalam” may be the place near Madurai called Kinnimangalam where a memorial slab with Tamil Brahmi inscriptions were found recently,” said K T Gandhirajan, a rock art expert who found the grinding stone a week ago. Since the inscription is in ancient Tamil, Gandhirajan took the help of senior epigraphist S Rajavelu to decipher it. “The villagers might have used this grinding stone for extracting oil. There are chances that they might have used it for making medicines as well. The inscriptions say the grinding stone was installed in the name of god — Kudiyan. It is significant as it falls on the ancient Chera trade route,” said Rajavelu. Normally, these types of grinding stones are donated to places of worship by the chieftains of a region. The idea is to use it for common use. “This grinding stone belongs to the Pandya period. If we study the inscriptions in connection with the ones found nearby, we will be able to find its importance,” he said. Though grinding stones are found across Tamil Nadu, no one has come forward to study them in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/inscribed-9thc-grinding-stone-found-in-andipatty/articleshow/78114392.cms||M T Saju
September 15, 2020||Meerut||Illegal arms units busted in Bijnor & Amroha, two held||Bijnor: Police in Bijnor and Amroha busted two illegal arms manufacturing units in their respective areas of jurisdiction and seized 36 country-made weapons and arrested two men. An accomplice of one of them managed to escape. Police say crackdown on illegal arms manufacturing units have increased as there is a huge demand for illegal arms because of the forthcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, "After receiving a tip-off, police on Monday raided Daranagar jungle area and arrested a man, identified as Shakir Ahmed of Bhoganwala village. His accomplice Galib managed to give police the slip. Police seized 21 finished and unfinished weapons, as well as equipment used in making illegal arms. A hunt is on to nab the absconding accused." There are three criminal cases against Galib and seven against Shakir in different police stations of the region, said police. The Amroha police busted an illegal arms manufacturing unit at Pakharpur Colony in Dhanora Mandi town area. The factory was being operated from a dilapidated building. Amroha superintendent of police Vipin Tada said, "Police have seized 15 illegal arms on Monday and arrested an accused, identified as Jubair of Katara mohalla."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/illegal-arms-units-busted-in-bijnor-amroha-two-held/articleshow/78111893.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t take advantage of fee waivers, HC to parents||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court on Monday urged parents who can afford the original school fees not to take advantage of the waivers proposed by school committees so that the schools can pass on the financial relief to parents who need it more on case-to-case approach. The HC also suggested that three parents, who will be part of the school fee committees, be decided by lottery. On an appeal by six CNI schools that they be exempted from submitting their school accounts to the HC-appointed two-member committee, the HC said these schools can “form a committee on similar lines” and suggest whether any concession can be granted. The HC said if the schools agree to this “the accounts of such schools need not be presented before any expert committee set up by this court but the individual parent-teacher committee of the individual school may suggest the extent of concession and the same may be accepted by the court”. The HC will hear the case on September 16. Six CNI schools — La Martiniere Schools, St James, Pratt Memorial, St Thomas Howrah, St John’s Diocesan School — had moved the Supreme Court and appealed that as minority unaided institutions they enjoy special status and should not be asked to reveal their accounts to the HC appointed expert committee. The CNI schools have told court that they have already given concessions in fees to students and not a single student has been debarred from classes for non-payment. But, many students are yet to pay the reduced fees as per the court’s orders. The HC is presently hearing a PIL by Vineet Ruia to look into concessions in school fees that can be extended to parents as they are facing financial hardships amid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-take-advantage-of-fee-waivers-hc-to-parents/articleshow/78114393.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Yeola to get dedicated hospital to treat coronavirus patients||Nashik: The district administration will set up a dedicated covid hospital (DCH) at the Yeola rural hospital following the increase in Covid-19 deaths, complications in transporting critical patients to Nashik and also the availability of beds there. This DCH, which will be equipped with oxygen and ventilators beds, will be the first DCH outside Nashik city. This decision comes after district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal’s instruction to the administration to take stock of the Covid situation in Yeola, said a senior health officer of Yeola rural hospital. Officials said, “Though there are lesser number of Covid patients, number of deaths are more which is mainly due to patients coming in late for treatment.” The health officer said the DCH will be a 50-bed facility. The construction of Yeola rural hospital’s extension where the arrangement of 50 beds will be made is underway. A centralized oxygen pipeline will also be installed there.  Currently, non-covid patients are undergoing treatment in the ground floor of the hospital. The officer said there are quite a few private physicians in Yeola city and with their services, the critical patients can be treated at the DCH. Medical officers said, “ Despite awareness being raised, a large number of people are still reluctant to get themselves checked if they have contracted the infection. By the time they get themselves checked, their condition deteriorates.” Due to the problems of rushing critical patients to Nashik and the issue of bed availability there, it has been decided to set up a separate DCH in Yeola. Currently, in Yeola taluka, there is a 100-bed covid care centre (CCC) in Babhulgaon, 30-bed dedicated covid healthcare centre (DCHC) in Nagarsul and another DCHC is coming up in Bharam, apart from the proposed DCH in Yeola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/yeola-to-get-dedicated-hospital-to-treat-coronavirus-patients/articleshow/78240891.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 15, 2020||Kochi||Jaleel lied to the media but chief minister defends him||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that investigating agencies had called K T Jaleel for finding facts and not questioning. There was no need for him to resign just because he appeared before the agencies. In the past, no one resigned just because an investigating agency called that person for verifying facts, he added. “Investigating agencies had received several complaints from various quarters and hence Jaleel was called to find facts. The issue was relating to Qurans that were supplied through the UAE consulate,” said the chief minister. While reiterating that the investigation by central agencies in gold smuggling case is progressing in the right direction, he said several false allegations were being fabricated against Jaleel and others. The media is propagating this fabricated news created by certain sections with ulterior motives. “Media should not fall prey to false campaign. Is there any truth in the campaign against Jaleel? What wrong has he done? Jaleel as a minister (minorities) accepted the Quran from the UAE consulate and distributed it. There is no need for him to resign for doing the same,” said Vijayan. He also criticized the sensational way in which a section of the media reported an incident – industry minister E P Jayarajan’s wife opening a bank locker on Monday. “She was a senior manager of the bank and she might have a locker there. Is it a crime to have such a locker? Reports are that investigating agencies have started a probe in this matter. Who told this? Is there any truth in it? Everything is being fabricated,” he said. But, he didn’t comment on the allegations against the sons of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and E P Jayarajan. The chief minister said he too was a victim of false propaganda. “All these are calculated campaigns against the government. Since there is nothing to allege against the government, now they use this as a new propaganda to tarnish its image,” he said. On Centre’s statement made in Lok Sabha that gold was sent to Trivandrum airport via diplomatic baggage, Vijayan said that Union minister V Muraleedharan commented on it earlier though he was not aware of what was happening. Vijayan alleged that there was a planned attempt to destabilise the peaceful atmosphere in state and create law and order issues, by a section of the political leaders. A similar attempt was made against Jaleel when he returned to the capital. The road blockade at Parippally by Yuva Morcha, by placing a car across the road, cannot be seen as a mode of agitation but a dangerous move which cannot be justified. The state has seen several agitations, but this cannot be treated as one. Similarly, Youth Congress activists at Sasthamcotta behaved in an indecent way against MLA Kovoor Kunjumon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jaleel-lied-to-the-media-but-chief-minister-defends-him/articleshow/78113127.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||PUTA elections on September 25, all candidates announced||CHANDIGARH: Stage is all set for the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections: the final list of candidates is out on Monday. The elections are scheduled for September 25 and the result will be declared on September 26 by the returning officer. With the declaration of the final list, members of the various groups of contestants have met to chalk out the agenda and canvassing plans, taking into consideration Covid-19. This year, the group who will win will face the challenge of dent in funding by the Centre and the state, due to which salary of the faculty will be affected. Another area will be pension kitty in which the university is contributing from their resources, which will dry up this fiscal year due to dip in fee and other resources. It is up to Puta now to chalk out a plan for generating funds from various resources of the campus. Vijay Nagpal, returning officer (RO), will also ensure that all precautionary measures, such as sanitisation and social distancing, are followed during the election process. The RO said as social distancing has to be followed, the polling hours has to be increased due to which it is not possible conduct the counting on the same day. So unlike previous years, the counting will be done the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/puta-elections-on-sept-25-result-to-be-declared-next-day/articleshow/78115604.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mumbai||Investors may have been duped of Rs 159 crore: EOW||MUMBAI: City economic offences wing (EOW), probing a Rs 8 crore cheating case against directors of Anugraha stock-broking firm, Teji Mandi Analytics and others, has received many complaints of investors being duped collectively of Rs 159 crore. EOW on September 9 had registered a case of criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy at Juhu police station against Paresh Kariya, director of Anugrah, and Kalap Shah and Anil Gandhi of Teji Mandi for cheating a businessman of Rs 8 crore. “While we were probing an FIR, two applications came to us. In one letter, seven members of an Andheri family alleged they had invested Rs 34 crore with Kariya for trading in shares and were duped. Eighteen others filed the second letter alleging they had been duped of Rs 125 crore,” said a police officer. Senior inspector Rajesh Kelwe is investigating the EOW case. “During a search at Kariya’s office, police seized computer hard disks which had business transaction details. They will be sent to Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory for analysis. A forensic auditor will soon be appointed,” a source said. Anugraha has around 30,000 clients. In the Juhu case, Ashutosh Shah (35) told police he was taken to Anugrah by sub-agent Teji Mandi. The complainant was promised 15% monthly profit/interest. Under Sebi rules, any entity regulated by it cannot guarantee any return to clients. “We are studying the letters. Victims told us they had given power of attorney to Kariya for trading in shares. All clients have accounts. Kariya told us he suffered a loss of Rs 600 crore and he could not return money to clients. He told us the clearing agent firm where Kariya pledged shares worth Rs 400 crore had squared off his pledged shares and sold them at lower prices to compensate its loss. He did not inform clients about the loss in the market,” added the officer. Kariya had also been trading in futures and options on behalf of clients. NSE had suspended the brokerage firm’s operations in the segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/investors-may-have-been-duped-of-rs159cr-eow/articleshow/78114570.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Lawyer convicted for killing husband 2 years ago||KOLKATA: A Barasat fast track court on Monday convicted New Town lawyer Anindita Pal Dey (35) in connection with the murder of her husband Rajat Kumar Dey (34), who was also a lawyer. The Calcutta High Court lawyer had been strangled to death in his sleep by the wire of a mobile charger around 22 months ago. The incident had occurred at the couple’s New Town apartment. Anindita is currently out on bail. The Barasat court on Monday ruled that Anindita was guilty in the murder that had taken place on the night of Novermber 24-25 in 2018. Anindita was found guilty under IPC sections of 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence). The quantum of punishment will be announced on Wednesday. The case is significant because electronic evidence proved to be the clincher, said special PP Bivas Chatterjee. The prosecution completed the entire trial within seven months. The admissibility of the electronic digital evidence in criminal prosecutions influenced the trial of the Rajat Dey murder case, claimed those involved with the case. “The verdict comes eight and a half months after the chargesheet. That would not have been possible without the assistance of digital technology. Digital evidence, including 31 medico legal witnesses, audio enhancement, photograph enhancement, forensic video analysis and the digital enhancement of latent fingerprints have been presented to the court,” Chatterjee said. In addition, there were over 60 documentary and material exhibits. The prosecution used WhatsApp group conversation between the victim, the convict and two just prior to the incident wherein Anindita herself admitted that on the night in question, no one other than she and her husband were present at the apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lawyer-convicted-for-killing-husband-2-yrs-ago/articleshow/78114425.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rape accused attacks cop, flees from Civil||Ahmedabad: Sanjay Vyas, 40, of Ramol who had raped a disabled woman, branded her, and forced her to beg, escaped from police custody on Sunday. He fled from Civil Hospital where he had been taken for a check-up. A complaint has been lodged against the accused by police constable Hemrajsinh Zala of the Nikol police station. Zala was escorting Vyas to the hospital. The FIR was lodged at the Shahibaug police station on Sunday. Inspector V D Zala of the Nikol police station said that the disabled woman had stated in her FIR filed on Saturday that Vyas had met her about eight months ago at her workplace. “The accused promised to marry the woman and raped her several times and then forced her to beg on the streets,” inspector Zala said. “Fed up with the torture, she had approached Nikol police. We then detained Vyas.” According to police sources, constable Zala was entrusted with the job of taking Vyas to Civil Hospital. He along with assistant sub-inspector Dilipsinh Batuksinh took Vyas to the hospital in a van. “According to the FIR, on reaching Civil Hospital, constable Zala brought the accused to the trauma ward,” a police source said. “The doctor instructed them to wait for some time. Vyas told the constable that he wanted to go to the lavatory. At the lavatory, Vyas banged the constable’s head against the washbasin.” When the constable regained consciousness, Vyas was missing. This is the second recent instance of an accused fleeing from Civil Hospital. “About a fortnight ago, another rape accused, Sunil Bhanderi, was admitted to Civil Hospital for Covid treatment,” the police source said. “He escaped from the ward and got himself admitted to a private hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rape-accused-attacks-cop-flees-from-civil/articleshow/78114436.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Chicalim panchayat writes to airport director over waste in nullah||VASCO: The Chicalim panchayat on Monday wrote to the director of the Goa International Airport, Dabolim, that Covid-19 waste material from various airlines was allegedly being dumped into natural water sources at Assoi Dongri, Chicalim and waste water was being released in the water. “A face shields, garbage bags and other Covid-19 related material used by flights operated during the pandemic has been seen scattered in the water source which is highly objectionable,” the panchayat stated in the letter. After a team led by Chicalim sarpanch Seby Pereira inspected the site, the panchayat asked the airport director to direct the flight-operating companies to utilise garbage management facilities at their own cost and not make the panchayat liable for clearing the garbage. The local body also pointed out that waste water was released in the nullah. “We have received repeated complaints from locals that these flights are releasing their waste water directly into the natural water source thereby contaminating the water,” the letter stated. It may be recalled that on August 31, residents of Assai Dongri were shocked to find garbage, including personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and masks, washed into a nullah in their ward. Villagers alleged that the garbage in the nullah was dumped near the grade separator next to the airport on NH 17-B. On September 3, a team from the Margao office of the water resources department (WRD) had held an inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalim-panchayat-writes-to-airport-director-over-waste-in-nullah/articleshow/78115649.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Online or offline: Govt college students get to choose in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Government colleges of Panchkula are all set to conduct final semester examination, both online and offline. Students have been asked to send their consent on the mode of examination they prefer to make arrangements accordingly. According to the officials, directorate of higher education (DHE), Haryana, has asked all colleges in Haryana to conduct examination through online/offline mode at their colleges. For this, all seven colleges of Panchkula district has asked the students who wish to opt for online examination to send their names to them so that they can make arrangements for them. While providing the details of online examination, college authorities said the college will mail the examination paper to the students on their given email id and students can give exam from their homes. The students giving online exams from home will have to scan their answer sheets and will have to submit back to the college authorities within stipulated time given to them on the same mail id from which they will receive the examination paper. If any student fails to submit the answer sheets on time, his/her examination will be cancelled, said authorities On the other hand, those who will opt for the offline mode, will have to come to the college for the examination. The college authorities have already started the process of sanitisation in all the colleges. Students will be called based on the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the central government. Social distancing in the examination halls, sanitisation of hands, answer sheets and wearing mask, among other guidelines, will be followed strictly so that no one can infect others, said the officials. Apart from this, the colleges have also started the admission process for the new batch. The entire process is done online. Students can get all the details related to the admission on the website www.dheadmissions.nic.in. The last date for applying for various UG courses is September 21. On September 25, after document verification, merit list will be prepared and on September 26, first merit list will be listed out. Second merit list will be taken out on September 30. For admission related queries, the DHE has issued a chat number for students 741944449.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-of-7-pkl-govt-colleges-can-choose-online-or-offline-for-giving-exams/articleshow/78115631.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
September 15, 2020||Kochi||Minister trying to save himself using Quran as shield: Firos||Kozhikode: Muslim Youth League (MYL) state general secretary P K Firos said that minister K T Jaleel has telephoned some religious leaders to defend him against the allegations related to the gold smuggling case. Addressing a news conference here on Monday, he said, “How can religious leaders justify gold smuggling. Till now there has not been any controversy over bringing the Quran from other countries. What is being questioned is the act of smuggling gold using the holy book as a shield.” Asked about the report that the Sunni leader Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musaliar is supporting Jaleel, he said the activities of such people also should be seen as mysterious. “Jaleel says that the opposition is demanding his resignation because he brought the Quran. He is trying to save himself by using the Quran and believers as a cover,” Firos said. Firos said that Jaleel, who was interrogated by the Enforcement Directorate, is trying to destroy evidence. “When allegation of gold smuggling in the guise of the holy book was raised for the first time, Jaleel had said that the copies of Quran are safe at Edappal and Alathiyur. But when it was proved that there is a difference in the weight of the parcel, he says that the staff at C-Apt have taken some copies,” Firos said. “He is exerting pressure on the staff to admit that they have taken the copies of the Quran. It is learnt that the minister had a meeting with the managing director of C-Apt on Monday morning,” Firos added. He alleged that there is mystery in transferring the staff at C-Apt on August 11. “This also should be seen as part of the efforts to destroy evidence. There is every possibility that more evidence will be destroyed as long as Jaleel continues as minister,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/minister-trying-to-save-himself-using-quran-as-shield-firos/articleshow/78113156.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 1,043 cases, tally touches 33k mark||Dehradun: With 1,043 fresh infections of Covid-19 reported on Monday, Uttarakhand’s case tally shot up to 33,016. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that besides the 1,043 fresh cases, 15 deaths were also reported in the state on Monday, taking the Covid-19 toll to 429. “The rising cases have shot up the infection rate to 6.5% in Uttarakhand,” added Tripathi. In view of this surge in Covid-19 cases, the state government on Monday issued guidelines regarding the use of Ivermectin medicine for contacts of coronavirus patients. Secretary (health) Amit Negi, through an order, stated that it has been decided that Ivermectin should be given to contact persons of Covid-19 patients to check the threat of possible infection. He added that the decision was taken in a meeting of technical experts under the chairmanship of the Vice-Chancellor of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Uttarakhand Medical Education University. Meanwhile, as many as 1,037 patients recovered from the virus, taking the total number of such cases to 22,077 in the Himalayan state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-1043-cases-tally-touches-33k-mark/articleshow/78111948.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||People coming to Rajkot in buses, trains to be tested||Rajkot: All passengers arriving in Rajkot city in state transport or privates buses will be radomly tested for Covid-19 by the Rajkot Municipal Corproation (RMC).This was decided after meeting of RMC authorities with officials of the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) and private bus operators on MondayThe RMC teams will be deputed at the entry points of the city like Gondal road, Aji dam Chokdi and Kuvadva Chowkdi, where they will randomly conduct the rapid antigen tests on the passengers after stopping the buses. GSRTC divisional manager Yogesh Patel said, “We have decided to cooperate with the RMC in testing the passengers at the entry point of the city.” Meanwhile, RMC also held meeting with railway officials to conduct the tests of the passengers arriving in trains. he RMC team deputed at railway station will conduct the tests of passengers de-boarding the train at Rajkot. Railway will also share address and phone number of the passengers with RMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/people-coming-to-rajkot-in-buses-trains-to-be-tested/articleshow/78113151.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh’s fiscal liabilities rose by 6.41%: CAG||SHIMLA: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s report on Himachal Pradesh government’s accounts tabled in the assembly on Monday has revealed that overall fiscal liabilities at the end of 2018-19 were 54,299 crore, with growth of 6.41% over the previous year. It said that fiscal liabilities were 36% of GSDP and 1.75 times the revenue receipts while total public debt had increased from Rs 25,729 crore in 2014-15 to Rs 736,425 crore in 2018-19, registering an annual average growth rate of 9.60%. The State Finances Audit Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India contains audit observations on the finance and appropriation accounts of the state government for the year 2018-19 and provides an overview of the status of the state government’s compliance with various financial rules, procedures and directives relating to financial reporting. According to the report, share of market borrowings in total public debt went up from 59% in 2014-15 to 65% in 2018-19. During 2018-19, total public debt increased by 5% over the previous year. In the next 10 years, out of total outstanding market loans and UDAY bonds of 26,573 crore, the state has to repay principal of market loans and UDAY bonds of 325,005 crore (94.10 %) and interest amounting to 12,521crore. It said that during 2018-19, the state’s revenue receipts (Rs 30,950 crore) increased by 13% over the previous year (Rs 27,367 crore). Only 33% of the revenue receipts came from the state’s own resources comprising taxes and non-taxes, while the remaining 67.7% was contributed by central transfers comprising the state’s share in central taxes and duties (18%) and grants-in-aid from government of India (49%). It said the supplementary provision of Rs 1,916,49 crore in 12 sub-heads proved unnecessary and inadequate as expenditure either did not come up to the level of original provision or exceeded the total provision leaving an aggregate uncovered excess expenditure. Re-appropriations made proved injudicious in view of excessive surrenders or insufficient augmentation and resulted in excess expenditure of over Rs 617.17 crore in 18 sub-heads and savings of over Rs 196.22 crore under 12 sub-heads (one crore or more in each case).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hps-fiscal-liabilities-rose-by-6-41-in-2018-19-cag-report/articleshow/78114419.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kochi||‘Allegations against my family baseless’||T’puram/Kozhikode: Industries minister E P Jayarajan alleged that a section of the media and political opponents was cooking up false allegations to attack him and his family members. “The allegations levelled against my wife and daughter are without any humanitarian considerations,” Jayarajan, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Kannur, said in a statement. BJP state president K Surendran alleged that Jayarajan’s son was a recipient of commission, along with Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case-accused Swapna Suresh, from the Red Crescent-Life Mission housing complex construction scam. Surendran alleged that the minister’s wife, P K Indira, visited the Kerala Bank’s Kannur branch to shift material evidence linked to the gold smuggling scam. “ Kerala Police and the national agencies should conduct a probe into the incident,” Surendran said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Monday sought an explanation on why Jayarajan’s wife would visit the locker while being in quarantine. “My wife went to the locker of the bank where she had earlier worked to collect the ornaments of our grandchildren as their birthdays fall on September 25 and 27. She was not in quarantine when she visited the bank My sons are earning their livelihood by doing decent work. K Surendran’s alleged corruption against my son is based on a fake media report,” Jayarajan said. Jayarajan also said legal proceedings will be initiated against the newspaper that published reports about his wife and son and Surendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/allegations-against-my-family-baseless/articleshow/78113176.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Stumped by startup rankings, Telangana to lodge protest with Centre||HYDERABAD: India’s startup state Telangana boasts of quite a few innovative firsts in the country’s incubation space, be it the country’s largest incubator T-Hub, first state-led exclusive women’s incubator WE HUB or even the first government-led maker’s lab T-Works. Yet, it has scored a zero in three out of the seven pillars on which states were judged in the second edition of the States’ Startup Rankings 2019 by Union ministry of commerce and industry. State has decided to lodge a protest with Centre over rankings. Telangana scored zero in ‘incubation support’, venture funding support and ‘seed funding support’ and a measly 1% in ‘awareness and outreach’ leaving the government and startup ecosystem stumped. “I’m very surprised as there is enough action on the incubation and connectivity to capital front in Telangana. The score definitely cannot be zero on those counts,” said Sateesh Andra, MD of Hyderabad-based VC firm Endiya Partners. While professor Ramesh Loganathan, head of research outreach and innovation, IIITH, said data does not seem to have been “viewed or collected right”, former TiE Global Board trustee Murali Bukkapatnam said many of these rankings have an inherent bias and don’t reflect the correct picture at times. “I was shocked to see Telangana score zero and Gujarat get 100% on incubation support as support we got in Hyderabad is phenomenally higher than what we received in cities like Bengaluru and Ahmedabad, said T-Hub incubated startup BlueSemi’s founder Sunil Kumar Maddikatla.” “There are four pillars where Telangana has not been scored correctly. We have have already informed Startup India’s state coordinator that we will be registering a protest,” said Telangana IT & industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan.  “Telangana has demonstrated results with women-led enterprises, who have received various support mechanisms, but it’s a bit of a downer that these are not reflected in final outcomes,” said Deepthi Ravula, CEO, WE HUB, Telangana government. State officials said report states only one seat has been allocated to incubation in state though it has 10 state-supported incubators offering a host of facilities to startups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stumped-by-startup-rankings-t-to-lodge-protest-with-centre/articleshow/78114433.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Reconsider unjustified water tariff hike, says Foswac||Chandigarh: After the UT administration recently hiked the water tariff by 200%, the Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (Foswac) has written to the municipal commissioner that RWAs oppose the unilateral and unjustified move. They claimed that water is the basic requirement that should be met by the municipal corporation (MC) as the citizens are already paying a hefty property tax. Foswac also suggested that the MC study Delhi’s successful model of water supply, where water is supplied free of cost. “If any subsidy is provided by the central government should be utilised first before hiking the existing rates,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, Foswac chairman. Bittu also said water supply is inadequate in the city and civic body should consider improving the infrastructure before hiking tariffs. J S Gogia, general secretary of Foswac, said, “The supply of tertiary water is inadequate, erratic and much below quality. The rates being charged are the same as for drinking water. There should be strict enforcement not to use the drinking water for irrigation purposes. It is not fair that 60% of our earnings are robbed by the taxes, which include income tax, GST, fuel petrol & diesel, excise, house tax, water & sewage tax, toll tax, parking electricity cess, cow cess and so on.” Foswac members also said the move is unfair on the citizens of the city, mostly retired people, and should be reconsidered. “Also, the requirement of northern sectors for irrigating lawns should be met strictly from the tertiary water,” Bittu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/reconsider-unjustified-water-tariff-hike-says-foswac/articleshow/78115641.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong walks out over MLA being left inside sealed Kullu SP office||Shimla: Congress MLAs walked out of the Himachal Praesh assembly on Monday, demanding action against Kullu SP for allegedly detaining the party’s local MLA, Sunder Singh Thakur. The issue of BJP workers protesting outside Thakur’s hotel in Kullu last week also became an issue. Sunder Thakur was protesting at the SP office to demand former MP and BJP leader Maheshwar Singh’s arrest over a protest by BJP workers outside the Congress leader’s hotel. When he was protesting, an ASI tested positive for Covid-19 and the SP office was sealed for disinfection, with MLA and his supporters inside. In reply to a calling attention motion passed by leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihtori, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur tried to pacify opposition members, but they staged a walkout. Soon after the legislative assembly began proceedings, following a two-day break, Agnihotri described the act of the SP office being sealed when the MLA and his supporters were inside as police detaining the MLA, even though rules required that the assembly speaker’s permission was needed before detaining a legislator. Agnihotri also cited the chief secretary’s August 31 orders which laid that an entire building or office would not be sealed in case a person tested positive. He added even the power to seal the office lay with the magistrate and not the SP. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar allowed a discussion on the subject and asked the government to reply, but Congress MLAs started raising slogans. In reply, the CM said SP office was sealed for sanitisation and there was no intention to stop someone illegally. On the protest outside the MLA’s office, he said BJP protesters were going to submit a memorandum to the DC over the row around Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow in Mumbai, but the Congress MLA’s hotel came on the way and they protested outside it. He said no one from the BJP entered the hotel. He said the government would ensure protests were not held in front of the houses of ministers and MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-walks-out-over-mla-being-left-inside-sealed-kullu-sp-office/articleshow/78114435.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||With Covid surge, Telangana may face shortage of oxygen cylinders||HYDERABAD: The rapid increase in Covi d cases has not only created a huge demand for oxygen cylinders but has also triggered an increase in prices. According to manufacturers, price of liquid oxygen, which was Rs 10 per cubic metre before the pandemic, has now gone up to Rs 50 per cubic metre. “There is definitely a shortage of oxygen in the state right now because of which it is being imported from other states. The transportation charges are one of the main reasons for increase in the price of liquid oxygen in the last few months as the demand is increasing due to rise in number of cases,” one of the manufacturers told TOI. “As of now, we are procuring oxygen from Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu. Until recently, we also used to import oxygen from Karnataka, but they have decided to stop exporting after facing shortage in their own state. Telangana might face problems in meeting the demand,” he added. When contacted, Drug Control Administration joint director Y Naveen Kumar said, “Currently, price of oxygen per cubic metre is Rs 17.49. Although the suppliers are still maintaining the oxygen price at Rs 17.49 per cubic metre, they are adding transportation and handling charges separately because of which the prices have gone up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-covid-surge-t-may-face-shortage-of-oxygen-cylinders/articleshow/78114440.cms||Moulika.KV
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||HC: Clear air on online exams for PG & UG courses today||Hyderabad: Telangana HC directed the government, commissioner of collegiate education and authorities of various universities to clear the air on the mode of examinations for PG and UG courses in the state by Tuesday. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked advocate general BS Prasad to see to it that a proper announcement from the commissioner of collegiate education is made in the next 24 hours. “All the colleges affiliated to various universities will have offline exams and the autonomous colleges will have online exams,” the judges said while hearing a petition of NSUI president BV Narsinga Rao and others, who are opposing exams during this pandemic. Their counsel C Damodar Reddy said “Parents and students are in a state of panic and online mode of exams will bring some relief.” He also said there were no clear answers on whether the question papers would be the same for both affiliated and autonomous colleges. “Those who are not interested in taking exams can stay back. State government has assured advanced supplementary exams will be held later and those who appear in such examinations too will be treated as regular students,” the judges said. They further said, “We have permitted exams from Class X and PG medical courses. We can’t adopt a different yardstick for PG, UG courses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-clear-air-on-online-exams-for-pg-ug-courses-today/articleshow/78114455.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||Covid coordinators appointed||Rajkot: RMC on Monday appointed 692 covid coordinators in commercial complexes and residential societies of all 18 wards. They have to keep record about the health of the members and if any member is found with Covid-like symptoms they have to report it to the RMC health centres. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-coordinators-appointed/articleshow/78113198.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Class XI admission: Second round begins from Sept 18||Chandigarh: Education department of UT Chandigarh on Monday issued notice for second round of counselling for admission to Class XI in government senior secondary schools for the 2020-21 session. According to the notice, the second round will begin from September 18 onwards. Like the first round, this round will also be online, due to the pandemic. In this round, vacant seats in all four streams — science, commerce, humanities and vocational — will be filled. Also in this round, students who have already been admitted will get a chance to apply for change in school or stream allotted to them in the first round of counselling. Also, students who were allotted school or stream but could not take admission in the same can also apply in this round. Candidates who did not apply for admission earlier, can now apply on the “registration form” by paying registration fees of Rs 130 through online mode. List of vacant seats will be available on the department’s website on September 18 at 10am. Eligibility criteria, procedure for “preparation of merit”, allotment of seats and other details as mentioned in the prospectus will remain the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/class-xi-admission-second-round-begins-from-sept-18/articleshow/78115644.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||Illegally stored ‘crude oil worth Rs 1.4cr seized||Rajkot: A total of 2.50 lakh litre inflammable material worth Rs 1.43 crore, suspected to be crude oil used as substitute for naphtha or biodiesel, was seized from a godown in Nuranipara locality on Gondal Road on the outskirts of Rajkot on Monday. One person was arrested in this connection. Police said they had received a tip-off about the godown in Nuranipara selling off inflammable material in large quantities.“When we raided the godown of Rajshakti Petrochemicals, we found 2.50 lakh litre material which we suspect to be crude oil used as a substitute for either naptha or biodiesel. We arrested Siddharajsinh Zala, the owner of the godown,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group. The police seized nine tanks, two tankers and four electric motors from the spot. “We have called a forensic team to examine the material. We have also called experts from Hindustan Petroleum, Bharat Petroleum and Indian Oil Corporation for the examination of the material,” said Rawal. Rawal said Zala did not have any permission from the government to sell inflammable material, nor did he maintain safety norms inside the godown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegally-stored-crude-oil-worth-rs-1-4cr-seized/articleshow/78114463.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 in Telangana: New cases drop to 1,400 with dip in tests||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday reported 1,427 new coronavirus cases and 13 deaths as Covid testing dipped to 34,427 with authorities blaming it on the weekend lull. While the state tested 60,000 samples last weekend, the numbers came down drastically this weekend. After a long gap, Narayanpet district reported a solitary case and a few others also reported more cases as the total caseload of the state reached 1,58, 513 cases. The death toll rose to 974 but Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continued to see a dip in the number of cases (264) followed by Ranga Reddy (133), Karimnagar (108), Sanga Reddy (107). The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1, 27,007, while 30,532 patients are still under treatment. Overall, the number of samples tested stood at 21, 69,339 and the sample tested per million population was 58,431, the bulletin said. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 80 percent against 77.87 percent in the country. Earlier there were no tests on weekends, but with several people complaining, Telangana has begun testing on Sundays and increased the samples in recent times. While the state tested 60,000 samples last weekend, numbers came down drastically this weekend. Recovery rate rose further to 80% against 78% in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-new-cases-drop-to-1400-with-dip-in-tests/articleshow/78114450.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||90% business-class seats sold on 1st direct Kol-London flight in 11 years||KOLKATA: With barely two days to go, only 40% of the seats have been sold on the first direct flight to London from Kolkata in 11 years. But what’s left the airline as well as travel trade industry officials surprised is the high offtake of business class seats where the occupancy is nearly 90%. This is especially significant because two international carriers — Lufthansa and British Airways — had withdrawn flights from Kolkata, citing lack of business class passengers on the flight although the economy class clocked decent loads. Sources in Air India said 14 out of the 16 business class seats on the Dreamliner flight that is scheduled to take off from Kolkata airport on Thursday had been sold. In contrast, only around 80-odd seats had been sold in the economy class that has a capacity of 218 passengers. The Boeing 787 has a configuration of 18 business class and 238 economy class seats but 20 seats in economy and two in business have been set aside for on-board emergency isolation necessities. The reason behind the sudden surge in demand for business class seats is driven not by rise in business travellers due to any dramatic change in business sentiment but by fliers’ desire for more space in the current Covid scene. “Passengers who would otherwise have travelled in economy class are willing to pay more to ensure social distancing during the flight,” said a travel agent. While an economy class ticket on the Kolkata-London flight starts at Rs 28,000, a business class ticket starts at Rs 91,600 and goes up to Rs 1.4 lakh. Airlines look for higher occupancy in the business class because they offer higher yields. The flight, which was announced less than a fortnight ago, will probably have a passenger count of around 100. AI is hopeful economy class figures will improve once the first flight operates and drives away the lingering doubts over its fate. An airline official also pointed out that it usually takes at least three months for international flights to achieve steady loads after introduction. The AI Kolkata-London flight has only five weeks at hand as it has been approved till October 24. “There are many who want to travel now and return after Durga puja. They are waiting for the flight to become a regular operation beyond October 24. Since the UK is offering all categories of visa, if the flight is extended, we will start attracting tourists and visiting friends and relatives,” said the official. Around 30% passengers on the AI London flight are students. With the airline offering students luggage allowance of 69kg split into three suitcases, it is an attractive proposition for those heading abroad to study. Sources also said around 70 passengers are booked on the first flight from London that will reach Kolkata late on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/90-business-class-seats-sold-on-1st-direct-kol-london-flight-in-11-years/articleshow/78114454.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 15, 2020||Kochi||2 gold smuggling accused in hosp spark political row||Thrissur: The hospitalization of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh and K T Ramees, almost simultaneously, has triggered a political controversy. Opposition alleged that the hospitalization of both the accused is part of a conspiracy to tamper with evidence and to sabotage investigations. The controversies took a turn as Congress MLA Anil Akkara demanded a probe into minister A C Moideen’s alleged visit to the hospital for an unannounced programme, when Swapna was under treatment there. Akkara alleged that Moideen and the district collector visited MCH on September 9, for inaugurating distribution of certificates of Pran project. Akkara said he was not invited for the programme, though he is the MLA of the area and had volunteered to contribute to the project when it was announced. “The medical college authorities did not inform me about the programme, even though I was at the MCH the previous evening. The MP was also not invited to the programme,” Akkara alleged. He alleged that Moideen visited the hospital when interrogation of a prominent person allegedly involved in gold smuggling was impending. Akkara demanded that NIA must watch Moideen’s movements. He also demanded that NIA must place mobile jammers and step up vigil at the MCH ward where Swapna and Ramees are admitted. Meanwhile, the medical board at MCH which met on Monday morning decided to subject Swapna to an angiogram and Ramees to an endoscopy on Tuesday. Both Swapna and Ramees are remand prisoners at different jails at Viyyur. Swapna was admitted to the medical college hospital (MCH) on Sunday evening after she complained of chest pain. Interestingly, Ramees was brought to the MCH within minutes after he complained of stomach problems. There were allegations that Swapna contacted someone using a junior staff’s phone during her stay at MCH. Hospital authorities have decided to collect details of staff on duty in the ward where Swapna was admitted. Their phone call details are also being collected to be submitted to investigating agencies, if they demand, MCH sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-gold-smuggling-accused-in-hosp-spark-political-row/articleshow/78113192.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport reaches post-pandemic peak, handles 30,452 passengers||KOLKATA: The city airport passed a new milestone in its journey back to normal operations when it crossed the 30,000-flyer mark for the first time since restarting services post lockdown. The airport on Sunday catered to 30,452 passengers, up from the previous high of 27,305 flyers on September 10. The Covid season record high followed the lowest passenger figures in over a decade-and-a-half on Saturday, when only three flights arrived in and departed Kolkata and the airport handled barely 535 flyers. The previous day witnessed no passenger as Bengal was under total lockdown on Friday. Nearly all flights flying in and out of Kolkata operated to capacity on Sunday. Currently, 40% pre-pandemic flights are operational. On Sunday, 103 flights took off from Kolkata, while the flight count used to be 230 a day before the lockdown. Airline officials said the loads were particularly high as no one had been able to travel to Kolkata for two days. In addition, flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur that are allowed to operate to Kolkata only three times a week arrived in Kolkata on Sunday. “On Sunday, 14,293 passengers landed in Kolkata by 101 flights, while 16,159 people took off on 103 flights. To get past the 40,000 mark, more flights will have to operate,” an airport official said. The first time the passenger count went past the 20,000-mark this season was in September itself when Kolkata airport recorded a footfall of 25,549 passengers on September 1, the first day the ban on operations from six “Covid hotspot” cities was relaxed and the flight count shot up from 55 to 92. That day, 11,916 passengers had arrived by 92 flights and 13,633 passengers departed by 93 flights. The 10,000-mark was crossed three months prior to that on June 1, when 7,892 passengers had arrived by 58 flights and 6,038 passengers had flown out by 59 flights. That was when the initial embargo on flights to Kolkata was lifted and the flight count had jumped from 18 to 59. For the airport, it’s almost been a roller coaster ride since operations resumed post lockdown on May 28. On nine days, no flight operated out of Kolkata airport due to state-wide lockdown. Also, the state had banned flights from six cities from July 6 as a measure against the spread of Covid-19 from high incidence states Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. The embargo was eased from September 1, with flights being permitted three times a week. In addition, international flights were banned from July 1. The ban was lifted on August 8 but only charter flights have been allowed since. On Wednesday the first Vande Bharat flight will land in Kolkata after over two-and-a-half months. A Vande Bharat flight did fly in and out of the city on Saturday, but it was for a technical halt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-reaches-post-pandemic-peak-handles-30452-passengers/articleshow/78114471.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Sec 26 mandi to resume from today, vistors must follow precautions||Chandigarh: The vegetable market in Sector 26 is all set to function from Tuesday as all preparations have been done on Monday by the officials and the vegetable and fruit suppliers. The police officials and administrative staff of the mandi have already been briefed about the Covid-19 precautions and measures to be taken to avoid the rush. “Since the Mandi is going to resume after a long time, maintaining the norms for its smooth functioning will be our key priority. Detailed orders in this regard have already been circulated to the administrative and police officials concerned. Since the mandi is situated along Bapudham Colony and transport area, which are congested places, the entry will be monitored strictly,” sources said. The authority has already taken some crucial decisions for mandi’s smooth functioning — vegetables and fruit vendors have been separated, so that bulk suppliers of different supplies can avoid congestion and buyers can directly go to vegetables or fruits. Moreover, CCTV cameras have also been installed, enabling officers to monitor the entry and exit of the public. The mandi has been sanitised thoroughly and many vegetable and fruit vendors were seen sprucing up their individual areas, getting ready for Tuesday. “Things were in bad shape but we did not get time to clean and repair our areas. Now we could do that on Sunday and Monday,” said Sitaram, a registered supplier of the mandi. The sanitisation of Sector 17 ISBT has also started soon after the mandi was shifted from there. The ISBT will be handed over to the transport department of the UT now, so that they can resume their services from Wednesday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sec-26-mandi-to-resume-from-today-vistors-must-follow-precautions/articleshow/78115647.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kochi||NIA to question Swapna, Sandeep again||Kochi: Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, the prime accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, would be questioned again by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). NIA on Monday filed a petition seeking custody of the duo along with three other accused at the special court for NIA cases here. Other than Swapna and Sandeep, NIA has also sought the custody of Muhammad Shafi, Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Muhammad Anwar T M. A production warrant was issued by the court based on the NIA’s petition to produce the accused before the court on Tuesday. Sources said that the NIA told the court that the custody of accused persons would be required again to question them based on the analysis of the digital evidence retrieved from mobile phones and laptops. According to the petition filed by NIA, the delay in seeking the custody of the accused was due to the time taken to scrutinize the high volume of data retrieved from the devices and other material evidence collected during the probe. NIA told the court that they need to confront the accused persons with the newly-found evidence and need to probe further into the possibility of existence of the new evidence. Sources, however, said Swapna was unlikely to be produced before the court on Tuesday as she would reportedly be undergoing a medical examination as she has been complaining of chest pain. Shafi was a financier of the racket and Ebrahim used to assist another key accused Jaleel in transporting the gold that reached the airport through the diplomatic channel. Anwar was a middle man who acted as link between the racket and the buyers of the gold. Bail petitions of Anwar and Shafi have been posted for consideration on September 16 and 28, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-to-question-swapna-sandeep-again/articleshow/78113221.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||CBI opposes bail to suspended SHO in graft case||Chandigarh: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday opposed regular bail to suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur in a graft case. The court sought the reply of the CBI. Arguments will take place on Tuesday. The CBI filed its reply, stating Kaur has not been cooperating in the investigation. The CBI further said she even created false evidence in the daily diary report at the Manimajra police station that she had returned from CBI office, Sector 30. The CBI said the CCTV footage of Manimajra police station of June 21 clearly substantiated the allegations of complainant Gurdeep Singh, who alleged the SHO took his signatures under pressure on a blank paper. In her bail application, Kaur said she was falsely implicated in the case and that as per contents of the FIR, no offence under Section 7/7A is made against her. She stated in the application that the case is based on documentary evidence, which are already in the possession of the prosecution and the statement of material witnesses have already been recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-opposes-bail-to-suspended-sho-in-graft-case/articleshow/78115648.cms||Neha Sharma
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Websites of 54 tech colleges affiliated to JNTUH do not work||HYDERABAD: At a time when even small vendors are going digital to attract customers, websites of 54 technical colleges affiliated to JNTUH in Telangana does not work. “I have got my team to check websites of all colleges to see if they are working or not. We noticed that URLs submitted by over 50 colleges are not working,” said M Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH adding that the colleges have time until September 19 to rectify the error. Saying that colleges must maintain websites as per AICTE norms, he said websites are crucial to attract new students and communicate with the existing ones. Faculty, working in these colleges said that colleges URLs suddenly stop working when the managements want to hide some data. “The websites suddenly go down when a faculty questions why their name and photo is displayed on the college’s website when they left college long back or when someone points out certain discrepancies, which can have an adverse effect college’s affiliation or accreditation status,” said a faculty member working at an engineering college in Ghatkeshar. The members of the Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association (TTIEA) said that it is very common for management to take down a page or the entire website at any point in time.“Only when they go for accreditations-- National Board of Accreditation or National Assessment and Accreditation Council, or during affiliation, website shows ghost faculty, exaggerates about its infrastructure or placements. When not needed, they remove all these pages,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, TTIEA. Final year students, who are all set to appear for examinations from September 16, said that they are also facing issues because of the inactive websites. “I tried to get the address of my exam centre from the college’s website, but couldn’t find it. I know have to depend on my faculty or classmates to get the information,” said G Ravalika, a final year MBA student. “No college takes down a website intentionally. This might have happened either due to technical reasons or maybe they have shut their shops,” said K Ramadas, president, Telangana Pharmacy Colleges Management Association. Shocking truth came to the fore after the varsity started verifying URLs submitted by its affiliated colleges over the past week and found they are not available for parents and students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/websites-of-54-tech-colleges-affiliated-to-jntuh-do-not-work/articleshow/78114474.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||LRS rush: One lakh applications filed across state||Hyderabad: Soon after the government rolled out the layout regularisation scheme (LRS), 7,220 applications have been filed from Hyderabad alone, indicating the extent of illegal layouts/plots in the city. Since September 7, the day the scheme was relaunched, 1,08,505 applications have been filed across the state, including Greater Hyderabad limits and gram panchayats. Officials said that on an average, around 700 applicants whose plots fall in GHMC limits are approaching the civic body every day to regularise their plots/layouts. An advance amount of Rs 72 lakh towards LRS fee for the 7,220 applications has already been paid. The last date to file the applications is October 15. Officials said once an application is approved, the owner will have to pay the complete fee. MAUD officials said the number of applications would steadily rise in the coming days. “We are expecting over one lakh applications across the state. After the approval, the applicants will have to pay the fee before January 2021,” said a MAUD official. Applicants rushing to regularise their plots can be attributed to the recent memo issued by the registration and stamps department. The new memo mandates that only regularised plots are eligible for registration. Applicants can apply by visiting MeeSeva centres or by logging on to https://lrs.telangana.gov.in/ Applications can also be submitted by visiting GHMC’s citizen service centres where the officials will accept the applications only if the land is located in GHMC limits. As per norms, only those layouts and sub-division of plots with registered sale deed/title deed existing as on August 2020 would be considered for regularisation, officials explained. Applicants should furnish copies of the sale deed/title deed. For individual plot owners, the registration fee is Rs 1,000 and for developers, the fee is Rs 10,000. Sites, plots which are under legal disputes, ceiling surplus lands/government lands/endowments lands/waqf lands/shikam lands and entered in the prohibitory register of lands maintained by the revenue department would not be considered for regularisation under these rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lrs-rush-one-lakh-applications-filed-across-state/articleshow/78114487.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Temple priest robbed of cash, jewellery in Ambala village||Ambala: Some miscreants robbed a priest of cash and jewellery when he was sleeping in a temple in a village of Naraingarh block of Ambala district on Sunday. On the complaint of Rameshwar Das, the priest at Thakur temple in Badhouli village, a case has been registered against unknown persons under sections 34 (common intention) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Naraingarh police station on Sunday. Rameshwar told the police, “I closed the temple premises at 11pm and slept in the verandah on a charpoy. At about 12am, a man woke me up and I saw that my charpoy was surrounded by four-five men with sticks, sharp-edged weapons, and a country-made pistol in their hands. They started assaulting me and two of them pulled out a gold ring from my right hand. The rest of them entered the temple and robbed two gold rings from a bag, PAN card, voter identity card, and Rs 16,500 cash. While fleeing they assaulted me with sticks.” Station house officer sub-inspector Gurmail Singh said, “There were no CCTV cameras installed in the temple. The complainant had been living at this temple for over 30 years and he received blunt injuries and is out of danger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/temple-priest-robbed-of-cash-jewellery-in-ambala-village/articleshow/78115650.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Delhi||Budget private schools face uphill struggle||NEW DELHI: Private schools offering education at affordable rates have been deeply impacted by Covid-19. Data collected by a national association of these schools show that in most states, the fee collection has slipped below 25% of the normal. What is worse, such schools in Delhi and Tamil Nadu have recorded their lowest ever new enrolments this year. The dismal economic situation created by the suspension of classes due to the pandemic has left these schools without the means to pay their staff since March. This fact was among the findings of the National Independent School Alliance (NISA), a national federation of such low-cost private schools, which collected data from registered institutions in different states to arrive at an understanding of how the coronavirus has affected them. Amit Chandra, advisor to NISA, said, “In the past few months, nine school managers in Rajasthan alone committed suicide. We began collecting information on the school to see how grave their problems were and realised that it is not just one state where the situation is bad, but across the country.” In Maharashtra, the schools were able to collect 36% of the normal fees from students, but in the rest the fee collection was below 25%. In Delhi, of the 89 schools with 41,009 students participating in the study, fee collection was pegged at 25.8%. And worryingly, only 1,867 new students had been admitted, roughly translating to 20 new students per school. In Tamil Nadu, new admissions were fewer. In the 220 schools that participated in the survey, there were 2,999 new enrolments, while the fee collection was around 14% of normal. The highest admission recorded was in Nagaland, where 13,034 new students were admitted into the 137 schools forming part of the survey from that state. The fee collection in Nagaland was a dismal 20%, but still better than in states like Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Jammu and Kashmir, where it was below 10%. A Central Square Foundation study has put the proportion of students in private schools at 50%, with around 70% of them paying fees of less than Rs1,000 per month. Chandrakant Singh, principal of Ideal Radiant Public School in Uttam Nagar, which has around 900 students, confirmed the poor fee collection this year. “I am neither in a position to give salaries to my teachers nor pay the electricity bill,” said Singh. NISA has started a campaign called Save Education. “We have written to the Prime Minister requesting an economic package for these schools. We are not asking for money to be given to schools, but to the parents to enable them to pay the fees,” said Chandra. As an immediate respite, the schools are requesting the reimbursement of fees payable by EWS/DG category students. According to Singh, the government owes his school around Rs70,000 under this head. “While RTE Act mandates EWS/DG reservation, the periodicity of reimbursement is not specifically outlined in the law, causing delays and hardship to small schools like ours,” maintained Singh. In Delhi, NISA has also filed a petition in the Supreme Court about the dire straits of low-cost private school and as per procedure, legal notices have been sent to the central and state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/budget-pvt-schools-face-uphill-struggle/articleshow/78136605.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali bizman alleges cheating by Oyo, 7 booked||Mohali: Mohali police have registered a case against the founder and CEO of Oyo and six other people for allegedly cheating a Manimajra businessman. Victim, Vikas Gupta, owner of a banquet hall in Derabassi had alleged that Oyo’s top management abruptly wriggled out of a business agreement illegally. In his complaint, Gupta has mentioned that a business agreement was signed with Oyo for the banquet hall for a fixed amount every month. “The top management, including the finance and legal teams of Oyo, was satisfied with conditions an agreement was signed. Everything was running smoothly until the coronavirus outbreak when restrictions were imposed on gathering,” said Gupta. Fearing losses, Gupta alleged that Oyo had, against terms of the signed agreement, sent him a notice on March 16 to again submit NOC’s and other documents which were already submitted by the victim. “They gave me just 15 days to comply whereas according to the agreement 30+30 days is the notice time to be given in case any party wants to break the agreement. Instead of paying me damages due to the illegal breaking of the agreement, another notice was sent to me slapping over Rs 5 crore penalty to me, added. According to Gupta, the agreement is valid till December. Station house officer, Derabassi, sub-inspector Satinder Singh said “No arrests have been made in the case yet.” A case under sections 420 and 120-B of the Indian penal code has been registered at the Derabassi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-bizman-alleges-cheating-by-oyo-7-booked/articleshow/78115651.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab case tally crosses 80k||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 2,496 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 70 fatalities due to the virus on Monday, taking the state’s tally of cases past the 80,000 mark and the number of deaths to 2,424. Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Mohali and Ropar — six of the state’s total 22 districts — accounted for 70% cases new caes. So far, 82,113 people have been tested positive in the state. The health department removed two duplicate death entries added to the tally on September 13. Besides, 56 duplicate entries and four cases belonging to other states were also removed from the state’s tally. The state’s fatality rate stood at 2.95%. When this report was filed, 85 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support, while 544 patients were on oxygen support. Among the fresh fatalities, 14 were in Ferozepur, 11 in Ludhiana, six each in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Patiala, five each in Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Kapurthala, three in Fatehgarh Sahib, two each in Sangrur and Mohali, and one each in Bathinda, Faridkot, Moga, Muktsar and Nawanshahr. Mohali got the highest number of new caes in the state, 408. It was followed by 387 new cases in Patiala, 307 in Ludhiana, 281 in Amritsar, 261 in Jalandhar, and 100 in Ropar. Test reports of 98 people came positive in Pathankot, 89 in Bathinda, 88 in Hoshiarpur, 81 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 58 in Kapurthala, 50 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 40 in Gurdaspur, 31 in Faridkot, 28 in Ferozepur, 29 in Mansa, 27 in Fazilka, 23 in Moga, 20 in Tarn Taran, 13 in Nawanshahr, and 11 in Barnala. A total of 1,463 people were discharged .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-case-tally-crosses-80k/articleshow/78114496.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Scrap GO on layout registration: PIL||Hyderabad: Stating that Telangana’s layout regularisation government goes against the spirit of the Constitution and the laws of the land, Congress MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy on Monday filed a PIL in the high court urging it to scrap the GO. Telangana, through this GO, is seeking to penalise innocent people who bought plots and flats in good faith, he said. This would be an unbearable burden on them because they already paid huge charges to registration department and also to the owners of these plots,” Reddy said. “Having allowed registrations over such plots and also having provided civic amenities to dwellings in such layouts till now, the state cannot call them illegal lay outs, he said. Threatening people with hefty fines, de-registrations and prosecutions too is unlawful, the Congress leader added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scrap-go-on-layout-registration-pil/articleshow/78114493.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Three assault guard for being told to wear mask||KOLKATA: A 49-year-old security guard at a condominium in Panchasayar, which had been a containment zone several weeks ago, was attacked by three youths early on Sunday, when he reportedly objected to them returning to their homes in the complex without wearing masks and not following social distancing norms. All the three accused were rounded up from the complex and an FIR was registered against them. Extending their support for the guard, the office bearers of the complex said the guard did the right thing by raising an objection. “The three youths returned around 4am on Sunday in a drunk state. The security guard, Gopal Mukherjee (49), a resident of Santoshpur, claimed none of the three wore any mask. Since he was instructed not to allow anyone inside without a mask, he objected. Two of the youths reside inside the complex and the third one is a friend. They challenged the guard’s authority to stop them and an argument started ,” said an investigating officer. As the argument heated up, the accused, Rakesh Roshan (35), Subhadip Majumdar alias Subho (28) and Bishal Khari (25)—Khari does not live in the condominium but at Taltala—allegedly attacked the guard. “The FIR mentioned that the accused persons wrongfully restrained and assaulted the complainant with blows. They also threatened him with dire consequences over the issue of not wearing masks in the MIG complex. We detained all the three accused for questioning. They were arrested around 5.30pm after observing all legal formalities. Our probe is on and we have secured CCTV footage as evidence,” said an officer. “From questioning, we learnt that the two accused who live in the condominium are not permanent residents there. Their relatives own apartments in the complex and have let them stay there.” The three have been booked for committing hurt, threat and criminal intimidation. The owners’ association had taken multiple steps ever since the first case of Covid was reported at the condominium. “As part of the process, we are disinfecting the entire common area of the building, including staircase handles, lifts, lobby and its furniture and all other places. Apart from that, we are also taking some immediate preventive measures. Everyone entering the complex has to wash hands and wear masks. We have procured infra-red thermometers for temperature che-ck, and we have been keeping all doors and windows of the lobby open so that people need not touch them. Also, regular announcements are being made about the dos and don’ts that residents are expected to follow,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-assault-guard-for-being-told-to-wear-mask/articleshow/78114489.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Plan to set up medical oxygen units||Chandigarh: With Covid cases and fatality in the state rising, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday directed the health department to step up indigenous manufacturing of medical oxygen to supplement the current supplies in order to ensure that there is no shortage to tackle any future crisis. Till now, Punjab was procuring all its medical oxygen supplies from other states, including Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana. But now it has decided to go in for internal manufacturing to meet any shortfall that could arise with Covid cases spiking in the state. In line with this decision, the health department has so far issued license to one industrial oxygen supplier in Punjab to manufacture medical oxygen, while six packaging units have been allowed to package oxygen for medical use. With this, the state now has internal capacity to manufacture 800 medical oxygen cylinders and packaging of 2,000 units per day, and the government hopes that with the supplies already being procured from other states, this would help cope with any further escalation in demand in the coming weeks. The state government has also appointed a nodal officer to monitor the supply and demand of medical oxygen amid spiralling cases of Covid, and Capt Amarinder has asked the health department to ensure that indigenous production and packaging is further scaled up to meet any eventuality. It was pointed out that the state currently had adequate supplies of oxygen to meet the demand triggered by an increasing number of Covid cases. The CM was told that of the 6,653 Covid patients admitted at the government medical colleges in the state, 5,269 had recovered and been discharged, with 550 still under treatment. A special invitee to the meeting, AIIMS cardiology professor Ambuj Roy, who has been studying the mortality figures in Punjab, said the possibility of mutation of the virus was being studied. Head of the Punjab’s group of experts on health Dr K K Talwar said the panel would be sending samples to IMTECH to check on the nature of the virus and ascertain if it has mutated in the last one month, in comparison with the samples sent earlier. Punjab’s CFR higher than national average Prof Roy said the majority of the Covid-19 deaths in Punjab had taken place after August 6. At 2.96%, the case fatality rate (CFR) in Punjab was higher than the national average of 1.65%, as was the deaths per million at 78.5 (national average 58.3. He, however, noted that these figures were still “better than many states” in the country. Punjab’s positivity rate of 5.72% was much better than the national average of 8.47%. The main cause of Punjab’s high CFR was co-morbidity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plan-to-set-up-medical-oxygen-units/articleshow/78114533.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Private agencies under KMC scanner||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health department has decided to keep tabs on a couple of private agencies that are operating at city’s private hospitals and engaged to hand the bodies of Covid-19 victims to the civic body for cremation. The KMC health department has fixed Rs 5,000 as the handing-over charge of a victim’s body as the agency needs to pay the doms, who clad in PPE, carry the body from the mortuary to the KMC vehicle for last rites at the civic body’s designated Covid-19 crematoriums. However, in the wake of allegations that these agencies are demanding exorbitant service charges, the KMC health department will now invite calls from people on 9830011041 and 9830555111. “If we receive complaints against the agencies engaged by KMC, we will revoke the contract,” said Atin Ghosh, a senior member on the board of administrators at KMC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-agencies-under-kmc-scanner/articleshow/78114527.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||NCP leader detained||Rajkot: NCP leader Reshma Patel was detained when she attempted to enter the Rajkot civil hospital campus on Monday. Patel had circulated a message on social media on Sunday that she will be visiting the civil hospital on Monday to take assess the services there. According to police she did not take the permission before her visit and hence was detained. The huge police deployed was made outside the hospital before Patel arrived with her associates. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ncp-leader-detained/articleshow/78113279.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Private shacks oppose proposed fee hike, call it ‘unjustifiable’||PANAJI: Private shack operators have taken strong objection to the proposed hike in the tourist department’s draft rules, and have sought the rollback of the proposed fee structure, terming it “unjustifiable”. In a representation to the tourism department on Monday, shack owners said the government must show “empathy and sensitivity” in the current circumstances. If at all the government desires to revise the fee structure, it should be done for the next season, they said. They told the government that hotels have been categorised as ‘A, B, C and D’, and their fee structure is based on their classification. Hotels don’t pay any deposit, whereas private shacks, which are temporary structures, have to pay a registration fee of Rs 25,000 for a dimension of 18x8m, plus Rs 500 per additional sq m. This is in addition to levies by other bodies. President of the private shack owners’ association, Dharmesh Saglani, said this was unfair. “Seasonal structures comprising huts, shacks and cottages cannot compete with facilities provided by starred hotels due to monetary issues. Fees proposed to be levied for hotels is less,” he said. The proposed fee structure has dampened the spirit of private operators, who are battling losses incurred in the last season, as they had to close earlier than usual due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The association said it is “shocking” that at this point, the tourism department has chosen to introduce the fresh fee structure. The association has also suggested that the proposed fee be reduced to Rs 10,000 per cluster of shacks, huts, tents for each registration, and that no additional fees be levied. For a bigger cluster of 30-40 tents/huts, a fee of Rs 15000 could be charged, it said. Every season, around 400-500 private shacks — shacks that are set up in private properties — are permitted. Huts and tents are prominently found along beach stretches in Canacona in South Goa and Mandrem in North Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-shacks-oppose-proposed-fee-hike-call-it-unjustifiable/articleshow/78115681.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Covid-19 cases rise, but fall in number of micro containment and large outbreak zones||CHANDIGARH: Despite Covid-19 cases growing consistently at an alarming pace in Punjab, there has been a drop in the number of areas identified as micro containment zones and large outbreak zones in the worst-hit districts of the state. The health department has attributed the drop in number to effective containment of the virus by breaking the transmission chain in the identified geographical areas. It also indicates that new cases are not coming in clusters. From 53,992 cases on August 31, the caseload has shot up to 77,057 as on September 13, with bulk of cases coming from the most populated districts like Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali and Patiala. During the period, the number of high priority areas came down by 39.2% from 174 — 150 micro containment zones and 26 large outbreaks — to 125 at present – 110 micro containment zones and 14 large outbreaks. Micro containment zones refer to areas having 5 to 14 cases while large outbreak areas have 15 or more cases. Of 174 high priority areas under surveillance on August 31, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali and Patiala accounted for 86, the number of which came down to 42 out of 125 priority zones as on September 13. The number of large outbreaks has come down in Ludhiana from five to two while all the three large outbreaks in Jalandhar have been denotifed after no fresh cases were reported in those areas. Explaining the reasons, Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said a zone is denotified as micro containment or large outbreak zone if no fresh case is reported in seven days. The area continues to be under surveillance if new cases surface. “Reduction in the number of such areas in Punjab shows that the containment efforts are working,” said Dr Bhaskar. From the first week of August, the health department started testing all people in the containment zones by using rapid antigen tests — a quicker method of testing. As part of strategy, these areas notified as containment zones are sealed and restrictions are imposed in movement of people. Extensive four-level contact tracing is done through door-to-door surveys on a daily basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-rise-but-fall-in-number-of-micro-containment-large-outbreak-zones/articleshow/78114539.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana fatality figure reaches 1,000 as 25 die||Chandigarh: Haryana’s Covid-19 death toll reached 1,000 with 25 more patients succumbing to the infection on Monday. The state’s case tally climbed to 96,129 as 2,488 new infections were reported during the day. Meanwhile, 2,125 patients recovered, making for 74,712 recoveries in the state and taking the recovery rate to 77.72%. Gurugram district reported the maximum new cases (336), followed by Faridabad (279), Sonipat (205), Ambala (185), Karnal (179), Kurukshetra (164), Hisar (139), Rohtak (133), Panipat (129), Panchkula (95), Rewari (71), Bhiwani (69), Yamunanagar (69), Fatehabad (65), Kaithal (65), Jind (62), Sirsa (57), Palwal (50), Mahendragarh (48), Jhajjar (44), Charkhi Dadri (36) and Nuh (9). Among the districts, Panchkula reported six deaths in a day and Karnal four. Other districts where patients succumbed to the virus included Sonipat, Kurukshetra, Hisar, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sirsa and Nuh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-fatality-figure-reaches-1000-as-25-die/articleshow/78114537.cms||Manvir Saini
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government moots Rs 200-crore upgrade for SMS Hospital under Smart City||JAIPUR: A Rs 200-crore plan has been drawn up to improve facilities in Sawai Man Singh Hospital on the lines of AIIMS, New Delhi, by the state government under the Smart City Mission. The plan includes the construction of a 15-storey in-patient department (IPD) in place of the existing cottage ward and setting up a cardiology centre. This was announced by UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal during the inspection of the proposed construction at SMS Hospital on Monday. In the first phase, eight storeys of the IPD will be constructed at a cost of Rs 150 crore, with Rs 125 crore provided by the Smart City Mission and the remaining by the JDA and RHB. Project would be developed on lines of AIIMS: MinisterThis work will take around two years to complete. “The IPD will have 100 deluxe cottages and 50 suites. Parking facilities will be available and a cafeteria, food court and an auditorium will be built on the top floor. There will be an operation theatre, ICU, post operative wards on each floor and an MRI and other facilities on the ground floor," Dhariwal said, instructing Smart City CEO Lok Bandhu to remove the garbage dunderrepot located near the hospital without delay. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the project would be developed on the lines of AIIMS as a referral hospital. “All development work will be done keeping in mind the requirements for the next 50 years. New departments for nuclear medicine, sports medicine, genetic medicine and tropical medicine will be set up,” Sharma said. UDH secretary Bhavani Singh Detha said, “With the expansion of these facilities, SMS Hospital will become the largest referral hospital in North India. Under the Smart City Mission, medical facilities will be developed at the government hospital in Kota for Rs 34.64 crore. An OPD with 156 beds is being constructed at JK Lon Hospital, Kota, for the care of children by UIT, Kota, at a cost of Rs 56 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-mootsrs-200cr-upgradefor-sms-hospitalunder-smart-city/articleshow/78115676.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||As Covid cases cross 33k mark, demand for oxygen rises three fold in U’khand||Dehradun: A steady surge in Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand has led to a greater need for ICU admissions and thereby, a rise in the demand for oxygen support. State health department officials told TOI that the oxygen supply to Covid-19-dedicated hospitals increased to 6,000 cubic metres in July as against 2,000 cubic metres in June. Authorities at AIIMS Rishikesh also confirmed that the amount of oxygen the hospital was using in a month before June is now being used in just a week. “We have 400 beds for Covid-19 infected patients. Of these beds, 150 are being used for patients in isolation and 250 others for the rest of the Covid-19-positive patients. There is an acute surge in the demand for oxygen in the state as cases are rising with each passing day,” said Harish Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh. At Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), which is the primary government facility for treating Covid-19 cases in Dehradun, the demand for oxygen support has shot up considerably. Dr NS Khatri, Covid-19 nodal officer at GDMCH, informed that the hospital currently has 300 beds and almost 90% have oxygen supply. “The demand for oxygen has more than doubled in the last two months. Thankfully, the supply has remained in line with the demand. Hence, we haven’t faced any issue till now,” he added. Other big Dehradun-based hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, including Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital, Max Super Speciality Hospital, and Himalayan Hospital in Jolly Grant, are also witnessing an increase in the demand for oxygen. “The need for oxygen is evident and understandable as Covid-19 patients often require oxygen support. We have already intimated to the company that supplies oxygen to us and they are ensuring that there is no gap in supply,” said Dr Nishith Goel from Mahant Indiresh hospital. However, the companies supplying oxygen to hospitals have also started hiking the price of their commodity in the wake of this surge in demand. Dr Goel confirmed that the firm supplying oxygen to the hospital has sought a rate revision which is under consideration by the hospital management. Harish Thapliyal of AIIMS also said that the firm supplying oxygen at AIIMS-R has asked for some price hike. “But they cannot stop the supply as we have a contract with them for a certain period,” he added. According to the health department, the stock of oxygen in the state is currently around 60,000 cubic metres and efforts are being made to increase it further. The firms having oxygen plants in Uttarakhand are primarily based in Udham Singh Nagar, Selaqui, and Roorkee. Sensing that the demand for oxygen support would surge in the days to come, the state government had, in June, announced a financial package of Rs 578.34 lakh for the construction of an oxygen supply pipeline in 13 district and sub-district hospitals across Uttarakhand. The Centre has also approved the proposal to install new oxygen plants in Tehri Garhwal, Chamoli and Uttarkashi. Amit Negi, secretary (health), told TOI that the demand has surged but the state has no shortage of oxygen. “While our hospitals are using barely 8 metric tonnes of oxygen per day, the supply is around 100 metric tonnes. Uttarakhand is also supplying oxygen to other states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-covid-cases-cross-33k-mark-demand-for-oxygen-rises-three-fold-in-ukhand/articleshow/78110972.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 15, 2020||Trichy||Congested Vayalur road cries for attention ahead of monsoon||Trichy: Although the state highways department had surveyed Vayalur road a year ago to widen the stretch, no development has occurred in decongesting the narrow stretch. As the busy road lacks stormwater drain while commercial establishments are coming up on vacant land plots, residents are feeling the heat due to chronic inundation of rainwater on Vayalur road.Trichy Corporation sources said that Vayalur road comprises at least 25,000 property assessments. Places like Srinivasa Nagar, Kumaran Nagar, Ramalinga Nagar and Vasan Nagar continue to attract establishments such as eateries and apparel showrooms every month. However, Vayalur road that links all the localities with Trichy city has not changed in decades and remains congested.“Absence of stormwater drains on either end is causing water stagnation. Potholes filled with rainwater threatens our daily life,” V Baskaran, a commuter said.Though there is limited scope for widening the road with the stretch dotted with houses and commercial establishments on both ends, state highways proposed to widen the road to a possible extent. The 7.5m-wide road was intended to be widened to 8m.Meanwhile, as a permanent solution, residents suggested acquiring the land on either end to convert the road to four-lane. “We are yet to prepare the proposal and feasibility study,” a senior official with state highways department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/congested-vayalur-road-cries-for-attention-ahead-of-monsoon/articleshow/78115679.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Higher sero-positivity rate in Hry urban areas||Jind: Sero-positivity rate for coronavirus is higher in most of the urban areas of Haryana as compared to the rural areas, revealed a Sero Prevalence Survey Weekly Report till Sunday, issued by the health department. Sero-testing of individuals is conducted to ascertain the presence of antibodies, as it helps understand the average number of people affected by the virus in a specific geographical area, health officials said. The NCR district of Faridabad topped the table with 31.1% of the 103 samples in the urban areas showing sero-positivity, while 22.2% of the 109 samples from the rural areas had antibodies. In Nuh, sero-positivity was found in 30.3% of the 105 samples from the urban areas, while it was 13.9% of 75 samples from the rural areas. Similarly, 18.5% of the 62 samples collected in the urban areas of Gurgaon showed presence of antibodies, while it was 5.7% of 29 samples in the rural areas. Till Sunday, there were 788 sero-positive samples from the rural areas of Haryana out of the total 11,432 samples, while it was 716 of the total 7,470 samples from the urban areas. Of the total 22 districts in Haryana, 15 have higher sero-positivity rate in urban areas. In all, 18% of 64 samples from Sonipat’s urban areas showed sero-positivity and 10% of 51 samples from the rural areas, followed by 17.6% in 58 samples from the urban areas of Karnal and 8.8% in 46 rural area samples. In Jhajjar, 11% of 36 samples in urban areas showed antibodies, while it was 2.7% in 14 rural area samples. In Palwal, sero-positivity rate was reported 10.2% in urban areas from 36 samples and 6.6% in rural areas from 31 samples. There was 8.4% sero-positivity in the 27 samples from Rewari’s urban areas, and 2.8% in the rural areas from 15 samples. In Panipat, it was 7.8% in the urban areas from 28 samples and 7.2 in the rural areas with 38 samples. In Ambala 7.1% were found sero-positive out of 18 urban area samples and 4.4% of 26 samples from the rural areas. However, there were some districts showing higher sero-positivity rate in the rural areas, such as Jind (12.5%), which had 8.7% in urban areas, followed by Yamunanagar’s 9.9% in rural areas and 5.9% in urban areas. In Dadri, it was 9.3% in the rural areas and 6.8% in the urban areas. There was 8.5% sero-positivity in the rural areas of Panchkula and it was 3.7% in the urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/higher-sero-positivity-rate-in-hry-urban-areas/articleshow/78114554.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Covid deaths cross 300; men account for 68% fatalities||JAIPUR: The Pink City breached the 300 mark in Covid-19 deaths on Monday morning, reporting 301 fatalities overall. More than double the men died in comparison to women, accounting for 68% and 32% casualties, respectively. Out of the 301 deaths, 202 were men and 99 women. More than one-fourth of the deaths happened in the age group of 61 to 70 years. As per the health department data, 75 persons, including 44 men and 31 women, died of Covid in this age group. A health department official said that they have launched a 'Life Saving' mission for early diagnosis and treatment of people in the vulnerable groups of above 60 years, children below 10 years, and patients who have co-morbidities, including diabetes, hypertension and other chronic illnesses related to heart, lungs, kidney and liver. Officials said that most of the people who were above 60 years of age have comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension and need to take more precautions to prevent being infected by the virus. 36% of the total deaths in Jaipur below 50 yrsOut of the 301 fatalities, the age of 290 patients is known while that of 11 persons is not clear. Of these, 104 of them were below the age of 50 years, accounting for 36% of the total deaths in the city, while 186 were above 50 years. But the percentage of deaths of those below 50 years is going down with each100 fatalities. For the first 100 deaths, this percentage was 39%. In the next hundred (101-200), it decreased to 38%, while in the next 100 (201-300), it came down to 29%. But the percentage of men dying in this age group (0-50 years) is constantly increasing. In the first 100 deaths, it was 59%, which increased to 68% in the next hundred and 74% in the third hundred. The death of a 20-dayold boy is the youngest reported in Jaipur, while the oldest was that of a 90-year-old. The Jaipur district administration on Monday set up a round-the-clock help desk at RUHS on Monday. The help desk number is 0141-2792251, on which doctors and officials of district administration will be available 24 hours in three shifts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-covid-deaths-cross-300men-account-for-68-fatalities/articleshow/78115680.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||5 die in HP, tally set to cross 10k||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported five Covid-19 deaths and 364 new cases of the virus on Monday, while 68 patients were discharged from hospitals. With this, the state’s tally rose to 9,923 cases, of which 3,666 cases were active, 6,167 patients had recovered, 80 had died and 15 had migrated out of state. While three fatalities were reported from Kangra, one patient each died in Shimla and Sirmaur. Among the new cases, 12 were from Bilaspur, seven were from Chamba, four from Hamirpur, 51 from Kangra, five from Kullu, 10 from Lahaul-Spiti, 101 from Mandi, 28 from Shimla, 10 from Sirmaur, 106 from Solan, and 30 from Una. Patients who recovered include 35 from Chamba, three from Shimla, and six from Sirmaur. In Shimla, the deceased was a 32-year old-male with upper gastrointestinal bleeding. The deceased patient in Sirmaur was a 71-year-old man with acute respiratory distress syndrome and Type II diabetes mellitus. In Kangra, a 72-year-old man with hypertension, a 62-year-old man with hypertension and Type II diabetes mellitus, and a 95-year-old man were the deceased. Patients who were discharged included 35 from Chamba district, 12 from Kangra, one from Mandi, seven from Shimla, eight from Sirmaur, and five from Solan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-die-in-hp-tally-set-to-cross-10k/articleshow/78114550.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Rumours keep most away from govt hospitals in Patiala||PATIALA: The government hospitals of Patiala, including Rajindra Hospital (RH), are of late getting fewer Covid-19 patients, and the reason being attributed to this trend is rumours doing the rounds against these government health facilities. Over 50% beds and around 90% ventilators in the government-run RH are lying unused. Patients are apparently giving preference to private hospitals, which are allegedly charging hefty amounts. A doctor confided, “In the last few days, the daily Covid case count at RH has come down to 16 to 19 patients, whereas it was 25 to 30 earlier. People are opting for private hospitals, which are charging around Rs 2 lakh per patient. Over 400 deaths are also keeping the patients away. Besides, the overall daily admissions in OPD and IPD, delivery and dog bite cases have also come down following rumours against the Rajindra Hospital.” Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “People are now also going to private hospitals. Earlier, even patients from Ludhiana used to seek admission here, but now private health facilities are offering the Covid services. Rumour mongering doesn’t have much to do with it.” On the complaint of technical glitches by a patient, he said the patients sometimes get negative in rapid tests but are tested positive in RT-PCR test, which is a confirmatory test, but they do not understand it. In RH, there are around 123 ventilators, including 10 portable and 12 non-Covid ventilators. But, only around 10-14 are being used. There are six government hospitals in the district designated for Covid treatment and the total bed capacity is over 830, including around 600 beds in RH. Similarly, around 11 private designated hospitals have around 180 beds. The occupancy in government hospitals is around 23% for Level-2 (L2) beds and 77% for Level-3 beds, whereas in private hospitals, 72% of L2 beds and 43% of L3 beds are occupied, according to the data available on the government’s Patiala.nic.in website. Among the government hospitals in the district, only RH has the facility of L3 beds to treat serious Covid patients, whereas there is zero occupancy in Sub-Divisional Hospital (SDH), Samana with 50 beds under L2 category. Similarly, SDH, Nabha having 50 beds, SDH Rajpura with 50 beds, Mata Kaushalya Government Hospital with 30 beds and Military Hospital, Patiala with 50 L2 beds have 4%, 6%, 10% and 28% occupancy, respectively. “The hospital has a capacity of around 600 beds, but the maximum occupancy has reached up to 325 so far, while on Monday, there were around 215 patients in RH. We are trying to put in our best efforts to serve the patients with best treatment,” said Paras Pandov, the RH medical superintendent. Dr Surabhi Malik, the in-charge for L3 beds, said 77 patients out of total 88 L3 beds are occupied, while private hospitals have only 16 of the total 37 L3 beds occupied. She said even in terms of L2 beds, RH has 151 beds occupied out of total 512, while private hospitals have got only 101 patients in 140 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rumours-keep-most-away-from-govt-hosps/articleshow/78114542.cms||Bharat Khanna
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Will bring all Haryana Cong leaders together’||All India Congress Committee secretary and party’s newly-appointed Haryana affairs incharge Vivek Bansal has said he will bring all leaders of the party in the state together. Speaking to Manvir Saini, Bansal said his top priority was strengthening the party in the state. The 58-year-old leader made his debut in politics as an MLA from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. He was first made co-incharge of Haryana in 2005 when Congress romped home to power. Later, he was shifted to Rajasthan and was one of the Congress firefighters ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. After a long stint in Rajasthan, you have been given the charge of Haryana. What are your plans and priorities? Our priority is to strengthen the organisation. We will ensure appointments at all levels by selecting capable people, who have been part of the struggle of the party and sincerely worked to strengthen it. We shall appoint people on merit at every level, including district presidents. Haryana Congress is infamous for bickering, as it is not easy to bring all leaders together. How will you handle this? All will sit together. When your intentions are clear and you give patient and impartial hearing to all, it builds confidence. It is this confidence that further strengthens an organisation. Lots of senior leaders, including former HPCC chief Ashok Tanwar, have left the party due to issues with certain leaders. Has anybody approached you so far? I am open minded and ready to do anything for the welfare of party and workers. So far, no one has approached us. But yes, we will give all a hearing and take up their case. Final decisions will be taken in consultation with the party high command. Haryana Congress leaders often tend to indulge in politics of dominance. There are different groups led by Bhupinder Hooda, Kumari Selji. How do you plan to handle it? I am capable of bringing all stalwarts together. Everyone has ideas and strategies, but we need to move in sync and do things collectively, as it’s not about Vivek Bansal alone, or Randeep Surjewala or (Kumari) Selja ji alone. We will have to work in a team, discuss the challenges and the ways to address those together. Only then will we find solutions. We all have to pool our ideas and synchronise our energies. Baroda byelection is around the corner. Do you have any special plan or strategies? Our workers and leaders are already out in the field. It’s workers who actually contest elections on the ground. Since I have just taken over, we shall discuss this in the meeting of leaders which will be held within this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-bring-all-haryana-cong-leaders-together/articleshow/78114566.cms||Manvir Saini
September 15, 2020||Amaravati||AP withdraws criminal cases against min, YSRC MPs & MLAs||HYDERABAD: A year and three months after coming to power in Andhra Pradesh, the YSRC government has withdrawn prosecution against a minister, two MPs and two MLAs in four cases. Former officials said this would set a bad precedent at a time when the Supreme Court is insisting on the need to fast track the trial. Criminal cases against civil supplies minister Kodali Nani, Rajampet MP PV Mithun Reddy, Kadapa MP YS Avinash Reddy, Rayachoti MLA G Srikanth Reddy and Allagadda legislator G Brijendra Reddy, which have been pending in the MPs and MLAs special court, have been withdrawn. Cases were withdrawn in Kadapa, Kurnool, East Godavari and Krishna districts, while the government issued a GO seeking withdrawal of the prosecution. The home department issued orders withdrawing the case against Nani and his followers. He was booked in 2015 for assaulting a public servant and on charges of wrongful restraint and unlawful assembly. Machilipatnam police in Krishna district told TOI that the case pertained to an agitation against the land acquisition for the Machilipatnam port. The home department also withdrew the prosecution against Midhun Reddy and Srikant Reddy registered in Lakkireddipalli police station in Kadapa. The charge was that both the MP and the MLA had trespassed and forcibly laid the foundation stone in 2015 while they were in opposition. Former IFS official M Padmanabha Reddy, however, said though the government has a legal remedy to withdraw the cases, it is morally incorrect. “When the SC has formed a special court for trying cases against the elected representatives, the indirect closure of the cases by withdrawing prosecution is not a welcome step,” he told TOI. The home department also withdrew cases booked against Avinash Reddy, who staged a protest with the body of a man in Kadapa in 2015 accusing cops of excesses. Thondur police booked him under criminal intimidation and for violating orders of a public servant and wrongful restraint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-withdraws-criminal-cases-against-min-ysrc-mps-mlas/articleshow/78114587.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC imposes Rs 25,000 cost on woman for frivolous plea||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on a Rohtak-based woman after she failed to explain why she had left her husband against whom she had approached the HC apprehending threat to her life. “It does not appeal to prudence that after leaving the matrimonial home, the petitioner (wife) has not contacted her parents but chose to live alone in Jhajjar district. Except for the bald allegation that her husband treated her with cruelty, no supportive material has been placed on record by her. This court finds that not only the petition for protection is founded on frivolous grounds, but it also amounts to abuse of the process of law. Apparently, the petitioner has not approached the court with clean hands and has deliberately suppressed the material facts, therefore, this court finds that she deserves to be saddled with costs,” observed Justice Manoj Bajaj of the high court while dismissing her plea. During the course of the hearing, the high court also observed that the petitioner had never made any complaint against her husband or any of his family members. The woman was married for 12 years and had two children with her husband and they continue to live with him. The petitioner has been directed to deposit Rs 25,000 in the Covid relief fund account of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. The chief judicial magistrate, Rohtak has been told to ensure recovery of the cost. The petitioner, 29, a resident of Rohtak, along with co-petitioner Sumit Dalal, 29, a resident of Jhajjar, had sought directions to protect their life and liberty from the woman’s husband and her in-laws. According to the woman, she had got married in 2008 and alleged that her husband had treated her with cruelty for a long time. She claimed that she had gathered courage 10 days ago and left her matrimonial home with the help of her co-petitioner. According to her, they are living at different places in the Jhajjar district and there are chances that her husband or in-laws may harm them. After hearing the petition, the HC observed that the petitioner does not deserve any concession, particularly, when she had failed to explain the reason for leaving her husband. The high court also could not find any substance in the allegations levelled by her co-petitioner regarding threat to his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-imposes-rs-25k-cost-on-woman-for-frivolous-plea/articleshow/78114565.cms||Ajay Sura
September 15, 2020||Goa||Goa’s deaths/million almost 4 times national figure||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-related deaths per million is almost four times the national average. With 304 deaths as on Monday, the state — with a population of 15 lakh — has seen 202 Covid deaths per million. The corresponding national figure is 55, as stated by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in Parliament on Monday. This month, Goa has reported an average of seven deaths a day, completing over a hundred deaths in just 14 days. While the state ended August with the death toll at 195, the first two weeks of this month have seen 109 mortalities. The state’s poor Covid management, which has drawn widespread criticism, is also evident from the government’s hurry to belatedly convert the South Goa district hospital to a Covid facility. While health minister Vishwajit Rane recently said beds at Covid hospitals are full, social media, too, is rife with photos of patients sleeping on the floor at Covid hospitals. While the state has been attributing the deaths to comorbidities — including hypertension and diabetes — several of the deceased have been declared brought dead, indicating that testing is not reaching the population. Monday’s mortality bulletin itself reported three of the 14 deceased were declared brought dead, while another three expired within 24 hours of admission at Goa Medical College (GMC). “At a time when testing should have been ramped up, the state has drastically dropped its testing,” a private doctor from Mapusa said. Goa’s testing dropped from a daily average of 5,000 tests in July to 3,000 in August. This month, the state is conducting an average of only 2,300 tests a day. For instance, Monday’s health bulletin reported 1,093 samples were tested, compared to 3,707 on August 14 and 5,550 on July 14. Also, more than half the tests now being conducted in the state are rapid antigen tests, which are known for false negatives and thus far less reliable than RT-PCR, the gold standard of Covid tests. Former deputy chief minister Vijai Sardesai criticised the government’s Covid management, pointing out that it is not focusing on bringing down deaths. “We should have ramped up infrastructure during the lockdown, but we failed,” he said. “We don’t have beds. The Epidemic Diseases Act allows the government to requisition beds from private hospitals. There are just a handful hospitals treating Covid patients. What are the rest doing? The government should requisition these empty beds to save lives. The government should stop this narrative of holding zilla parishad elections and restarting schools. They should focus on saving lives.” “The principal administrator of Covid — the health secretary — gets transferred by the government of your own party, at the peak of the pandemic,” he added. “This is a shame. The late (former CM) Manohar Parrikar used to block many transfers of good officers. This is a failure of the government to save its own administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-deaths/mn-almost-4-times-natl-figure/articleshow/78115682.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||In a first in country, Uttarakhand to radio-collar 15 leopards known to frequent human habitats||Dehradun: In a first in the country, the Uttarakhand forest department has decided to radio-collar a group of 15 leopards known to prowl near human habitations in an effort to better understand their behaviour and predict their moves. While leopards have been radio-collared before in different reserve forests in India, this is the first time that 15 big cats are being radio-collared around human settlements together in such a large number. Dhananjai Mohan, director, Wildlife Institute of India (WII), termed the decision to radio-collar leopards as “a much-needed step.” “Cases of fatal encounters with leopards have been reported from not only Uttarakhand, but across the country, be it Maharashtra, Rajasthan or Madhya Pradesh. It is important to understand the animals’ movement and decipher their ranging patterns,” he added. The radio-collaring process will be conducted by GIZ-India, the German organisation empanelled by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to mitigate human-wildlife conflict, WII and Uttarakhand forest department. Sources said that leopards from Rajaji Tiger Reserve, Haridwar forest division and Dehradun forest division will be among those that will be radio-collared. Neeraj Khera, team leader at GIZ-India’s Delhi office, told TOI, “We are focusing on harmless measures to reduce man-animal conflict across India as we aim to promote harmonious co-existence of wildlife and humans. Radio-collaring will help us understand how leopards are behaving in human-dominated landscapes.” Notably, leopards are among the top five animals in the “conflict” category in India and cause the most deaths and injuries among humans in a year. Aritra Kshettry, a wildlife researcher, who is working on tackling rising man-animal conflicts in tea estates, said, “Like Uttarakhand, the north eastern states also witness frequent attacks by wild animals. In the tea estates of Assam and adjoining areas, leopards are caged and translocated if they happen to kill or injure in a human habitat. It proves counterproductive, as the big cats get more stressed when introduced to an alien habitat and become even more active at the new site. Radio-collaring would help us understand leopards’ behavior and effectively arrest the rising number of conflicts.” Experts, however, warn that capturing leopards in human habitats will be much more difficult than trapping them in the wild. “The leopards near landscapes dominated by humans, unlike those in natural wild habitat, are furious and unpredictable. Tranquilising and collaring them will be far from easy,” said a wildlife expert who did not wish to be named. Uttarakhand has seen increasing cases of leopard attacks. This year, the state has already lost around a dozen human lives to these attacks, while over 80 leopards have died due to reasons ranging from natural deaths to poaching. Around mid-August this year, the forest department discovered that leopards, otherwise fiercely territorial animals, were raiding the same human settlements. This, experts felt, may be because the animals may be sharing resources due to their dwindling habitats and growing population. As food becomes increasingly scarce in the forests, the weaker big cats aim for easy kills – cattle and humans. This trend also makes identifying a man-eater leopard a difficult task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-in-country-uttarakhand-to-radio-collar-15-leopards-known-to-frequent-human-habitats/articleshow/78111004.cms||Shivani Azad
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||Truck driver tries to rape 80-year-old woman||Rajkot: A 40-year-old man was detained on Monday for allegedly attempting to rape and strangle an 80-year-old woman in Surajkaradi village of Okha Mandal taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Sunday night. Police said the accused, Jasrajbha Manek, who was driving a truck, spotted the woman sitting alone at Surajkaradi bus stand on Sunday night. “Finding the woman alone, Manek forced himself upon her. When she cried for help, Manek tried to strangle her with her cloth. Hearing the cries, people from nearby area rushed there and caught Manek. He was handed over to the police,” said an official from Mithapur police station. “The woman had the habit of walking out of her home after she frequently fought with her family members. Manek, who has been booked on the complaint of the survivor’s son, will be arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test. Manek comes from Samlasar village near Okha,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/truck-driver-tries-to-rape-80-year-old-woman/articleshow/78114571.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hubballi||60kg ganja tablets seized in Hubballi||Hubballi/ Vijayapura: The Economic offences and Narcotics ( E&N) police have seized 60kg of Madhu Munakka, a kind of tablet said to be prepared by ganja. The team, led by E&N inspector N C Kadadevar, on Sunday raided the shop ‘Osia Marketing’ in Broadway Complex near CBT Quilla and recovered the contraband there. Police said Madhu Munakka tablets were being sold as ayurvedic pills to people. The packaging of the tablets had ‘for sale in Rajsthan’ written on it. The value of the seized tablets, which are said to be sedative in nature, is Rs 30,000. Shop owner Pushparaj Gesulalji Mehta and employee Umesh Davalji Savanur have been arrested. Police said that the duo has confessed to the crime. They would be produced before the court for legal proceedings. Meanwhile, Vijayapura police seized 18.80kg ganja by arresting two persons on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, a team lead by Rural CPI M K Dyamannavar raided agriculture fields in Karjol village of Babaleshwar taluk. Babaleshwar police said they have arrested Chandrashekhar Vitthal Halijol and Muttappa Mudakappa Halijol for allegedly growing the weed in their fields. “The value of the seized crop is Rs 14 lakh, they added. A case has been registered at Babalewhar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/60kg-ganja-tablets-seized-in-hubballi/articleshow/78111495.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||SCS tops Jagan’s agenda for MPs in LS monsoon session||Vijayawada: YSRC president and chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday set the agenda for the party MPs to be followed during the current session of Parliament. He has set Special Category Status (SCS) for the state on the top of the list to be done by the MPs during this session, besides getting funds and projects due for the state. Jaganmohan Reddy spoke to the MPs through a virtual conference from his Tadepalli residence on Monday. The MPs attended the conference from Andhra Bhavan in Delhi before attending the Parliament session. Two MPs, Goddeti Madhavi from Araku and N Reddappa from Chittoor, could not make it to the meeting as they had tested positive for Covid-19 at Andhra Bhavan. The party did not invite the rebel MP from Narsapuram, K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, who is keeping away from party activities and had been critical of the government. YSRC Parliamentary party leader V Vijayasai Reddy led the MPs in the virtual meeting with the chief minister. The MPs from both the Houses were present during the two-hour long interaction with the party president and the chief minister. Meanwhile, party floor leader in Lok Sabha, PV Midhun Reddy, told the media after the meeting with Jaganmohan Reddy that the chief minister had given them to task to be done in the national capital during this round of Parliament session. He said the party MPs were asked to use all formats available in Parliament to raise the issue of SCS and see that the government fulfilled the promise that was made during the bifurcation. He said that the party MPs would raise the issue during the session on priority. The MP also told the media that the chief minister had directed them to convince the central government to release pending funds to the state including the Polavaram Project funds. He said that the chief minister wanted the MPs to mount pressure on the Union Finance Ministry to release the pending dues to the state from the GST devolution. The MPs were also asked to get the Disha Act passed by the central government besides taking up the AP’s request for dissolution of the Legislative Council. The MPs were also told to press for early completion of the CBI inquiry into the chariot mishap at Antarvedi in East Godavari district, the insider trading allegations against former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and his government in the capital Amaravati and the corruption charges on the AP Fibernet, which involves Chandrababu Naidu’s son and former IT minister Nara Lokesh. Midhun Reddy said that action against the defiant MP Raghurama Krishnam Raju was pending with the Lok Sabha speaker and this time, the MPs would insist on action. He said that the MP was playing to the opposition tunes causing damage to the party and the government and expressed confidence that the speaker would take action during this session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/scs-tops-jagans-agenda-for-mps-in-ls-monsoon-session/articleshow/78113084.cms||Gopi Dara
September 15, 2020||Mysuru||University of Mysore to start an engineering college under NEP 2020||Mysuru: The University of Mysore (UoM) has started implementing the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. As a first step, it has decided to start a new self-financing engineering college. “As per NEP 2020, universities are asked to introduce multidisciplinary studies. As part of this, the university will start the new college,” said vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar, at the Academic Council meeting held on Monday. With this, UoM will become the first university in the state to adopt recommendations of NEP 2020. “Prior to the year 2000, UoM had engineering colleges affiliated to it. However, they were moved to Visvesvaraya Technological University (UoM). Our idea is building a new engineering college near the existing architecture institute. We have infrastructure. Soon, we will approach the AICTE for permission,” he told TOI after the meeting. In the meeting, members advised authorities to start the college only after AICTE approval. The members were told an annual revenue of Rs 4 to 5 crore can be expected from the engineering college, which can be used for the overall development of the university. It was also decided to form a task force and advisory panel to implement NEP 2020. The advisory panel will comprise 10 academicians while the task force will have 22 members drawn from different fields. The new committees will submit reports in three months. A proposal of converting the Terakanambi (Chamarajanagar) and Hettur (Hassan) government first grade colleges into constituent colleges of the university as per the direction of the state higher education department was accepted at the meeting. A decision to form a separate committee to run the colleges was also taken. UoM is planning to introduce new courses especially skill training programmes for students as prescribed under NEP 2020 at these two colleges. UoM is likely to provide exit options for students in first, second and third years. Other important decisions approved in the meeting include a revised budget estimation, online classes for foreign students, certificate and diploma courses in yogic sciences, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/university-of-mysore-to-start-an-engineering-college-under-nep-2020/articleshow/78112998.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Aurangabad||MKM temporarily calls off agitation in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) has temporarily called off its agitation of beating drums in front of the houses of MLAs and MPs in Aurangabad. The office-bearers had announced an agitation starting from Monday. Anticipating law and order situation, police bandobast was deployed at the homes of MLAs and MPs in the city. Those privy to the organising committee said that one of the key organisers, Ravindra Kale Patil, met with an accident, while another key person has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been quarantined. A section of Maratha community has been demanding that the leaders keep aside their political interests, so that the movement does not end up becoming a pawn of the political masters. HC lawyer Abhasysinh Bhosale said: “The Maratha agitation was a self-volunteer movement by the community members and people had joined it selflessly. But politicisation has frustrated the spirit of this huge collective effort.” He even raised questions on the apparent groupism being fuelled by a section. Mansingh Pawar, an industrialist and one of the key members associated with the movement, said, “Leadership is expected to ensure unity. Calling off the agitations or any public movement sends a wrong signal.” The apex court, while referring the matter to a larger bench, has simultaneously granted interim stay on the implementation of the law passed by the Maharashtra government in 2018 granting reservation to the Maratha community in education and jobs. This development has again brought the Maratha leaders together to take the legal fight ahead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mkm-temporarily-calls-off-agitation-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78114591.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Traffic halted for hours as truck gets stuck in pothole near Odisha border||Visakhapatnam: Vehicular traffic on the Parvathipuram-Kuneru stretch near Gumada area under Komarada mandal in Vizianagaram district came to a grinding halt for hours after a truck got stuck in one of the several potholes on Sunday night. Despite the rain, local police along with others have been trying to regulate traffic, however, their efforts did not make the desired impact as a few more vehicles got stuck in different potholes, which are overflowing due to rain for the past two days. Speaking to TOI, Komrada sub-inspector V Ganna Prasad said that they had been working since Sunday night to clear traffic on the stretch. “We have been appealing to officials, political leaders, and others to take immediate steps to repair the damaged roads as the Pavathipuram-Kuneru has turned into a death trapbut they have been ignoring our pleas,” said CPM worker from Komrada, K Samba Murthy adding that they too had been helping police regulate the traffic. Motorists on the stretch claimed that they had been experiencing bumpy rides across 10 kilometres from Parvathipuram and Komarada due to the potholes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/traffic-halted-for-hours-as-truck-gets-stuck-in-pothole-near-odisha-border/articleshow/78113194.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hubballi||Farmer ends life after crop loss||Hubballi: A farmer allegedly ended his life by consuming poison in his field in Sindagi taluk of Vijayapura district following crops loss here on Monday. Siddalingappa Roodagi was a resident of Ganihar village of the taluk. Family sources said Roodagi had taken a loan from Syndicate Bank and hand loans from private lenders. “He had planned to repay most of the loans but his crops got destroyed after recent incessant rains. As his financial condition worsened after lockdown, he was under depression,” they added. Sindag police, who have registered a case, suspect the financial crisis as the reason for the farmer to take this extreme step. “However, we are investigating the case,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/farmer-ends-life-after-crop-loss/articleshow/78111582.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara records 127 positive cases||Vadodara: Testing continued to gain momentum in the city and district with 3,343 Covid-19 tests being conducted in the 24 hours since Sunday evening, the highest so far. The testing led to 127 new cases being detected that was equal to the peak set on Friday. While the number of new positive cases was equal to that on Friday, the number of tests conducted on Friday were lesser at 3,114 tests. The total number of Covid-19 cases detected in the city now stands at 9,793. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed two more deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of deaths. This took the total number of deaths in the city to 163. As many as 1,363 persons from the city and district remain hospitalised. These include 57 persons on venilators or BIPAP machines and 150 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-records-127-positive-cases/articleshow/78114603.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Doctor robbed of cash, gold worth Rs 50 lakh||VIJAYAWADA: Unidentified persons wearing masks barged into a doctor’s residence and stole Rs 50 lakh worth of gold and cash at knife-point in Moghalrajpuram on Monday. According to Macharavaram circle inspector Vinay Mohan, the incident happened at around 3.30 pm in the afternoon when the offenders barged into the complainant’s house, tied up his wife and son and took all the gold and cash from their lockers before fleeing from the spot. Locals reached the house later when they heard their cries for help. Police said they were examining CCTV cameras in the area to ascertain the offenders’ identities. Meanwhile, city police commissioner B Srinivasulu and deputy commissioner of police Harshavardhan Raju too reached the scene of crime and took stock of the situation. Machavaram police registered a case of robbery and investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/doc-robbed-of-cash-gold-worth-rs-50l/articleshow/78113169.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mysuru||UoM to start skill development courses for rural students||Mysuru: The University of Mysore will launch skill development courses in government first grade colleges in Hassan and Chamarajanagar that were shifted to other districts by the state higher education department citing students’ strength. Recently, the state government had announced plans of shifting six government first grade colleges with less than 100 students, to other districts. As part of the decision, Terakanambi Government FGC in Gundlupet taluk in Chamarajanagar was shifted to Kudachi in Belagavi district and Hethur Government FGC in Sakleshpura taluk in Hassan was shifted to Hebbal in Bengaluru. In order to help students in these colleges to continue their education, the state admitted them to other colleges in the district. Following a protest by the students of Terakanambi over shifting of their college to Belagavi, deputy chief minister and higher education minister CN Ashwath Narayana Gowda has directed the University of Mysore authorities to start skill-oriented courses under the new National Education Policy 2020 in these two colleges. University of Mysore syndicate member E C Ningaraj Gowda told TOI that the recent syndicate meeting decided to start skill development programmes in these colleges. “As the students expected to join these courses are from poor financial background, decisions were taken to start programmes that create jobs in their region. As Sakleshpura is noted for coffee cultivation, we have courses on coffee cultivation, cash crops, dairy farming among others by adopting new technologies. Similarly, at Terakanambi, courses like sericulture, dairy farming, horticulture and others will be taught. Students will also learn other subjects, including computers,” he said. Ningaraj Gowda said the colleges will be started on self-finance scheme to prevent financial burden on government. “There are also plans to start hostel facilities for students as the campuses are in remote places. Short term courses like tailoring, sewing and others will be taken up for villagers. A syndicate sub-committee and syndicate expert committee will be formed to chalk out a plan and a report will be submitted to the government. The courses will start from next academic year,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-to-start-skill-development-courses-for-rural-students/articleshow/78113794.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||YSRC, TDP back NDA’s candidate for Rajya Sabha deputy chair post||Vijayawada: The ruling YSRC and opposition TDP are bitter rivals in state, however, the two parties seem to have a common ally in Delhi in the form of NDA. The two parties have backed NDA’s candidate for deputy chairman post, Harivansh Narayan Singh of the JDU who was elected to the post for the second time on Monday. YSRC with its six members and TDP with two members supported Harivansh against Congress candidate, BK Hariprasad, who was backed by non-NDA parties. Meanwhile, TRS abstained from voting, keeping equal distance from NDA and UPA and other opposition parties. “We are not ready for a fight with NDA as we need to get funds and finances from the central government. With the NDA having a clear majority, we have very little chance of influencing its victory or defeat. Hence, we supported the party in the larger interest of the state as we need healthy relationship with the Centre,” said YSRC floor leader P V Midhun Reddy told TOI. Gopi Dara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-tdp-back-ndas-candidate-for-rajya-sabha-deputy-chair-post/articleshow/78113103.cms||Gopi Dara
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||High court censures DGP, police department||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday made some strong remarks against DGP D Gautam Sawang and the police department after hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by the family members of one Indupalli Venkata Rama Raju of Amalapuram. Observing that police have failed to implement the rule of law in the state, the HC bench headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar said the DGP should submit his resignation if he fails to control the police force. “We have called the DGP to the court in a few cases but there is no change in the working of the state police,” he noted. Rama Raju’s family alleged that the police called him for enquiry three times and deliberately harassed him.The police told the court that they called Raju for questioning but never took him in custody. They said they were in no way responsible in his going missing as they always allowed him to leave after questioning him thrice in a missing case investigation. The HC was not satisfied with the version of the police, and warned that the government will have to face consequences in future if such incidents continue in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-censures-dgp-police-department/articleshow/78113066.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Private schools see nearly 20% drop in enrolment||PANAJI: Many private schools across Goa are not just seeing a 10% to 20% drop in their existing enrolment, but new admissions for the academic year 2020-21 have also been meagre. With pandemic-related job loss and pay cuts, many parents are unable to afford private school fees and are shifting their children to state-aided schools. In this scenario, it is some of the smaller private schools that are finding themselves on the brink. Just as government schools were affected after many families returned to their respective home states during the lockdown, several private institutes said their students are leaving the state as their parents’ tourism-related businesses or jobs are no longer viable. Aparna Palyekar, who runs the school Blooming Buds in Calangute, said that a large chunk of her enrolment was lost after the families had to down shutters on their businesses in the coastal area. “These parents had rented shops and houses and were running tourism-related businesses. After the pandemic, they had to go back. Some of them could not even pay last year’s fees before leaving. We have cut down all other fees and are charging only Rs 900 on a monthly basis now. But only 10% parents have paid the fees,” she said. Porvorim-based Jnyan Vikas School too has seen a chunk of its students leaving as their families decided to head back to their respective states. “A lot of parents from outside the state have gone back. Some others have gone to state-aided schools. We are presently struggling to meet costs. We have a 22% drop in students. And we are convincing parents, whose students are enrolled with us, to pay, as we are now accepting fees on a monthly basis,” the school’s administrator Gautam Kharangate said. In South Goa, where a large section of the enrolment came from families of seafarers, institutes said such students are being withdrawn from the schools. “We have done away with activity and all such other fees and are only charging now for the classes. But as the days go by, more and more parents are coming forward and saying they are unable to pay the fees. In August, almost 40% parents have not been able to pay the fees. Parents have asked for a further discount in fees, but we are in dire straits right now and any further concession is not possible,” Robbie Panesar of Green Meadows, Nagoa, said. In other states, teachers of private schools are facing retrenchment. Institutes in Goa said that they fear that they too may be driven to take drastic measures, as keeping the schools afloat is proving a challenge. Principal of Bloom’s International in Nuvem, Anju Anand, said that admissions to the preprimary section has been next to nil for the new academic year. “We have not had admissions at all for the preprimary section,” she said. Vijay Shetti, whose Shree Niketan in Porvorim, offers only preprimary schooling said, “At the preprimary level you cannot conduct online classes, but we are sending pre-recorded videos and other content to keep the education going.” President of the All Goa Government Recognised Private Schools’ Association, Deepak Khaitan, said that even the larger private schools like his Sunshine Worldwide at Bainguinim has seen 12% to 13% drop in students. “Even the bigger schools do not have enough back up to keep going on without fees for a year. If the enrolment was the same as last year, we could have still been able to manage. But the number of existing students itself has dropped,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-schools-see-nearly-20-drop-in-enrolment/articleshow/78115685.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 15, 2020||Goa||14 more deaths push Goa toll to 304||PANAJI: With death of 14 people on Monday, the state has reported a sharp rise in Covid related deaths pushing its death count to 304. Three persons, including a 26-year-old man were brought dead to the hospital and three died within 24 hours of hospitalisation. In the last 14 days, 109 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state. On Monday, nine deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, two from ESI-Covid hospital in Margao and three men were brought dead to South Goa district hospital. No whereabouts of the three deceased, who were picked up from various locations in South Goa, were known. Of the 14 mortalities – three women and 11 men – three men were under the age of 50. The other cases fell in the age group of 50 and 94. The incidence of patients being brought late to the hospital have risen in the last few days. A 72-year-old man from Betim died 10 minutes after he was brought to the hospital. A 38-year-old man from Sangolda, who was detected with Covid-19 pneumonia with acute gastroenteritis on admission, died after 15 hours. The man did not have any comorbidity other than diabetes mellitus. A 54-year-old woman from Vasco, who suffered from uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension, died three hours after she was rushed to the hospital. As Goa’s death count crossed the 300-mark, chief minister Pramod Sawant once again appealed to people to approach the nearest health facility at the earliest if any signs and symptoms of Covid-19 are seen.  “I’m deeply saddened by the death of 14 people today. Even if slightest symptoms are seen, people must get themselves tested without delay. If tested positive, they should seek medical help. We want to reduce the mortality and people should also co-operate,” Sawant said. Referring to the death of two men who were brought dead to the hospital, he said, it is sad that people choose to stay at home even after developing severe conditions. There are beds available in Covid care centres as well in hospitals. On Monday, the state reported 306 new cases of Covid-19, and 519 recoveries while its tally of active cases stood at 4,946.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/14-more-deaths-push-state-toll-to-304/articleshow/78115708.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Crops damaged, villages cut off as heavy rains disrupt life across AP||AMARAVATI: Normal life was disrupted across the state due to heavy rain on Monday. Several low-lying areas in Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Rayalaseema districts were inundated due to flood in local streams and rivulets. The situation in East Godavari and West Godavari districts was similar. There has been no report of casualties anywhere in the state due to the rain. Crops in about two lakh acres are feared marooned in flood waters. Hundreds of villages lost road connectivity due to flash floods in local streams. Many villages in Sattenapalle, Amaravati, Pedakurapadu, Tadikonda, Thullur, Rajupalem, Krosure, Atchampet, Kakumanu, Prattipadu mandals in Guntur district witnessed heavy rain since Sunday night and it continued throughout Monday.  Locals breached roads to reduce the impact of floods in many areas. The flood water marooned thousands of cotton fields in Krosure, Amaravati and Pedakurapadu mandals. Road transport between Sattenapalle and Amaravati was stopped due to flash floods. With heavy inflows to Nagarjuna Sagar project, the authorities started letting out nearly three lakh cusecs to the downstream which has resulted in Pulichintala project reaching its full capacity. The irrigation department has also decided to release nearly two lakh cusecs of water to Prakasam barrage prompting the district collectors in Guntur and Krishna to put the river bank villages on high alert. Guntur district collector I Samuel Anand Kumar said the administration has opened emergency control rooms in Guntur, Tenali and Gurazala to handle the flood situation. He appealed to people living along the river bank to immediately move to safer locations. The collector directed tehsildars to evacuate people from Lanka villages to the relief camps. Kattaleru in Gampalagudem mandal and Tammileru in Chatrai mandal in Krishna district were also inundated to heavy rain in the upstream. Vehicular movement between Krishna and West Godavari districts was hit after a bridge on the highway between Chinnampet and Chatrai mandal was breached due to the floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/crops-damaged-villages-cut-off-as-heavy-rains-disrupt-life-across-ap/articleshow/78113041.cms||Samdani MN
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu has a starting problem with startups||CHENNAI: Notwithstanding a strong technology talent pool, a legacy of IT services, and its software product expertise, Tamil Nadu remains a laggard in the startup space as the latest ranking of states by the Centre, based on startup ecosystems, puts TN at the bottom of the pile for the second consecutive year. It has been one step forward on ease of doing business but the state has been stuck in first gear when it came to fostering startupreneurs. Released last week, the report categorises TN as an ‘emerging state’ stagnant at the same level for two years for entrepreneurship. Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana and Bihar are among the 15 states ahead of TN. Industry executives, entrepreneurs, startup mentors and investors said though TN deserves to be among the top five, the ranking is a warning sign for policy makers to formalise its support for startups and have a clear distinction between the definition of a startup and an MSME. The question is: What ails the ecosystem? Depending on the industry they operate, startups in the state get added to that association as a tail piece. There is a need for a focused specialised body that acts as a nodal agency for entrepreneurs. Bringing these under the state’s Guidance Bureau can help, believes Vish Sahasranamam, co-founder of Coimbatore-based Forge Accelerator. The state’s startup policy, though unveiled in January 2019, is yet to become fully operational. An official at the state’s nodal agency for entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute (EDII) said they are working on implementing the provisions of the TN Startup Policy, and their efforts will reflect in next year’s ranking. "However, the ranking measures tangible inputs from the government’s side but does not look at other intangible inputs the state offers," the official said. Some of the policy recommendations which remain on paper is the creation of Fund of Funds worth `250 crore, setting up of a Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund of `50 crore, and establishment of a governing body — Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Mission (TANSIM). "A formal state startup policy came into existence too late, and the establishment of TANSIM, a specialised entrepreneurship body that can focus on entrepreneurs is still pending," said Sivarajah Ramanathan, founder of angel network Nativelead Foundation. Young entrepreneurs also require opportunities to network in a relaxed environment, an area where Bengaluru, NCR and Mumbai region succeeds. "Meeting others over a beer is taboo. There are hardly (networking) options, and the ones available are either too expensive or restrictive," an IIT-M alumnus said. Besides, the state’s focus is disproportionately high on large and small industry growth, and progress of startups is "despite the government and not because of it," he said. As per Startup India, states are ranked based on responses from them on how they performed across various action points and feedback from startups. An analysis of responses shows TN officials sent in responses for just 18 action points -- far below its peers Karnataka (30), Maharashtra (30), Telangana (30), and Kerala (30). Bihar and Odisha governments, for instance, responded across 27 and 28 action points, the data shows. Some government officials, however, questioned the survey. "If a ranking puts Bihar, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh higher than TN in terms of support for entrepreneurship, then one has to reassess the methodology and agenda of such an exercise," the official said. Suresh Sambandam, founder of SaaS firm OrangeScape, said TN needs to use this study and improve its efforts to promote entrepreneurship as it is a way to create jobs for graduates. "However, the ranking system must not just evaluate state responses on the seven pillars, but also take into account the existing support system," he said. "The startup ecosystem in the state is not as bad as it is made it out to be in the report. Thanks to IIT Madras, Chennai is way ahead of Bengaluru in deep tech, and we also outrank other states as the SaaS capital," Sahasranamam said. Post Covid TN is expected to have an edge. Arun Natarajan, VP, TiE Chennai, said despite the poor rank, the state’s superstar entrepreneurs like Sridhar Vembu, Girish Mathrubootham and others have carved a niche nationally. "Post Covid, the deep tech startups are going to stand tall compared to B2C ventures, and TN has an edge in the former category," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-has-a-starting-problem-with-startups/articleshow/78114592.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||91 Covid-19 deaths in a day in Vidarbha, 1,017 in September||NAGPUR: Reporting a spike of 3,000-plus cases for the 10th time in September, the Covid-19 caseload of Vidarbha on Monday reached 1,01,453. Deaths due to Covid-19 continued to scare Vidarbha even on Monday. Total 91 deaths were reported, which is second highest number of deaths in one day, first being 94 on September 10. Nagpur reported 44 out of these 91, followed by Yavatmal (9), Bhandara (8), Wardha (7), Chandrapur (7), Amravati (6), Akola (5), Gadchiroli (4), and Gondia (1). Gadchiroli, which had registered just one death till September 10, has now recorded seven in just four days. The region has reported 1,017 deaths in the first 14 days of September. On the other hand, 2,883 patients recovered during the day, taking the total recoveries past the 70,000-mark to reach 71,506. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is now over 70%. Although by just some decimal points, Vidarbha’s recovery rate (70.5%) was higher than Maharashtra state’s recovery rate (70.2%) for the first time in the last 49 days. The region reported 3,071 new cases on Monday. Highest cases came from Nagpur (1,639), followed by Amravati (311), Gondia (259), Chandrapur (200), Yavatmal (199), Akola (109), Buldhana (85), Bhandara (82), Washim (72), Wardha (59), and Gadchiroli (56). AMRAVATI: With six Covid-19 deaths on Monday, the district’s toll crossed the 200-mark to reach 204 while caseload crossed the 9,000-mark after a spike of 311 cases to reach 9,085. With 398 patients getting discharge on Monday, the number of recovered patients went past the 7,000-mark to reach 7,091, leaving 1,790 patients under treatment including 10 taking treatment in Nagpur and 336 in home isolation. A civil surgeon office report said that five males and a female were among the six who died on Monday. The deceased included a 65-year-old man from Uttam Nagar here, a 45-year-old woman from Morshi, a 29-year-old youth from Mangruli village in Warud, a 60-year-old man from Shendurjana Khurd, a 41-year-old man from Badnera and a 38-year-old man from Sarsi village in Amravati tehsil. The rural belt accounted for 113 fresh cases, taking its count to 2,877. Anjangaon Surji reported 27 cases while Daryapur reported 24 cases. Chandur Railway reported 10 while Chandur Bazar reported nine. Seven cases came from Warud while Dharni reported five. Achalpur reported four. Three cases each came from Walgaon and Morshi while two cases each from Paratwada and Nandgaon Khandeshwar. A case each was reported from 16 villages while there were 10 cases from outside the district. The remaining 188 cases came from the city with Badnera accounting for 11, Sai Nagar and Devdatta Nagar eight each, Chhangani Nagar six and Navsari five. Four cases each came from Shobha Nagar, Uttam Nagar and Shegaon Naka while three cases each came from Bajrang Nagar, Jawahar Road, Chimote Layout and Madhav Nagar. YAVATMAL: A record nine Covid-19 patients died in the district on Monday. The deceased included a 23-year-old girl from Darwha, youngest victim of Covid-19 in the district so far. Three men (55, 62 and 56) from Yavatmal tehsil, a 53-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman from Vani, a 36-year-old man from Arni, a 57-year-old man from Mahagaon, and a 43-year-old woman from Digras also died on Monday. Total Covid-19 death toll of Yavatmal reached 161. A surge of 199 new cases took the Covid count of the district to 5,908. The day also saw 187 patients getting discharge, taking total number of recovered patients to 4,372. Now, 1552 patients are under treatment in Yavatmal, out of which 274 are under home isolation. CHANDRAPUR: The district registered record seven deaths in 24 hours due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 78 on Monday. The caseload crossed the 6,000-mark after 200 new patients were detected, taking the tally to 6,058. Alarmingly, the last 1,000 cases were recorded in just three days. A total of 189 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered patients to 3,045. Now, there are 2,575 patients under treatment. The deceased included a 60-year-old person from Balaji temple premises, a 65-year-old person from Babupeth locality, a 60-year-old person from Bhiwapur ward in Chandrapur city, a 55-year-old person from Sankarpur in Chimur tehsil, two men, (32 and 65) from Ballarpur town, and a 55-year-old person from Wagholi in Saoli tehsil. All the deceased had comorbidities and died during treatment at Chandrapur GMCH. WARDHA: The district registered record seven deaths in a day due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the toll to 54. The district’s caseload increased to 2,629 after 59 new cases were detected. The day also saw 58 patients getting discharge, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,311. Currently, there are 1,264 patients under treatment. The deceased included three men (61, 56, 62) from Wardha, a 60-year-old woman and a 61-year-old man from Hinganghat, a 68-year-old woman from Arvi and 67-year-old man from Pulgaon. A total of 586 reports were received on Monday. Positive cases came from Wardha (26), Hinganghat (13), Selu and Deoli (6 each), Arvi (5) and one each from Ashti, Karanja and Samudrapur. BULDHANA: The district received 380 reports, out of which 85 tested positive on Monday, taking the total cases past the 5,000-mark. With 118 patients recovering during the day, total recoveries reached 3,760. Buldhana’s recovery rate is about 75%. No death was reported on Monday which kept the toll at 64. Total 1,212 patients are under treatment in Buldhana. BHANDARA: District reported eight deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 65. On Monday, number of patients discharged (136) was more than number of new cases (82). The district now has total 2,960 cases, including 1,698 recovered and 1,197 under treatment. AKOLA: A surge of 109 cases and five deaths on Monday brought back memories of June-July peak days for residents of Akola district. All five deceased were senior citizens above 65 years of age. Akola’s toll has reached 186. The day also saw 146 patients recovering from the infection. Now, 1165 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: With 72 new cases, Washim’s Covid caseload reached 2,876. After 43 recoveries on Monday, taking count of recovered patients to 1,961. After 54 deaths, total 861 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Four deaths were reported in Gadchiroli in last 48 hours taking the toll to 7. The deceased included three from Gadchiroli and a woman from Dhanora who was a cancer patient. The district reported 56 new cases including an expectant mother from Gadchiroli city. Total 18 patients got discharge on Monday. Now, Gadchiroli has total 1,662 cases, 1,223 of them recovered and 432 patients under treatment. This is so far lowest number of cases, deaths and under-treatment patients in Vidarbha. GONDIA: Witnessing record 259 cases and second double century of cases on Monday, Gondia took its Covid count to 3,417. Death of one positive patient took the toll to 51. Total 60 patients were discharged on Monday. Now, 1,588 patients are under treatment in Gondia. Reports of 999 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/91-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day-in-vidarbha-1017-in-september-so-far/articleshow/78115400.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Exclusion from meeting indication of expulsion’||Vijayawada: K Raghurama Krishnam Raju, the rebel YSRC MP from Narasapuram, said his exclusion from the virtual meeting of party MPs with party president and chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday indicated his expulsion from the party. He was invited first by Andhra Bhavan’s staff to attend the meeting through a text message but was later requested not to attend the meeting. “I received a text message first inviting me for the meet followed by lunch. But later I received a call asking me not to attend. This shows that YSRC feels that I am not part of the party MPs and it is presumed as expulsion from the party,” Raghurama Krishnam Raju told TOI. The MP said he had requested the CM to call a joint meeting of MPs to represent state issues during Parliament session. “While no such meeting was held, they denied my presence at the meeting with CM. This is a clear indication that the party had expelled me for no fault of mine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/exclusion-from-meeting-indication-of-expulsion/articleshow/78113145.cms||Gopi Dara
September 15, 2020||Mumbai||AMU students & faculty remember Meerza for his simplicity||Mumbai: The great grandson of Wajid Ali Shah, the last nawab of Awadh, Kaukab Quder Sajjad Ali Meerza, who died on Sunday in Kolkata, was fascinated by the “throne” filmmaker Satyajit Ray got prepared for his iconic first Hindi film ‘Shatranj Ke Khiladi’ (1977). A historical drama based on Munshi Premchand’s story of the same name, the film depicted the two noblemen devoted to chess and the officials of the British East India company scheming in the background. Since the film was mostly shot at Indrapuri Studios in Kolkata, all the actors and others associated with the film stayed in the city. Amjad Khan (he played Nawab Wajid Ali Shah), Shabana Azmi, Saeed Jafri were among others who essayed the roles that made it a masterpiece to Ray’s remarkable repertoire. Meerza, who completed his research on “Literary and Cultural Contributions of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah” at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), joined the varsity’s Urdu department as lecturer and taught there from 1967 to 1993. His colleagues and students remember him as a simple person. “He was a simple person. You would not know about his royal lineage by looking at him or from his dress as he wore simple sherwani-pyjama,” recalled retired Urdu teacher at AMU Prof Asghar Abbas. His student and later, colleague, Prof Abul Qalam Qasmi, said: “He penned many books, including one on his great grandfather Wajid Ali Shah. He had inherited the literary legacy as Wajid Ali Shah was too was a poet.” Prof Ali Nadeem Rezavi, who teaches medieval history at AMU, recalled that Meerza was an unassuming person. “I never remember him throwing his weight around. He led a simple man’s life and never used the title “Prince” against his name, as opposed to his more flamboyant and socially conscious brother, Prince Anjum Qauder,” Rezavi wrote in his Facebook post. “He was a regular at the University Staff Club where he would come daily to play billiards.” Delhi-based former student of AMU, Salim Kidwai, remembered Meerza as a simple man. “ The family had a long association with AMU. Prince Anjum Quder too had studied there and even became President of the AMU students’ union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amu-students-faculty-remember-meerza-for-his-simplicity/articleshow/78115703.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
September 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Doctors suggest Covid test for common cold patients||BENGALURU: With frequent rain pulling down mercury, Bengalureans are experiencing common cold and sore throat, which also happen to be Covid-19 symptoms. To rule out coronavirus infection, some doctors are prescribing relevant tests, while others are preferring to observe patients for a few days. With the symptoms causing confusion, most patients are choosing to stay in isolation till test results arrive or symptoms subside. “Irrespective of getting tested on Day 1 of developing symptoms, those with runny nose, cough and fever must isolate themselves,” said Dr SM Prasad, a paediatrician. According to doctors, most common cold patients say they’ve never stepped out of the house and their malady could be due to change of weather. “SARS-COV-2 infection is now in community-transmission stage. One need not necessarily step out to catch it. Parents going out could be carriers and could potentially transmit the virus to their children. Having cold and cough is a good enough reason to conduct Covid test so that early diagnosis, treatment, isolation can be done,” Dr Prasad explained. BBMP’s epidemiologists say these cases are typically of influenza like illness (ILI) and have to be tested. “If symptoms have developed in the last 2-3 days, get tested. If the rapid test turns negative in those with symptoms, we immediately do an RT-PCR test to avoid confusion,” said an epidemiologist from BBMP. Doctors in fever clinics do question such patients about their travel history and contacts. “Earlier, we used to tell them to wait for 1-2 days. But with rapid tests available, we immediately test people showing symptoms. However, we are concerned about those with symptoms not turning up for testing and self-diagnosing themselves as non-Covid patients,” said a doctor from a fever clinic in south Bengaluru. ‘Weather-induced allergies don’t cause fever’ However, Dr Sudha Menon, director, internal medicine, Fortis hospital, Bannerghatta Road, said there’s a clear distinction between common allergies seen due to weather change and Covid-19 symptoms. “This is the time of the year when OPDs used to be flooded with common cold, cough and respiratory allergy cases. It’s not the same this year as pollution levels have dropped and people are homebound. However, with change in weather, allergies manifest in the form of runny nose, heaviness in the head (due to sinus) and cough. These allergies don’t spread and don’t cause fever,” added Dr Menon. The doctor, however, said: “If a person has throat pain, body ache, headache and low-grade fever, which is typical of Covid, s/he must be tested.” Box: Not safe to conduct throat exam: Experts Doctors say they’re having a tough time convincing patients with throat pain that no throat examination can be done. “We need to be cautious. When patients force us to examine the throat, aerosols may come out. It’s not safe for a doctor to do throat examination,” said Dr Prasad, adding sore-throat cases are common during rainy season. He added many ENT specialists have been infected as they have examined patients who would have been Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doctors-suggest-covid-test-for-common-cold-patients/articleshow/78114133.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur private hospitals told to set up oxygen plant||KOLHAPUR: The district administration has asked all Kolhapur-based private hospitals to set up oxygen generation facility on their premises to deal with its shortage. District collector Daulat Desai has written to all the private hospitasl for setting up the facility adding that some hospitals like WIINS Hospital, Siddhgiri Hospital and Sunrise Hospital already have their own such facility. “The hospitals will have to spend their own money for setting up the facility. We have asked the oxygen producing firms to supply around 44 tonne of oxygen. Currently, around 30 tonne of oxygen is being supplied and two Pune-based plants have been appraoched to supply around 12 tonne of oxygen,” he said. “Currently, there is shortage of oxygen. Some hospitals have their own oxygen generation plants. We want the private hospitals to set such facilities so that shortage can be overcome to some extent. The hospitals should also procure jumbo cylinders and dura cylinders at their own expense.” Transportation of oxygen is the key issue which is yet to be resolved. Desai said the plants in the district are asked to supply exclusively to the hospitals and up to 80% of the oxygen generated should be reserved for medical purpose. “The state government is coordinating with private manufacturers from various places to supply oxygen to the hospitals in the district,” he said. The demand for oxygen is going to increase as the drive to trace critical patients is going to start from Tuesday. “We are also setting up over 400 oxygen-support and 300 ICU beds. The proposal has been accepted by government and the increased capacity of beds will require more oxygen,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-pvt-hosps-told-to-set-up-o2-plant/articleshow/78112106.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Gas leak: SHRC puts officials on notice||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken suo motu cognizance of a TOI report regarding sulphur-like smell that spread across the city last week. It issued notices to the commissioner of industries and the member secretary, Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) on Monday. On Saturday, a report titled ‘Sulphur-like smell unnerves city, locals approach PCB’ was published describing how a foul odour and smog had engulfed an almost 20km stretch of the city. Reacting to this, the SHRC noted that hundreds of complaints had poured in to the TSPCB from areas such as Bachupally, Hafeezpet, Ameenpur, Nallagandla, Miyapur, Madinaguda and Gachibowli. “In the circumstances, the commission opines that it is a fit case for suo motu cognizance”, the SHRC said, asking for “comprehensive reports to the commission by next date”. The next date of hearing is slated for October 22. Meanwhile, TSPCB officials are still trying to identify the source and nature of the gas released. To help them in such incidents, they are planning to acquire improved technology. Discussions are underway in the TSPCB for procuring a mobile continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS). This would be in addition to six stationary stations which are in University of Hyderabad, Nehru Zoological Park, and TSPCB offices at Sanathnagar, Pashamailram and Bolarum. “The cost of procuring the mobile CAAQMS unit would be Rs 1.5crore,” said a PCB source, adding the unit can be sent to any location where it can take samples and provide results of major pollutants within an hour. The mobile unit will be fitted with a gas chromatograph, which helps detect volatile organic compounds which arise out of environmental pollution. “The process to acquire the machine has already been started and it is likely to be with us by January next year,” said the source, adding the mobile unit will allow quicker detection of pollutants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gas-leak-shrc-puts-officials-on-notice/articleshow/78114590.cms||Uttara Varma
September 15, 2020||Bengaluru||All BMTC buses go cashless but only 4,000 users pay via QR code daily||BENGALURU: With Covid-19 outbreak prompting Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation to go cashless and contactless, all BMTC buses plying on city roads now allow passengers to pay fare via QR-code ticketing. While BMTC’s daily ridership is nearly 13 lakh at present, only around 4,000 passengers are using the facility every day, mainly because of poor awareness. The utility’s daily passenger revenue is around Rs 1.5 crore, of which revenue from QR-code payments is only Rs 90,000. In some cases, conductors are reluctant to allow passengers to pay via the facility. BMTC officials said they are operating 4,200 buses, including around 50 Volvo buses. “We are hoping digital transactions will go up once Vajra and Vayu Vajra services resume fully,” said a senior official. In May, BMTC launched the QR-code facility to provide a contactless and safe payment option to passengers, who needn’t worry about carrying cash or exact change. In May, the facility was restricted to only around 1,000 buses and the number of daily users was around 1,000. Regular commuters say contactless ticketing helps one avoid cash transactions, especially during the pandemic, and also addresses the problem of change. Over the years, there have been several complaints of conductors and passengers fighting over change and some conductors refusing to hand over the balance amount. Many passengers suggest those availing QR-code ticketing be given discounts. “BMTC could tie up with UPI apps to provide discounts and cashback to users. This will encourage more people to come on board. BMTC also should create awareness about the facility. Many officegoers are not travelling in BMTC buses due to WFH. But contactless/cashless ticketing is a win-win situation for both the corporation and passengers in the long run,” said K Pradeep, a regular passenger. Following the success of BMTC’s cashless project, other state transport corporations in Karnataka as well as in Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai also implemented the QR-code ticketing facility. Under the system, passengers can use UPI apps such as Google Pay, PhonePe and Paytm to pay their fare. Each bus has a different QR code. Once a commuter scans the code and enters the amount and UPI PIN, the money is deducted from his/her bank account. Once the payment is made, the conductor issues the ticket. We may incentivise usersThe QR-code ticketing project took off well, but now demand is mainly for monthly passes. The number of users is not growing the way we had expected, mainly because employees in the IT sector continue to work from home. We are thinking of incentivising QR-code facility users C Shikha, BMTC MD||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/all-bmtc-buses-go-cashless-but-only-4k-users-pay-via-qr-code-daily/articleshow/78114137.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Bhardwaj sworn in as HC judge||Chandigarh: Advocate Rajesh Bhardwaj was sworn in as new judge of the Punjab and Hayana high court on Monday. Chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha of the HC administered the oath of office to Justice Bhardwaj in a simple ceremony in view of Covid-19 pandemic in the HC premises. On September 11, the Union government had notified the elevation of Bhardwaj as the judge of the high court. With the elevation of Bhardwaj, the total number of judges in the high court has reached 55 as against the sanctioned strength of 85 judges. The SC collegium in its meeting held on August 17, 2020 had approved the proposal for elevation of Bhardwaj as HC judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bhardwaj-sworn-in-as-hc-judge/articleshow/78114620.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||39-yr-old arrested for friend’s murder||Hyderabad: A 39-year-old film industry worker was arrested for stabbing his friend to death at Krishna Nagar recently. Shami Baig, a film set worker from LN Nagar in Yousufguda, has been doing odd jobs on movie sets for over a decade. On September 11 night, Baig stabbed 30-year-old Rajesh, a native of Warangal, to death. With the help of locals, Jubilee Hills police identified the victim, who used to do welding works at film sets. Police found the wallet containing the Aadhar card and Pan card of the accused at the crime scene. After interrogating eye witnesses, police identified the accused and arrested him from Yousufguda on Monday. Shami confessed to have committed the murder. Shami told police that on September 9, he purchased liquor and consumed it along with Rajesh at his house. When Shami woke up, a gas cylinder and Rs 900 cash was missing from his house. On September 11, Shami confronted Rajesh and accused him of stealing cash and a gas cylinder. An argument led to Shami stabbing Rajesh, killing him on the spot, West Zone Joint Commissioner AR Srinivas said. Police seized the knife from Shami’s possession and he was sent to judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/39-yr-old-arrested-for-friends-murder/articleshow/78114624.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Plea in HC against bar assn polls||Chandigarh: Punjab and Haryana state bar council’s decision to hold online elections for high court and district bar associations of the two states and UT Chandigarh, has come under the scanner of Punjab and Haryana high court. A petition challenging the decision would come up for hearing before the court on Tuesday. The matter has reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by three former presidents of district bar association of Chandigarh and other lawyers. They have sought directions to quash the council’s September 9 notification, which declared that online elections would be held on September 30 and October1. According to petitioners, the decision was taken unilaterally without speaking to stakeholders and without associating some members of the council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plea-in-hc-against-bar-assn-polls/articleshow/78114627.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Traffic diversions from Tolichowki to Gachibowli||Hyderabad: In view of the construction of the six-lane flyover from Tolichowki to Malkam Cheruvu on old Mumbai highway, traffic movement will be slow between Whisper Valley junction to Malkam Cheruvu as the Cyberabad police have imposed traffic diversions from 11pm to 5am every night between September 15 and 22. Traffic from Tolichowki to Gachibowli and vice-versa will be diverted at various points. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-diversions-from-tolichowki-to-gachibowli/articleshow/78114616.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Goa caps rates for Covid patient admissions in private hospitals||PANAJI: The state government on Monday issued an order capping the rates for Covid-19 admission in private hospitals with intensive care units (ICUs). Private hospitals can thus no longer charge patients more than the approved rates — Rs 12,000/day for general ward, Rs 15,000/day for twin sharing, Rs 18,000/day for single room, and Rs 25,000/day for ICU with ventilator. A senior official said that this capping was necessitated amid fears that patients opting for treatment in private hospitals may be overcharged. He said that while they hadn’t received any written complaints of overcharging, they had heard that two hospitals raised their rates for Covid admissions. Last week, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that an order capping rates to ensure that patients are not overcharged would be issued. Earlier, the directorate of health services had directed private hospitals with ICU beds to admit Covid patents and to share their rates. The government’s delay in issuing this order has also been questioned by some quarters. The official said that in the absence of clarity on various charges, it left scope for private entities to bill patients more on items such as personal protection kits and other such items. Thus, the order has classified rates to be charged in four categories, and what each should contain. The package includes bed charges, nursing, resident doctor’s fees, personal protection kit for staff, and routine medicines. It, however, does not include fees to be charged by diagnostic intensivists, specialists’ fees, use of special drugs, special equipment, other special procedures including surgery, and extra oxygen flow other than ICU. A source said that private hospitals charged between Rs 18,000-30,000 a day for Covid admissions when they first started, and this didn’t include the cost of food, investigations and medicines. Currently, only four private hospitals in the state admit Covid patients, and their total bed capacity is not more than 100 beds. A vast majority of Covid-positive patients in the state are being treated in government-run facilities. A doctor attached to a corporate hospital said that it is difficult to manage Covid patients because they too face issues of nursing staff shortage, and when their employees test positive, it reduces the hospital’s strength. “Patient management in Covid wards becomes difficult when even one or two nurses fail to report to work,” he said. “It is difficult to keep the cost down to the bare minimum for various reasons. There is also the added risk of our non-Covid services getting affected when staff is diverted for Covid duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-caps-rates-for-covid-patient-admissions-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78115705.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle crushes man in sleep||Kurukshetra: A migrant worker, who was sleeping in the open on a charpoy at Thanesar grain market in Kurukshetra, was run over by a heavy vehicle in the wee hours of Monday. Shambhu Shah, 42, was a native of Gaddi village in Supaul district of Bihar. Investigating officer sub-inspector Sahib Singh said Shambhu wasrried and his family stayed at their native place. Shambhu had returned from Bihar on Sunday. “Äround 5am, he was found run over by some heavy vehicle,” said Sahib Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vehicle-crushes-man-in-sleep/articleshow/78114638.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Man jailed for stalking minor||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old electrician was sentenced to three years imprisonment for misbehaving with a minor girl at Yacharam in 2017. D Srikanth, a resident of Yacharam, was stalking the 15-year-old girl from his neighbourhood and was pestering her to marry him. On January 15, 2017, Srikanth went to the girl’s house in a drunken condition and started using abusive language against her mother. The girl and her mother got out of the house. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-jailed-for-stalking-minor/articleshow/78114697.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Meerut||SI caught on camera taking bribe, suspended||Muzaffarnagar: A sub-inspector was suspended from after a video clip of him taking bribe went viral on social media. After a preliminary investigation, it was found that Gajender Singh was involved in corruption and was suspended by Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav, police said. According to police sources, the clip was shot by the victim when he was asked to give Rs 5,000 cash. The sources said the SI was investigating a matter of clash two groups in village Harsoli in Shahpur police station area and asked bribe for not registering the case against him. It is being said the clip is weeks old, but it was uploaded on the internet on Saturday. Station house officer of Shahpur police station Dharmendra Singh said, "He was removed after the video went viral. Further investigation is on."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/si-caught-on-camera-taking-bribe-suspended/articleshow/78112121.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Political leaders flay govt over Maratha quota issue||Kolhapur: Political leaders have questioned the “will” of the current government to see the Maratha reservation through, while Rajya Sabha member Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje has suggested that all MPs join hands over the issue and meet the PM.NCP chief Sharad Pawar has suggested that Maharashtra government bring out an ordinance over Maratha reservation after the apex court's interim order. BJP Maharashtra president Chandrakant Patil told the media in Kolhapur on Monday that an ordinance was not a solution.Patil said that the petitioners, who had approached the SC, are bound to challenge the ordinance. “The real problem is with the willpower of the ruling parties. They don’t want reservation for the community,” he said.Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi (VBA) founder Prakash Ambedkar has blamed “rich Maratha MLAs” for obstructing reservation for the Maratha community. On his official Twitter account, Ambedkar wrote that 182 of the 288 MLAs in Maharashtra were from the community, but they do not want reservation for poor Marathas. “These MLAs are related to each other and share common interests. They do not want reservation for poor Marathas,” he alleged.Sambhajiraje has sent a letter to all the MPs stating that Maratha community is greatly hurt because of the Supreme Court decision. He said the Supreme Court had not granted stay on reservation in state like Tamil Nadu, where reservation is more than 50%. He pointed out that reservation in Tamil Nadu is in force, even if, a final decision on reservation is yet to be delivered.Meanwhile, the workers of the Sakal Maratha Samaj have also said they would hold an agitation in front of the houses of all the MLAs and MPs on September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/political-leaders-flay-govt-over-maratha-quota-issue/articleshow/78114628.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||2 killed in separate road accidents||Nashik:Two people were killed in two separate road accidents in the Nashik Road area on September 11 (Friday) and September 13 (Sunday).  In an incident on Friday, Ramesh Rikkal (62), was riding his bike on the Lam Road when another biker going towards Deolali Camp from Vihitgaon knocked Rikkal down in an attempt to overtake him. The victim suffered serious injuries and succumbed to it while undergoing treatment in a private hospital. In another incident, Kshitij Raju Wagh (28) was crossing the Nashik-Pune road on Sunday when a car knocked him down. The unidentified driver fled the spot. Wagh suffered serious injuries in the road accident and succumbed to the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/78112129.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||MKM Nashik unit demands withdrawal of notices||Nashik: Notices issued to more than 20 prominent members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha under IPC section 149 on Monday has left the members of the outfit’s Nashik unit upset. The community members objected to the police action and demanded that such notices be withdrawn immediately. They pointed out that the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) has been known to conduct only peaceful protests over the past five years. Section 149 holds everyone present at an “unlawful assembly” responsible for any offence committed by any member. According to senior police officers, the notices were issued to several MKM members and leaders as a preventive measure. An MKM delegation met police commissioner Deepak Pandey demanding immediate withdrawal of the notices that could affect the future of the youth fighting for the just demands of the community. “We are not against citizens and have never taken law and order in our hands. Our fight is against the government as it has failed to retain the Maratha reservation. We will be fighting in a democratic manner only,” Karan Gaykar, a member of the state-level coordination committee in Nashik, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mkm-nashik-unit-demands-withdrawal-of-notices/articleshow/78114680.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Women who engineered a pioneering path||Imagine having the vice-chancellor strike out ‘he’ on your graduation certificate and scribbling ‘she’ next to it. That’s what happened with Ayyalasomayajula Lalitha, India’s first woman engineer. Today a large number of women have successful careers in engineering, but back in the 1940s this was unheard of. In 1943, three women graduated with degrees from Chennai’s College of Engineering Guindy (CEG), the oldest in the country. They were Lalitha, Leelamma George and P K Thressia. Although they all graduated together as the course was cut short due to WWII, Lalitha was the first to enrol for the course. On Engineer’s Day, it’s important to remember not only these pioneers but also the institution that forged their glittering careers."CEG produced some of India’s first women engineers. Their life stories show they had two things in common — they were all highly motivated to excel and they had very supportive families," says Dr Shantha Mohan, executive-in-residence, Carnegie Mellon University and author of ‘Roots and Wings: Inspiring Stories of Indian Women in Engineering’. Born in a middle class Telugu-speaking family in Chennai in 1919, Lalitha was married off at the age of 15 and widowed three years later when her daughter was only four months old. Her father Pappu Subba Rao was a professor at CEG and Lalitha wanted to follow in his footsteps. In 1940 she joined CEG. Years later – after a glittering career with Associated Electrical Industries – she would marvel at her journey. Speaking at the International Conference of Women Engineers & Scientists in New York in June 1964, she said: "150 years ago I would have been burned at the funeral pyre with my husband’s body." Symala Chenulu, her daughter, remembers Lalitha as "quiet, strong, determined and the kindest human being. She never had a bad word for anyone and was patient to the extreme." A retired school teacher in the US, Chenulu says, "If am just 1/100th of what she was, I would be very proud. She was a great role model for all girls."Like Lalitha, Leelamma and Thressia too had "fulfilling civil engineering careers in Kerala," says Mohan. Thressia became the first lady chief engineer in Kerala’s Public Works Department. Later other CEG grads like Rajyalakshmi (the first woman telecom engineer) and Sarojini (first woman mechanical engineer) continued to break stereotypes in the field, says Mohan, also a CEG alumnus.For today’s engineers and entrepreneurs, the story of the first three is an inspiration. "What life lessons these pioneers teach us," says Ampere founder Hemlatha Annamalai, is to "ask questions that get you thinking because that’s how intellectual ability gets developed". That’s how good engineers are forged. As are good human beings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/women-who-engineered-a-pioneering-path/articleshow/78114701.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||No compulsion to come to school: Order||Dehradun: The secondary education department of Kumaun region has given the approval for opening of the schools from September 21 for Classes IX-XII. The director of secondary education (Kumaun), Mukul Kumar Sati, has issued a notice to the region’s chief education officers in this regard after consulting with the respective district administration and making proper arrangements at the schools. The guidelines state that no pressure will be put on students, who don’t wish to attend the school, and only upto 50% of the staffers will be called upon based on the requirements. Meanwhile, the state education department has selected 174 government schools of Uttarakhand which will be converted into Atal Adarsh School (English medium model school) and is now left with the task of selecting 16 more such potential schools. The model schools are being created to provide quality education in English medium even to those students residing in rural and hilly areas of the state. A separate cadre of teachers will also be created for teaching in these model schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-compulsion-to-come-to-school-order/articleshow/78112134.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Post offices to offer eSeva services||Hyderabad: In a welcome move, post offices in the city will also offer eSeva services without charging additional fee other than the prescribed charges. There are 78 types of central and state services, like digital seva portal, pan card services, Bharat Bill Pay System (BBPS) gas, electricity, water, electoral ID cards, BSNL prepaid mobile, finance banking and others, to be offered in the identified post offices in the city The India Post Department, Telangana Circle, has identified seven post offices including Jubilee Head Post Office, Station Kacheguda Head Post Office, Amberpet, Uppal, Falaknuma, Saidabad and Bahadurpura sub post offices, according to an official release. These services will be extended to another eight post offices by the end of this month, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/post-offices-to-offer-eseva-services/articleshow/78114700.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Madurai||Passenger movement up by 55% at Madurai airport||Madurai: Showing a clear sign of limping back to normal, the passenger movement at Madurai airport has gone up by 55% in August than its previous month. Going by the date of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the number of flights has increased from 223 in June to 582 flights in July and 654 in August, a steady escalation of 193%.Officials said that it will take one more month for the situation to return to normal as international flight movement is banned till the end of September. Although the number of flight operations and passenger movement cannot be compared with the pre-Covid times, the increasing passenger movement after the lockdown relaxation is certainly encouraging, say airport authorities.Madurai airport used to handle more than 1.2 lakh passengers in a month, four times higher than the numbers handled in August this year. At present, only nine domestic daily flights are operating services, while it was 27 flights earlier. The flights are being operated to Mumbai, New Delhi, Bangalore, two to Hyderabad and four to Chennai.Madurai airport director S Senthil Valavan said that he is happy with the way the number of passenger movement is increasing. Except for 12-15 repatriation flights a month, others are domestic flights. “Seat occupancy is getting better. Some of the airlines have replaced their ATR aircrafts with Airbus 320, which can carry more than double the number of passengers,” he said.“All safety measures are in place and passengers are handled as per the standard operating procedures given by the AAI. We continue to improve safety standards at the airport,” Senthil Valavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/passenger-movement-up-by-55-at-madurai-airport/articleshow/78109115.cms||V Devanathan
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Devpt works of Cantt board take a hit||Nashik: The routine developmental and maintenance works taken up by the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) have taken a hit due to the increased expenditures on salaries to be paid to the employees after the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission. Works related to roads, drains, water supply, sanitation and other amenities that are provided to the citizens have taken a hit, said the officials. The board members said the grant given by the Centre was extremely less and most of it was spent on giving salaries to the employees and pensions to the retired employees. Bhagwan Kataria, a corporator and the former vice president of the CBD, said the income from the cantonment board hospital has also stopped ever since the hospital has been converted into a dedicated covid health centre (DCHC). The income from the hospital was around Rs 12 to 15 lakh per month. Though the income did not cover the salaries of the medical staff of 80 there, the income was still a major support. Kataria said they had sought Rs 60 lakh from the district administration for Covid management but received Rs 30 lakh far. The members said for 2019-20, they were expecting a grant of Rs 33 crore. However, the CBD got only Rs 7 crore. The expenditure on salaries given by the CBD as per the seventh pay commission from August 2019 is Rs 1.27 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/devpt-works-of-cantt-board-take-a-hit/articleshow/78112155.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Polio, hearing impairment no barrier for this achiever||Lucknow: A postgraduate in special education, 33-year-old Adarsh Kumar cannot hear much. However, he has trained himself to read lips. Affected by polio in both legs at the young age of five, Adarsh lost hearing when he was in class VI following a brain fever. That did not stop him though from cracking the UP civil services where he scored 120 marks out of 200. “Polio affected my entire body. I was completely paralysed and spent almost a year in hospital. My father sold his only piece of land and animals to buy me medicines. Despite all efforts, polio took both my legs,” said Adarsh. Adarsh hails from a weak socio-economic background. His high-school dropout father Shiv Mangal was a class IV employee with the state government and is now retired. His mother Ramkumari is illiterate and a homemaker. “I am the youngest among four siblings. With meagre income, my disabilities added to the hardships. I always wanted to be an officer and help my parents,” said Adarsh, who is presently teaching kids in a primary school in Hardoi, and has enrolled for PhD at a rehabilitation university in Lucknow. Selected as a labour enforcement officer, the journey of polio-stricken Adarsh has been arduous and inspirational. Even being orthopedically challenged and hard of hearing, Adarsh has never relied on any devices for support. “He always limps but would never use a walker or a hearing aid. He feels these would lower his confidence,” said Shiv Mangal. The motivation to excel, said Adarsh, came from his mentor. “He faced struggle at each step but beat all odds to crack civil services. More so because for a deaf person, it’s almost impossible to qualify,” said Mrutyunjaya Mishra, associate professor at Shakuntala Misra Rehabilitation University’s department of hearing impairment. The 20-minute interview, a rarity for hearing impaired, was also a unique one, Mishra said. “The panel considered his (Adarsh) requests and asked questions to him in writing. This helped Adarsh win the battle,” said Mishra. In 2009, when SRM University inducted the first batch of students, Adarsh joined BEd Special Education (HI) and then MEd Special Education (HI) in 2011. “It was here that I got a chance to meet people from different disabilities, and that changed my perspective. I decided to break the belief that hearing impaired can’t pursue higher studies,” he said. Back at school, Adarsh was never a rank holder, not even a first division. But he was determined to do something big. Inside the classroom, he could hardly hear his teachers. “I used to understand their body language and expressions. I took the front seat and made guesses, after seeing the blackboard, on the topics being taught. Then I followed them in my books,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/polio-hearing-impairment-no-barrier-for-this-achiever/articleshow/78115718.cms||Isha Jain
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||HC stays SFIO probe into Karvy, says rules not followed||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Monday stayed the ongoing Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) probe into the affairs of Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (KSBL). A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy passed this interim order while hearing an appeal filed by the company, which challenged the probe ordered by the Centre’s corporate affairs ministry. Earlier, a single judge bench had upheld the probe order. The bench, while issuing notices to the secretary of the ministry of corporate affairs, its director general and regional director at Hyderabad, Registrar of Companies (RoC), Telangana, and others directed assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao to furnish to the court by September 30 the reports and letters of RoC, the regional director and joint director of the ministry that formed the basis for the probe order. The company filed this appeal challenging the order of the single judge, who had earlier refused to stall the ongoing SFIO probe into the affairs of the company which is facing allegations of raising loans by pledging assets of the clients and diverting them to its realty wing. Counsel S Niranjan Reddy argued the case of Karvy and said that the authorities did not follow any procedure envisaged under the Companies Act while ordering the probe. A notice under section 206(4) of the Companies Act should be given to the company narrating the list of infirmities found and an explanation must be sought, he said and added that this was not followed. The bench verified the record and gave a prima facie finding that the authorities mixed up things and procedure was bypassed. Stating that the issue against the company started with November 27, 2019 letter written by regional director of MCA to RoC and the subsequent letters and reports went from RoC to regional director and regional director to MCA on Jan 2, 2020, the bench expressed its displeasure over non-furnishing of those letters to the court. It summoned those letters and any further communication made among themselves during this period. “It is like a jigsaw puzzle. We have to frame them together to have a holistic picture,” the bench said. “The inquiry should be under 206(4), but the notices issued under 206 (1). A probe under 206 (4) thrusts greater responsibility on the RoC to convey the allegations or prima facie findings in the preliminary probe to the accused company. An explanation should be sought from the company on these issues before ordering a full fledged probe,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-stays-sfio-probe-into-karvy-says-rules-not-followed/articleshow/78114747.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Hosp refuses to run CCC after vandalism by kin of deceased||Kolhapur: The management of a hospital in Miraj town of Sangli district has expressed its inability to run a Covid care centre (CCC) after the relatives of a Covid-19 patient damaged the property on Sunday.The Covid care centre had 17 patients under treatment and they are now being shifted to other facilities after the hospital backed out. A private lodge had been converted into a Covid centre and was being run with the help of the local hospital.District collector Abhijit Chaudhari and municipal commissioner Nitin Kapadnis have ordered an inquiry into Sunday's violence and have assured of appropriate legal action.On Sunday afternoon, when a 70-year-old patient from neighbouring Kupwad tehsil succumbed to Covid-19, a crowd of around 200 people gathered outside the healthcare facility and started raising various questions on treatment and bill.Dr Ajit Dorkar, who was at the facility, told TOI the crowd eventually became violent and damaged the furniture, a printer and other things. All the staff of care centre had to run away because of the violence, he said.A team of senior police officials and civic employees rushed to the spot and pacified the crowd. The aggressive crowd, however, demanded action against the hospital for not treating patients and charging extra bills.Dr Dorkar refuted the allegation stating that the question of extra charge does not arise as all the bills are issued only after an audit by the government-appointed auditors.“We admitted the critical patient on humanitarian grounds when his oxygen level was below 70. Covid care centres do not have oxygen beds or ventilator facility as per government order. We had made it very clear to the relatives,” he said.He added the relatives had agreed to shift the patient to some other hospital once a bed becme available. “The critical patient died despite our efforts. We started treatment only on humanitarian ground as beds are not available because of large number of patients in Sangli district,” he said, adding that the hospital's medical workers were not ready to resume the work because of fear.Dr Dorekar and other doctors met guardian minister Jayant Patil and collector Abhijit Chaudhari expressing their inability to run the centre. While four patients were shifted by Monday noon, two doctors are taking care of the remaining patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hosp-refuses-to-run-ccc-after-vandalism-by-kin-of-deceased/articleshow/78114708.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Rain delays highway repair works in Kasara ghat section||Nashik: The work on the damaged portion of the Mumbai-Agra highway in the Kasara ghat section is still pending causing immense inconvenience to commuters. Last year, the old ghat road, which is part of the highway from Mumbai to Nashik, had caved in at two places. As a result, traffic from this section had to be diverted to the parallel Nashik-to-Mumbai stretch. Taking into account the slow pace of the work, the highway police have been writing to the highway authorities and have also been conducting meetings with them to finish the work at the earliest. Commuters said the repair work has not been completed even after a year. Officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) said the work is almost complete and only laying the top coat of the road remains. Since the hot-mix plants cannot be operated in the rainy season, the work of applying the top coat of asphalt is pending. Once the rain stops, the work will be taken up immediately and wrapped up within a matter of a couple of weeks. Kasara gets heavy rainfall every year. The streams from the hills in the ghat section fall on the busy road and at times, even the rocks tumble on to the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-delays-highway-repair-works-in-kasara-ghat-section/articleshow/78112139.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 15, 2020||Goa||Mandrem, Santa Cruz MLAs test +ve||Panaji: Two more legislators tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. BJP’s Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes and Dayanand Sopte representing Mandrem constituency in North Goa have tested positive for novel coronavirus. Fernandes was admitted to a private hospital after his test results. He was required to be kept under observation though his condition is stable, a doctor at the hospital said. The doctor added that Sopte, who did not display any symptoms of the virus, was declared fit to stay in isolation at home after his examination. “He has been asked to immediately report if there are any variations in his condition,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant who tested positive weeks ago has recovered and resumed work. Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who had contracted the virus a month ago, was discharged on Saturday. Former chief minister Churchill Alemao, former deputy chief minister and MGP leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar, former South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar and Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar have also recently recovered from the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mandrem-santa-cruz-mlas-test-ve/articleshow/78115714.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||HC gives three former CMs two weeks’ time to respond to show cause notice in contempt proceedings||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday gave the three former chief ministers (CM) of the state – Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, BC Khanduri, and Vijya Bahuguna — two weeks’ time to respond to the show cause notices issued to them after a civil contempt petition was filed against them. The case was heard by Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma and two weeks’ time was given to the three former CMs on the request of the counsels representing them. “The counsels representing the former CMs asked the court to give them time to file their counter affidavits in the petition. The court, therefore, gave then two weeks and said that case would be listed immediately after two weeks for further hearing,” said Kartikey Hari Gupta, the lawyer appearing for Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra, a Dehradun-based NGO, which has filed the contempt petition against the CMs as well the chief secretary. The petition has alleged that former chief ministers have not complied with the order regarding payment of rent for services like bungalow, personal staff, and subsidised electricity even after a year of the court's direction. The court had issued show cause notices to the CMs and the chief secretary last month. As reported by TOI on Monday, the chief secretary has already filed an affidavit in the case informing the court that while an SLP (special leave petition) was filed before the Supreme Court on September 8 challenging the judgement of the court dated June, 2020, that declared the provisions of the government’s Act unconstitutional, a separate petition was also filed on September 9 against the court’s order of May, 2019 directing the state to recover dues. The affidavit has asked the court to defer the hearing until the apex court decides on the matter. Gupta, however, added that the case is yet to be heard by the SC. “The affidavit has just said that they have approached the SC. However, the case hasn’t even been heard once. Therefore, our argument holds till the SC does not say anything about the contempt proceedings and thus, the case should not be deferred,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-gives-three-former-cms-two-weeks-time-to-respond-to-show-cause-notice-in-contempt-proceedings/articleshow/78112156.cms||Prashant Jha
September 15, 2020||Kolhapur||9 municipal workers die of Covid-19||Kolhapur: The Covid-19 infection has infected over 40 employees of the civic administration and claimed nine lives so far, according to the details available with the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). Most of the employees who have succumbed to the viral infection were frontline workers working on the ground like disinfecting an affected locality or carrying out door-to-door survey of Covid-19 suspects. The KMC has assured the family members of the deceased an insurance of Rs 50 lakh besides hiring one member from each affected family. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar has started paying a visit to the homes of the deceased workers. “We are taking all precautions to keep our staff safe. To avoid coming in contact with common citizens, we have barred their entry in the KMC buildings. We have given paid leaves for an indefinite period to the workers who are over 55 years old. I have asked the administration to clear the insurance claim of the deceased staff as soon as possible,” said Ajrekar. Owing to the rise in Covid-19 cases among the civic staff, many workers are denying such work that makes them more susceptible to the virus. The higher authorities are trying to convince them to come back to work. “I have asked the higher authorities to provide leaves to the staff for multiple days on a rotational basis. Most of the staff are continuously working since the last five-and-a-half months,” said Ajrekar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/9-municipal-workers-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/78114713.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||IT College first cut-off: All BCom seats filled||Lucknow: All seats in Bachelors of Commerce (BCom) offered by Isabella Thoburn College were filled during admissions under the first cut-off list. The college had set 78% as the cut-off for admissions to BCom, while that for BSc is above 80%. The race for admissions in one of the most reputed girls’ colleges in the city has turned tough this year as several students are choosing to get enrolled in local colleges. “Meritorious students don’t want to leave the city in the wake of pandemic and are seeking admissions in leading colleges of the city like IT College. All BCom seats under the first cut-off list are filled and the admission process is complete. For BSc (biology), the first cut-off is 82.8%. For BSc (PCM) and BA, it is 81.2% and 75.8% respectively,” said IT College principal Vinita Prakash. She said students’ documents are being verified and the college will be winding up the admission process soon. The classes are also expected to start shortly. The college has also declared Bachelor in Education merit list and the admission formalities began on Monday. The formalities have to be completed by September 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/it-college-first-cut-off-all-bcom-seats-filled/articleshow/78115740.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand holds its first CM advisory panel meet on startups, innovations||Dehradun: Uttarakhand government held the first meeting of ‘Chief Minister’s Advisory Group on Startup, Innovation and Entrepreneurship’ on Monday. A panel of 13 members -- headed by chief minister (CM) Trivendra Singh Rawat -- was formed to look into issues related to start-ups, innovation, and give suggestions to help budding entrepreneurs in the state. “Special efforts will be made to promote industrial development and Himalayan products of the state with the advice of the experts on the panel,” said the CM. He added that Uttarakhand is a state with biodiversity, and the same should be utilized effectively for its industrial growth. During the Investors’ Summit held in the state back in 2017, MoUs worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore were signed. Out of this, project work worth Rs 25,000 crore was initiated. Admitting that the Covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted the industries now, CM said that all possible efforts are being taken by the state government to help the sector from crumbling. State chief secretary Om Prakash said several efforts are being made for industrial development in Uttarakhand. “In 20 years, the state has made considerable progress in economic activities; a single window system has been created here for entrepreneurs; considerable attention is being given to large industries,” he said adding that due to Covid-19 over four lakh people had returned to Uttarakhand. “Through Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojna, we are trying to help such people start their own work and in process provide employment opportunities to others as well,” he added. Through video conferencing, the challenges and opportunities arising due to Covid-19 was discussed with experts and entrepreneurs. Prominent industrialists suggested that the plans being made to encourage entrepreneurship should be in accordance with the geographical conditions of the state. The businessmen were of the view that special attention needs to be given to separate branding of products and their value addition. They added that various sectors like medical tourism, rural tourism, agro processing, science and technology need to be tapped into more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-holds-its-first-cm-advisory-panel-meet-on-startups-innovations/articleshow/78112168.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||AP issued 43 orders dropping cases against accused in major agitations||Hyderabad: The YSRC government, since coming to power, has issued 43 government orders withdrawing prosecution in major political, caste and religious agitation that were booked during the TDP regime in Andhra Pradesh. Prosecution was withdrawn against agitators of special category status. Four cases booked against youngsters in Old Guntur police station have been withdrawn. The accused had attacked the police station in 2018, protesting against the inaction of police in a molestation case. The youngsters were booked under criminal conspiracy and damage of public property. The government also issued orders withdrawing prosecution against those booked in connection with agitations against contributory pension scheme by the teachers and other employees. Similarly, cases were withdrawn against the accused in cases pertaining to attack on Reliance outlets. Several installations of the Reliance group across Andhra Pradesh were attacked after a Telugu television channel aired a report alleging a high-level conspiracy behind the then chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy’s death in a helicopter crash. Other major cases where prosecution was withdrawan against the accused include the Kapu reservation agitation in Tuni, East Godavari. Cases registered in connection with the agitations against land acquisition for Bhogapuram airport, Vizianagaram has been withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-issued-43-orders-dropping-cases-against-accused-in-major-agitations/articleshow/78114774.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon gram panchayat gets 2 oxygen concentrators||Nashik: A gram panchayat in Jalgaon district has bought two oxygen concentrators utilising Union government funds to stay prepared in case serious Covid-19 cases emerge in th village. An appeal has also been made to all other gram panchayats in the district to do the same.Portable oxygen concentrators cost around Rs 50,000 each and are capable of supplying oxygen to two patients at a time. The Dambhurni village in Yaval taluka of Jalgaon district has kept its two oxygen concentrators in the gram panchayat office for patients suffering from breathlessness while they wait for help to arrive from the hospital.“We had received communication from the district collector. We then thought about getting some cylinders in our village. Given the shortage in oxygen supply, we decided to go opt for portable oxygen concentrators,” said Purujit Chaudhari, the sarpanch of Dambhurni village.An oxygen concentrator starts delivering oxygen live from the moment it is switched ‘on’ and the oxygen produced by this system cannot be stored or bottled. Chaudhari, who is also the president of the district association of sarpanchs, said the machines can be procured easily through government funds that the GP receive directly.“The central government gives funds directly under the 14th finance commission. The Centre had asked us to reserve funds for Covid-19 from the same. We can use this money to buy oxygen concentrators,” he said.Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut had decided to focus on patient management in rural areas and one of the steps was setting up of oxygen cylinders at gram panchayats. He said it was an effective way of battling the shortage of cylinders, at least for the time being, at the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-gram-panchayat-gets-2-oxygen-concentrators/articleshow/78112206.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Shahupuri’s ward number 25 is worst-hit with 371 +ve cases||Kolhapur: If one is to go by the ward which is most affected by Covid-19, ward number 25 in Shahupuri tops the list among the 81 wards in the city with 371 confirmed cases followed by ward number 11 in Tarabai Park and 12 in Nagala Park. Most of the patients in Shahupuri’s ward number 25 are in home isolation. Local corporator Pooja Naiknaware said, “Previously, there were very few cases in my ward. We have analysed the source of spread. The hospitals where the patients are being treated and the mandis in my ward are the major sources of infection.” “Ever since the lockdown was lifted, there is a flow of people from other localities. There are many commercial establishments in my ward. I am reaching out to the patients and their relatives on video-call. We have managed to keep the death count very low. So far, just two people from the ward have succumbed to infection,” said Naiknaware adding that the active case count has dropped to 40 in her ward. Civic officials claim that the drive to trace and test suspects in Shahupuri has been started. Among localities, Rajarampuri is the worst affected with 674 cases. Ward number 36 to ward number 39 have borne the maximum brunt of the viral infectionDeputy commissioner Nikhil More said, “We have provided thermal scanners and pulse oximeters to our staff on the ground. The suspects are being tested and isolated immediately.” Currently, there nine Covid hotspots in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shahupuris-ward-number-25-is-worst-hit-with-371-ve-cases/articleshow/78114739.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s polytechnic students left in a lurch||Vadodara: Students of M S University’s Polytechnic College are left in a lurch. Even with Tuesday being the last day to register for diploma to degree (D2D) admission process, the university is yet to declare results of final year diploma students.The Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) offers admission in second year of degree engineering after diploma engineering for which diploma students from across the state have to apply online. For the 2020 admissions, ACPC has fixed Tuesday as the last day to register online after which the admission committee will declare the provisional merit list on its website.The National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Monday staged a protest at the university head office and threatened a stir demanding that the results should be declared at the earliest.“There are 550 students of final year Polytechnic College who are awaiting their results. Much of their career depends on these results but the university has failed to provide the results on time,” said Vraj Patel, NSUI president of Vadodara city and district. University officials admitted that there has been delay in declaration of results due to Covid-19 inducted pandemic.“We have requested ACPC to extend the dates of registration for D2D admission. While we are hoping to declare the results by end of this week, we have requested ACPC to extend the dates for the benefit of students,” said Dr K M Chudasama, officiating registrar of the MS University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-polytechnic-students-left-in-a-lurch/articleshow/78113460.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||CESC claims loss of Rs 200cr in Malegaon||Nashik: The Calcutta Electric Supply Company (CESC) that took over the power distribution franchise in the textile town of Malegaon on March 1, has suffered a loss of Rs 200 crore, the company claimed on Monday. According to CESC’s chief operating officer (Malegaon) Biplab Paul, the electricity loss proposed at 50% have turned out to be 65% in Malegaon town and the company has already taken up measures to improve the power supply conditions for the residents. “The total amount of loss put together is Rs 200 crore till now,” he said. “These are one of the most trying periods for us especially when the people are under financial stress and at the same time the theft of power is increasing adding to the losses. We have now started taking action against those stealing power,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cesc-claims-loss-of-rs-200cr-in-malegaon/articleshow/78112223.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli dist reports 41 deaths, highest in a single day so far||Kolhapur: As many as 41 people succumbed to Covid-19 in Sangli district on Monday, which is the highest mortality count in a single day so far since the outbreak of the viral infection. Besides, 848 new cases were also identified on Monday. The total number of positive cases in district reached 24,039, of which 893 have succumbed and 9,341 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, the Sangli district administration has started telemedicine services to clear doubts regarding Covid-19 and counsel citizens to get treatment on time. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said six doctors would handle the calls and guide the citizens round the clock. The patients put under home-isolation can call the telemedicine centre and get proper treatment. 992 cases, 30 deaths in Kolhapur district As many as 992 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 35,552. Meanwhile, 30 more people succumbed to the viral infection. The death toll in the district stands at 1,089. Currently, 11,257 active patients are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, 618 health workers have been divided into 206 teams to implement the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign that will begin from September 15. The teams will carry out door-to-door survey for Covid suspects in the city and also check for people with comorbidities. The teams will survey 1.31 lakh families. District guardian minister Satej Patil has appealed to citizens to provide accurate information about the health status of family members. He has also appealed to NGOs to volunteer for the campaign and get registered with the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-dist-reports-41-deaths-highest-in-a-single-day-so-far/articleshow/78114759.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Cancer survivor’s child raises funds for leukaemia-hit teen||Hyderabad: A 14-year-old student, whose mother conquered cancer, is now funding the treatment of a boy from Coimbatore. She has already raised Rs 2 lakh for his treatment. Keerthana Lakshmi Krishna is a class 9 student of an international school, whose mother, a teacher, was diagnosed with cancer when Keerthana was just 11 years old. “It was the toughest phase of my life. After a year’s struggle, my mother was able to defeat the disease,” she said Keerthana decided to celebrate the month her mother was diagnosed with cancer by bringing hope to other cancer warriors in hospitals every year. She started buying small toys for the children and leaving notes that they would beat it. She soon began partnering with NGOs to reach out to more patients. A story that struck a chord was 17-year-old boy from Coimbatore, who had a relapse of leukaemia. “Aditya (name changed) required immediate treatment to save his life. His father, being a lorry driver was not able to meet expenses. I can understand the roller-coaster emotions he must be going through. In the last year of school, he too must be dreaming of graduating, going to college and working, like I do,” said Keerthana. With Covid-19 pandemic, Keerthana’s ability to meet patients has been restricted, but not her spirit. She helped raise Rs 2 lakh through her own contacts for Aditya. “I want to continue doing what I can to help as many children fight cancer. This is personal to me,” she said. NGO AROH, which helps children with cancer, connected Keerthana with Aditya. “Every child suffering from cancer needs at least Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh minimum for treatment. It is effort like that of Keerthana’s that go a long way in helping children,” said Bindu Nair, managing trustee, AROH||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cancer-survivors-child-raises-funds-for-leukaemia-hit-teen/articleshow/78114795.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown or no lockdown, that is the question: Now, citizens want it as government hems and haws||NAGPUR: Even as guardian minister Nitin Raut hems and haws on lockdown in Nagpur, several citizens are now demanding one due to the sharp increase in number of Covid positive cases. Since the last two-three weeks beds are not available even for serious patients, and many have died due to lack of hospitalization. Among politicians, while leader of opposition in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Tanaji Wanve wants a lockdown, mayor Sandip Joshi concurs with Raut. This, despite lockdowns being imposed in Yavatmal and Chandrapur with concurrence of public representatives. Dr Arup Mukherjee told TOI there was clearly community spread of Covid in Nagpur. “Every day the cases are over 1,500. On Sunday it was over 2,300. Still people are crowding markets like Sitabuldi. Lockdown is the only solution now,” he said. “I can’t comment on the duration of the lockdown. It is up to the government or officers concerned to decide. However, community spread has to be checked and cases brought below 1,000 per day. Only then will patients be able to get beds,” said Dr Mukherjee. “Every patient can’t be asked to remain at home because some of them need hospitalization. Beds are just not available,” he added. TS Renu, secretary of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA), demanded a lockdown of at least two weeks. “Both situations — lockdown or open markets — will have casualties, but the number of cases would be less if lockdown is imposed. Lockdown will surely not eradicate the virus from Nagpur, but it will slow down the growing number of Covid patients. Presently patients are unable to find a bed. The situation will worsen if cases continue to increase rapidly,” he said. Raut’s own partymen are also demanding a lockdown. Tanaji Wanve has written a letter to the minister, demanding a seven-day lockdown. He also wants janata curfew on weekends after that. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said the chamber was in favour of a lockdown but was not demanding one. “Some of our member associations are against it. In some cases, associations are in favour of lockdown but many of their members are against it,” Mehadia said. “The wholesale cloth market has closed down for a week. We have welcomed it. Similarly, if individual shopkeepers observe a lockdown, we will appreciate their decision,” he added. Many poor people are against the lockdown as they have exhausted their savings during the long summer lockdown. Raju Harode, a two-wheeler mechanic, said there should be no lockdown as his employer would not pay him salary during that period. “When our shop was closed for about four months, I did not get salary for three months. I have exhausted all my savings and will starve if I don’t get salary now. I realize that the Covid situation is explosive but people like me can’t afford a lockdown,” he said. Mayor Sandip Joshi is also against lockdown as he feels the poor would suffer if it is imposed. “Officers have told us that lockdown is not the final solution. Even if we impose a lockdown for a month, cases will increase after that. So let Nagpur reach its peak. It can’t be helped. Those who want lockdown should observe self-discipline and stay indoors. Some of them demand lockdown and then are seen at tea kiosks with their friends,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-or-no-lockdown-that-is-the-question-now-citizens-want-it-as-government-hems-and-haws/articleshow/78113454.cms||Ashish Roy
September 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Commuters suffer as few private buses ply||BICHOLIM: Most private buses plying along the Sakhali-Bicholim-Panaji route are off the road, which is causing hardships to residents of Bicholim taluka. Villagers have requested private bus operators to resume services at the earliest, but bus owners have so far refused. After the lockdown ended, some private buses were permitted to operate by following prescribed Covid-19 norms of social distancing and wearing masks. However, private bus owners said they were facing losses as commuters were avoiding buses from fear of contracting the virus. Some of the bus owners decided to keep their vehicles off the road. “There are hardly any buses plying on the Sakhali-Panaji route, sometimes we have to wait for hours for a bus,” said Purushottam Alvi from Sakhali. “Since some buses get very few passengers, it is better not to operate buses than to suffer losses,” Vithu Jalmi, a bus owner from Pilgao told TOI. He said he’s hoping the situation improves next month. Assistant director of transport, Bicholim, B A Sawant told TOI, “Although many buses are off the road due to the pandemic, most of the bus owners have contacted the regional transport office (RTO) head office at Panaji demanding exemption of road tax from March this year.” However, their demand has not been met. He said that travel permits of many bus owners have been cancelled and hence these buses are not plying, adding that the Bicholim RTO has not received any complaints about irregular bus service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commuters-suffer-as-few-pvt-buses-ply/articleshow/78115795.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Form surveillance teams to bolster contact tracing: CM||Lucknow: Stressing on the need to strengthen contact tracing in the state to identify potential carriers of coronavirus, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that where required, district administrations should form additional surveillance teams. Reviewing the Covid-19 management situation on Monday, the CM discussed the status of contact tracing in various districts and asked DMs to pull up their socks where contact tracing was low. The CM had recently said that the number of contacts of each Covid-19 patient that were being tracked should be increased from eight to at least 12. The CM has directed the state drug controller to ensure that medicines are available in sufficient quantity in hospitals and all shops. He said that strict action must be taken against anyone caught indulging in black marketing of medicines. While directing hospitals to ensure that they maintain 48 hours of oxygen supply at all times, he has asked all oxygen plants in the state to supply oxygen to medical colleges at approved rates. As cities like Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Meerut continued to report a high number of cases, the CM said that hospitals and medical colleges in these districts should take special care to ensure that they have sufficient supply of medical equipment and medicines. He gave special directions to the drug controller to ensure that sufficient stock of medicine and oxygen is maintained in these districts. With Lucknow recording over 900 cases on Monday, taking its total active cases at present to 9,676, the CM has also asked KGMU, SGPGI and RMLIMS to add another 1,000 ICU beds. Officials said the city is also getting patients from other districts which has led to pressure on availability of beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/form-surveillance-teams-to-bolster-contact-tracing-cm/articleshow/78115767.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||AIMIM MLA Jaffar Hussain tests +ve||Hyderabad: AIMIM legislator from Nampally Jaffar Hussain tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The MLA was asymptotic. He underwent the test before the Assembly session and isolated himself at home. The MLA on Twitter requested people who came in touch with him to get themselves tested and to remember him in prayers. The legislative secretariat had made Covid-19 test mandatory to attend assembly sessions. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi wished him speedy recovery. “May Allah bless you with a swift & complete recovery, Jaffar sb,” tweeted Owaisi. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-mla-jaffar-hussain-tests-ve/articleshow/78114808.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Ambulance status for O2 supply vehicles||Nashik: The state government on Monday evening issued a notification to treat oxygen transporting vehicles on a par with ambulances. Deputy secretary of home department Prakash Sable has issued a notification in this regard, stating that vehicles transporting medical oxygen have been given this status considering the need for oxygen in Covid-19 treatment. The order had been issued under Disaster Management Act and will be in force for a period of one year. Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare had convened several meetings on Monday about the Emergency Operation Centre, planning for the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, and the progress of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. “Since the demand for oxygen is rising, we have decided to give the status of ‘ambulance’ to oxygen vehicles so that they are able to deliver oxygen without interruptions and reach their destinations in the shortest time,” Mandhare said. The additional CS has been given the responsibility of calculating the number of oxygen cylinders required across Nashik district, including both Malegaon and Nashik Municipal Corporations, while the DIC GM will be handling the responsibility of ensuring optimum level of oxygen supplied from oxygen producers. The FDA will take all measures required to coordinate between the health department and the industries. Additional district civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane, FDA joint commissioner Madhuri Pawar, district industries centre general manager Satish Bhamre, deputy regional transport officer Vinay Ahire attended the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ambulance-status-for-o2-supply-vehicles/articleshow/78112238.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||8 UP jails which had maximum Covid cases are now virus-free||Lucknow: Eight prisons of the state with a high number of Covid-19 cases are now completely free from the virus. District prisons in Badaun, Jhansi, Ballia, Basti, Sonbhadra, Kaushambi, Orai, and Etawah had reported the highest number of such cases in UP till last week. The number of positive inmates in these eight prisons was 1,654 cases. However, the prisons department managed to isolate inmates who had tested positive for the virus, get the rest of the inmates tested and make arrangements of medical help for those with serious infection. DG prisons Anand Kumar said that permanent jails where large number of inmates had tested positive for novel coronavirus were given special attention from the headquarters and strict instructions were given to jailers. “A model was formed which was to be replicated in all jails. There was extensive testing of inmates and no outsider was allowed in jails. This was emphasised upon and the district administration coordinated to ensure that new prisoners are first shifted to temporary jails and then lodged in permanent ones,” said Kumar. The officer also added that daily yoga sessions in jails and proper diet helped eradicate the virus. “With the assistance and coordination of medical teams systematically, jails were converted into L-1 hospital after approval of the CMO and assistance of the district administration. This ensured inmates were under constant watch of doctors,” added Kumar. The DG also said that there was abundance supply of all health equipment like pulse oximeters and infrared thermometers from the government to jails. Besides, the staff and inmates had PPE kits, masks and sanitizers. In a massive Covid-19 testing drive, 1.1 lakh prison inmates in all 70 permanent jails and 65 temporary jails have been tested since April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8-up-jails-which-had-maximum-covid-cases-are-now-virus-free/articleshow/78115790.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Some Manuu students yet to get admit cards||Hyderabad: Some students of Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu) have complained that they have not received admit cards for their final year exams, which will be held online. Student union members said that the administration has attributed non-issuance of admit card to less than 75% attendance. The union has termed the move as discriminatory and against University Grants Commission guidelines which states that during the lockdown, all students must be ‘deemed to have attended’ all classes. “Forbidding students at the final moment is highly stressful and also an inhuman act. Manuu students union strongly opposes such steps and demands that each and every student be allowed to appear for the exams irrespective of their attendance,” reads a representation submitted by Manuu students union to in-charge vice-chancellor Prof SM Rahmatullah. To this, controller of examination, Mirza Farhatulla Baig clarified, “As per UGC guidelines, 100% attendance is given during the lockdown period. In case of those students who have not attended any class during the months of January, February and March 2020, as per the rules their admission stands cancelled. Hence, their admit cards are not generated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/some-manuu-students-yet-to-get-admit-cards/articleshow/78114826.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Residents want water supply once in 2 days||Aurangabad: Several citizens, pointing to the overflowing Jayakwadi dam, have demanded alternate day supply of drinking water in the city. The city currently gets water after a gap of four days, posing difficulties before residents, especially those having big families. The civic authorities, however, ruled out the possibility of conceding to the demand, citing technical constraints. At 98% live storage, Jayakwadi major irrigation project, which is lifeline of Aurangabad, continues to witness discharge with Nathsagar, the dam reservoir, is witnessing inflow at 16,433 cusec on Monday evening. Savita Deo, a resident of Garkheda area, said outbreak of Covid-19 has increased the daily use of water. “Besides frequent hand-washing, a couple of our family members who go to their office take shower after return from the office as well. It makes no sense to release the water from the dam when citizens are struggling to meet their requirements,” she said. When contacted, Kiran Dhande, civic in-charge of water supply for Aurangabad, said technical issues pose constraint in improving frequency of water supply. “Two water supply schemes, drawing water from Jayakwadi dam and distributing it to the Aurangabad, have limited operational capacity. Despite being relatively outdated, we are utilising these schemes to the fullest efficiency. However, the frequency of water supply cannot be improved further,” he said. According to officials, the local civic body was drawing around 135 MLD water from Jayakwadi major irrigation project in keeping with the operational efficiency of water supply schemes. Sharad Advant, general secretary of advocacy group Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad (MJVP), said it is ironical that the city of Aurangabad keeps struggling for water even during good run of monsoon. “Despite being proposed years ago, the new parallel pipeline project for Aurangabad is still limited only on paper. A public pressure is needed to execute the project at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/residents-want-water-supply-once-in-2-days/articleshow/78112249.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Vadodara||Man gets death threats from wife’s paramour||Vadodara: A factory worker living in Makarpura was issued death threats allegedly by his wife’s paramour when he asked the latter to cut-off ties with his wife.According to the complainant Shivkumar Ram, the accused Prem Prakash Ram had called him at his workplace on the night of September 12 to threaten him. Prem Prakash told Shivkumar that he and his wife Babita were having an affair and if he tried to intervene then he will not hesitate to kill him. Shivkumar told police that he got scared of the threat, so he decided to register a case.Police said that Shivkumar and Babita have been married since 1998 and have four kids. However, she fell for Prem Prakash, who is their neighbour. “The woman and her paramour keep talking to each other on the phone and he often visits her house when her husband is not around,” said a cop.Based on Shivkumar’s complaint, an offence of criminal intimidation was registered at Manjalpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-gets-death-threats-from-wifes-paramour/articleshow/78113497.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Delhi||New Delhi spends most, North the least||NEW DELHI: Almost half of Delhi’s households spend Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 every month and a mere 1.6% households incur average monthly expenditure of Rs 50,000 or more, reveals a socio-economic survey conducted by Delhi government between November 2018 and November 2019. The survey of about 20 lakh households was conducted by the directorate of economics and statistics. The report provides information on ownership status of the house, household size, average monthly expenditure, ownership of motorised vehicles for personal use, etc. In Delhi, maximum households (47.3%) incur average monthly expenditure in the range of Rs 10,000-25,000, out of which the highest proportion of 56.5% of households are in South-West district followed by 53.6% households in South district. The lowest proportion is in North district (38.1%). The second highest proportion of households (42.6%) in Delhi incur monthly expenditure of Rs 10,000 or less, with the highest proportion of such households being in North district (54.1%), followed by 48.8% households of West district. The lowest proportion is in South-West (30.9%). Only 1.6% households in Delhi incur average monthly expenditure of Rs 50,000 or more. In this category, the highest proportion of households (3%) is in New Delhi district followed by 2.7% households in North-West. According to the survey report, 66.6% households in Delhi reported to be having their own accommodation, with the highest proportion of such households (76.3%) in Shahdara district, followed by 72.3% households in Central district. However, a significant number of own accommodations are part of areas that have informal settlements, including unauthorised colonies and slums. Simultaneously, out of total 32.3% households living in rented accommodation in Delhi, the highest proportion of 51.8% of households are in New Delhi district, followed by 41.9% households in South-East. One important socio-economic indicator where Delhi has performed exceedingly well is the access to toilets. A high number of households-93.3%- have toilets inside homes and 6% households use public or community toilets. The percentage of population defecating in the open is 0.5%. South-West has the highest proportion of households (98.2%) that have toilet facilities available within household premises, followed by North-East (97.8%). The lowest percentage of such households–85.1%–is in North district. The district also has the highest percentage of households using public or community toilets (13.9%) followed by New Delhi (12.4%). More than half the households in Delhi own a motorised vehicle, including four-wheelers, two-wheelers or both, apart from other motorised vehicles. Total 51.7% households in Delhi own personal vehicles and the highest vehicle ownership is in Shahdara (63.8%) and lowest in North (41.5%). The number of households that own both four-wheelers and two-wheelers is 6.6%, with the highest proportion is in Shahdara (10.1%), followed by New Delhi (9.6%) and the lowest in the rung is South-East (3.6%). The number of households that own only four wheelers is 4.3%, with the highest percentage in New Delhi district (9.1%), followed by North West (6.7%) and the lowest proportion is in North-East (1.4%). Total 40.3% households in Delhi own only two-wheelers and the highest proportion is in North-East district (50.7%), followed by 48.9% households in Shahdara and lowest proportion in New Delhi (28.5%). Out of households having no motorised vehicles in Delhi, the highest proportion has been reported in North district (58.4%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-delhi-spends-most-north-the-least/articleshow/78114836.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Exports of onions banned as average wholesale price touches Rs 3,000/quintal||Nashik: The Centre on Monday imposed a ban on onion exports after the average wholesale price shot up to Rs3,000 per quintal in the wholesale onion markets. The director-general of foreign trade issued a notification to this effect. The average wholesale onion price has shot up by Rs 1,800 per quintal over the past 16 days — from Rs 1,200 per quintal on August 29 to Rs 3,000 per quintal now. At Lasalgaon APMC, the minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,100 and Rs 3,203 per quintal, respectively, on Monday. Union agricultural ministry sources said there has been a rise in wholesale onion prices despite adequate stocks in the storages. “In Maharashtra, the onion storage capacity is around 37 lakh tonne. Currently, an estimated 15 lakh tonne of summer onions are stocked in the state. But the wholesale onion prices have increased in anticipation of scarcity given the damage to kharif onions in some onion-growing states,” they said. According to onion traders, around 50% kharif onion crops in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have been damaged. Moreover, there have been rain-related losses to kharif crops in Maharashtra too. The Maharashtra onion growers’ association has expressed disappointment over the export ban. “The cost of onion production is around Rs 900 per quintal. Over the past six months, farmers have had to sell their produce at below the production cost. But the Centre did not take any measures to save the farmers from incurring losses. However, it immediately imposed a ban when the farmers started getting a good price,” said Bharat Dighole, the president of Maharashtra state onion growers’ association. “We want the MPs, the state government and the leader of the opposition in Maharashtra to urge the Centre to roll back the export ban. Otherwise, we will launch an agitation,” said Dighole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/exports-of-onions-banned-as-average-wholesale-price-touches-rs-3000/quintal/articleshow/78112279.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Two held in TV actor Sravani suicide case||HYDERABAD: Two persons, including actor A Devaraja Reddy, were arrested on Monday in the actress Sravani’s suicide case. The actor committed suicide by hanging in a bathroom at her residence last week. JCP AR Srinivas said Devaraja Reddy and realtor Sai Krishna Reddy were arrested for their role in the sucidie. On September 7, Devaraja Reddy, boyfriend of Sravani, picked her from a shooting location at Azeez Nagar. The relationship between them was already strained in the recent times. They went to a hotel to have dinner when they ran into Sai Krishna Reddy, a former boyfriend of Sravani. Sai Krishna Reddy reportedly assaulted Devaraja Reddy. When Sravani intervened, he slapped her and forcibly took her to his residence. “On September 8, Sravani called up Devaraja Reddy and informed him that she was fed with her life and wanted to die due to his, Sai Krishna Reddy and Ashok Reddy’s torture,’’ Srinivas said. She went into the washroom and killed herself. Police said Devaraja decided to end his relationship with Sravani after he came to know that she was previously in a relationship with Sai Krishna Reddy and Ashok Reddy, a film producer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-in-tv-actor-sravani-suicide-case/articleshow/78114844.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid cases cross 80-k mark in Marathwada||Aurangabad: Amid constant rise in the number of fresh cases across the region, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases has gone up to 80,598 across eight districts of Marathwada on Monday. As per official data, the region has witnessed as many as 2,299 deaths due to Covid-19, while 57,735 patients have been cured from the infection. In terms of active cases, at 6,337, Aurangabad district has the maximum number of cases followed by Nanded (3,607), Latur (3,361), Beed (2,198), Osmanabad (2,021), Jalna (1,561), Parbhani (1,006) and Hingoli (473). Aurangabad district is also on top in the number of casualties having registered 807 deaths followed by Latur (355), Nanded (348), Osmanabad (246), Beed (185), Jalna, Parbhani (both 166) and Hingoli (26). Aurangabad district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said evolved treatment protocols and more affordability of treatment has been resulting in more recovery among Covid-19 patients despite continuous rise in cases. “The doctors from state-run as well private hospitals have developed proper understanding of different manifestations of the infection and its treatment. The aged population with comorbidities is still more vulnerable to the disease and need to take utmost precaution,” he said. As per official data, Marathwada was showing recovery rate and mortality rate of 71.63% and 2.85%, respectively. Meanwhile, in a release issued on Monday, the Confederation of Medical Associations in Asia and Oceania (CMAAO) has released its insights on the considerations for wearing face masks during the current pandemic in different situations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-cases-cross-80-k-mark-in-marathwada/articleshow/78112269.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||NMC gets Pune-based agency to provide O2 tanks||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finally appointed a Pune-based agency to supply large oxygen tanks along with daily refilling of liquid oxygen for its two hospitals. The civic body is in the process of giving work order of providing two large oxygen tanks — 20,000 litre and 10,000 litre capacity — on rent, along with a supply of liquid oxygen on daily basis for 10 years. The maintenance of the tanks will be managed by the agency. NMC officials said 200 oxygen beds in Bytco hospital will be operational within eight days as they will get tanks from the agency soon. Earlier, NMC had planned to procure two large tanks from the manufacturer and had floated bids for the same twice in the past two months. But that did not work out.. “There are not too many manufacturers of oxygen tanks in the country, but all had stopped operations during lockdown except a Chennai-based plant but that company already had a lot of pressure. This led to the delay of setting up 200 oxygen beds in Bytco hospital’, said NMC officials. The officials said, “So we changed our plan and decided to hire large oxygen tanks for 10 years and had floated a bid few days ago. We received only one bid from the Pune-based private agency and we have finalised this agency. We will issue a work order to the agency concerned in a day or two,”  “We are expected to get the oxygen tank installed within the next eight days”, said NMC officials. While the 20,000-litre tank will be set up at New Bytco hospital, the 10,000-litre tank will be set up at Zakir Hussain hospital. The officials added, “We have just procured two small tanks with 3,000 litre each which have been installed at the medical college hospital in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gets-pune-based-agency-to-provide-o2-tanks/articleshow/78112301.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Civic body in Nashik plans 2,250 more Covid-19 beds||Nashik: Based on the current case-doubling rate of roughly 25 days, the number of patients in the city is expected to go up from the current 35,000 to about 70,000 by the first week of October. Accordingly, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finalised plans to increase the number of beds from 3,753 to 6,000 beds in civic and private hospitals in the city. The civic body plans to reserve 1,600 of the new beds in private hospitals, while the other beds will be added in its existing Covid-19 hospitals. Of the total 3,753 beds currently reserved for Covid-19 treatment in the city, 2,200 are in private hospitals. “At the moment, the Covid-19 doubling rate is around 25 days. Accordingly, the number of Covid-19 patients will double by the first week of October. Therefore, we will need to boost the infrastructure,” said a senior official from the health department of the NMC. “We have finalised the plans to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 treatment by another 2,250 within the next couple of weeks,” said an official. “We will add around 600 beds in our existing civic hospitals, while remaining beds to be reserved in private hospitals,” he said. “We will increase the number of beds in existing private hospitals and will also reserve beds in other new private hospitals.“ e will also add around 260 oxygen beds with over 25 ventilators in NMC hospitals and medical college hospital in the city,” added an official. Currently, 2,376 beds are occupied, including 728 oxygen beds, 313 ICU beds and 117 with ventilators. As many as 1,158 are critical patients are admitted to civic and private hospitals in the city. NMC officials said they are focusing on increasing tracing of Covid-19 suspects and conducting their tests for early detection. “Our objective is to break the chain of coronavirus in the city,” added an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-in-nashik-plans-2250-more-covid-19-beds/articleshow/78112337.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||IMA to Nagpur: Take over all private hospitals as Covid rates too low||NAGPUR: Peeved by increasing curbs on private hospitals that make them unaffordable to operate, Indian Medical Association (IMA) has asked Maharashtra government to take over the health care establishments. Stepping up its ante against the government, the IMA has warned that if the rates were not rationalized , all doctors would stop working indefinitely across the state. On Tuesday, all hospital owners will submit copies of their hospital registration to respective IMA branch offices in all districts. All these branches then would request the government that it wasn’t possible to run hospitals at the rates “forced” on them and their administration should be taken over by it. Quoting IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondwe, TOI had on September 9 reported on how the state’s decision to fix Covid-19 treatment rates across all hospitals hasn’t augured well with private establishments. “In view of the unaffordable rates imposed by the government on Covid hospitals, it has become increasingly difficult to meet skyrocketed expenses to run small and medium private hospitals. Around 25,000 mid-sized hospitals are on the verge of closure,” said IMA in a press statement issued by its newly formed action committee led by chairman Dr Suhas Pingle and co-chairman Dr Rajesh Kulkarni. According to IMA, government had earlier agreed to hike the rate for ICU beds and grant concession in biomedical waste disposal charges along with electricity bills. IMA’s demand to cap rates of PPE kits and masks for doctors and to reduce rates of medical oxygen used by hospitals as per central government’s regulations was also approved. “During a meeting with health minister in the last week of August, the government had agreed in-principle to revise the rates. However, government unilaterally came out with new rates on August 31 and imposed further reduction,” said the IMA. IMA’s emergency state council meeting on September 4 had passed a resolution unanimously rejecting the government’s August 31 circular for fixing the Covid treatment rates. The association had convened a meeting of 14 different medical organizations of all pathies including ayurveda, homeopathy, yunani and dentistry, along with disciplines of modern medicine and specialities on Saturday to oppose government curbs. All organizations supported the IMA and decided to form a joint action committee to work together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-to-state-take-over-all-pvt-hosps-as-covid-rates-too-low/articleshow/78115034.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt plans anti-drug committees in schools, colleges||Bengaluru: Determined to deal with the problem with an iron fist, multiple government agencies will soon put in place an action plan to deal with the menace of drug use, especially among students in schools and colleges. Both primary and secondary education and higher education departments are mooting serious action against those who are negligent in preventing use of narcotic substances – managements, principals, and hostel wardens. The decision follows allegations of involvement of some school and college students in the drugs rackets surrounding Sandalwood stars. As a first step, the government plans to ask all educational institutions to set up anti-drug committees on the lines of anti-ragging committees. Besides members of school or college administrations, local police, parents and public representatives will be part of the panel. “We will soon issue a circular to all higher educational institutions to set up such committees,” said deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio. Since hostels, canteens and hotels around institutions are places where drugs are peddled, Narayan said schools and colleges will be asked to step up surveillance. “Managements must launch anti-drugs campaigns and educate students about the ill-effects of drugs,” Narayan said. The University Grants Commission rules state all higher education institutions should have anti-drug committees and a monitoring system, but not many do. “It is the need of the hour and we will introduce it in schools,” said primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said, “We cannot allow youth to lose careers or worse, lives, to drugs. So we have launched a crackdown on suppliers. Students in elite schools from affluent families are often at higher risk because schools and parents are more trusting of their wards. They should monitor their wards more closely.” Dr Shekar Patil, a health expert, said anxiety, stress and depression are recognised risk factors for substance abuse among students. “Whenever a student behaves abnormal, s/he should be immediately counselled. The onus is on the schools/teachers to make students aware of the consequences of taking drugs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-plans-anti-drug-committees-in-schools-colleges/articleshow/78112976.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||Gangapur dam inches closer to full storage||Nashik: Gangapur dam that provides maximum quota of the drinking water to the Nashik city had 99% live storage on Monday, providing some relief to the residents given the civic body had earlier in July suggested water cuts owing to poor rainfall. The Gangapur dam complex that comprises Gangapur, Kashyap and Gautami-Godavari dams, has 90% water storage. Kashyapi dam that belongs to exclusively to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has 71% live storage which is way too low when compared to the corresponding period last year. Rainfall in Trimbakeshwar taluka has not been that effective this year since beginning. “In fact the entire western region of Nashik which is known for heavy rainfall and has highest number of dams has received comparatively less rainfall this year,” resident deputy collector Bhagwat Doifode said. This is the reason that the dams took longer time to reach satisfactory levels. Last year, entire storage of the district stood at 96% despite water being discharged from the dams almost continuously, while this year the storage across all those 24 major and minor dams has barely touched 92%. “We haven’t seen even Godavari river in spate this year due to gradual rainfall,” Doifode said. “We feel that Kashyapi dam will be filled to the brim by the end of September,” sources from Water Resourced Department said. Similarly, Ozharkhed complex has 74% storage, while Palkhed complex is filled to 85% of its storage capacity. Girna — biggest dam in Nashik district with capacity of 18500 million cubic feet (mcft) — has 96% of water in store this year as against 92% last year. This dam takes care of drinking water needs of Malegaon and adjoining parts of Nashik district, Chalisgaon and Jalgaon district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gangapur-dam-inches-closer-to-full-storage/articleshow/78112308.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 15, 2020||Trichy||Boy, 7, killed as country-made cracker goes off||Trichy: A seven-year-old boy was killed when a country-made cracker burst during a temple festival in a village near Thuraiyur on the outskirts of Trichy on Monday. The deceased has been identified as L Sasidhar of Paramathi Vellore in Namakkal district. The cracker hit him near an Anganwadi at SN Pudhur village near Thuraiyur. The Uppiliyapuram police took up the investigation. Police said the boy and his family had come to worship their family deity in the village. Some of the children in the crowd took a country-made serial cracker and tied it between the walls near an anganwadi centre. A 13-year-old boy of the village fired it. As the cracker burst, one of the scattered crackers injured Sasidhar. Though the boy was taken to a private hospital in Thuraiyur and given first aid, he succumbed to his injuries. The body was sent to government hospital in Namakkal for postmortem. Police have identified the cracker seller in Namakkal but they are yet to take action against the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-7-killed-as-country-made-cracker-goes-off/articleshow/78115808.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST bus conductor misses his marriage twice due to Covid||MUMBAI: His wedding plans have been rescheduled twice due to lockdown and after he was down with Covid-19 as a frontline worker. For the 30-year-old BEST bus conductor from Ghatkopar depot, the first thing that came to mind after discharge from hospital last Saturday was to get married for sure this time. He completed Class XII in 2010 and got a job as a conductor. “I decided to pursue higher education and enrolled myself in a night college. While I issued tickets in crowded buses in the daytime, I was immersed in accountancy, book-keeping and commerce books from late evening. There was no rest till I graduated three years later,” he recalled. After six years’ service, he got staff quarters in western suburbs, where he moved with parents. Known to be friendly, he was always at the forefront during crises, colleagues said. “During Covid he was in buses ferrying essential workers and worked relentlessly. By then, his parents introduced him to a girl and her family from Karnataka, and the marriage was fixed for May 19,” a colleague said. The conductor said he was excited about his wedding plans, but knew it would not be easy due to restrictions, so he rescheduled it to September 29. But on August 30, he was found positive and marriage plans were shelved. BEST chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Singhal said the conductor had no comorbidities and initially quarantined himself at home. “But he then had severe symptoms which led to hemoptysis (blood in cough), due to which we admitted him to Sion hospital. He was put on oxygen support and his condition was brought to the notice of the dean, who gave him special attention. After a CT scan, he was shifted to ICU,” he said. The conductor said, “My life has been full of struggles but I have emerged victorious. In ICU, I heard of people succumbing to the virus but I battled hard till I got discharged in 14 days.” Among 1,922 Covid-19 survivors at BEST, he is glad he has support of the woman who is willing to marry him once he totally recovers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-conductor-misses-his-marriage-twice-due-to-covid/articleshow/78114631.cms||Somit Sen
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Man booked for illegal water connection||Secunderabad: As part of its drive against illegal water connections, the vigilance wing of Hyderabad water board has identified two illegal water connections on one premise during a raid at Warasiguda in Secunderabad. A criminal case has been registered against property owner Aravind Yadav, who had managed to get two illegal water connections in addition to the original one sanctioned by the water board. The property owner was booked under various sections of IPC, according to an official release issued by the water board. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-illegal-water-connection/articleshow/78114924.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||No permission to janata curfew: Yavatmal collector||Yavatmal: The district collector has made it clear that there is no approval from the government for the proposed five-day janata curfew planned from September 15 to 19. In view of rising fatalities due to Covid-19 and surge in cases, the district Chamber of Commerce and Industries and various other associations of traders and grocers had decided to observe the janata curfew to break the virus chain. They claimed discussion was also held with Yavatmal MLA Madan Yerawar and district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod for the curfew. Rathod, in a press release, not only welcomed the decision but also appreciated the traders for it. On Monday, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of RDC Lalitkumar Warhade which was attended by professor Dhanshyam Darne, advocate Jaysingh Chavan and representatives of hair salons and tea kiosks. A section of traders opposed the janata curfew which they said was restricted to the members of Chamber of Commerce and Industries. The RDC said that there are no guidelines from the government, hence the district administration will neither approve nor provide any assistance for the janata curfew. Sources said that a memorandum signed by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industries and all those supporting the curfew would be submitted to the collector. Meanwhile, rumours are floating in tehsil places, particularly in Pusad, that the janata curfew will be for seven days from September 16 to 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-permission-to-janata-curfew-ytl-collector/articleshow/78113580.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||ED files case against slain don Vikas Dubey, financier||Lucknow: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday registered a case against slain ganglord Vikas Dubey and his 10 associates, including his financier Jaykant Bajpai. The case has been registered for violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. On July 6, ED had first sent a letter to inspector general, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal seeking specific details about Dubey and his associates. The ED has come across instances where prima facie money has crossed borders. ED officials said the case was registered on the basis of 60 FIRs filed against Dubey in different parts of the state. According to officials, the mandate of ED is to check movable and immovable assets amassed by the don and his aides over the last 20 years. The ED has named his associates Shivam Dubey, Sanjay, Shyamu Bajpai, Amar Dubey and Jaykant Bajpai, among others. The bank account details of all the 10 associates of the don will now be under ED scanner. Sources in the ED said if any property of Bajpai was found to have been amassed in connivance with Dubey, it would be treated as a criminal offence. ED is also shooting off letters to development authorities in Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow. Letters were also sent to chief executive officers of Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority, New Okhla Industrial Development Authority and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority. “We sought details of allotments of contracts to Dubey, those even proposed by Dubey or any of his associates. Other activities including that of business complex of Bajpai have also been sought,” an officer said. Kanpur police has provided the details of arms and licences of Dubey’s kin and associates to ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-files-case-against-slain-don-vikas-dubey-financier/articleshow/78115812.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||No vote from TRS in RS dy chairman poll||Hyderabad: The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which was unhappy with the Centre over clearing the GST arrears and lack of financial assistance for various government schemes, abstained from voting for the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman post, the election of which was held on Monday. TRS floor leader in Rajya Sabha and party secretary general K Keshava Rao told TOI that the party chose to abstain from the voting. The MP, who took oath as Rajya Sabha member along with another TRS MP KR Suresh Reddy on Monday, during his speech, said the Centre-states’ relationship should reflect cooperative federalism. He slammed the Centre for not supporting the states in this crucial period of pandemic and lockdown. Interestingly, TRS, which had supported the Citizen’s Amendment Act 2019, had also abstained from voting during Triple Talaq Bill voting in Rajya Sabha last year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-vote-from-trs-in-rs-dy-chairman-poll/articleshow/78114952.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||1,580 patients recover in Nashik dist||Nashik: As many as 1,580 patients have been discharged from across the district in a single day on Monday, including 1,219 from Nashik city. A total of 43,214 patients have recovered so far, including 31,065 from the city. The district has reported 1,317 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours, including 876 in the city, taking the tally of cases to 54,833. A total of nine people succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, including five from the city. The death toll stands at 1,073 . While the recovery rate of Nashik district is 78.81%, it is 82.63% in Nashik city. Civic body officials said the death rate has now reduced to its lowest with 1.59% since May 31. The district has 7,734 active cases, of which 4,211 are in the city.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1580-patients-recover-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/78112386.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||Fossil fuel usage set to drop for 1st time||NEW DELHI: India’s thirst for fossil fuels will outpace China’s by a big margin, even though globally, consumption will shrink for the first time in modern history through 2050 as climate initiatives propel renewable energy while the coronavirus pandemic leaves a lasting scar on demand, the benchmark BP Energy Outlook 2020 said on Monday. The outlook saw India’s primary energy consumption growing by 2.5% between 2018 and 2050 against 0.1% in China and 0.3% globally. It sees India’s oil consumption more than doubling to 10 million barrels by 2050 under the ‘business-as-usual’ scenario. But gas demand is seen jumping from 58 bcm (billion cubic meters) to 357 bcm under the ‘rapid’ scenario. “India’s combined oil and gas imports more than double by 2050, driven in part by increased coal-to-gas switching which leads to a marked deepening in India’s dependence on imported LNG,” the outlook said. Globally, fossil fuel demand may not rise to pre-Covid levelsThough the report sees growth in China’s energy demand slowing sharply relative to past trends — peaking in the early 2030s — it will still remain the largest market for energy in all scenarios, including ‘net zero’, to account for over 20% of the world’s energy demand in 2050. This will be almost twice that of India. But globally, fossil fuel demand may never recover to pre-coronavirus levels as the pandemic hastens “fundamental restructuring” of the energy business. The share of fossil fuels is set to decline from 85% of total primary energy demand in 2018 to between 20% and 65% by 2050 in the three scenarios, it said. India’s fuel sales more than halved in April as the countrywide lockdown confined people to their homes and shut almost all economic activities. Demand shot up to nearly 80% of the pre-lockdown level after the government began lifting curbs in June but faltered in August, down 15.6% from the year-ago period. “Demand for oil falls over the next 30 years. The scale and pace of this decline is driven by the increasing efficiency and electrification of road transportation,” the report said, adding the outlook for natural gas was more resilient than for oil, underpinned by its role in supporting fast-growing developing economies as they de-carbonised and reduced their reliance on coal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fossil-fuel-usage-set-to-drop-for-1st-time/articleshow/78116651.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai student explains quantum computing in world challenge||MUMBAI: Dhirubhai Ambani International School Class XII student Swayan Khanna (17) is among top 30 participants in an international challenge for an explainer video he made on quantum computing. He is among 5,600 students who participated in Breakthrough Junior Challenge, a science video contest where students created three-minute videos on wide-ranging topics, from quantum tunnelling and mystery of dark matter to structure of Covid-19 virus. Khanna’s video explains quantum computing and principles behind quantum superposition, to better understand what it is and how to talk about scientific concepts. “I picked up an interest in Physics few years back. I would clear many doubts and my teacher recognised my love for the subject. He gave me few books to read, and while I was initially intimidated, it got me further interested in the subject,” he said. Khanna also started a science channel on YouTube four years back, The Science Biome, with explainer videos on a range of topics. “There are many videos on scientific concepts but they are hard to understand. I wanted to bridge that gap in my entry to the challenge,” he added. Other Indians who are part of the 30 semi-finalists are Kavya Bhat from National Public School (Bangalore) and Shaurya Sinha from The Shri Ram School (Aravali). All semi-finalists will compete for votes and likes on social media till September 20. Fifteen finalists and the top scorer in popular votes contest will be reviewed by experts and the winner will get a $250,000 college scholarship. The science teacher who inspired the winning student will win a $50,000 prize. The winner’s school will also receive a $100,000 state-of-the-art science lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-student-explains-quantum-computing-in-world-challenge/articleshow/78114567.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amid outbreak, govt to purchase groundnut at Rs 1,055||Gandhinagar: In a relief to farmers amid the pandemic outbreak, the Gujarat government on Monday announced that the groundnut crop will be procured at minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,055 from October 21. Registration will begin from October 1, procurement will start from October 21 and continue for 90 days, said state agriculture minister R C Faldu. NAFED has appointed Gujarat Food and Civil Supply Corporation as the nodal agency for purchase of groundnut in the state as per central government guidelines, he said. “Every year, purchase of groundnut at MSP starts after Diwali. However, this year we are starting it early so that farmers can get assistance during the pandemic,” the minister said. He said purchase of pulses on MSP will also start soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amid-outbreak-govt-to-purchase-groundnut-at-rs-1055/articleshow/78115817.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||T Cong MP wants Centre to form SIT||Hyderabad: Congress Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy on Monday urged the Centre to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) and a judicial inquiry committee to look into the TRS government’s mishandling of Covid-19 situation. Venkat Reddy raised the issue under Rule 377 of the rules and procedure and conduct of business in Lok Sabha. The ministry of parliamentary affairs takes follow-up action on matters raised under Rule 377 in Lok Sabha. In his representation, the MP sought to bring to the notice of the speaker that Telangana High Court had on multiple occasions expressed dismay at the TRS government’s handling of coronavirus situation. No action has been taken against 38 private hospitals in Telangana which have been issued notices by the government for overcharging for treatment of Covid-19 patients in violation of government orders, he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cong-mp-wants-centre-to-form-sit/articleshow/78114960.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Being clicked with culprits doesn’t mean we are also culprits: Minister||Revenue minister R Ashoka on Monday defended himself in the controversy surrounding a photograph where he is seen in a ‘friendly’ pose with Rahul Thonshe, an accused in the drugs racket. The picture shows the two feeding each other sweets. “Just because I feature in the picture, it does not mean I am also a culprit,” Ashoka said. “If that is the case, then there is also a picture of the accused with former Bengaluru police commissioner Bhaskar Rao, besides others with opposition leader Siddaramaiah and KPCC president DK Shivakumar. Does this mean all of them are also involved in the racket?” Ashoka said the picture was clicked when Thonshe attended the naming ceremony of a BJP worker’s child in his constituency. “When celebrities are at a public event, a lot of pictures are taken,” Ashoka said. “That does not mean everyone is a culprit. If that is the case, then on Mask Awareness day, chief minister BS Yediyurappa also I had a picture clicked Ragini Dwivedi. Does it mean even the CM is part of the racket? If the photo was of me having lunch or dinner at his [Thonshe’s] home, then at least one can accuse me of something.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/being-clicked-with-culprits-doesnt-mean-we-are-also-culprits-minister/articleshow/78113030.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||PM’s b’day: BJP chief launches service wk||Lucknow: BJP president JP Nadda kicked off ‘service week’ (sewa saptah) in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday to launch week-long programmes to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 17. Nadda planted a sapling and distributed fruits and food among villagers. Addressing the gathering, Nadda said the PM was committed to serving the country and the poor. The theme of the service week is proposed to be named as ‘70’. The party will hold various programmes in 70 localities of each district. This will include cleanliness drive, blood donation camps, distribution of equipment to the disabled and tree plantation. The party also plans to organise 70 virtual rallies in all the districts. Attacking the opposition, Nadda said earlier leaders used to forget the promises made to people. “This perception has changed with Modi at the helm of affairs. The PM not only works to fulfil his promise but also goes to the people with the government’s report card,” he said. The BJP chief highlighted the people-centric initiatives taken by the Modi government and said the PM took significant decisions, including changes in the education policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-bday-bjp-chief-launches-service-wk/articleshow/78115820.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops nab three members of fake currency racket||Hyderabad: Three persons, who were part of a fake currency circulation racket, were busted by Rachakonda police on Monday at Sangareddy. The police seized Rs 10 lakh of fake currency notes of Rs 500 denomination from them. In a press note, Rachakonda police said that K Nagendar Prasad, B Gautham, T Naresh were arrested. Apart fom the fake currency, the police seized a scanner-cum-printer, scissors and mobile phones. Nagender is the kingpin who hatched the plan in preparing fake currency notes.  The currency was meant to be circulated in the open market, especially during the night. Members of the same gang had been arrested by Hyderabad police in the past. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-nab-three-members-of-fake-currency-racket/articleshow/78115041.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hubballi||Raichur activists dig in for long campaign to secure AIIMS||Belagavi: Incensed with reports of chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s keenness on establishing a branch of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Kalaburagi, several organisations in Raichur have united to exert pressure on the state government to set up the premier healthcare institution in their district. Activists in Raichur sought to remind Yediyurappa of a promise he had made in 2015, when he was in the opposition, assuring the people of the district housing a branch of AIIMS. Members and activists of several progressive, Dalit and medical organisations based in Raichur met on Sunday to chalk out a plan to ensure the CM keeps his promise. The activists have constituted Raichur District AIIMS Horata Samiti, an umbrella outfit to pursue their goal. Leading members of the newly-formed organisation will meet Raichur deputy commissioner on Tuesday and submit a memorandum, which will mark the beginning of their campaign. On September 17, coinciding with the Hyderabad-Karnataka Liberation Day, representatives of the horata samiti will meet deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi, and express the desire of the people to him. Razak Ustad, who is leading the protest, told TOI that protests would be held at all the taluk headquarters of the district. “A delegation of the new outfit’s representatives will meet Yediyurappa during the current assembly session,” said Ustad. He pointed out that the district had previously been cheated of a branch of the Indian Institute of Technology. Raghavendra Kustagi, another activist who has thrown himself into the fight, said that establishing a branch of AIIMS in Raichur would save the people of Kalyana Karnataka the hassle of having to travel to Hyderabad for advanced medical treatment. Citing Raichur’s backwardness, he said, “If this hospital is set up here, more employment opportunities will be created. We have appealed to our MLAs and MP to support our cause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/raichur-activists-dig-in-for-long-campaign-to-secure-aiims/articleshow/78111380.cms||Shreyas HS
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Second Covid test on Paatil also positive||Gandhinagar: A second Covid-19 test conducted on Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil on Sunday also returned positive, and he has been advised further hospital isolation. His viral load has fallen considerably and he is out of danger. Sources said he could be allowed to undergo home isolation in two or three days. Paatil is being treated at a private hospital in the city. Key sources said, “Paatil’s viral load has reduced to asymptomatic levels and he is not facing any health problems. Covid medication has been discontinued as well. Doctors have advised that he remain under observation in hospital for two or three days, as his second Covid-19 test has also come positive. Doctors will decide whether he can continue in home isolation until his report is negative.”The Gujarat BJP’s decision making has come to a standstill after Paatil’s hospitalisation. Prior to him testing positive for Covid-19, there was a strong buzz that Paatil would effect a major organizational reshuffle. The state president however tested positive for Covid before he could complete his tour of the state. There is talk in the ruling party that there could be a reshuffle in both government and party after Paatil resumes work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/second-covid-test-on-paatil-also-positive/articleshow/78115824.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy dist admin gets grievances on WhatsApp||Trichy: Trichy collectorate was abuzz with the movement of people from several places to submit their petitions, despite launching an exclusive WhatsApp number to post their grievances, on Monday. Entry to the collectorate was restricted with only 10 petitioners at a time were to visit various departments with their queries. On the first day of the grievance redressal day conducted using WhatsApp, the district administration received 126 petitions. The petitions were related to basic amenities like drinking water, road, bus facility, street lights, financial assistance such as old age pension, widow pension, applications for change of land title, eviction of encroachment, community certificate and several other issues. During normal days before the Covid-19 outbreak, around 500 petitions would be received at the grievance redressal meet. The district administration had announced on Friday that people can send in their grievances through WhatsApp on 9445461756 from Monday onwards. The petitions can be sent between 10am and 2pm on Mondays as part of weekly grievance redressal day. Officials said they would check the petitions and take printouts of the petitions which will be directed to the departments concerned for action. Petitioners can also submit their grievance in the drop box at the entrance of the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-dist-admin-gets-grievances-on-whatsapp/articleshow/78115823.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nashik||14 cases lodged against traders||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have registered 14 offences against traders, who purchased agricultural produce from farmers but did not pay for them.The police have also instructed those traders to make immediate payment to the farmers.Four offences of cheating have been registered with Wani police, two with Pimpalgaon police, four at the Dindori police station and one each at the Lasalgaon, Sinnar MIDC, Satana and Nashik taluka police stations.The offences have been registered on the instructions of the new inspector general (special) Pratap Dighavkar. Dighavkar, who recently took charge as the IG (Special) of Nashik Range comprising Nashik Rural police, Jalgaon, Nandurbar, Dhule and Ahmednagar police, said that agriculture was an important activity in all the districts. Cultivation of grapes, onions, pomegranates, bananas and pulses is on a large scale in the five districts.Initially, the traders made a timely payment to the farmers to win their trust. But then ,they stopped making payments or give cheques that never get cashed.Dighavkar had instructed the superintendents of police of the districts to take stock of such cases and take necessary action. This was followed by 14 offences registered over Saturday and Sunday.Police inspector K K Patil said most of the times the farmers do not want to lodge complaints as they have little hope of getting the money back. He said, “A trader against whom an offence was registered with the Dindori police, returned Rs 7.50 lakh to three farmers. Others have also assured to return the money to the farmers in the next 10 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/14-cases-lodged-against-traders/articleshow/78112408.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two floors of Civic Centre sealed for disinfection||NEW DELHI: Following a spate of Covid-19 cases, two floors of Civic Centre, the municipal headquarters on Minto Road, had to be sealed for intensive disinfection exercise. In the past five days, more than two dozen cases have been found among employees working in various departments. “More than 600 employees have been tested using rapid antigen kits and 24 positive cases have been found,” a senior corporation official said. Last week, the mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation had also tested positive for Covid-19. South Delhi Municipal Corporation is now planning to carry out an exhaustive screening exercise before the next House meeting of the councillors. Leader of the House Narendra Chawla said that all the participants would be tested and only those who come out negative will be allowed to enter the hall located on the fourth floor. A team of doctors with rapid test kits will be deployed two hours before the scheduled meeting time and tests will be carried out on the location itself. “I appeal to all the councillors to cooperate so that the disease can be brought under control,” Chawla urged. Senior officials said that if the trend continued, some departments might have to operate from other locations like Ambedkar Stadium. “There is apprehension among a section of employees as common lifts are used for the office access,” said an official. Civic Centre houses offices of both north and south corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-floors-of-civic-centre-sealed-for-disinfection/articleshow/78135870.cms||Paras Singh
September 15, 2020||Trichy||Youth held for posting intimate pictures allowed to write NEET||Trichy: A 19-year-old NEET aspirant, who was arrested for posting an intimate picture of a 19-year-old woman on social media, was allowed to write the exam by a Trichy court on Sunday after being released on bail. The Gandhi market police on Saturday arrested S Rajavel of Viswas Nagar in Trichy on charges of voyeurism under sections of the IPC and publishing intimate pictures of the girl with him on social media under sections of the Information Technology Act on Saturday.Police received a complaint from the woman, a resident of Trichy, who was studying second year in Kodaikanal. The girl had got acquainted with Rajavel at a marriage function in 2019 and were in a relationship ever since. The young woman alleged that Rajavel clicked pictures of their intimate situations. In March last, she got to know that he was in relationship with another girl and confronted him. Irritated by this, Rajavel posted their intimate pictures on Instagram recently. Acting on the complaint, police arrested and produced him in court. As the accused was a NEET aspirant, the court released him on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youth-held-for-posting-intimate-pictures-allowed-to-write-neet/articleshow/78115843.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh slams state govt for arrest of SP leaders||Lucknow: Lambasting BJP for the arrest of Samajwadi Party leaders who were on way to meet families of veterans who have passed away and canecharge of youth wing delegations across the state, party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said the state government was out to destroy the democratic process and voices in the state. “The government is out to crush every voice and democratic and lawful process that is being adopted to expose high-handedness of powers that be. Such brutality against youth wing delegations who were heading to hand over memorandum to district authorities against increasing crime and rising unemployment, is simply inexplicable,” he said adding that youth wing delegations were brutally beaten up in Varanasi, Prayagraj, Lucknow, Rae Bareli, Sitapur, Basti, Hardoi, Azamgarh,Ambedkarnagar and over two-dozen other districts. Akhilesh said party’s state president Naresh Uttam Patel, MLCs Udaiveer Singh and Sunil Singh Sajan were arrested while they were on way to meet family of former MP SN Singh in Rae Bareli to offer their condolences. He described the murder of Mahoba businessman as ‘sarkari hatyakaand’ adding that instead of mere suspensions and attempts to hush up the incident, the government must initiate the arrest of policemen involved in the incident. He spoke to the brother of Indrakant Tripathi on phone and assured all help to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-slams-state-govt-for-arrest-of-sp-leaders/articleshow/78115840.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Alwal locals rue encroachment||Secunderabad: Residents of Green Fields plot owners association in Alwal told TOI and rued that government officials have turned a blind eye towards encroachment in their locality. They alleged that action was not initiated against 14 encroachments in their locality reported by them. The encroachments include temporary and permanent structures. The residents are waiting for regularisation of plots in Green Fields. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/alwal-locals-rue-encroachment/articleshow/78114992.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||Budgam ‘blue on blue’ case: AFT relief for 2 IAF officers||NEW DELHI: The armed forces tribunal has stayed further disciplinary action against two officers who have been indicted by an IAF court of inquiry (CoI) for operational lapses that led to “friendly fire” downing a Mi-17 V5 helicopter at Budgam in J&K in February last year. Six IAF personnel and a civilian were killed, in what the military calls a “blue on blue” incident during the “fog of war”, when the helicopter was shot down by an Indian air defence missile on February 27. It was around the same time Indian and Pakistani fighter jets were engaged in the aerial skirmish in the Nowshera sector along the Line of Control about 100-km away. The two officers, Group Captain S R Chowdhary and Wing Commander Shyam Naithani, have challenged the CoI and its findings. The principal bench of the AFT said the applicants have prima facie demonstrated “non-compliance” with provisions in the CoI, while staying any further proceedings till the next date of hearing on September 30. As was earlier reported by TOI, the two officers are facing disciplinary action in the shape of a court-martial, while another four — including the then air officer commanding (AOC) of the Srinagar base — have been charged with lighter administrative action for the operational lapses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/budgam-blue-on-blue-case-aft-relief-for-2-iaf-officers/articleshow/78116653.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||SC sets aside AP high court stay on Swarna Palace fire probe||VIJAYAWADA: The Supreme Court on Monday directed the AP government to continue its investigation into the Swarna Palace fire incident by reversing the interim directive of the AP high court, which on August 25 had stayed the proceedings against Ramesh Hospitals MD Dr Ramesh Babu and non-executive chairman Sitarama Mohan Rao. The SC bench, comprising Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee, passed the order after hearing a special leave petition filed by the government challenging the interim directive of the high court. Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, representing the state government, argued that the high court’s interim order had obstructed the enquiry into the August 9 blaze at the hotel which had been converted into a treatment facility for Covid-19 patients, 10 of whom died in the fire. The SC bench, after hearing the arguments, set aside the interim order of the AP high court and directed the government to continue the investigation process. At the same time, it asked the police not to arrest Ramesh Hospitals MD Ramesh Babu and chairman Mohan Rao, while also directing both Babu and Rao to cooperate with the police in the investigation process. The high court may continue to pass further orders as to whether the respondents ought to be let out on anticipatory bail, the Supreme Court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/swarna-palace-sc-reverses-hc-order/articleshow/78115028.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Restaurants allowing dine-in service illegally to face action||PUNE: Restaurants in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and other areas in the district that are found illegally permitting dine-in facilities will face action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating orders of the state government, police said. “If such instances, found or reported, are verified, immediate action will be taken against the establishments. We appeal to Punekars to be responsible citizens during this critical time,” joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve said. An officer from Pimpri Chinchwad police said, “If anyone is found flouting the rules, we will take action against him/ her under section 188 of the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act.” Even as the number of Covid-19 cases in the district continues to rise, several restaurants and dhabas have started offering dine-in facilities illegally. A Nigdi-based working professional, who travelled to Kamshet on Sunday, said, “We found people eating and drinking in a popular dhaba.” He said that some eateries serving misal and pav bhaji have also started offering dine-in facilities. A Pune-based businessman said, “While some restaurants in the city function discreetly, the situation is completely different on the outskirts where people can be seen sitting inside restaurants and enjoying their meals.” “We will conduct a drive in areas under our jurisdiction,” said Navneet Kanwat, deputy superintendent of police, Lonavla division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-allowing-dine-in-service-illegally-to-face-action/articleshow/78113730.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Coveted bungalows facing some home truths||Lucknow: Bungalow No. 5, Vikramaditya Marg, a sprawling residence with lush green lawns, was once occupied by Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. The bungalow, which remained a power centre whether he was in power or not, is now wearing a deserted look. The adjoining 4, Vikramaditya Marg, allotted to Mulayam's son and former CM Akhilesh Yadav, now looks like a haunted 'haveli' as there has been no upkeep since long. Next to it is 2, Vikramaditya Marg, which was once home to powerful minister in the SP government, Azam Khan. This huge house, too, is lying vacant. It was allotted to deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, but he has not shifted there and lives in his ancestral house in Aishbagh. Same is the fate of 4, Kalidas Marg, once inhabited by defence minister Rajnath Singh. This bungalow had been allotted to him in the capacity of former chief minister of the state. Pursuing a PIL in the Supreme Court, the state government had implemented court orders for dislodging former CMs from the bungalows allotted to them by their governments. Barring the house allotted to Rajnath Singh, the estate department and PWD had spent huge funds in interiors and renovation of all other bungalows, mainly those which were allotted to the SP leaders. Over two years have passed since these houses were vacated by former chief ministers, but in the absence of proper upkeep, the public money spent on the government bungalows is going down the drain. “It is painful to see properties to the tune of crores of rupees are decaying for want of repairs,” says an officer of the executive engineer rank of the estate department. Despite interests shown by some ministers for these bungalows, the estate department did not allot them to anybody. MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh had sent a written request for allotting the bungalow to him earlier occupied by Akhilesh, but his request was turned down. While these bungalows are lying vacant, a number of ministers are forced to adjust in small flats of Vidhayak Niwas. Among them is basic education minister Satish Dwivedi who has been allotted a flat in Vidhayak Niwas, Dalibagh. As he heads the basic education department, hundreds of primary teachers, union leaders and other officials apart from party workers and supporters from his constituency Itwa In Siddharthnagar visit him daily at his residence. The flat of the minister, whose family too stays with him, remains crowded all the time and even his security finds it difficult to man people visiting him every day Ajit Pal and Nilima Katiyar, both ministers of state, camp in the Vidhayak Niwas and face the same situation. Both of them have met parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna, who heads a committee which handles allotment of bungalows to ministers, but nothing has moved in their favour. But there are some fortunate ones, including Sandip Singh, grandson of Kalyan Singh, who despite being the first-time MLA and minister of state, has been allotted a huge bungalow at Mall Avenue. Unlike Rajnath Singh, who immediately vacated the bungalow allotted to him as former chief minister, Kalyan did not vacate it, but got it allotted to his grandson Sandip. Then there is Anand Shukla, an MoS, who has also been allotted the Lohia Trust building on Vikramaditya Marg to use it as his residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coveted-bungalows-facing-some-home-truths/articleshow/78115857.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 15, 2020||Trichy||Covid norms violation: TCC nets Rs 12L as penalty||Trichy: A sum of Rs 11.97 lakh was collected as penalty by Trichy Corporation from residents and commercial establishments who have violated the Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOP). Even though the civic body has started collecting Rs 200 as penalty from the public for not wearing facemasks, violations are rampant in the commercial streets here. From April till August, corporation collected a sum of Rs 9.60 lakh as penalty from people for not wearing masks and Rs 1.09 lakh for violating social distancing norms. Between September 1 and 12, the civic body had collected Rs 71,106 from the public for not wearing facemasks and Rs 56,000 as a penalty for not maintaining social distancing. K Abishekapuram zone, which has major commercial streets, has collected Rs 6.41 lakh as penalty. Almost 54% of the net penalty collected by the civic body has come from the zone. Srirangam zone has collected only Rs 88,118 as a penalty so far, only 7% of the net penalty collected across the city. Commercial streets such as Thillai Nagar, Rockins Road and Lawsons Road have been witnessing frequent Covid-19 violations recently. “Several two-wheeler riders do not wear masks. Such offenders are in grave risk of contracting the infection,” T Senthilkumar, a resident of Palakkarai said. Civic body officials said that eateries and tea shops were mostly violating social distancing norms. Though the corporation is collecting Rs 200 per from people as fine for not wearing facemask, violations continue, said the officials. “A section of people abides by the law as they are concerned about their safety. However, there is another section who blatantly violate norms. We are targeting and penalising such people,” a health official said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-norms-violation-tcc-nets-rs-12l-as-penalty/articleshow/78115847.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Evaluation head held in marks fraud case||Pune: The cybercrime police on Monday arrested the evaluation head of the centre for open and distance learning of a prominent educational institute in the city on the charges of hacking into the computer system and tampering with the marks of 178 students. The suspect, Sandip Hengle (49) of Sinhagad Road, was produced before the court on Monday and was remanded in police custody till September 19. A case had been registered against Hengle and one more person from Hyderabad with the cybercrime police on Saturday. The alleged incident happened between September 2018 and December 2019. The suspect had hacked into the centre’s computer system and had changed the case histories of the students and illegally changed their marks too. The centre’s information and technology department noticed and carried out an internal probe before lodging a first information report (FIR) against two persons. including Kengle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/evaluation-head-held-in-marks-fraud-case/articleshow/78113757.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Thane||TMC starts Covid centre in shut firm||THANE: The Thane corporation will operate a new 440-bed dedicated Covid health care facility starting Tuesday at a shut factory's premises in Wagle estate. The facility has 350 beds with oxygen lines and rest normal ones amd was inspected by civic officials and guardian minister Eknath Shinde, on Monday. Officials said the facility was readied as a back-up expecting a rise in Covid cases here in the coming days. As many as 281 medical staff along with 67 doctors will be managed by the corporation, said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner at TMC. "The volume of cases is rising in Thane and we are readying to tackle any sudden rise in demand of beds," said Shinde. ToI had recently reported about the Thane corporation plans to add more field hospitals in the city considering a possible spike in the coming days post the festive season following a diktat by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. A cursory tally reveals the Thane corporation already has around 5,000 beds and is all set to increase the number to 9,000 in the coming days ensuring the situation doesn’t slip out of hand. The corporation has already started work at the dedicated Covid hospital Pokhran facility with 1,085 beds while state approvals is awaited to launch a similar 1,350 bed facility at the parking plaza adjoining Jupiter hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/tmc-starts-covid-centre-in-shut-firm/articleshow/78114953.cms||Manoj Badgeri
September 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Power fix: Policy on wasteland allocation to RE parks revised||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government on Monday revised its policy for allocating wasteland for wind, solar and hybrid (wind and solar) power generation parks. According to revised provisions, the renewable energy park developer will have to build 50% of the park’s total capacity within three years from the time the land is leased. Further, the developer will have to ensure that 100% capacity is created in five years from the land allocation, says the state revenue department’s resolution dated September 14, 2020. “If a developer is allotted land for 1,000MW, the developer will have to create 500MW capacity in the first three year. However, if the developer is able to build only 300MW, the total capacity of the renewable park will be reduced to 800MW at the end of the 3-year period. Also, the developer will be allowed to retain the land required only for developing 800 MW and the remaining land parcel will be taken back by the state government as per the recommendations of the high power committee (HPC),” the resolution further explained. The HPC, however, may provide the extension in exceptional case. The state government further made it clear that even the developers who have been awarded projects by Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), a central government agency, will have to ensure that they establish 50% and 100% of the capacity in 3 and 5 years, respectively. The park developer will be able to sub-lease the land to project developers. The state government will provide the wasteland on lease for 40 years, which include five years for development and 35 years for power generation. All the benefits announced under the policy will be offered to developers for 40 years from the date the land is leased out to the developer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/power-fix-policy-on-wasteland-allocation-to-re-parks-revised/articleshow/78115869.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Three assault & rob pharmacist||Pune: Three men brutally attacked a pharmacist with a knife and robbed him of cash and a silver chain on Sunday. The pharmacist, Udayram Nainaram Chaudhary (21), lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police, who on Monday arrested one suspect. The others are on the run with the booty. A CCTV camera in the store has captured their images, police said. The incident happened around 10.30pm at Ambica Medico at Sai Chowk in Balewadi. The suspects, posing as customers, entered the shop, brandished a knife and a firearm and threatened Chaudhary and his employee. They grabbed Rs18,000 from the cash register and also snatched Chaudhary’s chain. After a scuffle with Chaudhary, the trio left their motorcycle and fled the spot. “We traced the vehicle to a man, who lent it to his brother. We took the brother into custody. He admitted to his involvement in the robbery,” senior inspector Anil Shewale said. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC, Arms Act and the Maharashtra Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-assault-rob-pharmacist/articleshow/78113779.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||State to set up panel for transgenders||Lucknow: The state government is expected to set up a commission for transgenders soon. On chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directives, the social welfare department has submitted a proposal to the government for such a commission. It will be headed by social welfare minister and representatives of the transgender community will be its members. When the commission will be officially set up, it will make UP the third state to have such a body for the welfare of transgenders. Sources said that the idea for having a welfare commission for transgenders was mooted during the 2019 Kumbh Mela when the Kinnar Akhara was given recognition. Recently, the CM is learnt to have directed officials during a meeting to create a proposal for a commission that would ensure the welfare of the transgender community, including health facilities, social security, jobs, etc. Additional chief secretary or principal secretary (social welfare) will be the commission’s vice-chairperson. Other than representatives of the transgender community, its members will consist of the social welfare director and additional chief secretary or principal secretary of finance, home, women and child development and law departments and Lucknow police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-to-set-up-panel-for-transgenders/articleshow/78115870.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Patient, pals vandalize doc’s clinic||Pune: A 65-year-old doctor suffred minor injuries after three men damaged the glass of his clinic cabin over the issue of delay in providing medical treatment to one of them in Vadgaon Dhayari around 8.30pm on Saturday. The police have detained Omkar (full name not known) and registered a first information report had been registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act, Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, Maharashtra Police Act and Covid-19 rules. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patient-pals-vandalize-docs-clinic/articleshow/78113795.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Trichy||More shops open in Kallikudi market||Trichy: The Kallikudi integrated vegetable market in Trichy commenced full-fledged wholesale operations on Monday, with 351 shops having opened so far. On Monday, 81 shops for farmer producers organisation (FPO) and 225 for traders opened. Officials said that more shops will be opened in the coming days. Meanwhile, the agriculture business and agriculture marketing department has floated a tender to facilitate a bank and eatery in the market as patronage from locals and retailers, has increased. By the end of the month, eligible bidders will be identified. To assist the traders and farmers in the market, two grading halls, a cold storage facility with a capacity for 2,000 MT and 60 MT weighing bridge were also put to use. “A section of traders are worried whether the Gandhi market might be permanently shut. I have applied for a shop in Kallikudi market,” S Jayaraman, a wholesale vegetable trader in Trichy said. Officials maintained that Gandhi market traders will not be compelled to relocate to Kallikudi. “Seven traders from the Gandhi market have availed shops in Kallikudi. The number would increase as we are planning to operate buses. Publicity drive is underway to increase the patronage further,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-shops-open-in-kallikudi-market/articleshow/78115868.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Resign if you can’t control force, AP HC tells DGP||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Monday made some strong remarks against DGP D Gautam Sawang and the police department after hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by the family members of one Indupalli Venkata Rama Raju of Amalapuram. Observing that police have failed to implement the rule of law in the state, the HC bench headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar said the DGP should submit his resignation if he fails to control the police force. “We have called the DGP to the court in a few cases, but there is no change in the working of the state police,” he noted. Rama Raju’s family alleged that the police called him for enquiry three times and deliberately harassed him. They further stated that he has not returned home and has gone missing after police called him for questioning about a week ago. The police told the court that they called Raju for questioning but never took him in custody. They said they were in no way responsible in his going missing as they always allowed him to leave after questioning him thrice in a missing case investigation. The HC was not satisfied with the version of police, and warned that the government will have to face the consequences in future if such incidents continue. It posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday, along with other pending habeas corpus petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/resign-if-you-cant-control-force-ap-hc-tells-dgp/articleshow/78115040.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mumbai||Patient claims loss of privacy as RSS NGO traces his contacts||MUMBAI: Nagpur municipal corporation (NMC) on Monday said it did not violate privacy of Covid patients after one complained to state human rights commission (SHRC) that an RSS organization member called him for contact-tracing. Sandesh Singalkar (52), a former IAF personnel and spokesperson for Congress’ Nagpur city committee, last month, through advocate Asim Sarode, filed a complaint against “Sumadhur Gokhale, member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), its Lok-Kalyan Samiti (LKS)” and two NMC officials for allegedly breaching privacy rights and other fundamental rights of persons fighting Covid-19. He said the case was “not simple and straight’’ and civic officials had “used their government position to provide data of Covid-19 patients to LKS’’ to result in “political gain’’ for RSS, and “thus becomes a serious issue of data-transfer putting right to privacy of patients at stake’’. The patient sought Rs 5 lakh in compensation, which NMC has rejected. Counsel for NMC Amogh Singh told SHRC acting chairperson M A Sayeed on Monday that NMC only followed March 29 and 30 state GRs to enlist help of NGOs and other willing self-help organisations to prevent spread of Covid. NMC said in its affidavit LKS was not the only one providing assistance. It was made clear that “NMC would have entire control of the team created... and role of organization was limited to contacting the infected person’’. The organization was granted permission to trace high-risk contacts “under supervision of NMC officials’’. SHRC adjourned the hearing till September 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-violation-of-privacy-of-covid-patients-over-rss-ngo-help/articleshow/78114573.cms||Swati Deshpande
September 15, 2020||Trichy||After protest, NCT takes exams online||Trichy: National College Trichy (NCT) on Monday chose to take the online route for conducting the final semester examination for undergraduates and postgraduates, after students and staff expressed apprehensions over conducting the exam in the offline mode. Last week, college principal R Sundararaman had declared that final semester examinations will be conducted from September 16 to 21 through offline mode on the college campus. He had cited lack of gadgets and internet access of many students for the decision. NCT was perhaps the only college in the city which had proposed to conduct the exams offline. The decision of the college was opposed by its own faculty members who raised apprehensions over the safety of the 1,200 students facing the final semester exam. The principal called a meeting of heads of departments on Monday and it was decided to conduct the final semester exams through online mode by the NCT executive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/after-protest-nct-takes-exams-online/articleshow/78115873.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||UPRERA to upload report card||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) will soon launch ‘Performance Report’ on its official website. According to UPRERA officials, the report highlights initiatives, achievements and best practices adopted by the authority since its inception in 2016. This e-Report covers the current & new activities and practices adopted in areas of IT initiatives such as mobile application and introduction of e-courts with the added feature of virtual court hearing since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. A project-wise compilation of vital information like the project registration details and facts pertaining to project progress report will also be included as a part of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uprera-to-upload-report-card/articleshow/78115875.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: SPPU, colleges in planning mode for smooth process of final-year papers||PUNE: Over 800 colleges affiliated to the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) that have over 2 lakh students in the final year, will be responsible for conducting offline examinations for their own students as well as those residing nearby. The colleges and university are working hard to create a standard operating procedure (SOP) that includes factors such as sanitization of colleges and seeking services of young, fit teachers for exam duty to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the exams. Dilip Sheth, principal of Sir Parashurambhau (SP) College said that the institute is first gearing up to conduct the remaining practical examinations. “Now that we can’t call students to the college, we have told them to prepare for seminars, assignments or even viva. These will be conducted through online platforms that we are using for lectures,” said Sheth. While SPPU will set all theory question papers centrally, it is yet to decide whether the exam can be conducted using a central platform or ask the colleges to select whatever platform suits them best. “Once the option forms are filled out we will have a clear idea on how many students will appear for exams in the offline mode and come to the college. We are predicting this number to be small. Almost all the rooms of the college would need to be used for the exam. We can accommodate 30 students,” said Sheth. Principal of Modern College of Arts, Science and Commerce Rajendra Zunjarrao this time, students can choose any college. “Hence there is a chance that other college students too may choose our institute because it is closer. Hence, we need to keep the offline count to a minimum,” said Zunjarrao. The next target for the educational institutes is conducting practical exams from September 15 to 25. “For those without such access we need to use the telephone for viva and other things,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/university-colleges-in-planning-mode-for-smooth-process-of-final-yr-papers/articleshow/78113811.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 15, 2020||Pune||39-year-old found hanging at home in Pune||PUNE: A 39-year-old chartered accountant was found hanging in his row house in Maval on Sunday. As per a suicide note, he was not getting a job because of an FIR lodged against him. In Talegaon Dabhade, a 24-year-old woman to her death alleging harassment by her husband and in-laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/39-yr-old-found-hanging-at-home/articleshow/78113808.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Two sisters killed in accident||Pune: Two sisters on their way home died after coming under the rear wheels of a truck, which had hit their two-wheeler, in Ravet on Saturday. The Ravet police have identified the siblings as Sheetal Abhijit Girme (31) of Bhondvenagar in Ravet and Sayali Dnyaneshwar Hegde (28) of New Sangvi. The truck driver, Samadhan Kangale (21), has been arrested for negligent driving. “The accident occurred around 10.30pm on Saturday when Girme was returning home after picking up her sister from Sangvi. The duo were not wearing helmets,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-sisters-killed-in-accident/articleshow/78113815.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Major dip in registration of heavy goods vehicles||PUNE: The regional transport offices (RTO) in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have recorded a major dip in the registration of heavy goods vehicles like trucks and trailers. The registrations (see graphic) of trucks and trailers slumped because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown from late March. The situation did not improve in the months thereafter. “Transporters are not thinking of buying new vehicles. The lockdown inflicted huge losses. There are nearly 26,000 heavy goods carriers registered in Pune district and not more than 30% are operational,” said Baba Shinde, the president of Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna. Another transporter said the first lockdown in March was a major jolt. Shinde raised the issues with banks. “Paying EMIs for vehicles has been difficult. Even though road tax was waived from April 1 till September 30, there is issue of vehicles’ insurance payment. We have been demanding our vehicles be exempted from EMIs for entire year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/major-dip-in-registration-of-heavy-goods-vehicles/articleshow/78113804.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 15, 2020||Surat||Surat pedals green learning with ‘Cyclology’ in school curriculum||Surat: Diamond City is creating a new benchmark in green learning with its innovative approach to promote cycling among young children. To pedal up its efforts, the civic body has designed a course ‘Cyclology’, which is being taught to students through e-learning, to enlist young minds to clean environment concepts.Already two schools have started teaching it as part of the pilot project, which the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) targets to replicate in all its municipal schools.‘Cyclology’ is being taught in Class III and IV of RSM Experimental and CC Shah School at the initial phase. The course is designed by BYCS, an Amsterdam-based social enterprise that works to promote cycling, Sarvajanik Education Society (SES) and Nature Club Surat (NCS).An initiative under SMC’s ‘Cycle4Change Challenge’, the subject will be a 10-hour course, books of which have been published in Gujarati, Hindi and English which will be distributed among students after schools reopen.Eminent theatre personality and Padma Shree awardee, Yazdi Karanjia, who is known as an enthusiastic cyclist even at 83 years of age, lauched teh course.‘Bicycle mayor’ of the city, Sunil Jain, told TOI, “The supplementary course will be taught to children from Class III to VIII. Various changes will be made to the course during the pilot projects. At present the course is introduced in two schools, which will be spread to all schools after it is finalised.”Students will be taught history of bicycle, traffic rules along with environmental, health, social and financial benefits in the course.“No other city across the country has ‘cycling’ as a subject in schools. We will explain the importance of cycling to children through poems, stories and practical lessons as part of environment learning. With improvements in the course, and support of the education department, we will introduce it to all schools,” said Kamlesh Yagnik, chairman of SES.“Cycling is not popular among children these days. Teaching cycling as a subject in schools is one of the many concepts we are working to promote cycling in the city. If we teach them early, kids will develop a habit for life,” said Rajesh Pandya, deputy municipal commissioner, SMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-pedals-green-learning-with-cyclology-in-school-curriculum/articleshow/78112469.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 40, whose belly was slashed by husband for only delivering girls, loses her foetus, a boy||Bareilly: A 43-year-old labourer’s dream to father a baby boy were laid to rest forever with the death of male foetus inside her wife’s womb, which he had allegedly ripped open with a sickle on Saturday after being convinced that she was set to deliver another girl child, the sixth one. Doctors at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, who somehow managed to save Anita Devi’s life, told on Sunday that she may never be able to conceive now due to damages to the uterus. The doctors there described the attack as a “devilish” act, the woman’s brother Ravi Singh told TOI. While Anita was still in ICU, her husband Pannalal was on Sunday sent to jail after being produced before a court. He was booked for attempt to murder, and police in Budaun were in process of adding more sections after the death of the foetus. Their five children were with Anita’s relatives, staring at a bleak future. On Saturday evening, Pannalal had come home drunk and again asked his wife to abort the foetus. A village priest had told him that the unborn child was a girl and Pannalal-- who had full faith in his words-- didn’t want a sixth girl. But Anita didn’t want to kill the unborn. Another bout of argument followed and Pannalal, in a fit of rage, picked up a sickle lying in the house and attacked Anita with it, tearing apart her belly and exposing the insides. Neighbours had rushed to Anita’s help and she was taken to district hospital in Bareilly. Ravi told TOI, “There was a moment when I had lost hope. But the doctors and supporting staff at Safdarjung hospital acted like angels and saved my sister’s life. Unfortunately, the child in her womb, who was actually a baby boy, couldn’t survive because of an injury to her uterus which caused infection. Doctors said that she may not be able to conceive further. She is currently admitted at the ICU but they will shift her to the general ward on Tuesday. “Several people, including doctors, met me at the hospital after coming to know about the incident. And they said that it was a devil’s act.” Station house officer (SHO) of Budaun’s Civil Lines police station Sudhakar Pandey said, “We will add the charges of foeticide after receiving the medical report of the woman and recording her statement. Pannalal has been sent to jail and he is yet to know that he actually killed his son. We will apply for his custody for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-40-whose-belly-was-slashed-by-husband-for-only-delivering-girls-loses-her-foetus-a-boy/articleshow/78239107.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 15, 2020||Pune||No change in passing rules for SPPU exams||PUNE: Getting pass-marks in the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) term-end examination will not be a cakewalk for students. The examination department has made it clear that just like the regular examinations, minimum passing marks are essential even in the online/offline examinations. There were media reports recently that Nagpur University has devised a plan where 50% of the internal marks will be calculated along with 50% of the theory examination marks to arrive at the final score. This means if you score high marks in the internal section, and just the remaining marks in the theory exam, the student can pass in the subject. However, Mahesh Kakade, director of Board of Examination and Evaluation at SPPU said the students need to score passing marks in the theory examinations which will be out of 50 marks, and these would be normalised to out of 100 marks in the result. There would be no change in the passing rules, he added. “We want the students to take these examinations seriously. Only the total marks have been cut to 50 and the duration has been shrunk to one hour. All the ordinances related to passing in these examinations remain more or less the same,” Kakade said. For example, if the total marks in a theory examination used to be 100 or 70 earlier, have been brought down to 50. Whatever marks a student gets out of 50 will be converted to the equivalent marks out of 100 or 70, as the case may be. The student needs to get minimum passing marks, which is about 40%, to pass in this theory examination, whether he appears online or offline. The same applies to internal marks and practicals. The rules of passing have not changed and students must keep that in mind, Kakade said. Due to the pandemic, the university is allowing students to choose between appearing for an online or offline examination. An option form has been uploaded on the university website where students can log in and register their choice of mode of examination. Monday was the last day to register, and Kakade said that till now the majority of the students have applied for online mode of examination. The practical examination will be held between September 15-25, the backlog examinations would be between October 1 and 9, and the regular examinations would be held between October 10 and 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-change-in-passing-rules-for-sppu-exams/articleshow/78113805.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 15, 2020||India||CID charges BJP MP in TMC MLA killing||KOLKATA: The Bengal CID on Monday named BJP’s Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar in its supplementary chargesheet filed in the murder case of TMC’s Krishnaganj MLA Satyajit Biswas. However, it does not mention Mukul Roy, yet another prominent BJP face and a named accused in the murder FIR. Sarkar termed it a political conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cid-charges-bjp-mp-in-tmc-mla-killing/articleshow/78116660.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||15 aspirants to assist ZP for 3 years to earn work-based BBA degree||Pune: As many as 15 students from the socially backward class will start working with the administration of Pune zilla parishad from the next month. They will also earn a degree in business administration over a period of three years, at the same time. This unique work and learn programme has been launched by the department of social welfare in association with the Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL).The students have attempted and cleared the entrance exam conducted by the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) for the Bachelor in Business Administration (BBA) programme and were later interviewed for their aptitude for the work-based degree.Project manager at MKCL, Vinayak Kadam, said, "The need for this kind of a unique programme started with the Covid situation taking a toll on the administration when we conducted a gap analysis in various government offices. Many of these important offices lacked a proper information technology cell and the employees struggled with basic things like creating Google forms."With support from the social welfare department, MKCL and Pune ZP agreeing to offer the students an internship while they took the degree, the programme was conceptualised. As many as 77 students had applied for the work-based degree of which 60 appeared for the IGNOU entrance test and 48 of them cleared the exam. These selected students will now undergo a week's training by MKCL before they are deputed at Pune ZP.Chief executive officer of Pune ZP, Ayush Prasad, said, "The Pune ZP implements a variety of schemes that individuals, households and areas can benefit from. The interns would work on various schemes and increase the effectiveness. We also hope to use their services to implement eGovernance in public survey delivery."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-aspirants-to-assist-zp-for-3-years-to-earn-work-based-bba-degree/articleshow/78113824.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 15, 2020||Patna||Banquet hall bookings pick up as curbs ease||PATNA: With the government permitting gathering of 100 individuals in social events from September 21 under Unlock 4.0, wedding business in the city has picked up pace. Marriage gardens, banquet halls, food caterers and wedding photographers in the city are flooded with bookings and queries ahead of the marriage season in November and December. Anisabad resident Sonal Sinha, who was to tie nuptial knot in June this year, had to postpone her wedding due to Covid-induced lockdown in the city. She is now getting married in November. “I can’t tell you how happy I am. Keeping in mind the risks associated with public gatherings, we have cancelled our previous marriage hall in Khojai Imli as it was small in size. We are now going for a larger banquet hall so that adequate social distancing can be maintained. I have also checked off a few people from our guest list,” she said. Similarly, Patel Nagar resident and bride-to-be Ankita had to call off her grand wedding in April this year because of travel restrictions. “My fiancé is based in the US. He was unable to travel to Patna in April. Now that many international flights have started operating, he will be here in December for our marriage,” she said. Since several weddings which were scheduled between March and May are taking place in the upcoming wedding season in November and December, hotels and banquet halls have started registering an increase in bookings. B D Singh, manager of a five-star hotel in the city, said, “The traditional ‘big fat’ Indian weddings are making a return in the months of ‘Karthika’ and ‘Mrigashira’ according to Hindu calendar. My hotel is fully booked during November and December. We are unable to entertain any more booking request.” However, even though social gatherings have been permitted with a limited number of people, the raging pandemic continues to spread its tentacles in the city. Hence, wedding organisers are taking all the precautionary steps to minimise the risk of outbreaks during such gatherings. Mintu Kumar, manager of a banquet hall on Bailey Road, said he has made face masks compulsory for all third-party vendors entering the premises. “I am not allowing anyone without a mask to enter the venue. From food caterers to venue decorators and wedding photographers, masks are compulsory for all. We will also install a thermal screening checkpoint for all the guests. The entire area will be sanitized after every event,” he said. Dak Bungalow-based wedding photographer Tauseef S pointed said he has been receiving around six to seven calls every day for pre-wedding shoots and wedding photography. “We have started with pre-wedding shoots at various locations around the city. Even during the shoot, we encourage the bride and groom to wear masks. We are trying to come up with creative poses for the couples in masks,” he said. Masks to match bridal outfits: As the government has made use of face masks necessary to avoid further spread of Covid-19, costume designers and boutique owners in the city have started taking orders for making matching face masks with bridal outfits ahead of the wedding season in November and December. For instance, would-be-bride Ankita Priya from Patel Nagar has asked her bridal costume designer to weave a matching mask for all her wedding outfits. “Not only for my wedding, I have asked my designer to make matching masks for my pre-wedding shoot outfit as well. My husband will also match his mask with ‘sherwani’,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/banquet-hall-bookings-pick-up-as-curbs-ease/articleshow/78112645.cms||Arunima Lal
September 15, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS surgeons save legs of a patient recently recovered from Covid||Hubballi: The pandemic has, much to the inconvenience of an already stressed healthcare community, made performing surgeries an extremely challenging task. However, a team of surgeons at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi on Monday successfully performed a surgery to save the legs of a patient suffering from acute limb ischemia – a condition wherein there is an alarming decrease in the flow of blood to the lower limbs owing to obstruction in an artery. The patient in question had only recently recovered from Covid-19. The team of surgeons that performed the surgery was headed by Dr SY Mulki Patil from the department of general surgery and cardiovascular thoracic surgeon Dr Ullas Bisleri. KIMS director Dr Ramlingappa Antartani hailed the efforts of the team of surgeons. “This was a rare case since the patient had only recently recovered from Covid-19 infection. The patient was from Munirabad, and had been shifted to KIMS since he was in need of advanced care. The doctors wasted no time in performing the surgery and saved his limbs,” Dr Antartani said. The KIMS director pointed out that many surgeries were being postponed not only in India but the world over owing to the risk of transmission of the novel coronavirus during a surgical procedure. “But the KIMS surgeons decided to go ahead with the surgery nevertheless. They removed the clot from one leg and immediately performed the operation in the other and both procedures yielded the desired results,” Dr Antartani added. Dr Patil and Dr Bisleri said that, they had been part of three such surgeries, one of which had been unsuccessful. “The patient had complications in the lung since had Covid-19 infection. But we could not postpone the surgery. We were not able to save him,” the duo rued. 101 deliveries in three-and-a-half months The staff of the gynaecology department at KIMS has successfully performed 101 deliveries from June to September 13. Of these, 35 patients had a normal delivery, while 66 women underwent caesarean. Dr Kasturi Donimath, an obstetrician at KIMS, said that the deliveries were performed with doctors and nurses in protective gear. “We were successful in assisting a woman with ovarian cancer give birth to a child. We have also delivered babies born to women with Covid-19. Only one baby born at KIMS since June has tested positive for Covid-19,” Dr Kasturi said. Dr Rajshekhar Dyaberi, Dr Arunkumar, Dr Prakash Wari and others were present at the conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-surgeons-save-legs-of-a-patient-recently-recovered-from-covid/articleshow/78113182.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Mysuru||Prevalence of asymptomatic cases worries Hassan district administration||Hassan: The district administration is concerned over increasing asymptomatic Covid cases. Of the 12,200 cases reported in Hassan district, nearly 70% are asymptomatic. Deputy commissioner R Girish has called every person suffering with comorbidities to voluntarily get tested for Covid even though they don't have any symptoms. Girish said there are 26 Covid hotspots in the district. Of them, Hassan taluk has 11 Covid hotspots and they are Kleanpack factory, Ambedkar Nagar, Sharif Colony, Vijaynagar, Vidyanagar, Kuvempunagar, Channapatna, Kattaya hobli, Mosalehosahalli, Udaygiri, and B Katihalli. Holenarsipur taluk has five hotspots, Arkalgud has four, Alur has two while Arsikere, Belur, Channarayapatna, and Sakleshpur taluks have one hotspot each. Hassan ZP CEO Paramesh has ordered all executive officers of taluk panchayats to direct every panchayat development officer to make necessary arrangements to extend help for a team of doctors while conducting Covid tests at gram panchayat level to achieve the target of 5,000 RAT/RAPCR tests daily. The district administration has also noticed that most of the covid patients with mild symptoms who get admitted in the last minute succumb as treatment would be ineffective. It is also warning the public that Covid protocol violators would be strictly fined as per law. While 220 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday in the district, taking the total to 12220. While there are 2,909 active cases including 53 in ICU, two new fatalities were reported, taking the toll to 249.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/prevalence-of-asymptomatic-cases-worries-hassan-district-administration/articleshow/78113338.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Trichy||Dist collectors directed to initiate steps to set up govt arts colleges||Trichy: While the state government has decided to start seven government arts and science colleges in the academic year 2020-21, three of them will be established in central districts of Karur, Ariyalur and Nagapattinam. Director of collegiate education, D Poornachandran, in a letter has asked the district collectors of the seven districts, to take steps to establish the colleges. The respective collectors have been asked to identify three acres of land each for the colleges. Since classes are expected to start from this year, the collectors have been asked to rent buildings to set up temporary campuses. The colleges have been given approval to start five courses-BA Tamil, English, B Com (English medium), BSc Maths and Computer Science.In Karur district, a new government arts college will be established in Tharagampatti of Kadavur. This is third government arts college in the district apart from one each in Iyermalai and Thanthonimalai. The newly-sanctioned college is located in a rural area bordering Manapparai of Trichy. District collector, T Anbalagan, said that the college will come to aid of students from this region who have been forced to travel 30km to Iyermalai to attend college in the absence of other colleges. Stating that land is being identified for the permanent campus of the college in Tharangampatti, the collector said that a private building has been identified for being rented to start classes from this year. Similarly, a college will come up in Jeyamkondam of Ariyalur district and Kuthalam of Nagapattinam district. Similarly, one college each in the districts of Coimbatore, Villupuram, Virudhunagar and Ranipettai have been announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dist-collectors-directed-to-initiate-steps-to-set-up-govt-arts-colleges/articleshow/78115876.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Trust secy backs Uddhav, Ayodhya seers miffed||Ayodhya: Days after proclaiming that Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray was no longer welcome in the temple town following his government’s face-off with actor Kangana Ranaut, seers of Ayodhya on Monday protested against Ram Mandir Trust secretary Champat Rai for supporting the Shiv Sena leader. Besides the ongoing controversy, the seers are also upset over the alleged inaction of the Maharashtra government in the killing of sadhus in Palghar. A group of seers, including Mahant Dharam Das and Mahant Raju Das, staged a demonstration against Rai in the vicinity of Hanumangarhi temple on Monday.  Terming Rai’s support to Thackeray as “disgraceful”, the seers demanded that he should be asked to leave Ayodhya. On September 11, seers had said that Thackeray had moved away from the path of Hindutva and was not welcome in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trust-secy-backs-uddhav-ayodhya-seers-miffed/articleshow/78115877.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 15, 2020||Pune||MSRTC starts bus service to Gujarat and Telangana||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has partially resumed the inter-state bus service, with plans to gradually step this up. As things stand, MSRTC officials said one bus each is plying from Aurangabad to Surat in Gujarat and Nizamabad in Telangana, while one bus is ferrying passengers from Dhule to Surat. Based on passenger response, MSRTC expects buses to connect Pune to Gujarat in a week. “Talks are on with other states to finalize the formalities, We hope to see some neighbouring states being covered by the month end,” an official said. The state government had allowed the inter district movement of MSRTC buses from August 20. “The state government is coordinating with its counterparts and bus services have been started to states that are providing permission. No e-passes are required to travel,” Abhijeet Bhosale, public relations officer of MSRTC, said, A Pune MSRTC official said Karnataka could be next in line for connectivity. “Our buses have started touching the Maharashtra-Karnataka border via the Pune-Solapur route. While we are sure to start some buses from Pune to Gujarat, we will soon announce whether or not buses will connect to Karnataka. The standard operating procedures related to travel are expected to remain the same,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-starts-bus-service-to-gujarat-and-telangana/articleshow/78113826.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Ghaziabad to get UP’s largest DNA lab next wk||LUCKNOW: Ghaziabad will get UP’s largest DNA lab which will work on 32 samples simultaneously, a capacity which no other laboratory in the state has so far. The DNA lab will come up at the existing forensic laboratory in Niwadi area of Ghaziabad. The facility will be operational by September 21. UP additional director general of police, technical services, Sandeep Salunke said the lab would help police in time-bound disposal of cases where DNA is the decisive factor. “There was only one DNA lab at Forensic Science Laboratory in Lucknow which used to get eight DNA samples tested at one go, but now with 24 capillary systems, we will get results faster,” Salunke told TOI. He added that the pressure of 25 districts under three police zones of Meerut, Agra and Bareilly would be directly dealt with by the new DNA lab. Earlier, all the pressure of getting DNA samples was limited to Lucknow FSL only, which was a time-taking process. “The overall cost of setting up the DNA lab was Rs 6.5 crore. We got the instruments imported from the United States and made all custom clearances with the help of the government to set up the lab,” he said. “The government has fulfilled the promise it made to the Supreme Court that it would set up such labs for quick and qualitative investigation,” he added. The forensic lab at Niwadi, which was inaugurated by then DGP OP Singh in 2018, is the most advanced laboratory in the state. It already provides crime scene management, serology, toxicology and medico-legal facilities. Senior officials said services like narco tests, cyber forensics, acoustics and ballistics would soon be available at the laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ghaziabad-to-get-states-largest-dna-lab-next-wk/articleshow/78115913.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 15, 2020||Pune||Industrialist donates Rs 50L to cops’ fund||Pune: Industrialist Vijay Pusalkar on Monday donated Rs 50 lakh to the Pune police welfare fund at a function organised at the police commissionerate. Pusalkar handed over a cheque to Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham in the presence of state director-general of police Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve and other senior police officials. Pusalkar also assured to fund the education expenses of five girl students of policemen up to graduation. In his speech, Jaiswal praised the police for taking initiatives after the outbreak of novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industrialist-donates-rs-50l-to-cops-fund/articleshow/78113875.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Woman’s gold chain worth Rs 32k snatched||Pune: A man snatched a 48-year-old woman’s gold chain worth Rs32,000 in Wadgaon Sheri around 6.30am on Sunday. The woman lodged a complaint with the Chandannagar police, stating that she was on her way home after purchasing milk when the suspect came from behind, snatched her chain and fled into a lane. The police said a CCTV camera has captured the images of two men, including one waiting on a motorcycle and another alighting from the bike. Senior inspector Shankar Khatke from Chandannagar police said, “The woman alerted the police station in the afternoon about the incident. If she would have shared the information immediately, then there was a possibility of conducting a nakabandi operation to trace the chain snatched.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/womans-gold-chain-worth-rs-32k-snatched/articleshow/78113848.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Police hosp CMO goes out of the way to save cop’s wife||Nagpur: Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of the police hospital at Zingabai Takli, saved the life of a constable’s wife suffering from Covid-19 when she developed breathlessness and her blood oxygen saturation went low. As no doctor was available in the 108 ambulance, Dr Shinde returned to work in the late hours to accompany the woman to a private hospital on Sunday. Dr Shinde was at home when he received a call from a constable, who is at home isolation after having tested positive, late in the evening. Despite being exhausted and against his family’s concern, Dr Shinde is learnt to have decided to leave home at Manewada to accompany the ambulance as the doctor who attended had tested positive and the stand-by one too had to gone to attend another emergency. Dr Shinde, who has been deployed at police hospital since 2017, said he realized the woman was in bad shape and was deteriorating fast. “I had no option but to arrange for an ICU bed at a private hospital for the woman. Her oxygen level was an alarming 68. We had to put her on ventilator as I attended to her till 2.30 am until there were signs of her getting stabilized,” said Dr Shinde. He added the woman was now out of danger. “It could have been fatal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/police-hosp-cmo-goes-out-of-the-way-to-save-cops-wife/articleshow/78115089.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 15, 2020||Pune||Innovation hub opens at MIT-ADT||Pune: The MIT Art, Design, and Technology University, Pune, has launched the ‘Centre of Research and Innovation for Young Aspirants (CRIYA)’ at the university campus. The innovation centre has various divisions like robotics, idea lab, design studio, and bio-laboratory to help students quench their thirst for science and further innovate and experiment, a statement stated. Executive president of MIT ADT University, Mangesh Karad, said the centre would teach students the essential skills required for developing professional and personal skills. The lab will have 3D printers, robotic equipment, a computing facility, and other state-of-the-art technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/innovation-hub-opens-at-mit-adt/articleshow/78113840.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad to get UP’s largest DNA lab next wk||LUCKNOW: Ghaziabad will get UP’s largest DNA lab which will work on 32 samples simultaneously, a capacity which no other laboratory in the state has so far. The DNA lab will come up at the existing forensic laboratory in Niwadi area of Ghaziabad. The facility will be operational by September 21. UP additional director general of police, technical services, Sandeep Salunke said the lab would help police in time-bound disposal of cases where DNA is the decisive factor. “There was only one DNA lab at Forensic Science Laboratory in Lucknow which used to get eight DNA samples tested at one go, but now with 24 capillary systems, we will get results faster,” Salunke told TOI. He added that the pressure of 25 districts under three police zones of Meerut, Agra and Bareilly would be directly dealt with by the new DNA lab. Earlier, all the pressure of getting DNA samples was limited to Lucknow FSL only, which was a time-taking process. “The overall cost of setting up the DNA lab was Rs 6.5 crore. We got the instruments imported from the United States and made all custom clearances with the help of the government to set up the lab,” he said. “The government has fulfilled the promise it made to the Supreme Court that it would set up such labs for quick and qualitative investigation,” he added. The forensic lab at Niwadi, which was inaugurated by then DGP OP Singh in 2018, is the most advanced laboratory in the state. It already provides crime scene management, serology, toxicology and medico-legal facilities. Senior officials said services like narco tests, cyber forensics, acoustics and ballistics would soon be available at the laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-to-get-states-largest-dna-lab-next-wk/articleshow/78123925.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 15, 2020||Chennai||Teachers oppose English in UG courses||Chennai: The joint action council of college teachers (JAC) of Tamil Nadu has opposed the move to introduce professional English, a specialised course to improve command over the language, across all undergraduate degrees from 2020-21. “It is surprising that the higher education department wants to teach professional English with subject teachers instead of language teachers. Only language teachers can improve the command over the language,” M Krishnaraj, convener of JAC, said in a release. The JAC criticized the vice-chancellors of state universities for not properly advising the government on standard procedures for introducing a course. The move is facing much criticism as subject teachers have been asked to teach professional English and allotment of academic hours is becoming difficult as universities have to remove a core subject that would alter the course combination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/teachers-oppose-english-in-ug-courses/articleshow/78242760.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Police bust gang of thieves, recover 8 bikes worth Rs 8L||Pune: The Hinjewadi police on Monday claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle thieves with the arrest of five youths and recovery of eight Royal Enfield motorcycles worth Rs8 lakh. Assistant inspector Sagar Kate and constable Kiran Pawar of the Hinjewadi police received a tip-off that two youths from Marunji village were using a stolen motorcycle. “We laid a trap and took a youth, Rohit Vetal (20), in custody on September 10. During the questioning, he admitted that he had stolen a motorcycle from Marunji with the help of his accomplices,” Kate said. He said the police team then swung into action and arrested Sumit Sawant (19), Prashant Gaikwad (19) and Chetan Katpure (19). “During the questioning, the trio revealed the names of two accomplices helping them in stealing the motorcycles and one more suspect from Osmanabad district,” Kate said. Vaijnath Chaudhari (22) from Osmanabad was arrested on Saturday. The police have launched a search for the other two suspects. The arrested youths admitted that they had stolen six motorcycles from the Hinjewadi area and one each from Chinchwad and Warje Malwadi. They also revealed that all the motorcycles were sold off in Osmanabad district, Kate said. Modus of suspects The suspects used to identify Royal Enfield motorcycles parked without their handles locked. “They used to tow the identified bike with the help of another motorcycle. Then they would make a duplicate key and ride it towards Osmanabad district. “They used to handover the stolen motorcycles to their accomplice from Osmanabad, Vaijnath,” Kate said. He said the youths were selling the motorcycles just for Rs10,000. “The buyers had changed the colour of the stolen vehicles. We identified them with the help of chassis and engine numbers,” the officer further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-gang-of-thieves-recover-8-bikes-worth-rs-8l/articleshow/78113924.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Trichy||CCB team searches homes of DMK MLA Senthil Balaji’s aides||Trichy: A team from the Central Crime Branch (CCB), Chennai on Sunday searched the residences of the close aides of former transport minister and Aravakurichi MLA V Senthil Balaji on Sunday in connection with a cheating case.The 10-member team carried out the searches at the residences of Balaji’s former personal assistants Shanmugam and Karthik, besides his relative Subramanian.According to police source, the inquiry was based on a case filed against Balaji based for allegedly cheating more than 80 people assuring them jobs in the transport department during his tenure as transport minister from 2011-2016. He is charged with swindling Rs 1.52 crore.While all the three were not at home when the team arrived on Sunday, it carried out inquiries with the family members and returned.A CCB team had attempted to raid the house of Balaji in January this year but it was thwarted by his supporters, who created a ruckus when they tried to enter his house. A case was also filed in this regard, which was later transferred to the special court after Balaji became MLA of Aravakurichi.However, there were no such incidents this time as all the three were away from Karur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ccb-team-searches-homes-of-dmk-mla-senthil-balajis-aides/articleshow/78115912.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Survey will end land disputes in Telangana: K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday said the government will complete comprehensive land survey within a year by engaging survey agencies for each district. He reiterated that the survey will solve most land disputes in the state. KCR also announced that the proposed land tribunals, as part of the new Revenue Act, in place of revenue courts, would cease to exist after disposing of the pending 16,137 cases in various revenue courts. “The tribunals are not permanent and work on fast-track and time-bound manner. The tribunals will be headed by a retired IAS or serving senior officers. After the tribunal’s verdict, if anybody has any objection and wants to contest it, they can approach civil court or relevant courts,” he added. The CM moved the new revenue bill including Rights in Lands and Pattadar Passbooks Act 2020 and Abolition of VROs and amended the Municipalities Act and Panchayat Raj Act in the council on Monday. Replying to queries raised by members, KCR said the new revenue law would not be applicable in Agency areas due to the 1/70 Act, a central Act, in place, and the government would not intervene in it. He claimed 98% land records were clean and undisputed. After the land survey, the dispute percentage would be zero. “Once Dharani portal is launched, even pattadar passbooks will become irrelevant as the web portal will have live updates and no separate encumbrance would be required,” he said. Taking potshots at Congress, the CM said the Congress government had taken up land survey programme ‘Bhu Bharati’ on a pilot basis in Nizamabad 15 years ago and it became a joke. The then government had even issued pattas to 100 people for 10 acres land. Similarly, in Kambalapally in Nalgonda district, 7,000 acres were distributed to 14,000 people on paper. KCR turned down the request of MLC D Rajeshwara Rao to impose a ban on registration of properties of Christian minorities on the lines of waqf and endowment land. “As far as the waqf and endowment land parcels are concerned, the land parcels were identified and notified by the government. The government does not have details about Christian land. If Christian leaders come forward and provide details, the state government would think over it,” the CM said. He also rejected Congress MLC T Jeevan Reddy and BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao’s suggestions on inclusion of ‘cultivator’ column in the revenue records. He said it would not benefit farmers anyway. “Now, there are no landlords with hundreds and thousands of acres of land holdings. Ninety per cent of owners are small and marginal farmers, having below 10 acre land. In the present day, tenant farmers keep changing and it is not the duty of the government to record their names every now and then,” he said. “Here in Hyderabad, property owners let out their multi-storied buildings to individuals and firms. Do we have a system to record tenant name in government records? When it is not there for other properties, why should it be for agriculture land,” he questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/survey-will-end-land-disputes-in-state-kcr/articleshow/78113942.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||CP walks the talk: Kicks off enforcement of Covid protocols in markets||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar and his team on Monday kick-started the ‘mandated protocols’ to fight the pandemic, including enforcing distancing and wearing of masks. Kumar undertook a 6km foot patrol, visited police stations and some markets, and met traders and hawkers associations. Citizens and traders also thronged the road to assure cooperation. The first day of enforcing Covid distancing also turned into polices’ show of strength at key market places. The CP stressed on decongestion of lanes and clearing footpaths of encroachments. Meeting the traders, the CP asked them to remove their materials from the roads in front of their shops, and warned of action. The CP asked all police station staffers and traffic cops to fine traders Rs5,000 and citizens Rs100 if they fail to follow Covid distancing norms in public places, along with Rs500 fine for not wearing masks. Speaking to the hawkers’ association, Kumar strictly told them to refrain from putting up stalls on Sitabuldi main road until fresh orders from NMC. Kumar, along with Joint CP Nilesh Bharne, DCP Vikram Sali and hordes of senior inspectors, went around the markets at Sitabuldi and Itwari. Across the city, on Monday, cops collected over Rs1.95 lakh fine from 942 persons for not wearing masks. Kumar said this drive will last till October 31 with zero tolerance policy. “Voluntary compliance of traders and masses is equally desirable along with enforcement. In view of the critical Covid situation, police are seeking cooperation from the public as it concerns their health and well-being too,” he said. Beginning with traffic police office at Meetha Neem Dargah, Kumar went to Variety Square, then he walked beyond Modi Lane No. 3 speaking to hawkers and shopkeepers. Later, he went around Maskasath, Shaheed Chowk, Teen Nal chowk, Jagnath Budhwari, Itwari market and Nanga Putla Chowk before visiting Tehsil police station. Here, he interacted with constables and officers, inquiring about their intake of medicines. “I will ensure reimbursements, buy and take immunity boosting medicines,” he said. Later, Kumar went to Lakadganj police station where he interacted with the traders’ association and asked them to follow Covid distancing and also shut premises as early as possible in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-walks-the-talk-kicks-off-enforcement-of-covid-protocols-in-markets/articleshow/78115121.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||2 die in two hit-and-run accidents||Ludhiana: Two persons have died and one has got injured in two road mishaps reported in the city on Monday. In the first case, a bike-borne couple was hit by an unidentified vehicle while in another incident a woman sitting on the road side was crushed to death. The first incident was reported on Monday morning around 11am. Rakesh Kumar, 28, of Gurnam Nagar, who worked at a salon, along with his wife Poonam, 26, were going on their motorcycle when near Hardy’s World flyover an unidentified vehicle hit their bike. According to police, both Rakesh and Poonam got serious injuries. Some onlookers called the police. On reaching at spot, the police took the injured to hospital where Rakesh was declared brought dead while Poonam had been admitted. Investigating officer from police station, Salem Tabri, ASI Jatinder Kumar said that the woman suffered severe injuries, however, she got her statement recorded. Poonam said that her mother-in-law, who lives in Amritsar, was sick, therefore, she and her husband were going to Amritsar to see her. When they reached near the flyover, an unidentified vehicle hit them from behind and escaped. Salem Tabri police have registered a case against the unidentified accused under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (Causing death by negligence) of the IPC. According to police, Rakesh was wearing a helmet, despite that he could not survive. In another case a 30-year-old woman died when an unidentified vehicle hit her near Pipal chowk, Focal Point area, on Monday afternoon. The woman has been identified as Gudia, 30, of Durga Colony. According to police, the woman is a labourer near Pipal Chowk. Investigating officer from police station, Focal Point, ASI Jagjeet Singh said that on Monday afternoon the woman was sitting under a tree on the road side during lunch break. At that time an unidentified vehicle crushed her to death and escaped. The Focal point police have registered a case against the unidentified accused for causing death by snegligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-in-two-hit-and-run-accidents/articleshow/78113951.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Patwari arrested for seeking bribe||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana Vigilance bureau arrested a patwari (revenue officer) for accepting bribe from a woman for making corrections in the revenue records, on Monday. The arrested accused has been identified as Anil Narula, who was deputed at the patwarkhana in Ayali Khurd village. Complainant Seema of Government Colony near the Fountain chowk alleged that her mother Bimla Devi had a 125 square yard house at Dashmesh Nagar in Ayali Khurd. In 2008, they had availed of a loan totalling Rs 4 lakh from UCO Bank in Ayali Khurd against the house. Later on, they repaid the loan and the bank had issued a no-objection certificate to them. Following this, they approached the patwari for adding the no-objection certificate in the revenue record. While updating the record the accused wrote the name of her mother as Bimla Rani in the documents, instead of Bimla Devi. On September 4, she again approached the patwari for making corrections in the name. The patwari demanded Rs 5,000 for making the correction. The deal was settled for Rs 4,000. Thereafter the woman lodged a complaint with the vigilance bureau. SSP, vigilance bureau, Rupinder Singh said that a VB team laid a trap and arrested the accused when he was accepting the cash from the woman. A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/patwari-arrested-for-seeking-bribe/articleshow/78113936.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Unable to pay EMI, people sell off high-end vehicles||KOCHI: Hefty EMI in banks, high tax rate and Covid-induced uncertainty in job market force many owners of high-end vehicles in the district to sell off their vehicles. Sometimes the hapless owners try to sell the vehicles at a price more than the market price in order to clear their liability in banks, which in turn dissuade the buyers. At the same time, high demand for used vehicles, both two-wheelers and four-wheelers, has created shortage of the same in the market. “Financial uncertainty in the market forces people to think twice before buying new high-end vehicles. People prefer to buy a used high-end vehicle, which will cost around Rs 30 lakh while a new one will cost Rs 60 lakh. People who bought vehicles in the past two years are the ones who are selling the vehicles due to the hefty EMI. The loan outstanding on these vehicles will be huge than its resale value. In such cases, the owners find it difficult to get buyers. Sales of used vehicles have increased drastically than the pre-Covid times,” says Sebastian Joseph, general manager of a showroom selling used high-end cars. “To avoid using public transport, more people are buying cars and two-wheelers, price of which are quite cheap. Many prefer to buy used two-wheelers worth less than Rs 20,000. Lack of adequate public transportation facilities like buses in many areas also push people to buy used vehicles. People also want to sell out premium bikes, which have loan liability. I got three or four calls on Sunday from owners of premium bikes expressing willingness to sell it. But there are not many buyers for premium bikes unlike low budget vehicles,” says Lijo Joseph, a dealer of used two-wheelers at Padivattom. A motor vehicles department official in Ernakulam said: “my relative wanted to buy a used two-wheeler for travelling to his workplace. Despite talking to many dealers, he did not get one. Later, he ended up buying a new one,” said the official. Dealers also say that the number of used vehicles in the showrooms has reduced to half compared to the pre-Covid period as people are not selling their vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unable-to-pay-emi-people-sell-off-high-end-vehicles/articleshow/78113966.cms||T C Sreemol
September 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Conman dupes senior citizen of Rs 1.19 lakh||AURANGABAD: City police on Sunday booked an unidentified suspect for forging the identity of a 61-year-old man to get his debit card and PIN from the bank and using the same, he withdrew Rs 1.19 lakh from the complainant’s bank account. The alleged cheating took place sometime in the month of March or April, while an offence in this regard came to be registered only on Sunday. Police said that the latest case has raised serious questions on the banks’ verification process before issuing the debit cards. As per the complaint lodged by Dilip Sathe, a resident of Shantipura area of Cantonment, the suspect while impersonating him went to the bank and submitted forged identity proof to collect the debit card. Bank staffers fell prey to the suspect’s trap and ended up in issuing the debit card. After the bank informed the suspect that he will get the debit card pin number over his cellphone, the suspect submitted his cellphone number. Using the newly issued debit card as well as the pin received over phone, the suspect carried out several withdrawals. It took Sathe several weeks to realize that he been duped. Moreover, the lockdown imposed in the past few months made it difficult for Sathe to reach out the bank and gather all the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/conman-dupes-senior-citizen-of-rs-1-19-lakh/articleshow/78112532.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Assembly unanimously passes TS-bPASS Bill||HYDERABAD: After clearing a landmark Act pertaining to reforms in revenue administration, the Telangana assembly on Monday unanimously passed another significant Bill, the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS) on Monday. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said the new building approval system would end the problems of citizens seeking building permissions and make it transparent. The government hopes the new system will not only give time-bound approvals for building permissions but also end corruption to maximum extent. “Self-certification and deemed approvals make it a landmark legislation in municipal reforms. No other state government in the country has introduced such a policy,” KTR said. He said the new building approval system will help obtain hassle-free permissions and if anyone violates the rules, their illegal structure will be demolished without any notice. Speaking in the assembly during the debate on the new Bill, KTR said that going by the earlier number of approvals, 95% of applications pertained to constructions below 600 sq yards. “Only 5% applications were related to high-rises. That means, the new approval system will help 95% applicants,” he said. KTR added that the applicant need not go to various departments to get approvals like fire NOC. He said that a district-level monitoring committee is being set up to monitor building applications received under TS-bPASS, which will be headed by the respective district collectors and zonal commissioner in Hyderabad. A chasing cell will be set up to supervise the implementation of the scheme. On high-rise buildings where NOC from Airport Authority of India is required, KTR said he will meet Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and apprise him about the Bill to work out a mechanism for speedy approval at their level. He also announced extension of one-time clearance of property tax and water bill arrears scheme till October 31. “Citizens constructing houses between 75 sq yards and 600 sq yards have to apply online. They will get instant approval for constructions through self-certification under TS-bPASS and can start their construction work. If they don’t get approval within 21 days, the application is deemed to be approved,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assembly-unanimously-passes-ts-bpass-bill/articleshow/78113955.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Firms asked to complete PF formalities under PMGKY||Ludhiana: With September 15 being the last date for availing of provident fund benefits under a special package of the central government, Pardhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Ludhiana, has urged the registered establishments and business houses to come forward and fulfil all necessary formalities by September 15, so that the cases of their employees can be processed. According to the department, till now around 14,000 subscribers have been benefited under the PMGKY scheme involving Rs 10.20 crore. For any clarifications employers can contact EPFO office, Ludhiana, by sending a message on Whatsapp helpline number 77196 42517 or through email at ro.ludhiana@epfindia.gov.in. Giving more information, Dheeraj Gupta, regional provident fund commissioner -1 , EPFO, Ludhiana, said, “Various measures have been announced by the government of India from time to time to provide relief to the employers and employees of the establishments covered under the provident fund act and distressed by the spread of Covid-19 and other disruptions due to the pandemic.” He further said, “In continuation of the earlier measures, the central government had extended the existing benefit under the PMGKY/Aatma Nirbhar Bharat package for another three months, for the wage months of June, July and August, for all establishments having up to 100 employees with 90% of such employees earning less than Rs 15,000 monthly wage. As on date, August is the last wage month for which the PMGKY scheme is valid and due date for filing the electronic challan-cum-receipt (ECR) for August is September 15. So, all PMGKY eligible establishments are requested to at least file their declaration and ECR creation wage months, March to August, by Sept 15 so that the PMGKY benefits may be credited to the Aadhar seeded UANs of the eligible employees.” Gupta also added, “The PMGKY eligible establishments are immediately requested to update their form 5A with bank account details and upload cancelled cheques for reimbursement of any amount. All PMGKY eligible establishments have been informed about this through message in their employer’s login on the unified portal. Till now, around 1,100 establishments and 14,000 subscribers have been benefited under the PMGKY involving Rs 10.20 crore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/firms-asked-to-complete-pf-formalities-under-pmgky/articleshow/78113968.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Docs treat rare case of Covid-dengue coinfection in 10-year-old girl||Pune: Doctors at a private hospital in the city successfully treated a 10-year-old girl diagnosed with dengue and Covid-19 coinfection last month. This is perhaps the first case of dengue-Covid coinfection in a paediatric patient in Pune. In June this year, the city had reported its first case of dengue-Covid co-infection in an elderly patient, who recovered after prolonged treatment. Similar cases have been reported from Thailand and Malaysia, where dengue fever is prevalent. Experts in Pune underlined that with intermittent showers and sunny weather in between, the city was likely to see a rise in the number of such coinfections of Covid-19 with mosquito-borne illnesses like dengue, malaria and chikungunya. On August 12, the girl was brought to Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital (ABMH)’s flu clinic with complaints of high-grade fever (102°F) every 8-12 hours, along with sore throat, malaise and nausea, since five days. Her parents had got her nasal/throat swab tested and she was found positive for Covid-19. She did not have cough and breathlessness. The girl’s all the family members had also tested positive for Covid-19 through RT-PCR test. Her father had mild symptoms and the other members did not exhibit any symptoms. “Her Initial physical examination revealed a temperature of 103°F with tachycardia, a condition that makes one’s heartbeat more than 100 times per minute. There was no respiratory distress with her oxygen saturation (spO2) levels being 98% on room air but she was overweight,” said the hospital’s neonatologist and paediatrician Vrushali Bichkar. Her lab reports suggested leucopoenia, a condition where the number of white cells reduces in the blood, and her chest X-ray report showed bilateral infiltrates. The girl was immediately admitted to the isolation ward and her treatment was started. Her laboratory tests were conducted and the initial screening reported worsening of leucopoenia, with normal platelets, deranged liver enzyme and raised inflammatory markers. She was put on medications. The girl, on the second day of her admission, developed an erythematous maculopapular rash (abnormal redness and rash of both flat and raised lesion) on trunk (torso) and limbs. The repeat lab tests revealed her white blood cell (WBC) count had further reduced, along with her platelets count. “We conducted tests for dengue antigen (NS1) and dengue antibody (IgM), and she tested positive for both,” Bichkar said. According to current literature knowledge, this is among the first cases of confirmed coinfection of Covid-19-dengue reported in the paediatric population till date, the treating doctors claimed. “It is important for paediatricians and treating physicians to be increasingly aware of this emerging phenomenon of coinfection going forward as the cases of mosquito-borne illnesses like dengue also surface during the rainy seasons,” said Rahul Kallianpur, associate director, department of neonatology and paediatrics, ABMH. The girl’s course of treatment was planned in a way that both her medical conditions of dengue and Covid-19 could be treated, keeping her comorbidity in mind. She was closely monitored for temperature, blood pressure, oral intake and hydration status. The girl’s repeat RT-PCR test for Covid-19 turned out to be negative. She was discharged on oral vitamins in a healthy condition on August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-treat-rare-case-of-covid-dengue-coinfection-in-10-year-old-girl/articleshow/78115149.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Greenfield varsities won’t have quota: Min||Hyderabad: Brownfield private universities, which were given permission for establishment by the state government, will extend the rule of reservation to existing courses and classes, while the greenfield private universities will not have such provision, and the decision will rest with the managements, education minister P Sabita Indra Reddy announced in the state assembly on Monday. While the greenfield universities will not have any fee reimbursement scheme, the scheme will be applicable to the existing courses in brownfield universities. During discussion on The Telangana State Private Universities (Establishment and Regulation, (Amendment) Bill, 2020) introduced in the assembly, the minister said that Telangana is the 25th state in the country to give permission to private universities in the country. “The universities that have existing instituitions are brownfield universities whereas the new ones are considered as greenfield universities,” she told the House. The minister said that so far, 16 proposals have been received from various institutes, and the expert committees were constituted to scrutinise the proposals. “The expert committees have cleared only nine proposals. The state government is looking at these proposals in addition to five private universities that have been given permission”. Responding to queries from the Congress, TDP and AIMIM members, she said that the private universities in the state were asked to reserve 25% seats for local Telangana students. “In case these seats are not filled, even the children of the parents who have worked in Telangana for two years will be considered for local quota,” she said. She added that only the establishments that come with non-lease land and without disputes will be considered. The private universities also have to get recognition from NAAC and other national accreditation and assessment bodies .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/greenfield-varsities-wont-have-quota-min/articleshow/78113962.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Yamuna new abode for gharials? Nests sighted||LUCKNOW: Ghariyals have been making nests and laying eggs along Chambal in Agra but in the years to come, Yamuna may also serve as their new abode. A 150km stretch of Chambal river in UP between Agra and Etawah is protected as National Chambal Sanctuary, the biggest abode of ghariyals in the world. However, for the past two years, conservationists have been spotting nests outside the sanctuary along the Yamuna in Etawah. The sanctuary ends at Bhare estate in Etawah where the Chambal merges with Yamuna. The confluence stretches for about 35km. Ghariyal’s nests and hatchlings are seen between February and June. According to a study by conservationists on nesting of ghariyals, Yamuna is generally devoid of ghariyals in the upstream of Chambal confluence for most parts of the year. In 2019, a nest was spotted near Etawah about 80km from the confluence of Chambal and Yamuna and 40km from the boundary of National Chambal Sanctuary. In June this year, a nest with 28 hatchlings and a female was spotted about 102km from the confluence point of two rivers and 62kms from the boundary of the sanctuary in Bhaupura village. Only one nest was seen on both the occasions. "We can’t say if it is the same female which has been making nest for two years as reptiles are not tagged," said Rajiv Chauhan, a conservationist who has worked for ghariyal conservation in Etawah for years and is a part of the study group on ghariyal nesting. Earlier, ghariyal nests were seen along Yamuna in 2011 but it was within the boundary of the sanctuary about 12km upstream in Yamuna. The change is significant as the confluence of Chambal and Yamuna in Etawah had reported about 110 ghariyal deaths between December 2007 and March 2008. Though Chambal is a clean river, pollution in Yamuna was said to be the cause of deaths. Population of ghariyals has increased in Chambal over the years. In 2008-09, there were 309 ghariyals in the river and the number went upto 785 in 2012-13. Currently, there could be around 2,000 ghariyals in the river which could be one of the reasons for improvement in their count. "No study has been conducted to establish the reason behind ghariyals nesting along Yamuna but improvement in water quality may be one of the reasons for this," said Chauhan. Ghariyals are critically endangered and protected under Schedule (I) of the Indian Wildlife Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-yamuna-new-abode-for-gharials-nests-sighted/articleshow/78115915.cms||Neha Shukla
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Sanitized and raring to go, Kolkata’s lifeline back on track after 6 months||Kolkata: Metro Railway has remained out of the city’s public transport system for close to six months but on Monday, when services finally resumed, it was proved once again why Metro trains are better known as Kolkata’s lifeline. The debut run post-pandemic was near-perfect and elaborate arrangements to maintain Covid-19 protocol did manage to instil a sense of confidence among commuters. The first-day services were characterized by the perfect team work between Metro staffers, RPF and Kolkata Police, who worked in tandem to control crowd and help them adhere to social distancing norms. The cops, from both cadres, were especially patient with those who needed help downloading their e-passes. “The cops stood at a distance and made me open the Pathadisha link. Then they instructed me on what I should do. In a few seconds, I got the e-pass on my smartphone,” said 50-year-old Arundhuti Banerjee, a resident of Dum Dum. After temperature screening, people displayed the e-passes on their mobile screens before the RPF personnel while Kolkata Police stood by. At least two Kolkata Police constables were deployed from local thanas at the entrances of 24 north-south stations. Once inside the station, commuters had to sanitize their hands at the sanitizer dispensing units. Ticket counters were mostly empty because only smartcard users were allowed in. Tokens were not issued. Only alternate ticket counters were open on Monday. Some people complained of being unable to recharge their smartcards through the Metro app. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said: “We are looking into this.” But most complaints were related to their inability to download the e-pass. A 70-year-old man threatened the Metro staff members at Dum Dum station: “I think I will hang myself”. After some time, he added: “What will you do gheraoed by 200 people?”. RPF and Kolkata Police personnel present at the spot took him aside and reasoned with him that e-passes are mandatory, for his safety and for the people at large since everyone was in this war against Covid together. They also showed him the poster displaying rules: ‘Senior citizens and children aren’t advised to ride the Metro’. The other issue was fake e-pass bookings that did not translate to actual ridership. Joshi said: “It will take some time for people to realize that they cannot jam the link and must keep it free for genuine Metro users.” Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state government had appointed to develop the ‘Pathadisha Metro e-pass’, explained: “This is something we cannot control. It’s a dynamic slot booking. We have to enable people to book their e-passes for return journey. So one is allowed to book multiple e-passes at a time.” Chatterjee, director of Ideation Technology, a technology partner with the transport department, has already developed the transport department’s utility app, Pathadisha. He has also created the link— pathadisha.com/metro — in the most simplified way so that people just need to type the URL and download the e-pass in just about a few seconds. “Since it is simple and easy, many people are downloading e-passes just for the fun of it. Till Monday afternoon, around 4.5 lakh people had hit the link and 42,000 downloaded e-passes. Not all of these translated to actual rides,” Chatterjee said, adding: “We will take some time to guard the system against duplicity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sanitized-and-raring-to-go-kolkatas-lifeline-back-on-track-after-6-months/articleshow/78113957.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Constable suspended after handcuffed Pocso Act accused escapes custody||BAREILLY: The SSP of Kheri on Monday suspended constable Rajkumar of Mitauli police station, and wrote to the commandant of homeguards for taking necessary action against a homeguard, a day after a handcuffed suspect who had been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act escaped from the custody of the two cops. Constable Rajkumar and the homeguard were shifting accused Hiralal to Lakhimpur district jail on a bike on Sunday, and had stopped at a petrol pump to refuel, when the accused escaped. Within a few hours, a video of the escape went viral on social media, causing huge embarrassment for the force. Watch: An accused, who was booked under POCSO Act for attempting to rape a minor girl in Mitauli area of UP's… https://t.co/dbg6nv4ZXM— TOIWestUP (@TOIWestUP) 1600150770000Hiralal had been booked under Pocso Act for allegedly attempting to rape a minor girl in Mitauli in Lakhimpur Kheri district. A new FIR against both cops, and Hiralal for his escape, was registered at Mitauli police station. Luckily, on Monday afternoon, Hiralal was rearrested while he was attempting to board a bus to leave the district. ASP Arun Kumar said, “We had alerted staff of three nearby police stations to look out for Hiralal. He hid himself in a cane field all night, but a patrol team managed to nab him near Badagaon village. He has been sent to jail after medical examination. Constable Rajkumar has been suspended. Departmental action will be taken against the homeguard as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-suspended-after-handcuffed-pocso-act-accused-escapes-custody/articleshow/78110452.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 15, 2020||Kolkata||Daily passengers reunite for first ride together in six months||KOLKATA: It was on March 21 when Abhijit Srimani, 52, had last seen his dear friends Sukumar Bhattacharya and Laltu Basak. The city went into lockdown from the next day. The trio met again on Monday — 177 days later – not at any pub or social gathering but at their usual spot — the Metro premises. As Metro services resumed on Monday, much to the relief for commuters, it also helped in reunion of daily passengers who had become friends during years of travelling together in crowded trains. “We have been travelling together for the last 10 years. We used to follow a set schedule and take the same train while on our way to office. I used to board the train first from Bansdroni and inform my other friends. Sukumar boarded the same boggy from Kudghat and Laltu used to ride the train from Tollygunge. On Monday, we didn’t follow the schedule. But we still met after almost six months. The meeting was destined just like our friendship,” said Srimani, a resident of Bansdroni. All three of them are employed at government offices in and around Esplanade. While Srimani works at the personnel department of Kolkata Municipal Corporation, Bhattacharya and Basak are employed at the finance and accounts department of two government offices, respectively. “We hardly get to meet at the office and during the pandemic, we had staggered timings. On Monday, our meeting was not planned, but we met just by chance. I took the 11.22am train from Kudghat and was taking a stroll inside the train to see the changes in place when I spotted Abhijit at his usual corner. It was heartening to see him after so many days. Just as we were chatting, Laltu entered the same compartment from Tollygunge. We couldn’t believe our eyes. We wanted to hug but were careful about people around us and the RPF men guarding the gate and made a fist pump,” said Bhattacharya. While the trio met by chance, once regular Metro commuters Tanima Mondal and Chandrani Banerjee had planned Monday’s journey together. They met at Tollygunge station after a gap of almost six months. While Mondal works at a private firm near Exide crossing, Banerjee works at a car showroom on AJC Bose Road. “We have become close friends as mostly travelled together in the same Metro for the last five years. We have the same office timings. In the last few months, Chandrani had to take public transport but I was getting an office pick-up and drop and so we couldn’t meet. Once Metro resumed, my office pick-up has been stopped and I called Chandrani and we booked the same slot and met outside the Metro station,” said Mondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/daily-passengers-reunite-for-first-ride-together-in-six-months/articleshow/78113963.cms||Subhojyoti Kanjilal
September 15, 2020||Bareilly||Not allowed to keep studying, 17-year-old kills self in UP||Bareilly: In the middle of a farm, locals of Faizullapur village spotted a man preparing to burn a corpse on Sunday. When they went closer, they recognised him and then the body — it was that of his daughter. The 17-year-old from the small village in Moradabad had passed her Class XII boards this year. She wanted to go to college. Her father did not want her to. The village has a literacy rate of 62.8%, that of its female population is 49.3%. There would be the occasional argument between father and daughter about this, which would often devolve into him beating her up. When she realised her father would not budge, she gave up and killed herself with poison. She did leave behind a suicide note. That note held him responsible, accused him of physically assaulting her, not allowing her to step out or even using the phone. The family told the police she had called up a relative two days before she died, despairing and wondering what she could do. “The girl’s mother reported this to the police. The father, meanwhile, found the note and fled with the body with an intention to destroy the evidence,” SP (city) Amit Kumar Anand told TOI. That was how the villagers found him — trying to burn the body. “He had already lit the fire. But when the locals saw him, he ran away. The partially burnt body was seized.” The body has been sent for an autopsy. “On the basis of the suicide note, an FIR has been registered against the father under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC,” said Rakesh Kumar, station house officer of Majhola, where the case was registered. He has been absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/not-allowed-to-keep-studying-17-year-old-kills-self-in-up/articleshow/78111422.cms||Maria Khan
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||Sex determination done in naturopathy centre, 3 held||Rajkot: Three lab technicians were detained for allegedly carrying out sex determination tests at a clinic at Bapa Sitaram Chowk on Mavdi Road in Rajkot on Monday. Police said the accused, Amit Karadia (39), Dinesh Vanol (36) and Avesh Mansoori (32), were allegedly conducting sex determination tests at Hari Om Acupressure and Naturotherapy Centre. “We had received a tip-off that sex determination tests were being conducted at this particular centre. Acting on the tip-off, we sent a couple decoyed as customers wanting to determine the sex of the foetus,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group. “The accused asked Rs 12,000 for the sex determination and Rs 20,000 for abortion. While the negotiations were on, we raided the lab and nabbed the accused,” said Rawal. Along with the police, Dr Lalit Vanza, health officer with Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC), and M B Chunara, an official with the RMC health department, also participated in the operation. “None of the accused had a medical degree. Only Karadia had a degree in acupressure. At present, we have detained the accused. They will be formally arrested once they undergo Covid-19 test,” added Rawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sex-determination-done-in-naturopathy-centre-3-held/articleshow/78113972.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||No fixed week offs for traffic cops||Hyderabad: Home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Monday said the police personnel, including traffic cops, can be allowed to take a day off every week depending upon the work. Responding to MLAs during question hour that a fixed weekly off should be provided to police personnel, mainly traffic cops, the home minister said that as traffic cops are mostly on emergency duty, a fixed weekly off is not possible for now. Construction of new police station buildings in Saidabad, Falaknuma, Chandrayangutta, Nampally, Asif Nagar and Yakutpura is 80% complete. The remaining 20% works that were delayed due to Covid-19 lockdown will be expedited and completed at the earliest, he said. The home minister said that nearly 5,000 police personnel in the state are receiving pollution hazard allowance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-fixed-week-offs-for-traffic-cops/articleshow/78113976.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||State’s loan burden within limits: Harish||Hyderabad: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Monday said Telangana’s balance sheet has been maintaining the right loan ratio and is well under control. Lending agencies are satisfied with the fiscal progress of the state and enthusiastic to lend loans to the state even with a 40-year tenure, he added. The minister informed the assembly that the government has already repaid Rs 34, 296 crore since the formation of Telangana as part of debt servicing. The state might not use the entire loan limit allowed after amendment of the Telangana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. The loan burden should be assessed with state’s revenue to gross domestic state product (GSDP), he said, adding, “we should look at debt to GSDP ratio.” Participating in the discussion on the Telanagana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill 2020, he said Telangana was second from bottom with regards to loans as per the Reserve Bank of India ( RBI) report . “The RBI report said Telangana’s loan share is 17% of GSDP. Maharashtra is the only state better than us with 16.9% loan burden. Since the formation of the state, Rs 34, 296 crore debt was repaid and the state’s net borrowing is now Rs 1, 54, 557 crore,” he said. “Lending agencies are enthusiastic for our bonds because we have good repayment capacity and growth rate,” he added. The minister said the amendment gives room for additional borrowing, but the government might not use the entire limit now. “The guarantees will not be a burden on the government, the state has spent loans on projects like Kaleshwaram,” he said. “The Centre has put several riders for additional borrowing limit. The state government is not keen on using all the borrowing limit of FRBM amendment,” he said. Even before Covid-19, the state’s GDP growth rate was at 12% whereas the country’s was just 2%, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/states-loan-burden-within-limits-harish/articleshow/78113969.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Six-member gang held for killing HM supporter||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a six-member gang on Monday for murdering a 40-year-old Hindu Munnani supporter at Gokhale Street near Ram Nagar here on Sunday afternoon. The Kattoor police identified them as Karthi, Raja, Praveen, Aravindh, Ilaiyaraja and Vivek Prabhu. They were booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Four special teams are on the lookout for the murder mastermind Arumugam of Narasimmanaickenpalayam.The gang had chased C Biju of Dhanalakshmi Nagar near Avarampalayam through Gokhale Street to hack him to death using sickles. The gang members managed to escape from the place on three motorcycles. Though Biju was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), he died without responding to the treatment. The body was handed over to the family on Monday.More than 100 people, mostly Hindu Munnani functionaries, carried out the funeral procession on motorcycles. Senior Hindu Munnani functionaries and BJP leaders also visited Avarampalayam. The body was cremated at the Avarampalayam crematorium.Arumugam’s son Nithish Kumar and Anandh of Gandhipuram, a Hindu Munnani member, had a previous enmity, police sources said. “Anandh’s two friends attempted to murder Kumar at Saibaba Colony on Saturday evening. Kumar was admitted to a private hospital at Rathinapuri. Arumugam had approached Biju, a friend of Anandh, to settle the issue amicably. But he refused. Following the attack on Kumar, Arumugam and supporters decided to kill Anandh and reached Biju’s soda shop looking for him. As they could not find Anandh, they killed Biju,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-member-gang-held-for-killing-hm-supporter/articleshow/78115185.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Tadoba opens on October 1, bookings from September 16||NAGPUR: The much-awaited tourism in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) will start from October 1, 2020, after a gap of six months as the forest was closed owing to pandemic induced lockdown. Only six persons, including a guide and driver, will be allowed in one vehicle. The TATR will launch online safari bookings from midnight on September 16 from its own website mytadoba.org. Sources said the website will be managed by its own staff. Earlier, bookings for both buffer and core zones were done through mahaecotourism.gov.in. With the influx of Covid-19 cases in Chandrapur district, the park management will follow protocols issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). As a precautionary measure, those below 10 years and above 65 years, besides pregnant women, will not be allowed for safari. In June first week, the NTCA had issued a protocol that included mandatory thermal scanning of tourists, sanitization, tyre bath, and masks. Those showing Covid-19 symptoms like cough and fever will not be allowed to enter the park even if they have booked a safari. There is no change in rate and bookings done between 3 and 60 days before safari. It will cost Rs4,100 for weekdays and Rs5,100 for weekends. Similarly, bookings done between 60-120 days will cost Rs7,100 for weekdays and Rs11,100 on weekends. Tatkal bookings, which open three days in advance, will cost Rs7,100. According to stakeholders, tourists from Pune and Mumbai have already booked accommodation. “This season too tourists are looking forward to sight Pandharpaoni queen Maya, who has five cubs, and Chhoti Tara with three cubs,” they said. “We have bookings from Pune, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Tourists said they would prefer to travel by air or private vehicles to reach Tadoba,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tadoba-opens-on-oct-1-bookings-from-sept-16/articleshow/78115169.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Dense areas of Dhankawdi, Hadapsar battle Covid-19 case spike||PUNE: The congested and gaothan areas of Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar and Hadapsar-Mundhwa have recorded the maximum rise in Covid-19 cases among the 15 civic wards in the last two weeks, prompting the civic administration to deploy more teams for contact tracing in these localities. Both these ward limits accounted for 5,541 cases between August 29 and September 11, with Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar taking the lead with 2,846 cases, data provided by the Pune Smart City Development Corporation and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has revealed. The civic authorities blamed the congestion in these localities for the rapid rise in cases, besides the rise in commercial activities following unlocking measures. To arrest the further spread, the administration has deployed additional teams for contact tracing and surveys in the vulnerable pockets in the two wards. An official from the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward office said, “Some areas are already declared as micro-containment zones. We have told the teams on the field to concentrate on contact tracing and identify people displaying symptoms akin to Covid-19 and those with co-morbidities.” Vijay Shewale, a resident of Hadapsar, said the entire Hadapsar area had a mix of residential and commercial localities. “There are roadside markets on the highway. In the gaothan areas, the roads are smaller. Population is huge and most prefer to visit the markets daily,” Shewale said. Local corporator Yogesh Sasane said, “We have told the officials to ramp up testing in the Hadapsar area, which has reflected in the rise in the number of cases. Some drop is expected in the case count in the days to come,” . When it comes to the Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar ward areas, the localities like Ambegaon and Dattanagar lack planned development, a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/congested-areas-of-hadapsar-dhankawdi-record-most-covid-cases-in-last-two-weeks/articleshow/78115183.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||SIT to probe fatal attack on Mahoba whistle-blower||Lucknow: A day after Mahoba-based ‘whistle-blower’ crusher dealer Indrakant Tripathi succumbed to bullet injury, DGP HC Awasthy formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe into the entire case and submit a report in seven days’ time period. Tripathi was shot at last week after he levelled allegations of corruption against the then Mahoba SP Mani Lal Patidar. He was battling for life at a Kanpur hospital since last Tuesday. Patidar has already been suspended and booked for his murder. The SIT would be headed by IG Varanasi range, Vijay Singh Meena, and its other members would be, DIG, special inquiries, Shalabh Mathur and SP, human rights, Ashok Tripathi. The SIT was formed hours after ADG, Prayagraj Zone, Prem Prakash visited the spot of crime and also met the family members of the deceased. Later, Prakash told newsmen that the case of attempt to murder has also been converted into murder, while process to nab the accused and record their statements will begin soon. On September 12, the suspended IPS officer, Mani Lal Patidar, and several others were booked for attempt to murder by Mahoba police. Prior to that Patidar was suspended on the charges of corruption by the UP CM Yogi Adityanath and also another FIR of prevention to corruption was lodged against Patidar and cops. Earlier in the day, angry residents of Tripathi’s village protested at Kabrai police station in the district where his business partner Purushottam Soni was held soon after his cremation. “As we were returning from the cremation ground, my brother’s business partner Purshottam Soni was picked up by the police. He was taken in a police vehicle to the Kabrai police station. This angered the villagers who gheraoed the thana,” Indrakant’s brother Ravikant Tripathi told newsmen. UPCC chief Lallu and CLP leader Aradhana Misra Mona were stopped in Ghatampur area of Kanpur Dehat while they were on their way to Mahoba to meet Tripathi’s family. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi tweeted: “The murder of Mr Indrakant Tripathi, the trader of Mahoba is a question mark on the working style of the entire UP government.” “Crime and corruption are at its peak in the BJP government and now the officers of this government are giving supari to those who are raising voice against corruption. This is a dreaded form of jungle raj,” she said in the tweet in Hindi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-to-probe-fatal-attack-on-mahoba-whistle-blower/articleshow/78115917.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||City’s marriage palace, banquet hall furniture making sector wants guest ceiling to go||Ludhiana: Marriage palace and banquet hall furniture manufacturing industry of Ludhiana, which is known nationwide for making quality chairs, tables, sofas, etc .is passing through harrowing times. According to the businessmen in this field, this has proved to be the worst year for their business as earlier due to complete lockdown they were unable to do any business and now due to the restrictions on number of guests in functions, there is no demand for the furniture. Usually, during this time of the year the furniture makers were flooded with bulk orders from all over India. Businessmen are of the view that the only way there industry can see a revival is if the government abolishes the ceiling on the number of guests in marriage and other functions in marriage palaces and banquet halls. The businessmen are claiming that they have a huge stock of goods lying unsold with them due to which they have suspended the production. Speaking to TOI, Subash Matta, owner of Mukat Industries, said “I am into the business of manufacturing furniture for marriage palaces and banquet halls for more than forty years now, but i have never seen more worse situation than these six months. After the coronavirus spread the lockdown was put into place for several months and as a result marriage palaces, banquet halls and even our factories remained closed. After the lockdown ended, now restrictions are in place on the number of guests attending marriage and other functions.” He said, “Due to these reasons the demand for our products has fallen by 90% and as a result we are forced to keep our factories shut and suspend production. Otherwise at this time of the year we used to get huge orders before winter season as majority of wedding take place in November , December and January and the marriage palace & banquet hall owners place the orders in advance.” Matta added that, “Though the central government had recommended that from September 21 the number of guests can be increased to 100 in every function, but this is not going to help our industry at all. Our business can pick up only if the ceiling on the number of guests per function is abolished. With each passing day our losses are rising and we request the government to take some corrective steps to save our industry.” According to Amit Bhasin of JMD industries, “We are facing very difficult times as we do not have any orders in hand and for months we have been paying wages to our workers and staff, power bills and incurring other expenditures without even earning anything from our business. Now, the situation is such that every furniture manufacturer is under the burden of debts and we do not know what do. The only hope for our industry is that the ceiling on the number of guests allowed in marriages and other functions is done away with. Because of no clarity on when this will happen, the marriage palace and banquet hall owners are not making any purchases as they are not sure whether by the wedding season these restrictions will be over or not.” Rajesh Kalia, a banquet chair manufacturer, said, “Every year, the marriage palaces and banquet hall owners either make purchases of new stocks or they get the old ones refurbished from us by getting cloth and design changed. This year, neither of these has happened due to the restriction on the number of the guests and very limited functions taking place. Huge stocks of unsold goods are lying with us and it seems unlikely that we will be able to sell it off this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/citys-marriage-palace-banquet-hall-furniture-making-sector-wants-guest-ceiling-to-go/articleshow/78113977.cms||Mohit Behl
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Corporator booked for attack on woman over car parking||HYDERABAD: An argument led to Serlingampally corporator R Nagender Yadav allegedly attacking a woman for videographing him on Sunday night. Later, a case was registered against him by Chandanagar police. A youngster, Ananya, was on her way to her residence in her car when another car, allegedly belonging to Nagender Yadav obstructed her movement on the road. When she requested him to move his parked car, he asked her to use the available space on the road. Later, the parked car was moved aside and she went away. Subsequently, he went near her house and took objection on seeing Ananya’s family car parked on the road in front of her house. This led to an argument between the corporator and Ananya’s father Venugopal. When she started shooting a video of the incident on her mobile, the corporator allegedly hit her on her hand. “The corporator got annoyed after the woman started taking video during the argument as he was not completely dressed. Based on her complaint, the corporator was booked under section 323 and 509 of IPC. On a counter complaint by the corporator, a case was registered against Ananya and her father under sections 448 and 506 of IPC,” Chandanagar inspector B Ravinder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-booked-for-attack-on-woman-over-car-parking/articleshow/78115217.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Neglect slur on Covid care centre||Coimbatore: Doctors and nurses are not visiting the Covid care centre set up at Codissia, functionaries of Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation said on Monday.In a petitioned to the Coimbatore collector, party district secretary K Balasubramaniam said he got a call from N Siva of Seeranaickenpalayam, housed in the E Hall of the care centre. “He has spent 10 days in the care centre, not to be visited by a doctor. Nurses do not check vitals every day. Toilets and the premises are dirty,” he said. “An inmate who badly injured his finger when a table fell on him, had to be taken to the ESI Hospital for treatment.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/neglect-slur-on-covid-care-centre/articleshow/78115216.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||District adds 498 fresh cases||Coimbatore: In keeping with its continuing spike, the district recorded 498 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, pushing its case tally to 22,662.With 448 people getting discharged, the number of active cases in the district currently is 3,549. The district added three more deaths to its tally, taking the total number of casualties to 357. On a positive note, the recovery rate of the district rose to a whopping 82%, which is the highest since July.Though official figures show 498 new cases were recorded, sources say 575 were declared positive. But probably due to reconciliation delays, only 498 were included in the day’s bulletin. Of the 575, 477 or 82% of the cases were from corporation limits. Singanallur saw a massive outbreak in different parts with 41 people testing positive, followed by 18 people in Vadavalli in west zone, 16 people from Sowripalayam-Peelamedu belt and 14 cases from R G Pudur in Chinniampalayam. Other areas like Karumbukadar, Gandhinagar, Udayampalayam, Selvapuram and Saravanampatti saw 10 cases each. Outside corporation limits, Mettupalayam saw 24 cases of which 10 were from municipality limits and 29 were from Annur area.City-based ESI Hospital, the main Covid-19 treating centre in the government sector, has treated the second highest number of children infected with Covid-19 among all hospitals in the state in the last six months. It comes only second to Chennai-based Omandurar Medical College. The hospital said they have treated 540 children so far, of which 19 were newborns. Except two patients, most of them remained largely asymptomatic. They said all their 540 pediatric patients have been treated and cured of the virus successfully, with no side effects. “Our bigger achievement was caring for 100 newborns whose mothers had tested positive, so we treated the mothers and ensured the babies received breastmilk in a safe manner. While 100 were from our districts, we took care of 25 newborns and infected new mothers from other districts, so we ensured they were not infected,” said a press release from ESI hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-adds-498-fresh-cases/articleshow/78115209.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kochi||Cusat inks deal with Isro lab||Kochi: The department of physics at Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has inked a deal for research collaboration with the Laboratory for Electro-Optics Systems (LEOS), a key laboratory of Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) in Bengaluru. Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscope (LIBS) — a scientific instrument for planetary surface chemistry — has been developed in recent times at LEOS with the main objective of obtaining precise qualitative and quantitative analytical information from multi-element samples. The LIBS instrument was one of the payloads in India’s moon mission ‘Chandrayaan-2’ and the same instrument will be deployed in the upcoming ‘Chandrayaan-3’ mission too. The applied optic division in the department of physics, Cusat, has been actively engaged in similar research activities at the university. In this collaboration, LEOS will provide the qualitatively analyzed spectra and data sets to Cusat team for abundance estimation of elements using newly evolved approaches. A ‘Letter of Intent’ comprising the responsibilities of both institutions in this regard has been signed on Friday by Cusat registrar Meera V, LEOS-Isro director K V Sriram, physics HoD Titus K Mathew and division head, ILSD, LEOS-Isro Umesh S B. Team lead-LIBS instrument, LEOS-Isro Sridhar R V L N and department of physics assistant professor Anoop K K are also signatories in the Letter of Intent. Cusat vice-chancellor K N Madhusoodanan, who coordinates the new research initiatives, said the venture will be a great opportunity for the researchers in the university to involve in the projects of national importance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-inks-deal-with-isro-lab/articleshow/78113979.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||PCB to start door-to-door survey from Tuesday||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) will launch a week-long door-to-door survey in areas under its limits to identify suspected cases of Covid-19 from Tuesday. The cantonment board has formed 10 teams comprising doctors, nurses and cantonment staffers for the task. “They will begin the survey in New Modikhana, Modikhana and other congested areas of the cantonment which have recorded maximum cases,” resident medical officer VD Gaikwad said. “Individuals with high temperature and low oxygen saturation level will undergo antigen test. Those who test positive would be either home isolated or admitted in hospital depending on their health,” he added. “The survey aims to identify patients at an early stage and treat them,” PCB’s CEO Amit Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-start-door-to-door-survey-today/articleshow/78115197.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 15, 2020||Pune||Adequate rest key to recovery, says cured wife of dy collector||Pune: When Vaishali Pawar (44) tested positive for Covid-19, she was surprised and a bit scared, too. She did not step out of home much, though her husband, deputy collector Ajay Pawar, had to go out for work every day. “But I am the one who tested positive,” said Vaishali. Her husband and daughter tested negative, though both showed symptoms of the disease. Her son did not show any symptoms at all. She received treatment at Bharati hospital. “The doctors and nurses there were very helpful. I knew I was getting better, but was worried about my husband and daughter, whose symptoms were severe. Discharged after eight days, I was quarantined for another week in a separate room in our home. My daughter’s symptoms were worse, her throat pain gave her sleepless nights. She was tested for Covid thrice, but all tests were negative,” said Vaishali. According to her, the best way to recover is to give one’s body adequate rest. “While in hospital I would speak to my husband and children over the phone to feel better. Since we had shifted to a new house recently, we didn’t have any neighbours. So, I watched a lot of television and some of my favourite movies to lift my spirits. I used the isolation period for some ‘me’ time and stayed away from news channels. When I went home, I was still weak. So, I rested for a week. I had started doing yoga in hospital and continued with it after returning home,” she said. Homemade remedies also helped to boost her immunity. “All of us drink kadha (a concoction made using herbs and spices), we also drink liquid haldi and coconut water twice a day. These help to build immunity. We are on a satvik diet based on ayurvedic principles. My daughter, even after testing negative for Covid, had to take three courses of antibiotics, which took a toll on her strength. We must do all we can to boost our immunity naturally,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/adequate-rest-key-to-recovery-says-cured-wife-of-dy-collector/articleshow/78115218.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Bigger post cheer for Singareni staff||Hyderabad: Employees of Singareni Collieries Company Limited who have completed BTech, MTech, BPharmacy and other higher education and professional courses but are still doing labour work in the mines may get higher cadre posts in the company as per their qualification as and when vacancies arise. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said: “But, all such employees should have patience as the entire process may take some time,” he said. Also, appointments on compassionate grounds would be done instantaneously if a family member fulfils the eligibility criteria. “After the death of the employee, the family would be already in trauma,” KCR said. He said the government is coming out with a policy soon to give a ‘honourable send-off’ to retiring government staff by dropping them in a car to their homes after felicitating them and handing over retirement benefits package on the day of the retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bigger-post-cheer-for-singareni-staff/articleshow/78113978.cms||Roushan Ali
September 15, 2020||Surat||High drama on cable bridge as engineer attempts suicide||Surat: A 22-year-old electrical engineer, who had turned suicidal was rescued just in the nick of time, in a high-voltage drama that was witnessed on the cable-stayed bridge post Sunday midnight. Upset over a petty telephonic verbal duel with his girlfriend, Ambuj Shukla, a manager in a transport firm, parked his swanky motorcycle on the roadside over the bridge at around 2 am. After throwing his phone in Tapi River, Shukla was about to jump off the bridge to end his life when teams of police and fire department saved the distressed youngster from suicide attempt. The hour-long rescue ordeal saw a police officer grabbing Shukla’s hand by offering a water bottle while a fire officer tied a rope around his waist. The timely intervention ensured that Shukla, who had already crossed the bridge’s parapet, did not fall in the river. Shukla was spotted jumping the parapet by an alert home guard jawan Bhargav Patel who, through his colleagues alerted Adajan police, about the suicide bid. While police sub-inspector SV Chaudhary reached the spot with a police control room van and kept Shukla busy in talks, a team from the Surat Fire and Emergency Services (SFES) and Shukla’s father Ramesh too rushed to the spot. There were several heart-in-the-mount moments when Shukla crossed the walkway parapet as well as an iron railing on seeing the cops approach. He stood quite on the outer edge of the bridge while holding the railing bar. “Our team was ready with lifesaving jackets and ring buoys in case Shukla would have jumped in the river. But that would have left limited chance of rescuing him as it was dark in the night,” said fire officer Ishwar Patel. After Shukla was rescued, he informed the cops that he took the decision to end his life as his girlfriend was upset that he had gone on a four days tour without informing her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/high-drama-on-cable-bridge-as-engineer-attempts-suicide/articleshow/78112593.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Tamil railway officer in UP restores 3,000 Hindi novels||LUCKNOW: Even as Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, member of Parliament from Thoothukudi constituency of Tamil Nadu and a few other prominent non-Hindi speaking personalities expressed their displeasure over alleged ‘Hindi imposition’ recently, a railway officer of Tamil origin posted some 200km from the national capital in Uttar Pradesh was busy restoring over 3,000 Hindi novels for Hindi speaking railway staff. After joining one of the country’s busiest train traffic route control centre, Tundla junction (Firozabad district) in August 2019, Indian railway traffic service (IRTS) officer Sanjay Kumar of 2016 batch stumbled upon a pile of books lying on the floor covered with layers of dust and eaten by termites inside a locked room. The books were Hindi novels of pre and post-Independence authors, such as ‘Gandhji Ki Den’ written by first president of India Rajendra Prasad, ‘Ujda Ghar’ and ‘Dak Ghar’ by Rabindranath Tagore, ‘Devangana’ by Acharya Chatursen, ‘Godaan’ by Munshi Premchand bought for recreation of the railway staff. “Since I studied Hindi as a second language in school and college back in my hometown Erode (district of Tamil Nadu), I had a natural inclination to save the eroding books. During lockdown, I got a golden opportunity to restore the books and with the help of railway staff (station masters Sanjeev Kumar, Omkar Singh and Harveer Singh and traffic inspector Vipin Tomar) who are primarily Hindi speakers, we gave life to over 3,000 Hindi books," said the 34-year-old officer, whose mother is a Kannadiga and father Tamil. For one and a half months after work, Sanjay and his team used to spend a couple of hours in restoration and cataloguing the books. They spent close to Rs75,000 from their own pockets for the same. Impressed with the efforts, the Prayagraj division railway manager Amitabha allotted a room to be converted as library for the restored books. Currently, the library is used by railway staff and their families. Sanjay’s efforts were lauded both on social media and by his staff “It took a non-Hindi officer to restore Hindi novels and books for the railway library. Since 1992 these books were lying on the floor. The restored books have brought back three-decades-old memories when over 300 railway staff were members of Tundla railway station library and books were a medium of entertainment,” Surendra Prakash, 56-year-old chief controller (non-gazetted) of Tundla junction. “I’m thankful to my Hindi professor Anbumani Vinaiathann for teaching us Hindi back in Tamil Nadu. Hindi is important and should be link language for the nation. However, it should not be imposed, but people to be persuaded and incentivised to learn it. During my college days, Tamil speaking students used to take coaching classes for Hindi in order to travel to north India and explore the rich culture,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tamil-railway-officer-in-up-restores-3000-hindi-novels/articleshow/78115937.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Software engineer killed in road accident||Coimbatore: A 35-year-old man was killed in an accident on Vilankurichi Road on Monday after a speeding car rammed into his motorcycle.The deceased, M Muthukumar, 35, from Cheran Maa Nagar in the city, was a software engineer by profession. Police said Muthukumar, his wife Bhoomadevi and son Arun, 4, had gone to Trichy to visit Bhoomadevi’s relative who had met with an accident a few days ago. The family returned to Singanallur bus stand from Trichy on Monday morning, where Muthukumar had parked his motorcycle. From there, they were headed home on their bike.When they neared a school on Vilankurichi Road, the speeding car crashed into their bike, throwing them off the bike, police said. Muthukumar suffered severe head injuries and was rushed to Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where he died without responding to treatment. His wife and son suffered minor injuries and are stable.A case has been registered against the car driver and investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/software-engineer-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/78115246.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||‘No delay in funds release for NHs’||Hyderabad: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) regional officer A Krishna Prasad said that the works on the development of national highways are going on at a brisk pace in Telangana. Though minister Vemula Prashant Reddy had said that NHAI and the Centre are not releasing Rs 213 crore funds, Krishna Prasad said that there is no delay in release of funds. He said that the NHAI chairman has not written to the Union ministry on maintenance of funds for highways in Telangana in response to reports to the contrary. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-delay-in-funds-release-for-nhs/articleshow/78114027.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Now, onus on private hospitals to furnish oxygen requirement||PUNE: The district administration has told private hospitals to start furnishing their daily requirement of medical oxygen every day by 10am to avoid last-minute scurrying for the gas essential for treating Covd-19 patients. Barring big hospitals with centralized piped liquid oxygen supply with large storage tanks, most of the small and medium-sized health hubs in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) depend on medical oxygen cylinders from their suppliers. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's (IMA) Hospital Board of India in Pune, said, “In addition to compelling the hospitals to furnish their daily requirement, the district administration has stated in its notification that the hospitals will be held responsible if a patient faces any health issue due to insufficient medical oxygen. This is a draconian rule and we condemn it.” Patil said, “The admitted patients’ need for oxygen support keeps on changing as per the improvement and deterioration in their health condition. As a result, it is difficult to clearly state the daily requirement. By issuing the notification, the administration has added to our clerical work because every hospital has to convey their daily requirement, stock in balance and the current deficit every day in a prescribed format.” Pune district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapur, who issued the notification on September 12, said, “The state government has told every district civil surgeon to keep track of the daily requirement of every hospital to avert the last-minute hassles. The objective is to understand the demand-supply ration and bridge the gap.” Medical experts Milind Belsare and Bahar Kulkarni, directors of Sanjeevan hospital in Karvenagar, said, “There is a sharp rise in patients coming from city's fringe areas post-Ganesh festival. This has increased the demand of medical oxygen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onus-on-private-hospitals-to-furnish-oxygen-demand-daily/articleshow/78115248.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 15, 2020||Surat||10-yr-old stuck in lift for an hour rescued||Surat: A 10-year-old boy stuck between the two floors in the elevator for over an hour was rescued on Monday from the Emporium Galaxy residential apartment in Utran. Sources in the Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) fire and emergency department stated that the boy identified as Vansh Paresh Savani, was stuck between the 5th and 6th floor in the B-wing of the 12-storied high rise apartment at about 1pm. The elevator in which he was coming down had developed a technical snag and stopped mid-way. After the lift got stuck, the boy started screaming for help. The residents tried for about one hour to rescue the boy and finally called the SMC fire department.. BK Solanki, fire officer of Mota Varachha fire station told TOI, “We always carry the tool to open the stuck elevators. In this case, it took just five minutes for us to open the elevator’s front door and rescue the boy.”Solanki added, “The boy was terrified as he was inside the dark lift stuck between the two floors for more than one hour. When we removed him from the lift, he was breathing good and was handed over to his mother Viral Savani. The boy had gone for studies at his friend’s house in the B-building. He lives with his parents in the A-wing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/10-yr-old-stuck-in-lift-for-an-hour-rescued/articleshow/78112623.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kochi||Working women queue up as driving schools reopen||Kochi: As driving schools reopened Monday after a break of nearly six months, enquiries poured in, mostly from working women. It is understood that the spike in demand is due to the shortage of public transport facilities. “Women seem to face a lot of hardships regarding transportation after the lockdown restrictions were lifted,” said Sajikumar, owner cum driving instructor of Pradeep driving school. "They have to depend on others to reach workplaces. This seems to have nudged more working women to learn driving. Housewives and students have also expressed keen interest to learn.” The schools are prioritising those who registered for driving classes before the Covid lockdown. “The direction is to complete the driving tests for those registered before the lockdown, before October 15,” said an office-bearer of another driving school in Kochi. Some driving schools are offering practice sessions for those who secured a driving license but could not continue due to the restrictions. “We got 40 enquiries on Monday itself. Besides working women and students, some wanted to improve their driving skills as they could not drive after a securing license,” a four-wheeler driving school staff said. Aravind Milan, vice-president of All Kerala Motor Driving School Association, said more and more people prefer their vehicles these days. “People prefer to use private vehicles to travel with their family members due to the fear of Covid. We received many calls from people who want to learn four-wheeler driving for this reason,” said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/working-women-queue-up-as-driving-schools-reopen/articleshow/78114062.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Rights panel seeks report on police brutality||Coimbatore: The state human rights commission (SHRC) on Monday issued a notice to superintendent of police Ara Arularasu seeking a detailed report on alleged police brutality.Kannan, a native of Tenkasi district, had lodged a complaint with the SP, seeking action against the cops, who allegedly manhandled him. The 27-year-old construction worker was staying in a rented house at Naickenpalayam for the last 13 years. A few months ago, he vacated the house and moved to his brother’s house at Kavundampalayam. A few days ago, he was picked up by the Periyanaickenpalayam police for inquiry in connection with a murder at Kovanur. He was beaten up by a group of cops at the police station and forced to confess. Kannan suffered injuries to his wrist and foot. After he was released, Kannan lodged a complaint. Arularasu had ordered a probe into the incident.SHRC has sought a detailed report from the SP within three weeks. The matter will be listed for further consideration before the commission after three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rights-panel-seeks-report-on-police-brutality/articleshow/78115250.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Amritsar||Missing saroops: Sikh groups begin ‘morcha’||Amritsar: Various Sikh groups started a ‘morcha’ in front of Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall, situated close to the Golden Temple, demanding that the SGPC give an explanation about 328 missing saroops and 80 saroops burnt in a fire incident. The ‘morcha’ began on Monday, despite the SGPC warning that it would not allow any demonstration at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall. “They tried to stop us from proceeding towards the gurdwara, but we resisted and finally reached there. SGPC then used its task force and sealed the gurdwara, which is very unfortunate,” Hawara Panel spokesperson Baljinder Singh said. A seven-member committee comprising Baljinder, Dilbagh Singh of Sirlath Jathebandi, Balbir Singh Muchal and Sukhjit Singh Khosa, both from different Satkar Committees, Tarlochan Singh Sohal, Manjit Singh Chabal and Lakhbir Singh has been set up for the ‘morcha’. Baljinder alleged that SGPC was trying to shield influential persons in the saroop-related incidents. “All saroops printed by SGPC, including those missing and burnt in the fire incident, are numbered and there must be a record of persons to whom they were given,” he said. The SGPC had not even made the over 1,000-page long Ishar Singh probe panel report public, he added. One of the speakers, Harpreet Singh, who claimed to have worked in SGPC for three years, said, “There is a set system even if one has to take a bathing soap from the store of SGPC, one has to follow a set procedure and get relevant approval. How can SGPC claim that missing saroops are a clerical mistake?” The protesters also demanded that no new saroop be printed in SGPC’s Golden Offset press until the mystery was cleared. Muchal accused the SGPC management of trying to shield the high and mighty in these cases due to the upcoming elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/missing-saroops-sikh-groups-begin-morcha/articleshow/78115249.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 15, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-Navyman installs CCTV in wife’s bedroom||VADODARA: A paranoid retired Navy officer, who installed a CCTV camera in the bedroom to keep an eye on his wife during lockdown, has drawn ire of the court that has not only directed removal of the camera but also asked him to pay Rs 40,000 as maintenance every month. The 43-year-old former officer doubted his wife’s character and frequently thrashed her after getting drunk after switching off the CCTV so there would be no evidence of violence. The court of additional senior civil judge and additional chief judicial magistrate P A Patel, in an interim order last week, allowed the woman to remove the camera. She shifted to her husband’s house in Vadodara from Mumbai at the end of March this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She lived in Mumbai with their two children for their sports training. On May 20, the officer installed CCTV in the bedroom and other parts of the house. But his wife and daughter started feeling awkward due to it and requested him to remove it. Even when she reached Vadodara, the officer abused and broke her mobile phone, following which she approached police. After he seized her documents like Aadhaar card, passport among others,she again went to police but the cops did not register her case, according to her complaint. The torture continued for three months from April to June. She stated that during this time, his frequent beatings after getting drunk also caused her injuries. She alleged he would switch off the camera to abuse her and threaten the children. Ultimately, she approached the court in July through her lawyers Jaideep Verma and Chandrakant Dawani seeking protection from her husband, maintenance for herself and children and directing him to allow the family to live in the house without any harassment. The court, besides allowing the woman to uninstall the CCTV , ordered her husband to not disturb her and their children and pay them maintenance of Rs 40,000 every month. “Individual decisional autonomy must be respected even by the spouse not only in the bedroom but in the bed. Any defiance of individual decisional autonomy is infringement of his/her right to privacy as guaranteed under the constitution … The act of installation of CCTV cameras in the house more particularly against the will and wish and in defiance of her resistance in the bed room is nothing but domestic violence," said additional CJM, P A Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-navyman-installs-cctv-in-wifes-bedroom/articleshow/78112634.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Facing chain wheel shortag , bicycle makers form panel to resolve problem||Ludhiana: City based manufacturers of kids bicycles are passing through a bad phase as they are experiencing a huge shortage of parts for assembling the bicycles, especially chain wheel. Many of these manufacturers on Monday met the president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) DS Chawla to discuss about the situation due to which they were facing losses as they were unable to complete the orders. Giving more information about the problem, Chawla said, “The issue of shortage of chain wheels for kids bicycles is getting serious day by day and more than 50 manufacturers have complained about the same to me. After holding a meeting with them and our analysis, it has turned out to be that the shortage is man-made and has not been caused by any other reason. Since the unavailability of part like chain wheel leads to disruption of the entire production of the bicycle, therefore, the businesses of the kids bicycle manufacturers have been affected very badly.” Chawla added that, “Keeping in view the urgency of the matter we have formed a nine-member committee of the UCPMA, which will resolve this issue by taking it up with the chain wheel manufacturers of Ludhiana. The committee is being headed by Surinder Singh Chauhan and comprises Gurcharan Singh, Satnam Singh Makkar, Harsimranjit Singh Lucky, Gopal Gupta, Rakesh Kumar, Variner Kumar, Raj Kumar and myself as members. The next meeting of this committee will be held soon with chain wheel manufacturers and later a joint meeting will be organised with both parties, kids bicycle manufacturers and chain wheel manufacturers, so that an amicable solution can be found out to resolve this problem.” He further said, “Our committee will also do a complete study of this problem and we will also find out a possible and permanent solution to regulate the demand and supply of important components like this.” Other businessmen who were part of Monday’s meeting included Joga Singh and Gurcharan Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/facing-chain-wheel-shortag-bicycle-makers-form-panel-to-resolve-problem/articleshow/78113994.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ludhiana||2 arrested for firing in air outside dhaba||Ludhiana: The rural police here on Sunday evening arrested two persons for firing in air outside a popular eatery on Ludhiana-Jagraon highway. The accused were identified as Abhijeet Singh and Gurdit Singh, both of Faridkot. In his police complaint, 36-year-old Gurpreet Singh Deepu of Agwar Jugran near chungi number 5 in Jagraon said that he was working as manager at Raja Dhaba near Jagraon and on September 12 around 11.25pm the two accused came to the cash counter and asked for food. He added that he signalled the duo to sit on a table and they then started waiting for their order. The complainant further said that after some time one of them came to him and told him that he and his friend had to go to Faridkot early so could the order be made early. He added that the duo sat on their table and talked to each other and after having meal they came to cash counter and after paying their bill went out. Gurpreet Singh said that after some time he heard the sound of gunshot in air and when he went to see he found a lot of families in panic talking to each other. He added that the families told them that duo were laughing in an inappropriate way and boasted in front of others that they were not scared of anyone. He added that because of their intimidating way of talking people felt threatened. The manager of the dhaba said that following this they went in their Polo car bearing a Haryana Registration number. He added that because of late night, he got busy with his customers and on Sunday after finishing while returning home in Jagraon he saw the same vehicle near a hotel towards Jagraon side. The complainant said that it was the same vehicle, wherein the accused had left the dhaba after opening fire in air. He added that he immediately informed the police. On being informed, a police party from bus stand police post reached the spot and started a probe into the matter. It later booked the accused under Section 336 of the IPC. In-charge bus stand police post SI Vinod Kumar said that the duo was arrested from near the hotel, where the vehicle was parked. He added that apparently the accused had fired more than one bullet. The police officer said that the weapon belonged to Gurdit and it was a licensed one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-arrested-for-firing-in-air-outside-dhaba/articleshow/78114029.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||HC clears way to remove encroachments on bund||Coimbatore: In a relief to many residents of R S Puram, PM Swamy Colony and Sundapalayam Road, the Madras high court has dismissed a writ petitioned filed by residents of 257 houses along the bank of Muthanankulam tank demanding alternate land only within city limits. This gives the city corporation a green signal to demolish the remaining houses in eight weeks. However, the court in its order of September 10, also said that the residents of the 257 houses could be given three options of slum tenements in Ukkadam, MGR Nagar in Kovaipudur and Vellalore by the slum clearance board that they could choose from.The court’s decision to allow the civic body to raze the 257 houses comes three months after the corporation razed 1,382 houses constructed along the banks of the tank on Thadagam Road and Sundapalayam Road. These houses were not touched during the previous demolition exercise because they had filed a petition stating that they wanted alternate land and not a flat in multistorey slum tenements.“The court disposed of their petition on September 10. The slum clearance board has been asked to give the 257 houses three options, and get their preference and willingness in writing within 4 weeks of the order,” said a senior corporation official. The slum clearance board will have another four weeks to arrange for the moving in, after which the demolition can begin, he said. “The court also states that the residents can’t demand land, and if they don’t make their preference and willingness clear in four weeks, we can still demolish their houses,” he added.The slum clearance board confirmed the order and said the residents of those houses have already received the order asking them to express their willingness or preference. “We will allot the houses based on their preference and availability of units. Once they give it to us in writing, we will evict them in two weeks,” said executive engineer Kumar.The Supreme Court had earlier passed a judgement that any construction of houses along the banks of a water body is an illegal encroachment, and they can’t demand any rights over it.The Coimbatore Corporation after clearing the encroachments plans to develop the tank bunds under the smart city plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hc-clears-way-to-remove-encroachments-on-bund/articleshow/78115240.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||MLAs want KCR Kit for third delivery too||Hyderabad: Some TRS MLAs demanded that KCR Kits be given to women during their third pregnancy also. KCR Kits scheme benefit is confined to first two deliveries. TRS legislators Gongidi Sunitha and Methuku Anand said women going for third delivery were being denied KCR Kit, as part of which a baby mattress, soap, oil, talcum powder, mosquito net, toys, napkins, diapers, two pairs of clothes, and two handloom sarees for the mother are given. Anand, who is also a doctor said while the rule to limit the KCR Kit benefit to two deliveries is justified in view of population control measures, there some genuine cases, which deserve it third time, too. “In case of death of the first and second child, a woman who goes for third delivery should be made eligible for KCR Kit and other benefits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlas-want-kcr-kit-for-third-delivery-too/articleshow/78113996.cms||Roushan Ali
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile units in Tirupur searched||Coimbatore: The officers of directorate general of GST Intelligence, zonal unit, Coimbatore, conducted simultaneous searches at the offices, warehouses and residences of two manufacturers of knitted fabrics in Tirupur on September 10.During the search operation, it was found that the taxpayers have made sales for which no GST invoice or bill was raised. The approximate value of sales without bills or invoices was around Rs 40-45 crore. The unaccounted stock of knitted fabrics valued at Rs 2.70 crore were also detected and seized from four of their premises. Two of the warehouses were not declared to the GST department. Incriminating documents have been recovered. An amount of Rs 2.2 crore has been recovered towards past GST liabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-units-in-tirupur-searched/articleshow/78115219.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid tally breaches 40,000-mark||LUCKNOW: With the transmission rate increasing with each passing day, the city’s Covid-19 tally since the outbreak breached the 40,000 mark on Monday. Of these, nearly one-third cases have been recorded in the first two weeks of September. A total of 992 new cases were recorded in 24 hours, taking the caseload to 40,172. Of these 12,744 (31.7%) infections have taken place this month at an average of 910 per day. In comparison, the daily average increase in August was 620 and July 229. Experts said that since a patient on an average infects four contacts, the rate of transmission is expected to increase further in coming days and may touch 1,500-2,000 cases daily by the end of the month. They blamed poor contact tracing and neglect of precautions by people for the surge. The exponential rate of growth can be gauged from the fact that the first 10,000 cases were reported in 140 days, while the next in just 16 days. The 10,000 infections thereafter were recorded in 14 days and the last 10,000 have come in merely 10 days. Of the total caseload, 29,972 (74.6%) have recovered, including 885 on Monday, but at the same time there were 524 (1.3%) deaths. As of now, 9,676 patients are ‘active’ cases, of which nearly 1,800 are under treatment in hospitals, while others are recuperating in home isolation. Condition of nearly 800 patients is serious, of which 300 are critical. As a result, critical care facilities in various Covid hospitals are working to full capacity. A senior professor of medicine in KGMU said that the peak of the pandemic in the city is expected in October. Thereafter, it may decline a bit by December and remain stable for two months before the second wave arrives next year in February, he claimed. Meanwhile, BBAU’s administrative block was closed for a day for sanitisation on Monday. “Since most of the work is being done online, closure made no impact on university functioning,” said BBAU spokesperson Rachna Gangwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-tally-breaches-40000-mark/articleshow/78115958.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Sandalwood drug case: Ragini Dwivedi sent to jail, Sanjjanaa Galrani in police custody for 3 more days||BENGALURU: Actress Ragini Dwivedi and four others who were arrested in the drugs peddling case were on Monday remanded in judicial custody for 14 days, while her Sandalwood colleague Sanjjanaa Galrani will spend three more days in police custody. Ragini, model Niyas Mohammed, Senegalese national Loom Pepper Samba, businessman Prashant Ranka and event manager Rahul Thonshe were moved to Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara on Monday. Besides Sanjjanaa, event manager Viren Khanna, bullion trader Vaibhav Jain and suspended RTO official Ravi Shankar were also sent to police custody for three more days. Khanna and Shankar were arrested in connection with a 2018 drugs case. While Khanna is named a suspect in the case involving the actresses, Shankar’s statement has formed the basis of the FIR against the actresses, Jain and others. Earlier in the morning, sleuths from Central Crime Branch (CCB) took Ragini, Sanjjanaa, Shankar, Khanna, Thonshe, Niyas, Samba, Ranka and Jain to KC General Hospital, Malleswaram for a routine medical test. All the accused had earlier tested negative for Covid-19. The accused were later produced in a local court through video conferencing. Police sought extension of custody of Khanna, Shankar and Sanjjanaa and the court acceded to it. Ragini and four others were transported to Central Prison by a police van. Soon after reaching the jail around 7.25pm, the accused were subjected to a medical test at the prison hospital. Sources say the accused were not lodged in the barracks reserved for judicial custody. Instead, they were quarantined in a new building, which was constructed for female prisoners, but is yet to be formally inaugurated. The women prisoners’ building is located near the main entrance, just opposite the prison hospital. The building has the capacity to lodge 500 inmates. “The five suspects have been lodged in different rooms,” prison officials said. “Their quarantine will end only after their swab samples are again tested and found negative for Covid-19. We will then shift them to the regular barracks. Ragini will be shifted to the high security women barracks and will be given a cell adjacent to the cell of former AIADMK secretary VK Sasikala.” Prison officials said they will not allow the suspects to have home food unless there is an order from the court. “They will have to accept jail food; there is no choice for them,” an official said.  CCB police moved Vaibhav Jain to Forensic Science Laboratory, Madiwala, in the afternoon. “We have to question him in an interrogation room, facilitated with auto video recording. His blood and hair follicle samples have been collected and they will to be submitted to FSL too,” police said.  Ragini Dwivedi’s advocate requested the judge to allow his client to be shifted to a private hospital as she was suffering from back pain and asthma. However, the judge refused saying she can be treated at the prison hospital. Meanwhile, the anticipatory bail plea of film producer and stone quarry owner Shivaprakash, who is accused No. 1 in the case, was adjourned to September 16, after the court asked police to file objections.  CCB police, in their remand application, said Sanjjanna used three mobile phones to chat on WhatsApp and other social media platforms including Facebook and her messages contain vital information on drug peddling and consumption. However, while arguing to get her police custody extended, public prosecutor Veeresh Tigadi said, “SIM cards of these mobile phones are missing. Sanjjanna needs to answer more questions on her contacts.” Objecting to the prosecution plea, advocate Srinivas, appearing for Sanjjanna, said the actress had the three mobile phones for her social media use and not drug peddling. He said police have not established that Sanjjanna had consumed drugs and she should not be handed over to police custody again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ragini-sent-to-jail-sanjjanaa-in-police-custody-for-3-more-days/articleshow/78112835.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kolhapur||One held for selling cannabis in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The local crime branch of Kolhapur police arrested a man on charges of selling cannabis after around one-and-a-half kilogram of the banned psychoactive drug was found at his home on Sunday. Acting on information received from its sources, police raided the house of the suspect — Abhijit Baliram Patil (35), a resident of Borwade Titta in Kagal tehsil. “His two accomplices managed to flee and we are looking out for them. However, we managed to arrest Patil. Othar than cannabis, we also seized scented tobacco and gutka, all worth Rs 3 lakh, from his home. Cash Rs 2.46 lakh was also seized from his home,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/one-held-for-selling-cannabis-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78112610.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kochi||Over 1k title deeds distributed in Idukki||Idukki: The government will distribute title deeds for all eligible farmers in Idukki, said revenue minister E Chandrasekharan. Addressing the ‘pattayamela’ on Monday at Thodupuzha, the minister said that over 28,000 title deeds were already distributed in the district. “The government decided that 20,000 more farmers will also be given title deeds. The process was continued in various taluk offices. Government was trying to realize the dreams of those at the grassroots through the title deeds distribution,” said the minister. On Monday, the revenue department distributed 1,064 more title deeds in the district. Farmers from various taluks received title deeds at a function at Thodupuzha municipal town hall. “The government will distribute over 2,000 titles to farmers from Vazhathope under Kanjikizhi village in the last week of October. All farmers in the district who occupied land before 1977 are eligible for title deeds. The government is issuing condition-free title deeds and it will help the farmers avail bank loans,” said Chandrasekharan. “The farmers, who were avoided from joint verification of the forest and revenue departments, would also be given title deeds. District collector H Dineshan was entrusted with increasing the number of surveyors to speed up the distribution of title deeds,” he added. Power minister M M Mani said that the government is happy to distribute the title deeds to the people of Idukki. “Previous governments had set conditions for title deeds in Idukki. But the LDF government waived the conditions and distributed condition-free title deeds,” said Mani. Idukki MLA Roshy Augustine, Peermade MLA E S Bijimol, district collector H Dineshan, Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan also attended the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-1k-title-deeds-distributed-in-idukki/articleshow/78114071.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Researcher duo’s low-cost e-bike all set to go places||Coimbatore: Two researchers at a private college here have made a low-cost electric bike.The vehicle, which has 3D printed parts, can cover 20km on a single charge, said S Kiranlal and V Brathikan of Kumaraguru Institution’s automotive research centre Garage. Educational institutions and industries can use it to improve campus mobility.The inventors have christened the prototype Duo V1.1 and are planning to make five more.They were aiming for a simple design that is easy to manufacture, Kiranlal told TOI. “While e-bikes have 10 to 15 parts, our prototype has only seven. We 3D printed some parts such as panels and mounts, which make the vehicle light.”The vehicle has an electric hub motor and is powered by a lithium-ion battery. It can cover 25km in an hour and delivers a maximum speed of 27 km/hour. It consumes 0.6 units of electricity to get recharged in 2.5 hours. It takes Rs 5 to recharge.“The short-commute vehicle can be used for intra-campus mobility at educational institutions, industries and government offices including secretariats, where people have to walk from one department to another. It can also be used for short rides within the locality,” Kiranlal said. The team is now engaged in phase-II research to improve ergonomics, design and materials, and to install smart card access and vehicle tracking system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/researcher-duos-low-cost-e-bike-all-set-to-go-places/articleshow/78115277.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Oxygen tankers to get status of ambulance||PUNE: The administration has decided to accord the status of ambulance to tankers carrying oxygen to ensure hassle-free transport of the gas essential for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Besides, the tankers will be fitted with sirens. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has issued an order and directed officials in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations and the rural administration to ensure better coordination and hassle-free transport of the oxygen tankers. “It is necessary to provide uninterrupted supply of oxygen at hospitals for better Covid-19 treatment management. The oxygen should reach the hospitals on a priority basis,” Deshmukh said. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and district collectorate officials admitted that the limited availability of oxygen is a major concern. “The demand for medical oxygen is going up, but the production is less,” an official said. Deshmukh said the Regional Transport Office (RTO) should complete the related formalities. He said the GPS systems should be fitted on these tankers and their coordinates should be shared with traffic police and other officials. Eshtablishmens either producing or refilling medical-grade oxygen should put up ‘emergency service’ board prominently on these vehicles. The order has also said toll plaza operators should ensure easy passage for these tankers. Seperate lanes should be allocated to them so that the they will not have to wait in the queue. Officials said the manufacturers of oxygen are located in the industrial zones on the fringes of the district. Most of the oxygen tankers come to Pune from Chakan, Shirur, Talegaon, Pirangut and other MIDC areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oxygen-tankers-to-get-ambulance-status-for-easy-transport/articleshow/78115275.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 15, 2020||Goa||Former Panaji MLA Baban Naik dies at 76||PANAJI: Former Panaji MGP MLA Baban Naik, who represented Panaji constituency in the Goa assembly from 1972-1977, died on Monday. He was 76. He was also the president of Panaji municipal council. In his condolence message, chief minister Pramod Sawant said, “Naik was a fine human being. He was an upright politician and a great social worker.” Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that Naik had a direct connection with the common man and was always ready to help the needy and contributed much to the progress of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-panaji-mla-baban-naik-dies-at-76/articleshow/78115256.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Surat||Thai woman arrested for killing compatriot for money||Surat: A woman from Thailand was arrested on Monday for allegedly murdering of her compatriot, who was burnt to death in her apartment in Magdalla area of Surat on September 6. Police arrested Aida alias Ananda Wongprome (27) for murder of her friend Wanida Bousorn, a Thai national, also aged 27 years.The two women lived in separate apartments in Magadalla locality here and were employed in a spa and massage parlour. Police said that the accused was facing severe financial crisis and had allegedly killed Bousorn with intention of looting her money and valuables.Police have recovered a gold chain and a mobile phone belonging to Bousorn from the residence of Wongprome. The gold chain was hidden in a packet of rice while the phone was kept under stack of utensils.According to police, Wongprome also stole one more phone of the deceased and handed it over to her autorickshaw driver and instructed him to throw it away but the driver kept the phone. The original keys of Bousorn’s apartment was also found from Wongprome’s home.Wangprome was nabbed after she was captured on CCTV camera sneaking out of Bousorn’s apartment on September 6 night. It is suspected that she also looted cash but exact is not known. Police found that Wongprome had borrowed over Rs 6 lakh from known people. She had also deposited her passport with a money lender for Rs 1 lakh.Police suspect that the accused smothered the victim first and burnt her body. She is suspected to have piled up synthetic clothes on Bousorn and torched it using a cigarette lighter. Police said that the accused and the deceased had consumed liquor and smoked hookah till 3.45 am. Later Wongrpome went to her apartment and returned an hour later and killed Bousorn.City police are trying to get DNA profile of Bousorn’s family members from Thailand to match it with the remains of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/thai-woman-arrested-for-killing-compatriot-for-money/articleshow/78112664.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||Inform police if carrying Rs 1 lakh or more||Dehradun: Dehradun police on Monday asked people, especially traders and businessmen, to inform police personnel if carrying an amount of Rs 1 lakh or more from one place to another. DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi said he has directed all inspectors and station officers to interact with owners of petrol pumps, hotels and other business installations and inform them about the same. The DIG added that during the ongoing unlock period, the business activities are on the rise and people from business communities are moving big amounts from one place to another to bring business back on track which is why this safeguard was necessary.  Joshi maintained that under such scenario there is a possibility of a criminal activity. To minimize the possibility of any such criminal activity, the traders and businessmen are being requested to inform police about movement of cash above Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/inform-police-if-carrying-rs-1-lakh-or-more/articleshow/78112644.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||As Covid cases surge, private hospitals in Nagpur gasping for oxygen||NAGPUR: With the rise in number of Covid-19 patients needing oxygen, the demand has gone up substantially at both government and private hospitals. While government hospitals have sufficient stock of medical oxygen, private hospitals say they are grappling with the supply constraints. Even government doctors feel oxygen supply is becoming a major worry at private hospitals and the civic body must ensure there is no shortage as they too are treating Covid patients. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar said medical oxygen availability as on date is commensurate with the demand. “Ramping up storage facilities is underway. Liquid storage tanks of 20kl (20,000 litres) have been proposed at GMCH and IGGMCH. Additional procurement of jumbo cylinders is being actively considered. The additional oxygen requirement shall depend on case numbers,” he said, adding Nagpur will cross 60,000 cases by this weekend. NMC health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja admitted oxygen supply would pose a problem in private hospitals. “We are trying to resolve it,” he said. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said 375 patients are being given oxygen through central pipeline, while cylinders are used for the rest. “We have sufficient stock,” he added. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent (Corona patient care) Dr Sagar Pandey said the hospital has sufficient supply because of in-house storage plant. “Liquid oxygen is procured and supplied to patients through central pipeline. There is also no change in cost and availability is as per bed capacity, though the demand has shot up,” he said. Dr Anshul Chadda, director of Aureus Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “We are facing great trouble in getting oxygen and this unavailability is preventing us from accepting more patients.” General and paediatric surgeon Dr Pradeep Arora feels the situation is far better as compared to other cities. “The oxygen supply is good in city though there are minor hiccups now and then. But overall, the doctors have faced far less shortage compared to other places,” he said. Vidarbha Hospitals Association secretary Dr Alok Umre said production is not as per demand, beside rates have also been doubled. “The government has put a cap on hospitalization charges, while oxygen suppliers have hiked the prices. In the first place, suppliers have already made it clear that they won’t be able to increase supply if we are converting into Covid hospital. They are sticking to same quantity as per our earlier requirement,” he said. Dr Umre added many hospitals are sending alerts, but to no avail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/as-covid-cases-surge-pvt-hosps-gasping-for-oxygen/articleshow/78112639.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 15, 2020||Goa||1.3k students to appear for SSC supplementary exam||Panaji: The Class X supplementary exam of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will begin from Tuesday, across 11 centres in the state. Altogether, 1,342 students — 750 boys and 592 girls — have registered to appear for the exam. The number of centres has been increased from two to 11 this year to enable maintaining of social distancing norms. Only 12 students will be seated in each exam hall. Those who could not answer the May-June Class X exam due to being stranded outside Goa will also be appearing for it from September 15 to 22. The exam is being held in two shifts on some days, and will begin at 9.30am for the morning session and at 2.30pm for the evening session. “The candidates are informed to carry their own transparent water bottles, face cover, sanitiser liquid and not to carry any electronic gadgets. They are required to strictly follow the instructions printed on the admission card and main answer book,” the board said. Goa Board has also released helpline numbers — 8459710171 and 8459710172 — where students can get any of their queries regarding the examination answered. “The candidates will use only a blue ball pen for writing the answers and black lead pencil for drawing figures, diagrams and rough work. Answers written in any ink other than blue will not be assessed. Candidates are not allowed to use gel pens. The candidates are required to examine themselves from a government medical practitioner in case of cough, sneezing, common cold, etc to avoid spreading it to others,” the board said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1-3k-students-to-appear-for-ssc-supplementary-exam/articleshow/78115276.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||25 MPs and several House staff test Covid positive||NEW DELHI: Twenty-five MPs and several staff members of Parliament tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Monday, the first day of the monsoon session, with some members announcing their status and one even denouncing the tests as inaccurate. Anyone entering Parliament House complex had to be Covid-negative. Tests conducted between September 12 and 13 returned positive in the case of 17 Lok Sabha and eight Rajya Sabha MPs on Monday while the number for staff could not be ascertained. Among Lok Sabha MPs, 12 were from BJP, two from YSR Congress and one each from Shiv Sena, DMK and RLP. Among the eight Rajya Sabha MPs who tested positive, two each were from Congress and BJP and one each from AIADMK, AAP, TRS and AITC. Sources said 56 people tested positive during the RTPCR tests conducted in the Parliament House complex. These included mediapersons deputed to report proceedings. RLP MP Hanuman Beniwal, however, rubbished the report on his “re-infection” and called it “false”. He said he had tested positive in August and had recovered, and that two RT-PCR tests had shown him as having recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/25-mps-and-several-house-staff-test-covid-positive/articleshow/78116663.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Over 50,00 cases in 3 months, district can’t get ‘careless’||NAGPUR: The district has contributed more than 55,000 Covid cases to Vidarbha’s tally which crossed over one lakh on Monday. In the initial three months, the city had just over 500 cases after first case was detected in March. The situation became alarming from July onwards, with a 10 times jump in cases to 5,000, and subsequently crossed 50,000 early this month. Increased testing, sudden withdrawal of restrictions over movement and casual approach of people have been attributed as some of the reasons for Nagpur’s burden of Covid-19 cases. Deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said instead of looking back we must see ahead. “From here on, all must ensure self-care and control which is very easy. People need to also protect their families by using mask, washing hands and maintaining Covid distancing,” he said. Cases increased as testing was ramped up, according to district civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar. “Festival season, and some let down in guard by people too were the reasons for surge in cases. The figure may cross 60,000 by the end of third week of September,” he said. NMC health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja too said that testing has increased resulting in the surge. “Trace, test and treat is the gold standard. Beside testing, the opening of business and movement of migrants contributed to the cases in Nagpur,” he said. Kukreja further said now the focus is on preventing Covid deaths. “Due to community spread more people will continue to get infected, but it shouldn’t result in large number of deaths. Entire NMC administration is working sincerely to ensure the toll isn’t high,” he said. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent (Corona patient care) Dr Sagar Pandey pointed towards multiple factors for increase in city’s caseload. “In the beginning, there was strict restriction on movement but they were suddenly relaxed which made people overconfident. They stopped taking precautions. This carefree attitude is a major reason,” he said. Another doctor said the city administration has failed miserably. “The sudden lockdown and unlocking helped mutate the virus’s natural chain,” the doctor said. NGO Together We Can secretary Anasuya Kale Chhabrani too blamed the prevailing situation on lackadaisical approach of people and officials. “No one is ready to behave responsibly in this pandemic,” she said. According to general and paediatric surgeon Dr Pradeep Arora said the social stigma attached to the infection lead to concealment of cases, resulting in sudden spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-50k-cases-in-3-months-district-cant-get-careless/articleshow/78112670.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Nitin Raut pulls up NMC over delay in dashboard showing beds availability||NAGPUR: Amid shortage of beds in the city, guardian minister Nitin Raut reportedly pulled up Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials for failing to set up a dashboard on availability of hospital beds in each hospital for Covid patients. Sources said Mumbai municipal commissioner IS Chahal had told NMC to set up the dashboard on September 4 but NMC had failed to do so even after a passage of ten days. On Sunday, the minister expressed anger that “precious time had been wasted”. “It is just a simple software,” he told NMC officials. Raut was also angry on officials for failing to set up a separate hospital for frontline Covid warriors like police personnel and doctors. Police are upgrading their own hospital to treat Covid cases at present. A day back, a frontline Covid warrior passed away after he could not find a bed for hours. According to his son, the family tried finding a bed in all private and government hospitals after his father tested positive but could not. By the time they found a bed in Mayo, it was “too late.” Meanwhile, mayor Sandip Joshi, in a video message to citizens, asked them not to worry and keep faith in authorities. He mentioned the efforts being made by NMC to strength the Covid health infrastructure. He then appealed to citizens to follow Covid norms and venture out of their homes as less as possible. As per the figures provided by NMC officials, 151 new admissions were done in private hospitals in the city on Monday. According to some complaints received by TOI, the information regarding availability of beds is not getting updated on NMC portal. For instance, the portal showed availability of a few beds in a hospital at Wanadongri. However when contacted, the hospital staff denied the information, saying not a single bed was available. NMC officials have assured to provide more real-time information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-pulls-up-nmc-over-delay-in-dashboard-showing-beds-availability/articleshow/78112654.cms||Manka Behl
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to cut licences needed to run an industry by 50%||LUCKNOW: In a significant bid to further facilitate business in the state, UP is looking to bring down the number of licences required for operating an industry by more than 50% -- from the current 43 to 21. The state jumped 10 places to finish second in the recently released 'ease of doing business' ranking. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who reviewed the ease of doing business conditions in UP on Monday, has cleared the proposals put up by four departments in this regard and has asked them to implement the changes at the earliest. These include the environment department, food safety and drug administration, labour and food and logistics. Days after the state was ranked second in all-India 'ease of doing business' ratings, the CM reviewed district-wise rankings and the functioning of the state’s single window portal, Nivesh Mitra, and said that all departments should be linked to it at the earliest. At present, Nivesh Mitra offers 146 services from 20 departments. The CM has also asked departments to implement proposals made by the Union ministry of commerce and industry under the Business Reform Action Plan. Departments have been directed to update their progress on the Central website by October 30, 2020. Out of the 346 reforms proposed under the plan for 2020, UP has so far managed to implement 186 with 18 departments left to implement reforms partly or wholly as per the plan.Under the plan, a major reform proposed is development of an online system for licensing. While directing all departments to bring their services online at the earliest, the CM also set deadlines for various services to be made online under key departments. Application for all kinds of no-objection certificates must be made online by September 30, 2020, the CM said. For instance, the land and mining department has been asked to make its services available online from September 20. The excise should implement proposed reforms by the end of the month while Film Bandhu should be linked with the Nivesh Mitra portal by October. Health and family welfare department has been asked to start online services for ultrasounds etc by October 15 while the housing department has been directed to ease its various processes, including conditions for making applications. The licence process for sale of fire-crackers was also proposed to be made online. Stamp and registration department has been asked to implement improvements in three districts as part of the first phase of changes by October 30. The revenue department has been asked to develop a software for online improvements. Tourism department's hotel and travel agency registration should be made online while the law department should ensure that e-filing and e-summons for district courts are implemented in a time bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-to-cut-licences-needed-to-run-an-industry-by-50/articleshow/78115970.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 15, 2020||Aurangabad||49-year-old senior journalist succumbs to Covid-19||Aurangabad: A 49-year-old senior journalist serving with a regional newspaper succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday morning, making him the first journalist casualty in the Aurangabad district. The deceased scribe has been identified as Rahul Dolare, a resident of Mukundwadi area of the city. He was under treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). With his death, different associations representing scribes have come forward demanding the state to fulfill its promise of compensating Rs 50 lakh to the family of journalists succumbing to the contagion. Dolare’s colleagues said that he remained on duty till earlier this month. “After he complained of mild fever, he was asked to take leave and opt for treatment,” said his colleague. “He took rest for a couple of days, but more symptoms started surfacing, following which he opted to get tested and was found positive. He was immediately rushed to Chikalthana-based covid hospital. However, considering his medical history, he was referred and admitted to GMCH on September 6. His condition remained critical all this while and due to difficulty in breathing, had to be put on life support system,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/49-year-old-senior-journalist-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/78112668.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Kochi||Locals hand over 17 orphaned ducklings to forest officers||Kochi: Nine ducklings of the whistling teal species and their mother were in serious trouble on Sunday morning when residents of Venduvazhi in Kothamangalam spotted cats chasing them. The mother of the birds which are rarely spotted in the area had flown away by then and the locals took it upon themselves to shelter the ducklings. A similar incident happened at Nellikuzhi, also in Kothamangalam, on Saturday evening, when a batch of eight ducklings walked into a home here. The family kept them in the shed outside the house to protect them from other animals. By Sunday afternoon, forest officers from Kothamangalam visited both the areas and moved the birds to safety. According to Kothamangalam range forest officer P K Thampi, as many as 17 ducklings were rescued over the weekend. “At first we moved them to the pond in the park outside the forest station and later moved them to Thattekad bird sanctuary. We are taking care of the birds and it seems like they are doing good,” said Thampi. Vijayakumar, who rescued the birds at Venduvazhi, said that they saw the ducklings among the shrubs and cats and dogs were sniffing around in the area. “There was this large private compound which was covered with weeds and shrubs. Recently, the area was cleared for plantation. It seems like the birds came from that compound. We called up the forest officers and handed over the birds to them by Sunday afternoon,” said Vijayakumar. The family at Nellikuzhi said that the birds walked in during the heavy rain on Saturday evening. “It seemed like they were trying to find shelter in the heavy rain. We kept them overnight,” the family said. “It would be difficult for them now that they have been separated from their mother. We are giving them necessary care and are keeping them in a safe environment away from predators. It seems like they are going to survive,” said a forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/locals-hand-over-17-orphaned-ducklings-to-forest-officers/articleshow/78114096.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Pune||Active patients in KCB limits almost double in seven days||Pune: The number of total coronavirus cases rose to 199 in the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) limits in the past seven days, almost double the 105 active cases identified in the previous week. “We have noticed a surge in positive cases after the Ganesh festival. Most of the new cases were workers who visited various places in the city for their jobs,” KCB’s chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh said. Singh, however, said the situation was under control, despite the doubling numbers. “Maximum patients are asymptomatic and about 40% of them are in home quarantine,” Singh said. The cantonment has recorded a total of 1,380 cases since the Covid-19 outbreak. Of these, 1,145 have been cured, 36 succumbed to the virus and 199 are active cases. As per the KCB health department data, 34 patients were admitted to Covid care centres in Khadki Sports Complex and Jijamata School, while 20 patients are in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-patients-in-kcb-limits-almost-double-in-seven-days/articleshow/78115280.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 15, 2020||Pune||PMR single-day tally drops by half to 2,481||Pune: The number of Covid-19 cases dropped to 2,481 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, the lowest single-day tally in a fortnight, over reduced testing. With this, the total tally in PMR stands above 2.27 lakh. The daily average tally in PMR has stayed above 4,000 since September 1. It was only on August 31 that PMR had recorded 1,933 cases in 24 hours. Keeping pace with cases, the number of recoveries also came down to 2,922 in PMR on Monday, taking its cured count to 1.81 lakh, including more than 1 lkah discharges in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits. The recovery rate in PMC limit stood at 83.2% on Monday night. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 7,542 tests were conducted in the 24 hours ending Monday evening as against a daily average of around 14,000 tests, which pulled down daily caseload. The report said the region’s total testing reached 9.50 lakh on Monday, including 5.37 lakh tests conducted in the PMC limits alone. PMR recorded 79 fatalities on Monday, pushing the death toll to 5,222. The PMC reported highest 39 deaths, followed by 24 deaths from rural as well as Cantonment areas and 16 fatalities from the PCMC limits. The active caseload in the region came down to 40,806 on Monday, including 23,873 patients admitted in various hospitals and 16,933 in home isolation. According to a PMC report, 928 patients were in critical stage on Monday, of whom 479 were on ventilator support. As many as 3,372 patients were on oxygen support, the report said, adding that 329 teams were deployed for home to home visits to identify suspected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-single-day-tally-drops-by-half-to-2481/articleshow/78115290.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Approval of courses post deadline flayed||Coimbatore: Teachers’ unions have expressed concern over the Bharathiar University’s syndicate granting permission for five new courses at four self-financing colleges affiliated to the university.Applications for the courses were submitted after the college development committee (CDC) meeting on January 28, 2020. While the deadline for the applications without fine was October 31, 2019, colleges could apply till November 30, 2019, December 30 and January 28, 2020, with increasing fines. But the four colleges applied in March, May, and July. The syndicate meeting held last week approved the courses and also allowed self-financing colleges to apply for new courses till the end of the month.Teachers’ bodies opposed this. President of the Association of University Teachers (AUT) N Pasupathy said, for starting a new course, colleges have to apply within October, after which the university would inspect the campus and decide on approving and how many seats the course should have. “If colleges apply late, where will there be time for all this? The syndicate can’t change the Act and statutes of the university. This is a serious violation,” he said. Representatives of self-financing colleges said they were told that application for industry-related courses and skill-related courses can be permitted and encouraged even if they apply late. “The courses we have applied for are based on industry tie-ups. The syndicate has also approved it. The courses would be good for students,” said a representative of the Principals Association of Bharathiar University.University officials said they will ratify the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/approval-of-courses-post-deadline-flayed/articleshow/78115278.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Call for govt job to kin of man-animal conflict victims||Coimbatore: Farmers from the district on Monday appealed to the collector to provide a job to a family member of any farmer who dies as a result of man-animal conflicts.The farmers said of late, wild boars and elephants were increasingly venturing into farmlands and damaging crops. “There have been numerous instances where farmers have died as a result of this. While the state gives them a solatium, we seek that the state gives a government job to a member of the deceased’s family,” said Su Palanisamy, president of Tamil Nadu farmer’s association. On the night of September 7, M Abdul Nasar, 47, a betel leaf seller from Wellspuram in Mettupalayam died when his vehicle hit a wild boar, which was crossing the road at Samayapuram in the region. Forest department gave a solatium of Rs 50,000 to his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/call-for-govt-job-to-kin-of-man-animal-conflict-victims/articleshow/78115282.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Corporator held for kidnapping||Hyderabad: Boduppal Municipal Corporation corporator Ajay Yadav was arrested on Monday by Chaitanyapuri police for allegedly kidnapping a friend on Sunday. Later, he was produced before the magistrate. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-held-for-kidnapping/articleshow/78115301.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Two held for damaging cars at CPI office||Hyderabad: A day after unknown miscreants damaged two parked cars at the office of Communist Party of India (CPI) at Maqdoor Bhavan, Task Force sleuths on Monday nabbed two persons. Police said that they were identified as Vishal Prasad Shukla and Gokul Prasad Shukla, residents of Uppuguda. Officials said that they were identified based on the registration number of the vehicle in which they came to Maqdoom Bhavan on Sunday. The two persons allegedly came on a bike to Maqdoom Bhavan under the pretext of seeking an address, and one of them entered the party office and damaged windshields of two parked cars. One of the two cars belonged to CPI state secretary Chanda Venkat Reddy. “We are still probing these two men to know their motives,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-damaging-cars-at-cpi-office/articleshow/78115283.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Dehradun||CM reviews preparations for Kumbh 2021; directs officers to get work completed before stipulated dates||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, on Monday, reviewed the ongoing works for Kumbh Mela 2021 and directed the authorities concerned to ensure that the projects are completed within the set time frame. During the meeting at CM residence, Mela Officer Deepak Rawat made a presentation on roads, ghats, parking, toilets and solid waste management system. Meanwhile, IG Kumbh Sanjay Gunjyal made a presentation on crowd management and traffic plan. The CM instructed the officers to coordinate with staff over all the projects and ensure proper infrastructure and facilities for Kumbh Mela 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-reviews-preparations-for-kumbh-2021-directs-officers-to-get-work-completed-before-stipulated-dates/articleshow/78112678.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 15, 2020||Rajkot||Truck driver tries to rape 80-year-old||Rajkot: A 40-year-old man was detained on Monday for allegedly attempting to rape and strangle an 80-year-old woman in Surajkaradi village of Okha Mandal taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Sunday night. Police said the accused, Jasrajbha Manek, who was driving a truck, spotted the woman sitting alone at Surajkaradi bus stand on Sunday night. “Finding the woman alone, Manek forced himself upon her. When she cried for help, Manek tried to strangle her with her cloth. Hearing the cries, people from nearby area rushed there and caught Manek. He was handed over to the police,” said an official from Mithapur police station. “The woman had the habit of walking out of her home after she frequently fought with her family members. Manek comes from Samlasar village near Okha,” added the official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/truck-driver-tries-to-rape-80-year-old/articleshow/78114098.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Lucknow||Agra’s Mughal Museum to be renamed after Shivaji: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: The under-construction Mughal Museum in Agra is all set to be renamed after Maratha icon Chhatrapati Shivaji. Announcing the decision on Monday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that his government had always promoted nationalism and that 'Mughals cannot be our heros'. Stressing on the need for moving towards revival of nationalist pride and away from “ghulami ki mansikta” (mindset of slavery), the CM said: “How can our heroes be Mughals? The very name of Shivaji will invoke a feeling of nationalism and self-esteem.” आगरा में निर्माणाधीन म्यूजियम को छत्रपति शिवाजी महाराज के नाम से जाना जाएगा।आपके नए उत्तर प्रदेश में गुलामी की मा… https://t.co/AsavkQeLuu— Yogi Adityanath (@myogiadityanath) 1600098647000"Shivaji had a speical connection with Agra. It is here that he was held virtually captive by Mughal emeperor Aurangzeb after inviting him to take part in his 50th birthday celebration. But Shivaji escaped hiding in a basket of sweets," say the government sources. The idea of the project, showcasing Mughal history and artefacts, was mooted under the Akhilesh Yadav-led SP government in 2015 and work on it started a year later. It was supposed to have been completed in 2017 but the project got delayed due to multiple reasons. The UP government had allocated Rs 20 crore for the museum in its 2019 budget. Design Studio Archohm is collaborating with David Chipperfield Architects for the project. The announcement was made during a review meeting of the Agra division where the CM also said that the Agra Smart City project was a priority for his government and that it should be completed at the earliest. The announcement was made during a review meeting of the Agra division where the CM also said that the Agra Smart City project was a priority for his government and that it should be completed at the earliest. Agra was ranked second at the national level and first among other smart cities in UP in the most recent rankings. The CM has asked officials to ensure that revenue collection from the division, comprising Agra, Firozabad, Mainpuri and Mathura districts, should be increased. Attempts should be made to get more traders to register for GST and collections should be reviewed periodically. He said that the Metro and airport projects in Agra should be expedited. In case there was any shortage of funds, the CM said that he would personally intervene with the Centre. Out of 19 projects that have been taken up under Agra Smart City, four have been completed while 15 are in progress. The CM was informed that all works would be completed by August 2021. During an interaction with public representatives, Mathura MP Hema Malini asked the CM for a sports stadium, a central school, repair of roads and starting of operations at the Chhata Sugar Mill. The CM assured her that the projects would be taken up. He was also informed about a drinking water problem in the region and has asked officials to prepare a proposal At present, there are 22 ongoing projects of over Rs 50 crore each that are being implemented in the division. Out of these, 11 projects are in Agra, five in Firozabad, four in Mathura and two in Mainpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agras-mughal-museum-to-be-renamed-after-shivaji/articleshow/78115973.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Survey works for state’s longest tunnel road from Friday||Kozhikode: The survey works for the longest tunnel road in the state, connecting Kozhikode and Wayanad districts, will commence on Friday. The Rs 658crore project which, will be financed through Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), will see the creation of the tunnel road with a length of around 7km, which will provide an alternative to the Thamarassery Ghat road. The tunnel road will be part of the Anakkampoyil- Kalladi-Meppadi road. Thiruvambadi MLA George M Thomas said that the team from Konkan Railway Corporation Limited (KRCL), which has been appointed as the special purpose vehicle for the project, will reach the state for survey and field investigations on Friday. He added that the road project has already received the administrative and technical sanctions from state government, and the works inauguration of the project is planned for October 5. The tunnel starts at Swargamkunnu in Kodenchery panchayat in Kozhikode and would end at Kalladi near Meppadi in Wayanad and the subterranean tunnel road stretch passes mostly beneath forest land. Thomas said that once completed the road would reduce the road distance from Kochi to Bengaluru by around 30 km. He added that the tunnel road will be third-longest tunnel road in the country. “Also, it would become a viable alternative to the Thamarassery Ghat road which is plagued by frequent traffic blocks. The ghat road with a width of 12 metre is facing congestion with around 18,000 vehicles plying per day. The traffic is expected to rise to 25,000 vehicles after five years and there is no scope for widening the road. On completion, the tunnel road will divert a significant share of vehicular traffic from the ghat road,” he said. The road is also expected to boost the tourism fortunes of the region and ease goods movement between Kozhikode, Wayanad and Malappuram districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/survey-works-for-states-longest-tunnel-road-from-friday/articleshow/78114101.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Bengaluru||With cops cracking down on road routes, drug dealers take to air||Bengaluru: In the past couple of weeks, the city has seen drug seizures like never before. While some famous names are behind bars for alleged substance peddling, the cargo section of Bengaluru airport saw close to Rs 5 crore-worth drugs, including psychotropic substances and hydroponic weed, being seized in a span of two weeks. Regardless of Covid-19, the drug scene in the city appears to be flourishing like never before. Besides conventional road routes, drugs are increasingly being smuggled through air cargo and postal services with dealers devising innovative ways to hide contraband. Since enforcement agencies, including local police, are turning the heat on dealers transporting their wares by road, air and the postal routes appear to be a safer bet to smuggle psychotropic drugs. “In the past few years, there has been a surge in drug smugglers using the Foreign Post Office (FPO) to bring in dope,” said an India Post staff connected to the FPO in Chamarajpet. “Many parcels containing contraband arrive at FPOs from Europe and the US in the guise of medicines and spices. The latest instance was a parcel containing 100 ecstasy pills and MDMA blocks sent from Holland.” Bangalore Customs sleuths believe psychotropic drugs are being ordered via the dark web where local peddlers often deal in bitcoin transactions. “Dealers often make full payment online for the drugs which is sent by post as an international parcel with fake addresses and registration details. Last December, these gangs even paid off four post office staff for safe passage of the drugs into the city,” said an investigating officer. A Malaysian employed with an e-commerce giant in city and a man from Kerala were recently arrested in Bengaluru for attempting to smuggle in MDMA and LSD through the post office route.  In the first week of September alone, Kempegowda International Airport saw three cases of drug smuggling through air cargo couriers, including one where 8.4kg of hydroponic weed worth Rs 2 crore was concealed inside compression equipment imported from the US. On September 8, the Cargo Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Bangalore Customs at KIA unearthed ecstasy pills worth Rs 1 crore hidden inside a foot massager shipped from Belgium. A Nigerian national was arrested in connection with the seizure by Customs sleuths, while a city youth who ordered the hydro cannabis was also caught. “The Nigerian had strong links in Belgium and had placed the order for MDMA pills by paying online. It was at his behest that the pills were concealed inside the foot massager. It was wrapped in duct tape to escape detecting by the scanning device at the airport,” said a customs officer. Drug smugglers’ worst nightmare is customs officials combing packages with hi-end scanning devices. Little do the racketeers know about a narcotics machine that can detect drugs in a parcel. “The hi-tech narcotics detector is perhaps the worst enemy of smugglers,” a KIA source said. “The device scans parcels and beeps at the presence of narcotic substances.” It is this device that detected the ecstasy pills in the foot massager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-cops-cracking-down-on-road-routes-drug-dealers-take-to-air/articleshow/78112927.cms||Petlee Peter
September 15, 2020||Goa||Centre to give fishing sector Rs 163 crore: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that over Rs 163 crore has been allocated to boost the fishing sector in the state under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. He said that Rs 20,000 crore has been allocated for fishermen under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY). “State Action Plan includes 24 beneficiary-oriented schemes of which nine are towards development of inland fisheries and aquaculture including technology infusion, such as construction of brackish water ponds and biofloc ponds, recirculatory aquaculture system (RAS), open sea cages, reservoir cages and so on,” Sawant said. The chief minister also said that 15 schemes have been identified under the post-harvest management, marketing and infrastructure, and development of deep sea fishing. “Under the non-beneficiary component, three schemes have been proposed, which include engaging of 20 Sagar Mitra for multi-purpose support services and construction of the wholesale fish market,” Sawant said. The chief minister also said that the state government has utilised Rs 11.5 crore from the district mineral fund towards purchase of machine and test kits, PPE kits, thermal imaging cameras, gene-based confirmatory tests, Covid hospital medicines and consumables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-centre-to-give-fishing-sector-rs-163cr/articleshow/78115295.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi tests highest per million in world: CM||NEW DELHI: While concluding a discussion on management of Covid-19 during the one-day special session of Delhi assembly, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the highest tests per day per million in the world were currently being conducted in Delhi. Kejriwal said 3,057 tests per million population were being conducted daily in Delhi, while the same was around 3,000 in UK, 1,388 in the US, 2,311 in Russia and 858 in Peru. The pan-India number was 819 tests per million per day. The CM’s reference was to daily tests in recent days. When it comes to cumulative tests, the US, UK, Russia, etc all have much higher numbers (around 2.8 lakh tests per million). Also, daily testing levels have come down in countries that are past their peak. “Around 60,000 tests are being conducted daily in Delhi. Andhra Pradesh is at second place with 1,362 tests per million population, Gujarat at third with 1,000 tests, Karnataka 983, Haryana 990, Maharashtra 802 and Uttar Pradesh 670. We have tested around 21 lakh people till now, which is 11% of the population of Delhi. No other state or city in the world has tested 10% of its total population,” Kejriwal said. Before rapid antigen test (RAT) was introduced on June 18, 5,000-7,000 tests were being conducted daily in the city. Initially, it was used in containment zones. Later, as more RAT kits were made available, testing was expanded to all 11 districts. At that time, Delhi was facing its first serious crisis and nearly 4,000 new cases were being added daily. The government scaled up operations to test, track and isolate positive cases to reduce the spread of the disease. The increase in testing was achieved mainly by expanding RAT as RT-PCR tests remained below 10,000. On July 30, 21,658 tests were conducted. Of this, 6,246 (29%) were done using RT-PCR, while 15,412 (71%) were done through RAT. Data shows RT-PCR tests remained between 14% and 20% of the total tests. From September 6 to 11, the percentage of RT-PCR tests stood at 26%, 34%, 22%, 20%, 15% and 14%, respectively. Responding to leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri attributing Covid management in Delhi to the Centre’s interventions, chief minister Kejriwal said, “I’m not saying that Covid management in Delhi is 100% correct. We are ready to rectify the mistakes. If we are at fault, you should also correct our mistakes. Delhi has elected both of us.” The CM said more tests would result in more positive cases. “We should not be scared because of these numbers. We have to be scared of deaths and not let their numbers rise. The government has conducted micro audit of hospitals and taken various measures to reduce the death rate,” he added. “The death rate in Delhi is 0.6%, which I think is the lowest among all the states. Delhi was the first in the world to introduce home isolation after learning that hospitals were overwhelmed with patients and many of them were lying on the road. We have treated 1,15,254 people in home isolation till now. Of these, 16,568 people are still in home isolation. Only 30 people have died out of 1.25 lakh people in home isolation, which is 0.03% of the total number, probably the least in the world,” Kejriwal stated. Talking about the world’s first plasma bank being established in Delhi, Kejriwal said, “The work that we started in April and May was allowed by the US President on August 19. Around 1,965 people were given plasma in Delhi.” Referring to the influx of patients from outside Delhi, the CM said, “Till now, we have treated 5,264 people from outside Delhi. I hope other states also invest in health infrastructure.” “We faced the toughest challenges compared with the rest of the country because 80-90% of all flights ferrying Indians stranded abroad landed in Delhi. The health secretary had written to all district magistrates on March 22 saying that 32,000 people had returned to India in a single month and they needed to be identified. It was impossible to identify all of them spread across Delhi,” Kejriwal said. Bidhuri said deputy CM Manish Sisodia had created panic by saying that Delhi would see 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July and it was Union home minister Amit Shah who had arranged for 20,000 new beds and provided ventilators, oxygen cylinders, oximeters, PPE kits, enhanced testing and capped the treatment cost in the hospitals. Kejriwal said, “I want to thank the Centre for helping us whenever we needed them.” Meanwhile, the capital on Monday recorded 3,229 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to over 2.21 lakh, while the death toll mounted to 4,770. Twenty-six fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, stated the Delhi government’s latest health bulletin. Watch Covid-19: Delhi tests highest per million in world, says Arvind Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-tests-highest-per-million-in-world-cm/articleshow/78115342.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Coming days might be grimmer, be ultracautious: Experts||Nagpur: The city is witnessing a surge of of Covid-19 cases and the situation in coming days might get grimmer.Medical experts TOI spoke to have advised citizens to be ultracautious in the coming days. According to them, mask, sanitizer and social distancing are the best personal shields against coronavirus. “The virus is at its peak in the city and the best way to beat is to take preventive methods. Everyone should invest in a good quality mask like N95. If going out to crowded places, use double-layered protection,” said noted ENT surgeon Dr Naresh Agrawal.According to senior physician Dr Sanjay Sood who has been providing telephonic consultations to Covid-19 patients, the mask needs to be worn properly. “Don’t fidget with it and make sure it covers both mouth and nose area. Keep using hand sanitizer and following the hand wash routine of 20 seconds. Also, if someone in your family or recent contact comes positive, it is of utmost importance you get a RT-PCR test done in next 4-5 days,” he added.Recently retired nursing officer at Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) Sheela Brahmankar said that even asymptomatic patients needed to stay in complete isolation and take all precautions. “People are not taking it as seriously as they should. Also, the government should ensure home isolated patients are aware of treatment protocol and other guidelines and should provide them a monitoring kit,” she said.She also advises washing all the exposed body parts with soap and water as soon as once comes home from outside. “You should immediately put your clothes for washing. Also, community kitchen service should be started for patients,” added Brahmankar.Stressing that one should step out only if it was absolutely necessary, Dr Agrawal said, “Specially, avoid going to crowded places. And if you have to, choose a time when rush would be less.”The experts also gave a word of advice for local administration. “Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) should include doctors who are working at ground level in a panel. We can help the civic body in managing patients and giving the right guidance. The top administrative officers need to seek our help,” said Dr Sood.Adding that shortage of beds was a crucial problem in the city, he said, “If mild and moderate patients are getting good treatment telephonically during home isolation, beds will be available for critical patients who genuinely need them.”Dr Agrawal stressed that the city needed more ambulances having oxygen facility and ICU on wheels. “It is unfortunate that people have to wait for hours to get an ambulance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coming-days-might-be-grimmer-be-ultracautious-experts/articleshow/78112683.cms||Manka Behl
September 15, 2020||Jaipur||Walled City markets will down shutters by 7.30pm||JAIPUR: Shops in Walled City market areas will now down their shutters at 7.30pm because of rising Covid cases in the city. Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh consisting businessmen of 40 markets in Walled City and its surrounding areas took a unanimous decision to shut the markets by 7.30 pm from Monday. There is no definite timing for opening of the shops, but the closing time has now been decided. Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh president Subhash Goyal said, “We have to take precautions. However, eateries and small food outlets are being allowed to keep their shops open till late at night as their items are perishable.” The Jaipur Mahasangh, which is the market association of shops outside Walled City, will hold a meeting on Tuesday to decide on their working hours. Around 100 markets across Jaipur are part of this association. Jaipur Mahasangh secretary Ravi Naiyyar said, “We are planning to keep shops open from 11 am to 8 pm. There will be holiday on Sundays. This will definitely affect our business but the condition of coronavirus in the city is miserable. People are not getting beds in hospitals. So, it is better to think about lives and we can do the business later.” However, many businessmen in the city are worried that if they have to close their shops on Sundays, online markets will have a field day. “This is not a good solution to shut the market on weekends as most working-class people get time on Sundays for purchasing. It will be better to at least allow a few hours of trading on weekends as well.” Both the market associations have decided to write to collector Antar Singh to implement this order officially. Singh said, “We have not received any written request from any market associations. If we will receive any formal request, I will take it to the government to take further action. It is not possible to shut down liquor shops before 8 pm or on Sundays as their timings are fixed by the government. We are still looking into the issue.” Last week, many market associations in Jaipur had voluntarily decided to shut the market early. It was done by different markets at their level. It includes Jhotwara, Raja Park, Mahesh Nagar, Jayanti Market, Sanjay Bazaar and Bapu Nagar market associations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/walled-city-markets-to-shut-down-shutters-by-7-30pm/articleshow/78115293.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Now Rs500 fine for not wearing mask in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Following the orders of state home minister Anil Deshmukh, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has increased the fine for not wearing mask in public places from Rs200 to Rs500. The municipal commissioner issued a notification in this regard on Monday. People will have to wear mask on roads, shops, malls, parks etc compulsorily. The powers to levy fine have been given to nuisance detection squads (NDSs) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), sanitation inspectors and their seniors, NMC assistant commissioners and their seniors, police sub-inspectors and their senior officers. After noticing that Rs200 fine was not deterring people from violating compulsory mask rule despite drives launched by the police and NMC, Deshmukh directed to increase the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-rs500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/78112679.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Goa||Pernem tunnel restored, train route to resume soon in Goa||MARGAO: Nearly 40 days after the wall of the Pernem tunnel collapsed, paralysing train traffic along the Konkan Railway route, restoration work of the tunnel has been completed. Train traffic on the route is now expected to resume soon. “Train movement on this route is likely to resume by Tuesday evening,” Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd’s deputy general manager, public relations, Baban Ghatge told TOI. The spell of heavy rain earlier this month had decelerated restoration work. Train traffic along the Konkan Railway route, which was earlier suspended until August 20, was later extended to September 10. “There was considerable delay in erecting the formwork for the RCC work of the lined wall. However, despite heavy rains during the last few days, the RCC work was completed and the track is now ready for movement of traffic,” a Konkan Railway official said. The constrained working area available inside the tunnel added to the difficulties in the restoration work, sources said. On August 6, a 5m stretch of the wall inside the tunnel caved in, paralysing train traffic along the route. Since then several special trains have either been cancelled or diverted via the South Western Railway route. The 1.56 km-long Pernem tunnel was built largely in soft soil strata. The collapsed portion of the tunnel lined wall lies 300m inside from the Mangalore end of the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-tunnel-restored-train-route-to-resume-soon/articleshow/78115291.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Jamshedpur||Truck lifters’ gang held in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: Jharkhand and Odisha police arrested members of an inter-state tipper truck lifters’ gang during a joint operation on Sunday. Sources said Barbil resident Vijay Kumar Dhal had lodged an FIR at the local police station in Odisha on August 30, regarding the theft of his tipper truck. According to the investigation, the gang used to lift tipper trucks from the mining area of Barbil and bring them to a motor garage in Baliguma, where the trucks were dismantled and their parts sold as scrap. Police have arrested three persons — Desua alias Sagar of West Singhbhum, Pammi Gagrai alias Pankaj of Haat Gamhariha and Ranjan Pandit of Baliguma — for the theft. The three have revealed the name of two more members of their gang and a hunt is on to nab them. Meanwhile, cases of snatching are again on the rise in the Steel City. Bike-borne goons snatched the purse from a student, Dipika, near the Tar Company gate on Sunday. Snatchers had also targeted Ulidih resident Ravi Chopra when he came out of a bank after withdrawing some money. But swift reaction from Ravi thwarted the attempt of the goons. Another resident, Vikki Sharma, was attacked by bike-borne miscreants near Sonari aerodrome. The goons snatched his mobile phone and fled from the spot before he could react. Sources said that seven vehicles were stolen from various parts of the city in the last fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/truck-lifters-gang-held-in-steel-city/articleshow/78122744.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||Tepid response from pvt docs greets dist admin’s Covid plea||Jamshedpur: Even though Covid-19 cases have crossed the 10,000-mark in East Singhbhum, private doctors are unwilling to extend their services despite the administration’s appeal “owing to the state government’s failure to provide them with social security”. Recently, DC Suraj Kumar held meetings with the representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) in order to motivate them to join hands with the administration in the latter’s fight against the deadly virus. Kumar has even requested the doctors and the para medics for their volunteer service but the response has not been good. “The doctors are not willing to come forward for volunteer service since the Union and the state governments’ attitude towards the families of those, who died while serving Covid-19 patients, has been discouraging,” IMA (Jamshedpur) president Umesh Khan said. An IMA functionary preferring anonymity said that no doctor will be willing to offer his/her services unless the state government provides social security to the family members of a doctor who dies on duty. Another IMA functionary cited the example of Dr Virendra Seth, who died on June 1 while serving a Covid patient at a community health centre in Dumaria, for the doctors’ being wary of volunteer service. “Seth’s death case has proved how serious the government is when it comes providing social security to the doctors’ kin.” Seth’s family allegedly has not received any compensation yet. Although he tested negative for Covid-19 following his death, IMA claims that Dr Seth died after being exposed to the virus while treating the infected patients. Besides Seth, in the past one month, the district has witnessed the death of a former civil surgeon, M M Agarwal, and a serving doctor, J P Lal, due to Covid-19. Besides the spike in cases, hospitals like Kantilal Gandhi Memorial Hospital — which was recently taken over by Tata Steel following the exit of Medica and converted into a 120-bed dedicated Covid care centre — for instance, are battling manpower shortage. Noting that nearly 100 more doctors are required at the moment to serve the Covid-19 patients, Dr Khan said the government should appoint the doctors on an ad hoc basis at least. “In Bihar, the Nitish Kumar-led government has appointed more doctors and nurses to meet the shortage of healthcare professionals. I hope our state government will make a similar move shortly,” Dr Khan added. According to IMA, there are close to 2,000 practising doctors in the district, of which 1,400 are members of the IMA. As of Monday morning, the district had recorded 10,660 cases, of which 3,065 were active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tepid-response-from-pvt-docs-greets-dist-admins-covid-plea/articleshow/78113900.cms||B Sridhar
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||Counselling before discharge to address plasma donation fears||Ranchi: In the wake of plasma shortage, the state health department on Monday directed all the Covid care centres (private as well as the state-run hospitals) to counsel those cured of coronavirus before they are discharged and encourage them to donate their plasma. All the deputy commissioners, civil surgeons, the director at Rims, principals of all medical colleges, along with the administrators of Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur and the BCCL Hospital in Dhanbad have been asked to make all the necessary arrangements at their respective premises to counsel the patients before they are discharged. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “As many as 46,000 patients have recovered and 14,000 are currently undergoing treatment across various Covid-19 hospitals in Jharkhand. But we have got a poor response as far as plasma donation is concerned. I have directed the authorities concerned to encourage the patients to donate their plasma in order to save lives.” He added, “If a recovered patient is encouraged by the doctors, who have treated him and cured him of the infection, he/she is more likely to donate plasma. Instead of the plasma helpline centres calling them up and asking them to donate plasma, the doctors will educate him by presenting examples of people who have donated their plasma following their recovery and how it has helped scores of patients.” The health department has also directed all the Covid care hospitals to apprise the patients about the plasma helpline centres and of the designated donation centres set up by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/counselling-before-discharge-to-address-plasma-donation-fears/articleshow/78113609.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||Recoveries soar, no. of active cases in Jharkhand down by 1,500 in a week||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded six Covid casualties — three in East Singhbhum and one each in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Ramgarh — and 1,263 fresh infections in 24 hours until 10pm on Monday. However, in some respite for the health authorities, the number of active cases fell by almost 1,500 in a week with the state consistently reporting more recoveries than new cases. The number of active cases had hit an all-time high of 15,545 cases on September 4, but with 7,441 new cases and 10,562 recoveries in six days (including 1,529 on Monday), the figure has now fallen to 14,064. The cumulative caseload in Jharkhand is 62,737, of which 48,112 (76.68%) have recovered and 561 (0.89%) have died. The state’s positivity ration recorded a marginal fall from around 6% with 5.6% of 22,479 samples tested returning a positive result on Monday. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to dominate the numbers of new cases on Monday with a total of 263 and 151 samples testing positive for the virus. Giridih and Garhwa reported 107 and 73 cases respectively and Ramgarh continued its streak with fresh infections with 99 cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/recoveries-soar-no-of-active-cases-in-jharkhand-down-by-1500-in-a-week/articleshow/78114717.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||Increase no. of Covid beds, authorities tell BGH amid reports of slump in service||Bokaro: The district administration on Monday directed the Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) to increase the number of Covid bed and assign newly-appointed doctors on Covid duty to check the rising number of infections in the district. DC Rajesh Kumar Singh said the rise in the number of cases, mostly symptomatic, has caused a shortage of beds in BGH, which is the only designated Covid hospital in the district. He also appealed to the private hospitals to join the fight against the deadly virus by not refusing to treat Covid patients. As of Monday, the district has a total of 3,057 cases, of which 447 are active and 2,591 have recovered. Another 19 persons have also died from the disease. Currently, BGH has dedicated 90 beds supported by ventilators. It is treating only symptomatic patients and has successfully cured 800 persons so far. Asymptomatic patients are treated in the Covid care centres. The hospital has four Covid wards including a CCU besides a dedicated operation theatre for positive patients. Of the 19 Covid deaths in the district, 50% of them died in BGH while the rest died in other hospitals after BGH referred them there. With the increasing number of cases, including over 100 employees of BSL, which runs the hospital, and lack of motivation and manpower, treatment standards at BGH, have seen deterioration. Many patients are also turned away, citing lack of beds. To increase the manpower, the hospital conducted walk-in-interviews last month and recruited 14 doctors on contract basis. Assessing the situation, DC Singh held a meeting with district civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak, Chas sub-divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh and top BGH officials recently and took decisions related to shortage of beds, manpower crisis, sampling and tests, proper treatment and care of patients. Talking to TOI, the DC said, “After assessing the situation, I have asked BGH to increase the bed capacity and deploy the newly recruited doctors in treatment of infected persons. BGH is a performer and in this situation, it can prove its mettle in this testing time.” He further asked the hospital to enhance its treatment quality to the satisfaction levels of the patients. Food and water should be arranged for each patient and if possible, attendants should be permitted to help the patients inside the wards after adopting safety measures like wearing of PPE kits, he added. The BGH officials have assured all possible help in treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/increase-no-of-covid-beds-authorities-tell-bgh-amid-reports-of-slump-in-service/articleshow/78114838.cms||Divy Khare
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||Truck lifters’ gang held in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: Jharkhand and Odisha police arrested members of an inter-state tipper truck lifters’ gang during a joint operation on Sunday. Sources said Barbil resident Vijay Kumar Dhal had lodged an FIR at the local police station in Odisha on August 30, regarding the theft of his tipper truck. According to the investigation, the gang used to lift tipper trucks from the mining area of Barbil and bring them to a motor garage in Baliguma, where the trucks were dismantled and their parts sold as scrap. Police have arrested three persons — Desua alias Sagar of West Singhbhum, Pammi Gagrai alias Pankaj of Haat Gamhariha and Ranjan Pandit of Baliguma — for the theft. The three have revealed the name of two more members of their gang and a hunt is on to nab them. Meanwhile, cases of snatching are again on the rise in the Steel City. Bike-borne goons snatched the purse from a student, Dipika, near the Tar Company gate on Sunday. Snatchers had also targeted Ulidih resident Ravi Chopra when he came out of a bank after withdrawing some money. But swift reaction from Ravi thwarted the attempt of the goons. Another resident, Vikki Sharma, was attacked by bike-borne miscreants near Sonari aerodrome. The goons snatched his mobile phone and fled from the spot before he could react. Sources said that seven vehicles were stolen from various parts of the city in the last fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/truck-lifters-gang-held-in-steel-city/articleshow/78115203.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||HC rejects bail plea of 2 terror-funding accused over security concerns||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Monday dismissed the bail plea of Manoj Yadav and Pradeep Ram, accused in a terror funding case being investigated by the National Investigating Agency (NIA). The two have been charged having links with banned extremist organizations in the state. A division bench of Justices H C Mishra and Rajesh Kumar had earlier reserved its order in the case. While Yadav worked as a contractor with a construction and a real estate company, Ram worked as a liaison between the extremists and contractors around Giridih district, the NIA has said. Yadav has been alleged to be close with Maoist rebel Krishna Hansda and he used to collect levy and money from contractors and businessmen in the area. The case was originally registered in the Dumri police station in January 2018, but was taken over by the NIA six months later. Yadav was arrested with a cash of Rs 6 lakhs and documents showing his involvement with the members of the naxalite organization. Ram is also alleged to have negotiated deals between contractors and the extremists. “It is well known that the levy collected by CPI (Maoist) is being used for the purchase of arms and ammunition, explosives, recruitment of new cadres to expand the influence of the outfit and carrying out disruptive activities which threaten the security, sovereignty and integrity of India,” the counsel for the NIA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-2-terror-funding-accused-over-security-concerns/articleshow/78114958.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||Village women lynch former PLFI operative in Gumla||Gumla: A former PLFI operative, Sandeep Tirkey, was lynched by a group of women at Taisera village under Town police station on Monday. The deceased, who belonged to the same village, had reportedly threatened villagers after one of his accomplices was nabbed by police recently. Tirkey himself had come out of jail only a few months ago. The villagers had recently caught Tirkey’s aide Puran Sahu and had handed him over to the cops. Sahu was allegedly involved in extorting money from villagers. The latter decided to act against Sahu after he snatched a mobile phone from a boy on Friday. They called police and the mobile phone along with a country-made pistol was recovered from Sahu’s possession. Following the seizure, Sahu was arrested. Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan said, “Annoyed with Tirkey’s threats, the women beat him up... The lynching took place between 7.00am and 7.30am on Monday.” Women wielding sticks chased Tirkey and beat him to death, the SP added. “There are at least 7 cases — including murder, extortion and kidnapping — against Tirkey at Gumla Town police station. He was an old PLFI operative. Although he was no longer directly active in the squad, but he still threatened villagers in the name of PLFI.” Janardhanan said. In the past, Tirkey also had run-ins with PLFI operatives. He lost five members of his family when PLFI men attacked his house and killed his mother, sister-in-law and brother, among others, in 2011. It is said that Tirkey had a fallout with the then PLFI area commander Bhushan Lakra, who was active in Raidih police station area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/village-women-lynch-former-plfi-operative-in-gumla/articleshow/78115027.cms||K A Gupta
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||CM on 3-day Dumka tour ahead of bypolls||Ranchi/Dumka: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday reached Dumka on a three-day visit ahead of the upcoming bypolls for this prestigious assembly seat. Hemant is also expected to visit Bermo, also due for a bypoll following the death of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May. After winning two seats in the assembly elections, Soren vacated Dumka and retained Barhait. The CM is scheduled to launch a series of welfare projects and interact with the people during the visit, which assumes importance in the backdrop of the ongoing legacy war within the Soren family. Last week, JMM’s Jama MLA and Hemant’s sister in-law Sita Soren accused the party and the government of corruption. Sources close to Soren said he will gauge the public mood and mobilize party cadres for the polls. The Election Commission (EC) is yet to announce the poll dates for these seats, but both the ruling and opposition camps are gearing up to launch groundwork anticipating a formal announcement along with the Bihar assembly elections later this month. Soren flew to Dumka on Monday afternoon and held a meeting with locals. On Tuesday, he will attend over half a dozen public programmes in different parts of the Dumka constituency. On Wednesday, he will inaugurate three operation theatres and other facilities at the newly constructed Dumka Medical College and Hospital, which has now been renamed to Fulo Jhano Medical College and Hospital. He will also inaugurate a sewing training centre for women in Haripur panchayat and hand over credit linkages to women self-help groups, an official statement from the chief minister’s office said. While JMM’s will field candidates in Dumka, ally Congress will contest Bermo. On Monday, state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, wrapping up his two-day tour to the constituency, said, “The purpose of the visit is to activate our party cadres before the polls. I have given them several tasks with focus on micro-level people connect to cement our position. Bermo has been our traditional seat and we will retain it.” Party’s spokespersons Alok Dubey and Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said, “The state government’s work in the last seven months despite the pandemic and BJP’s wrongdoings during its tenure along with the exemplary works by our late MLA (Rajendra Singh) will set the tone for elections.” Opposition BJP will also begin booth-level meetings in both constituencies soon as the saffron camp is currently awaiting a nod from the high command to decide whether to go solo or with Ajsu Party. The two had contested last year’s assembly elections separately owing to differences in the seat-sharing equations. While Ajsu Party is keeping its cards close and waiting for the poll announcement, another NDA constituent, JD(U), has already begun pressurizing BJP by demanding one seat “in the larger interest of alliance”. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that an attempt will be made to contest together. “BJP has always worked in the interest of its alliance partners. This time too we will try our best to ensure a single opposition candidate,” he said, adding that the party has began poll preparations months back by reconstituting booth-level committees, holding virtual meetings assembly sector wise among others. “The tide is brewing against the coalition government and it won’t be cakewalk for them on either of the two seats this time. Public will fight for us this election,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-on-3-day-dumka-tour-ahead-of-bypolls/articleshow/78113980.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||Govt defends land mutation bill, but alliance MLA says it’s ‘black law’||Ranchi: After voicing his resentment against the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill 2020 passed by the cabinet last week, Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey on Sunday said he will lead protests on Tuesday across all 22 circle offices of Ranchi district against the alleged corruption by land and revenue officials. Tirkey, who joined Congress after winning the Mandar seat on a JVM-P ticket, claimed that hundreds of tribal and land rights activists from several groups will be part of the protests to demand punitive action against the “corrupt” officials. The bill, which will be tabled in the upcoming assembly session for clearance, contains provisions to provide immunity against the officials. The government has, however, defended the bill saying it is aimed for greater reforms and not to protect guilty officials. Talking to TOI, Tirkey said, “There have been glaring lapses and acts of corruption and land loot in connivance with officials in the circle offices which need to be curbed. After touring across the constituency in the past few months, I have come across several instances where a person’s land is being usurped by land sharks in connivance with government officials posted at the circle offices through wrong mutation and registration. Mostly poor landholders and tribals, who are unaware of the nitty-gritty, are the main victims.” Vehemently opposing the bill, he said it will prove to be a black law as it has provisions to provide immunity to land and revenue department officials. Congress, which is part of the government in alliance with JMM and RJD, has, however, maintained a distance with from his remarks. Talking to reporters, finance minister and state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said the party will have a meeting of its MLAs on Thursday will chalk out modalities of the party’s stand in the upcoming assembly session. He said, “If anyone has any issues or problems with the functioning of the government or has any suggestions, they must put it forward at this meeting so that we can clear their doubts.” Opposition BJP, too, had demanded the withdrawal of the bill and threatened to launch statewide protests if it is tabled in the House. Land, revenue and registration department secretary K K Soan on Monday evening convened a press meet to clarify government’s stand on the bill and said, “There are misconceptions among certain people but the bill is aimed at greater reforms in the land registration department and not to safeguard any official accused of wrongdoing.” Stressing on the need for a new land mutation law, Soan said the existing law was enacted in 1973 and does not have provisions of online mutation and payment of royalties among others. “The new bill has all those provisions and prescribed time limits for compliance of work in the interest of the public, failing which the official concerned will be held accountable,” he said. On the key charge of immunity to the officials, he said, “Although Section 22 of the bill has this provision, there is a sub-section in it, giving powers to the state government to take action if anyone is involved in any wrongdoing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-defends-land-mutation-bill-but-alliance-mla-says-its-black-law/articleshow/78113395.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 15, 2020||Ranchi||DSPMU starts semester exams, tells students to report 1 hr prior to tests||Ranchi: The Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University on Monday started conducting its semester-end examinations with strict measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection among students and staff members of its affiliated colleges. The exercise will continue till October 14. For prevention of Covid-19, the university has issued a set of guidelines for the examinees, including compulsory wearing of masks, bringing sanitizers and drinking water to the examination hall and maintaining social distancing during the examination. The students have been also been asked to come one hour early. Invigilators will also wear face shields, headgears, gloves and masks. The university is holding two sessions of examination in a day with one paper in each session. The examinees are made to sit diagonally with a gap of one bench to ensure a six-feet distance among them. Vice-chancellor of the university, S N Munda, said the examinations are conducted in larger rooms of the university to easily maintain social distancing. He stated, “We are calling around 250 students per session and not accommodating more than 40 students in a room. We have also made provision for masks and sanitizer bottles for the students.” Munda said the examination started with the sixth semester of undergraduate courses which will be followed by fourth-semester examinations of post-graduate students. Examinations for languages like Oriya, Urdu and tribal and regional languages will be conducted in the initial phases, he added. Meanwhile, Dr Shayma Prasad Mukherjee Chhatra Sangh members said at a first glance, the arrangement for the examinations seem satisfactory but said they will try to get feedback from the examinees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dspmu-starts-semester-exams-tells-students-to-report-1-hr-prior-to-tests/articleshow/78113816.cms||---
September 15, 2020||India||‘China laying optical fibre cables south of Pangong Tso to boost communication’||NEW DELHI: Two Indian officials said Chinese troops were laying a network of optical fibre cables at a western Himalayan flashpoint with India, suggesting they were digging in for the long haul despite high-level talks aimed at resolving a standoff there. Such cables, which would provide forward troops with secure lines of communication to bases in the rear, have recently been spotted to the south of Pangong Tso in the Himalayan region of Ladakh, a senior government official said. An Indian official said the authorities were alerted to such activity after satellite imagery showed unusual lines in the sand of the high-altitude deserts. “They have been laying optical fibre cables on the southern bank at breakneck speed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-laying-optical-fibre-cables-south-of-pangong-tso-to-boost-communication/articleshow/78116675.cms||---
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Covid cases in Vid @1L, and it’s not a peak yet||Nagpur: Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha surpassed one lakh landmark on Monday. Looking at the present pace of surge in daily cases, experts as well as authorities have predicted that the 11 districts of the region have much more to see in next two weeks. In short, one lakh is a landmark, but not peak; and we must be extremely careful for at least next two to four weeks. After Konkan (which includes Mumbai), Western Maharashtra (Pune included) and Khandesh (having Malegaon/Nashik), Vidarbha is the fourth region in Maharashtra to surpass one lakh mark in Covid-19 cases. Now, Marathwada is the only region where Covid-19 cases are still in five-figure. Just like Mumbai being the hotspot for Konkan region and Pune for Western Maharashtra, Nagpur has turned out to be the hotspot for Vidarbha. The district alone accounts for more than 55% cases in the region and 65% Covid deaths. More than 70% recovery rate is a strong-point for Vidarbha, but the steady case fatality rate and widespread deaths are increasing worries. Nagpur, Akola and Amravati were the three big cities of the region where Covid-19 toll was high until August-end. But, September has seen deaths coming from all districts. Even tribal-dominated Gadchiroli, which had only one Covid death till September 10, now has seven fatalities. After Nagpur, Akola, Amravati, and comparatively smaller district like Yavatmal have seen more than 150 deaths individually till date. Chandrapur, Bhandara and Buldhana are moving towards 100-mark, while Gondia, Wardha and Washim have 50+ deaths to their account. Covid scare has also made people from Yavatmal, Washim, and Amravati to go for ‘self-imposed lockdown’. In Yavatmal, District Chamber of Commerce has decided to keep markets closed for five days from September 15, while markets will be closed in Washim from September 16 to 20. Amravati is already observing weekend lockdowns for months now. “We should not be worried about the number of cases as far as the recovery rate is good. Cases are growing because our testing capacity has increased. Now, we are testing more than 20,000 samples daily in Vidarbha. We are worried about the casualties,” said a member of Covid task force in Nagpur. According to divisional health authorities in Nagpur, fatalities in the district are on the rise because 70% of the deceased had reported in critical condition. “More than 25% cases in Nagpur were brought dead. Late reporting makes it difficult to save patients despite having emergency health facilities,” said a senior official from health department. “Controlling deaths due to Covid-19 is our top priority,” said Nagpur collector Ravindra Thakare. “For this, early reporting to hospitals is a must. We will focus on bringing patients to hospitals at early stage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cases-in-vid-1l-and-its-not-a-peak-yet/articleshow/78115462.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 15, 2020||India||Amid Taliban talks, US special representative for Afghanistan reaches Delhi||NEW DELHI: As the formal intra-Afghan negotiations, Taliban's first ever direct talks with the Kabul government, commenced in Doha Monday, US special representative for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad arrived in India to hold discussions on the peace process which is crucial for the US plans for withdrawal from the war-ravaged country by 2021. India had on Saturday participated in the inauguration of the dialogue with foreign ministers S Jaishankar addressing the gathering virtually and MEA joint secretary J P Singh, who handles Afghanistan, travelling to Doha to physically attend the event. Despite its reservations about the US' direct engagement of the Taliban, bypassing the elected government in Kabul, India had attended the US-Taliban peace deal in February this year too. Khalilzad will call on Jaishankar Tuesday and also hold discussions with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on recent developments in Afghanistan. The US envoy arrived in India from Pakistan where he had a meeting with Pakistan army chief Qamar Bajwa. According to Pakistan, Khalilzad "greatly" appreciated Pakistan’s role in the ongoing peace process and said that it could not have succeeded without Pakistan’s "sincere and unconditional support". While India, with its $ 3 billion development assistance commitment to Afghanistan, has been supportive of the peace talks in Doha, it remains concerned about Pakistan's links with the Taliban. Some of these concerns will be outlined before Khalilzad in the meetings Tuesday. In his address Saturday, Jaishankar had said India's expectation was that the Afghan soil will not be used for any anti-India activity. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was quoted as saying in an interview on Monday that the US had two main objectives from the peace talks. "One is to get our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines — get everybody home. Stop getting people killed there...and the other is to protect the homeland. I think we’re, today, on our way to putting America in a place where we can do both of those things,” Pompeo told Breitbart News.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-taliban-talks-us-special-representative-for-afghanistan-reaches-delhi/articleshow/78116679.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Education minister defends degree despite ‘0’ MCQ score||NAGPUR: Minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant defended Nagpur University’s decision to award degrees to final year students even if they score a ‘zero’ in multiple choice question (MCQ) tests. The examinees had attended classes till March last week and also completed internals and practicals, he said. TOI had on September 11 reported how even a ‘zero’ score in MCQ would ensure a degree for students. If they score 14/20 marks in their internal exams, which would be converted into 50%, and calculated along with MCQ test marks scored by the examinee. Interacting with media after a review meeting with top NU officials, including vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari, Samant, however, clarified that government has not issued any instructions to universities to decide on their marking scheme, considering their autonomy. Quoting Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable said NU can’t have separate passing marks for theory and internals as per rules and, therefore, they will take both marks into consideration before awarding degrees. Samant added that UGC had granted four options to conduct exams — including open book and taking papers at home. On whether recruiters would accept such graduates, who will be awarded degrees even with a zero score in MCQ, he said government would act if such candidates are discriminated. “The mark sheet will reflect combined marks of internal and MCQ. We have given directives in this regard to universities,” he said, adding he still holds the opinion that exams should have been cancelled in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Stressing that all exam-related decisions were taken in consultation with VCs’ panel, led by Mumbai University VC Suhas Pednekar, the minister said about 90-92% students were ready to appear for online papers. “About 8-10% may not be able to appear due to natural disasters like floods or poor net connectivity. A provision of offline exams has been made for such students. Even supplementary exams would be held for failure students in 15 days. About 77,925 students, including failures, would appear in NU exams, which we can’t stretch beyond October 31,” he said, while applauding NU administration for their preparations. CM to meet all-party netas on Maratha quota stay Commenting on Supreme Court verdict on staying Maratha quota in jobs and admissions, Samant said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already conducted meetings with various organizations and he would soon be interacting with leaders of all parties, including his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis on the issue. Samant, however, refused to speak on whether the government would bring an ordinance, as suggested by veteran leader Sharad Pawar, in this regard. “Entire picture on the apex court’s decision would be cleared within a week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-min-defends-degree-despite-0-mcq-score/articleshow/78115495.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||After Jai, his corridor too all set to become history||Nagpur: The state forest department has been caught napping once again, with public works department (PWD) on the brink of destroying the mother of all corridors by widening the road between Nilaj T-point and Paoni towards Bhandara. The 15km forested patch on NH-247 is one of the most functional corridors connecting Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), Bramhapuri forest division and Ghodazari wildlife sanctuary near Nagbhid. “There have been several dispersals of tigers, both male and females, from Bramhapuri and Tadoba to Umred-Paoni-Karhandla wildlife sanctuary (189 sq km) and vice versa, even before the latter sanctuary was notified in June 2012. Due to the topography of tiger-corridor with respect to this road, there is no alternate alignment possible. If this road is widened without mitigation measures, it will threaten the long-term viability of tigers in this PA,” warns wildlife biologist Aditya Joshi. Umred-Karhandla is relatively a small area and is highly dependent on Tadoba and Bramhapuri for maintaining its tiger population. The death of a sub-adult tiger in a territorial fight on Friday with a bigger male T-22 from Bramhapuri proves tigers have been moving in and out of Umred-Karhandla through Paoni forested patch. T-22 regained its territory after leaving the sanctuary in 2009. “This is the corridor frequently used by iconic tiger Jai and his two siblings Bittu and Shriniwas. The latter was electrocuted in a farm near Nagbhid in April 2017. If mitigation structures are not constructed, tigers will be forced to move through farms and there will be more deaths due to electrocution and road hits too,” cautioned Joshi. NH-247 moves in a U-shape from Saoner-Kamptee-Mauda-Kuhi-Wadoda-Umred-Nilaj-Paoni-Adyal-Bhandara. According to PWD officials, this road has been expanded in patches, and work completed in Bhandara-Ramtek and Dahegaon-Khaparkheda-Kamptee. Sources told TOI tree felling on Paoni-Nilaj patch is to start soon. Even expanding the existing 7-meter road to 10-meter will lead to the felling of thousands of trees. Despite thin traffic, the road is being widened, said some environmentalists. “The road work was sanctioned in 2017-18 and we have completed 40% work on the highway. We have written to the forest department several times on the status of land between Paoni-Nilaj but have not received any communication on its status,” says executive engineer Naresh Borkar. Borkar said, “Even now we are ready to take mitigation measures if forest department insists. We were the first to point out Paoni-Nilaj road was a corridor because we were asked to construct two structures between Nagbhid-Armori. Both roads are parallel, connecting each other to reach Bramhapuri through agriculture fields and forest area.” A senior PWD officer said on condition of anonymity, “In 2017, when we had asked then field director of Pench about mitigation steps, he had said no mitigation measures were needed and only slab culverts would do.” Vivek Hoshing, former deputy conservator of Bhandara, had conducted a joint survey in July with PWD officials between forest patches of Paoni-Nilaj and Daudipar-Adyal. “These forests were already denotified way back in 1902 and 1908 for roads,” Hoshing says. CCF, Nagpur Circle, P Kalyan Kumar said, “I will have to verify what Hoshing says. However, even if the forest was dereserved, there is no doubt it’s a functional corridor, and the user agency will require NOC from the forest department. We have not granted it yet.” The report titled ‘Collars & Crossing Zones’ released in May 2017 by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, recommended animal underpasses. “A breakdown in the connectivity within these landscapes may endanger the ecosystem and gravely affect the landscape and population dynamics. The report was based on radio collar data of two tigers from Umred-Karhandla. These tigers used over 3,000 sq km area using roads, railway line, canals, and transmission lines,” it revealed. PCCF’s Role Crucial NTCA on November 28, 2018, asked chief wildlife wardens to assert on Section 38 (O) (1) (b) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 which says, “Evaluate and assess various aspects of sustainable ecology and disallow any ecologically unsustainable and use such as mining, industry, and other projects within the tiger reserve.” Secondly, NTCA said, Section 38 (O) (1) (g) of the WPA states, “Ensure that the tiger reserves and areas linking one protected area or tiger reserve with another protected area or tiger reserve is not diverted for ecologically unsustainable uses, except in public interest, and with the approval of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) and on the advice of the NTCA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-jai-his-corridor-too-all-set-to-become-history/articleshow/78115512.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 15, 2020||India||35 years after AGP, Aasu launches AJP||GUWAHATI: Thirty-five years after its historic anti-foreigner agitation culminated in the birth of the AGP, the All Assam Students’ Union on Monday threw its political hat back in the ring with the launch of a regional party christened Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) in collaboration with the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad. AJP rhymes with AGP in more ways than one. Just like its three-decades-old predecessor, the party’s genesis lies in unrest – the anti-CAA agitation that had kept Assam on the boil for months before a pandemic stalled its progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/35-years-after-agp-aasu-launches-ajp/articleshow/78116689.cms||Kangkan Kalita
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University excludes 5,000 external students from Oct exams||NAGPUR: Even as the Nagpur University is conducting examinations of its final year students, it has left nearly 5,000 external students along with those pursuing one-year degree courses in a quandary. The university’s exams would commence from October 1 and continue till October 18, while results would be out by October 31. A circular issued by NU Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable on September 8 regarding conduct of exams clearly mentioned that papers of external students wouldn’t be held and they would be allowed to appear in regular papers in future. The director clarified the decision was taken by a ten-member task force constituted by vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari for holding the delayed exams. Sable said papers of external students could not be conducted with final year exams as they lacked the practical component. “Currently, our exams are being conducted as per the 50:50 formula where internal marks are a major component. Since external students don’t have any practical/internal in their syllabus, they can’t be fitted into the scheme of exams as per 50:50 formula,” he said. The director, however, assured the students their exams would be held once the Covid-19 pandemic situation was normalized. “We are planning to hold their papers along with our winter exams or even before that. We will not put them at any loss,” he said. Sable said about 3,500 such students were enrolled in BA courses, some 700-800 in MA courses and a small number in LLM course. “Actually, the university had granted external students much flexibility. They can even take admissions in summer and don’t have to attend college. Therefore, there are no practical or internal exams for them. If we try to fit such students into the current scheme of 50:50 exams, they would face difficulties,” he explained. Calling NU’s move as an “injustice”, the students said they would be at a loss. They have shot off a letter to state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, who was in the city on Monday. “We will lose the entire academic year for no fault of ours. We request you to direct the NU administration to conduct our exams simultaneously along with other students,” they wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-excludes-5k-external-students-from-oct-exams/articleshow/78115532.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 15, 2020||India||Covid may leave 100 million women in extreme poverty by 2021: UN||NEW DELHI: An estimated 87 million women and girls are living in extreme poverty in 2020 in India and this number is expected to increase to around 100 million by 2021 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, as per new data released recently by UN Women and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The data is part of a UN Women report — “From Insights to Action: Gender Equality in the wake of COVID-19”. The report on 129 countries shows that the pandemic will push 96 million people into extreme poverty by 2021, 47 million of whom are women and girls. Citing the India data, it said that the pre-pandemic poverty rate for females was 13.3% vs 12.1% for males. By 2021, 14.7% women and girls will be living in extreme poverty in India in comparison to 13.7% men. As per the report extreme poverty, defined as living on less than $1.90 a day, is expected to increase substantially due to Covid-19 at the global level. These estimates of poverty by sex and age are based on a sample of 129 countries and areas accounting for 89% of the global population, where extreme poverty is most applicable. The regional coverage majorly includes central and southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa as well as some countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. In India, the poverty rate for women aged 25 to 34 is estimated to be 12% in 2020, equivalent to around 13.4 million women aged 25 to 34 living in extreme poverty. By 2021, the poverty rate of women aged 25-34 is expected to increase to 14% bringing the total count to 15.2 million. These numbers translate into 120 extreme poor women for every 100 poor men in 2021, a ratio that is expected to worsen to 129 poor women per 100 poor women in 2030. It is stated that at the current pace, it will take India another 37 years to close the gender poverty gap among individuals of ages 25 to 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-may-leave-100-million-women-in-extreme-poverty-by-2021-un/articleshow/78116697.cms||Ambika Pandit
September 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Drop in JEE Advanced attendance may benefit students||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 pandemic might just bring a unique opportunity for JEE Advanced candidates, feel some aspirants and coaching institutes. Based on the assumption that the pandemic may result in a dip in the number of students turning up for the exam, which also means slightly less competition. JEE Advanced is scheduled for September 27. For JEE Main, the average attendance is 85%. A coaching institute owner said he believes attendance will fall more for Advanced. “My first assumption is that Covid-19 cases are increasing and parents would be reluctant to send their children. They have already cleared JEE Main, so they may either try for admissions in local colleges or wait till next year,” said the owner. “So for those who do turn up this time, will have thousands upon thousands of fewer competitors,” said the owner. Another coaching institute teacher said that if these assumptions do come true, then it could be a ‘once in a lifetime opportunity’. The teacher said, “At the JEE Advanced level, if you get even a few thousand people less then its welcome. If there is really a sharp drop in attendance where 20,000-30,000 odd students don’t report, then our students can gain advantage.” Approximately 2.5 lakh candidates are deemed eligible for JEE Advanced based on multiple criterion. This number can vary slightly due to various ranking combinations and computations. There are roughly 12,000 seats available in IITs across the country, which makes the competition extremely tough. Almost 10 lakh students first appear for JEE Main, from which around 2.5 lakh are deemed eligible for JEE Advanced. Eligibility for JEE Advanced is subject to five conditions. First is that students must be among 2.5 lakh candidates in JEE Main. Second is about age limit, while third condition is about the number of attempts. This condition restricts the maximum number of attempts to two times in two consecutive years. Next the student has to clear Std XII for the first time either in 2019 or 2020. And the last criteria is related to the candidate not already being admitted to an IIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/drop-in-jee-advanced-attendance-may-benefit-students/articleshow/78115582.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
