September 16, 2020||India||Revived grass root democracy in J&K despite attempts by a country to derail the process: India||GENEVA: India on Tuesday said it has revived grass root democracy and provided a new momentum to social and economic development in Jammu and Kashmir despite persistent attempts by a neighbouring country to infiltrate terrorists to derail this process. Speaking during a debate at the 45th Session of the Human Rights Council, India's permanent representative Indra Mani Pandey also expressed regret over the UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet 's reference to the region. Pandey said that India remains committed to upholding all human rights. He said the human rights agenda and discourse must be pursued in a transparent and impartial manner with respect for national sovereignty and territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs of States. Referring to the abrogation of the Article 370 in 2019 that revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, Pandey said that since the changes, people in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir have been enjoying the same fundamental rights as people in other parts of India. “We have been able to revive grass root democracy and provide a new momentum to social and economic development, despite the challenge posed by COVID-19 pandemic and persistent attempts by one country to infiltrate terrorists to derail this process by all possible means,” he said, in a veiled reference to Pakistan. "Over the past one year, the Government's efforts aimed at socio-economic development and ensuring better governance have yielded unprecedented results. "By extending coverage of positive and affirmative federal legislations and repealing discriminatory or outdated local laws, the Government has reaffirmed its commitment to delivering socio-economic justice to disadvantaged people in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, including women, children, minorities and refugees,” he said. "We regret that the High Commissioner in her oral update made a reference to the situation in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” he added. He noted that as the largest and most vibrant democracy, India has been, since independence, an ardent supporter of human rights. “We have encouraged OHCHR to continue engaging States in a constructive manner, while emphasising the need to specifically avoid politicisation of the discourse on human rights, which is not conducive to achieving our collective goal of promoting and protecting human rights,” he said. "We urge the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to recognise the enormity of challenges that we face due to our large and very diverse population of 1.3 billion and act as our partner in a cooperative and constructive spirit in our endeavour to secure for our people all their basic human rights,” he said. He added that India will continue its constructive engagement with the Council and OHCHR for the promotion and protection of human rights. PTI ZH AKJ Watch Revived grass root democracy in J&K despite attempts to derail the process: India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/revived-grass-root-democracy-in-jk-despite-attempts-by-a-country-to-derail-the-process-india/articleshow/78135931.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||A few Lucknowites adopt the Himalayan Bear at the Zoo||As part of an endeavour to protect wildlife in these testing times, Lucknowite Aviral Jain, along with his fellow club members, has adopted the Himalayan bear housed at the Lucknow zoo. The Lucknow lad along with Khushal Bhargava and Latika Singh, on behalf of the members of the two clubs, handed over a cheque of Rs 60,000 to the RK Singh, the Director Zoo on Tuesday, for meeting the expenses of maintaining and feeding the bear for a complete year. “A crisis affects both humans as well as wildlife. So the main idea is that the compassion and empathy that we need towards humans is equally required by wildlife as well. We can’t detach ourselves from them,” says Aviral, adding, “We strongly believe that the zoo is a big part of our Lucknow heritage. It has been a part of every residents’ childhood. For me it was extra special to go back and be able to help in this capacity. So this was the reason that we got together to pitch in and adopt the animal.” The endangered Himalayan Bear at the Lucknow Zoo (BCCL)Speaking about adopting an endangered species, namely the Himalayan bear, Aviral said, “All the animals were up for adoption but my association chose this bear because it’s endangered. About 40 of us are involved in this initiative from the two circles.” Hailing the gesture, RK Singh, the Zoo Director said, “Since the lockdown, the zoo has also been facing funding issues as our footfall had completely declined. The zoo had put out a request to all the citizens of the city to help and we’re so glad that people have got together to contribute. We have had an overwhelming response with companies like HCL, HAL contributing along with 133 other individuals of the city pitching in. More than Rs 77 lakh have been accumulated from April till now for the upkeep of the animals. It is heartening to see Lucknowite come forward and help these animals under our care.” — Yashi Agarwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-few-lucknowites-adopt-the-himalayan-bear-at-the-zoo/articleshow/78131485.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||Cabinet nod for 122-km Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor project connecting Palwal to Sonipat||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Tuesday approved the 122-km Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor project connecting Palwal to Sonipat via Sohna, Manesar and Kharkhauda. Manesar near Gurgaon and Kharkhauda in Sonipat are two major industrial hubs in Haryana. The broad gauge double railway line for passenger and freight movement will have design speed of 160 kmph and will have the capacity to carry 60 million tonnes of freight and 40 million passengers each way annually. The project will cost around Rs 5,617 crore and it is likely to be completed in five years. Announcing the decision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted in Hindi saying, “This is good news for people of Haryana. The Cabinet has approved the orbital corridor project from Palwal to Sonipat. This will help reduce traffic congestion in the Delhi-NCR and will also help development of multi-modal logistics parks.” The corridor will start from Palwal and end at the existing Harsana Kalan station on Delhi-Ambala section. This will also give connectivity en route to existing Patli station on Delhi-Rewari line, Sultanpur station on Garhi Harsaru-Farukhnagar line and Asaudha Station on Delhi Rohtak line. An official statement said this new railway line will have connectivity with all existing railway routes originating from Delhi and passing through Haryana. This will also have connectivity with the Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) network and will benefit Palwal, Nuh, Gurgaon, Jhajjar and Sonipat districts. “It will provide high-speed seamless connectivity of this region to the DFC network resulting in reduction of cost and time of transportation for EXIM (export-import) traffic from NCR to ports of India, making exports of goods more competitive,” the government said. Though the plan was first announced by then Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda in 2012 to have an orbital rail corridor along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway, the Union Cabinet under Modi had approved the setting up of Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HRIDC) in February in 2016 to implement the project. HRIDC is a joint venture set up by the railway ministry with the Haryana government. Haryana chief minister Manoharlal Khattar tweeted that the project will promote Atmanirbhar Bharat, accelerate economic activities and will attract investment from multi-national industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cabinet-nod-for-122-km-haryana-orbital-rail-corridor-project-connecting-palwal-to-sonipat/articleshow/78136321.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||From food to shelter, 'Rahat' helped govt bring services, care to migrants||LUCKNOW: Even as the state government waged a pitched battle against the pandemic, its efforts were backed by a mobile application called ‘Rahat’ that enabled convergence of various department and facilities, according to a latest concept paper prepared by the state government. According to it, the data of nearly 35 lakh migrants was collected through the application to facilitate the support in terms of food, shelter, health and livelihood in times of the Covid-19 pandemic. Records show that the application has brought as many as nine departments and facilities together on one platform to provide relief to the migrants. The departments were food and civil supplies, urban development, labour, training and employment facility, home, health, Panchayati Raj, CM helpline and rural development. To begin with, data was acquired through the application from the food and civil supplies department to supply ration free of cost to migrants who had an Aadhaar card. Those who did not have it were reached through food inspectors for issuing ration cards and providing free of cost ration. Those who could not be reached by the food and civil supplies department have been reached through the urban development department which supported the programmes to provide nutritional back up to migrants and other people in containment areas. Even the CM helpline has used the application data to monitor the support provided by the government and also for facilitating transport of the returning migrants. At the same time, the labour department pitched in and used the application data to find who had experience in various construction works to engage them in places where they were located. Similarly, the training and employment facility of the state government culled out data for persons having experience in various odd jobs and engaged them accordingly. On the other hand, the home department kept a close watch on the movement of people in the state and coordinated with other departments in providing relief to the migrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/from-food-to-shelter-rahat-helped-govt-bring-services-care-to-migrants/articleshow/78135322.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 16, 2020||India||India wants Queen's Counsel for Jadhav; Harish Salve fits the bill||NEW DELHI: India has asked Pakistan for appointment of a Queen's Counsel (QC) as lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav in the ICJ-mandated, ongoing review of his death sentence in Islamabad High Court. Senior advocate and former Solicitor General Harish Salve is the natural choice for India as he's the only Indian lawyer to be appointed Queen's Counsel in recent times. As per its legal definition, Queen's Counsel is a barrister, or advocate, appointed Counsel to the Crown on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor and is entitled to sit within the Bar of the court and wear a silk gown. Salve, who represented Jadhav at ICJ too, was appointed Queen's Counsel for the courts of England and Wales in January this year. While he still practises in India, he's based out of London mostly now. While Islamabad has rejected the demand for an Indian lawyer, saying that only a lawyer with licence to practice in Pakistan can represent Jadhav, India believes that a Queen's Counsel may be a way out of this impasse if Pakistan is serious about the Jadhav review. Salve's defence of Jadhav saw the ICJ asking Pakistan for an effective review and reconsideration of the death sentence awarded to him by a military court and also upholding India's demand for consular access to Jadhav. As Salve himself explained in an interview to ToI earlier this year, the title of QC is recognised all over the world. "People know you have to be of a particular class to be recognised by the English system as a QC, so it gives you that kind of stature. Otherwise, how does a client in the Middle East or Malaysia know you are a good lawyer? I am given to understand there is no other Indian citizen practising in both countries who is a QC, but I am not sure, as that would require a lot of research," he had said. As a directive by the Islamabad High Court, Pakistan had asked India to appoint a lawyer and join the court proceedings. India has laid down 3 conditions though for doing so. First, Pakistan must allow an Indian lawyer to represent Jadhav. Second, India must be allowed access to all relevant case documents and, third, unconditional or private access to Jadhav. Meanwhile, reports from Islamabad said Tuesday, that Pakistan's Parliament had extended for 4 months an ordinance that allowed Jadhav to file an appeal against his conviction in the high court. Dawn News reported that The International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance promulgated in May was set to expire on September 17 but the National Assembly on Monday through a voice vote extended it for four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-wants-queens-counsel-for-jadhav-harish-salve-fits-the-bill/articleshow/78136414.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 16, 2020||Raipur||Raipur bookworms keep the pages turning with virtual book meets||In the lockdown, an increasing number of bookworms are taking advantage of online book club culture in Raipur. Many bibliophiles in the city enjoyed book cafes and clubs where they could read their favourite paperback over a cup of coffee, surrounded with people of similar interests, but unfortunately, the pandemic has shifted everything online. Weekly Books News (Sept 7-13)Over 100 members have already registered online for book meets virtually. The group activities are organised once every weekend where they discuss authors, review books and share experiences. For most of these meetings, Zoom is the preferred app. A link is shared to a WhatsApp list or a closed Facebook group. The groups usually rely on people passing on the word to their friends and have an existing member recommend someone new. The owners have had trouble with bots and trolls in the past, which makes them warier about adding new members. But virtual meetups also have their own advantage. People from different cities and even countries can join in, which allows everyone to get a new perspective on things, for instance, how the pandemic is being handled in different places. It’s something they talk about in every meeting, you can’t avoid it, after all. Have reading patterns changed? Are more people reading short stories or lighter reads? There’s definitely a conscious decision to read more upbeat things, but most members seem to be taking this time to finish their long to-be-read lists. “It’s coping with stress. It’s not going to be the same for everyone,” says Jigna, a book club owner. There are members who are reading short stories and novellas which they finish quickly and it gives them a sense of accomplishment. The WhatsApp group allows people to share their daily reads, and feel that sense of achievement when they can say they finished a book. She adds that people in the reading circle are also re-reading some of their favourite books or comforting and familiar reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/raipur-bookworms-keep-the-pages-turning-with-virtual-book-meets/articleshow/78136460.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||Isro plans ways for insurance sector to render services in space domain||NEW DELHI: With the opening up of the Indian space sector for private players, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is now looking at changes that will pave the way for the insurance sector to render services in the space domain. Isro chairman K Sivan, during the inaugural virtual session of International Space Conference and Exhibition ‘Ushering the New Era in Indian Space Sector’ on Tuesday, said, “We are going to cover the entire gamut of space activities through policies. A comprehensive Space Act is required as well as different policies like launch vehicle and space exploration policies are in the pipeline. Also, the existing space policies like Satcom and remote sensing data policies are being amended for greater inclusivity and transparency. Proposed changes will also pave the way for the insurance sector to render services in the space domain as this is absolutely essential for satellite and launch services.” Sivan said that “Department of Space is also working towards creating a formal system to support space sector startups and MSMEs in taking up innovation, research as well as product development This programme, he said, is conceived as “Space Entrepreneurship & Enterprise Development (SEED)”. With the Union Cabinet on June 24 approving participation of the private sector in the entire range of space activities, he said the space industry, various stakeholders, entrepreneurs and investors are eagerly looking for new opportunities in space business, Sivan said till recently all space activities within India were carried out only by the space agency. “We know that the global space economy is on a growth trajectory and our domestic requirements are also growing multifold,” he said. To meet these requirements, it is essential that the private sector must contribute a bigger share in the national space programme and also must have its own programme catering to both national and global requirements, he said. “There was no regulatory body for private sector space activities, but now a formal mechanism has been put in place by unlocking the space sector. We envisage a scenario where the private sector will be a co-traveller in Isro's space mission, and private sector will also be empowered to carry out its own space missions," the Isro chairman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-plans-ways-for-insurance-sector-to-render-services-in-space-domain/articleshow/78136538.cms||Surendra Singh
September 16, 2020||World||In Florida, Biden criticizes Trump for remarks on veterans||TAMPA: Joe Biden is tearing into President Donald Trump for his reported remarks referring to fallen soldiers as “suckers” during a Tuesday campaign visit to the key battleground state of Florida. “Nowhere are his faults more glaring and more offensive, to me at least, than when it comes to his denigration of our service members, veterans, wounded warriors who have fallen,” Biden said at a campaign event with veterans in the Tampa area. It marked Biden's latest reaction on remarks, sourced anonymously and first reported in The Atlantic, describing offensive comments by the president toward fallen and captured US service members, including calling World War I dead at an American military cemetery in France “losers” and “suckers” in 2018. Trump has denied the remarks. But the reported comments, many of which were confirmed independently by The Associated Press, have given Biden an opening to press what Democrats believe may be an opening among veteran voters and military families, who broadly supported Trump in 2016. During the Tuesday event, Biden spoke about his son Beau, who served in the Delaware National Guard and died of a brain tumor in 2015. “He's gone now, but he's no sucker," Biden said. Biden spoke about his experience as vice president escorting military caskets home and working on military issues, and about his own commitments to strengthen the VA and tackle veterans mental health crisis. And he attacked Trump for what he said were failed promises to veterans. “President Trump likes to say he passed VA Choice, but just like everything else he seems to say, it's a figment of his imagination or a flat-out lie,” he said, referencing a program passed under the Obama administration that steers more patients to the private sector. The event kicked off Biden's first trip back to Florida as the Democratic presidential nominee. Later in the day, Biden will hold a Hispanic Heritage Month kickoff event in Kissimmee, near Orlando, as part of an urgent mission to build support among Latinos who could decide the election in one of the nation's fiercest battleground states. A win for Biden in Florida would dramatically narrow Trump's path to reelection. But in a state where elections are often decided by a percentage point, there are mounting concerns that Biden may be slipping, particularly with the state's influential Latino voters. An NBC-Marist poll released last week found Latinos in the state about evenly divided between Biden and Trump. Democrat Hillary Clinton led Trump by a 59% to 36 per cent margin among Latinos in the same poll in 2016 — and Trump won Florida by about 1 percentage point. Hispanic voters in Florida tend to be somewhat more Republican-leaning than Hispanic voters nationwide because of the state's Cuban American population. Nationally, little public polling is available to measure the opinions of Latino voters this year and whether they differ from four years ago. Biden's trip suggests he isn't taking chances in Florida. He's spending his day along the Interstate 4 corridor, which is often where campaigns are won or lost. While Republicans typically post big numbers in the northern and southwestern parts of the state and Democrats are strong in coastal cities, campaigns typically battle it out for every vote in central Florida. Biden's decision to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month in Kissimmee reflects a focus on the state's rapidly growing Puerto Rican community, many of whom relocated to Florida after Hurricane Maria devastated the island in 2017. Biden will likely continue his attacks on Trump for the slow federal response to the hurricane. During a Monday speech about climate change, he made a point of mentioning Puerto Rico. “Our fellow Americans are still putting things back together from the last big storm as they face the next one,” he said. Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez said the party has invested in outreach to Puerto Rican voters by collecting cellphone numbers they believe are connected to those displaced by Maria. “We went to cellphone vendors in Pennsylvania and Florida, and we asked them, 'Give us all the 787 area codes that have been picked up off your cellphone towers for the last month.'” Perez said the party found nearly 300,000 such numbers in Florida and 80,000 in Pennsylvania, another key battleground state. Puerto Ricans may be more open to Biden than Cuban Americans concentrated in Miami, who are attuned to Trump's message that the Democratic ticket would embrace socialism. Indeed, surrogates for the Trump campaign focused on Cuban immigrants during a call with reporters Tuesday ahead of Biden's visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/in-florida-biden-criticizes-trump-for-remarks-on-veterans/articleshow/78136610.cms||---
September 16, 2020||World||In Florida, Biden criticizes Trump for remarks on veterans||TAMPA: Joe Biden is tearing into President Donald Trump for his reported remarks referring to fallen soldiers as “suckers” during a Tuesday campaign visit to the key battleground state of Florida. “Nowhere are his faults more glaring and more offensive, to me at least, than when it comes to his denigration of our service members, veterans, wounded warriors who have fallen,” Biden said at a campaign event with veterans in the Tampa area. It marked Biden's latest reaction on remarks, sourced anonymously and first reported in The Atlantic, describing offensive comments by the president toward fallen and captured US service members, including calling World War I dead at an American military cemetery in France “losers” and “suckers” in 2018. Trump has denied the remarks. But the reported comments, many of which were confirmed independently by The Associated Press, have given Biden an opening to press what Democrats believe may be an opening among veteran voters and military families, who broadly supported Trump in 2016. During the Tuesday event, Biden spoke about his son Beau, who served in the Delaware National Guard and died of a brain tumor in 2015. “He's gone now, but he's no sucker," Biden said. Biden spoke about his experience as vice president escorting military caskets home and working on military issues, and about his own commitments to strengthen the VA and tackle veterans mental health crisis. And he attacked Trump for what he said were failed promises to veterans. “President Trump likes to say he passed VA Choice, but just like everything else he seems to say, it's a figment of his imagination or a flat-out lie,” he said, referencing a program passed under the Obama administration that steers more patients to the private sector. The event kicked off Biden's first trip back to Florida as the Democratic presidential nominee. Later in the day, Biden will hold a Hispanic Heritage Month kickoff event in Kissimmee, near Orlando, as part of an urgent mission to build support among Latinos who could decide the election in one of the nation's fiercest battleground states. A win for Biden in Florida would dramatically narrow Trump's path to reelection. But in a state where elections are often decided by a percentage point, there are mounting concerns that Biden may be slipping, particularly with the state's influential Latino voters. An NBC-Marist poll released last week found Latinos in the state about evenly divided between Biden and Trump. Democrat Hillary Clinton led Trump by a 59% to 36 per cent margin among Latinos in the same poll in 2016 — and Trump won Florida by about 1 percentage point. Hispanic voters in Florida tend to be somewhat more Republican-leaning than Hispanic voters nationwide because of the state's Cuban American population. Nationally, little public polling is available to measure the opinions of Latino voters this year and whether they differ from four years ago. Biden's trip suggests he isn't taking chances in Florida. He's spending his day along the Interstate 4 corridor, which is often where campaigns are won or lost. While Republicans typically post big numbers in the northern and southwestern parts of the state and Democrats are strong in coastal cities, campaigns typically battle it out for every vote in central Florida. Biden's decision to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month in Kissimmee reflects a focus on the state's rapidly growing Puerto Rican community, many of whom relocated to Florida after Hurricane Maria devastated the island in 2017. Biden will likely continue his attacks on Trump for the slow federal response to the hurricane. During a Monday speech about climate change, he made a point of mentioning Puerto Rico. “Our fellow Americans are still putting things back together from the last big storm as they face the next one,” he said. Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez said the party has invested in outreach to Puerto Rican voters by collecting cellphone numbers they believe are connected to those displaced by Maria. “We went to cellphone vendors in Pennsylvania and Florida, and we asked them, 'Give us all the 787 area codes that have been picked up off your cellphone towers for the last month.'” Perez said the party found nearly 300,000 such numbers in Florida and 80,000 in Pennsylvania, another key battleground state. Puerto Ricans may be more open to Biden than Cuban Americans concentrated in Miami, who are attuned to Trump's message that the Democratic ticket would embrace socialism. Indeed, surrogates for the Trump campaign focused on Cuban immigrants during a call with reporters Tuesday ahead of Biden's visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-florida-biden-criticizes-trump-for-remarks-on-veterans/articleshow/78136581.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||Serum Institute of India gets DCGI nod to resume clinical trial of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine||NEW DELHI: Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) Dr V G Somani on Tuesday gave permission to Serum Institute of India to resume clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country while revoking its earlier order of suspending any new recruitment for phase two and three trial. The DCGI, however, put certain conditions like taking extra care during screening, providing additional information in informed consent and close monitoring for adverse events during follow-up of the study which have to be "scrupulously" followed by Serum Institute of India (SII). SII has also been asked to submit to the DCGI's office details of medication used in accordance with the protocol for management of adverse events. The DCGI had on September 11 directed Serum Institute of India to suspend any new recruitment in the phase two and three clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate till further orders in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials in other countries because of ''an unexplained illness'' in a participant in the study. On Saturday, British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford said clinical trials for their coronavirus vaccine have resumed in the UK after the Medicines Health Regulatory Authority's (MHRA) confirmed that the trials were safe. SII, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine candidate for Covid-19, on Tuesday submitted the recommendations of the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), UK and DSMB, India, and requested for permission to restart enrolment in the clinical trial. According to Tuesday's order issued by DCGI, the DSMB, UK, recommended that the investigators recommence all immunization in their clinical trials subject to certain conditions. DSMB, India, also has recommended to continue the study and enroll the remaining participants in the clinical trial as per protocol subject to certain conditions. According to the order, SII has submitted revised participant information sheet, revised informed consent form and additional safety monitoring plan for the evolved participants. The Pune-based firm has also submitted a summary of safety follow up of seven days post first vaccination, stating that no serious adverse events were experienced by any of the subjects till the date of the reporting, and the reported adverse events were stated to be mild, resolved on their own and did not have any sequale. "In view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Licensing Authority, after careful examination of your reply and the recommendations of the DSMB in India and in UK revoke herewith the order dated September 11 issued under Rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. "You may recommence the clinical trial as recommended by DSMB, India, as per already approved protocol and the provisions laid down under the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, subject to the conditions mentioned," the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/serum-institute-of-india-gets-dcgi-nod-to-resume-clinical-trial-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/78136760.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||Rajnath Singh: PLA’s violent conduct completely violates all norms||NEW DELHI: In a strongly worded statement that repeatedly named China for violating all border agreements with India, defence minister Rajnath Singh told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday India was fully prepared to deal with any situation and that the morale of Indian troops deployed at heights of 15,000 feet remained high despite several face-offs with PLA units in eastern Ladakh. In the Modi government's first statement on the military tensions along the LAC in Parliament, Singh spoke for close to 25 minutes, saying China had consistently refused to accept customary and traditional boundaries, had previously grabbed 38,000 sq km in Ladakh, claimed 90,000 sq km in Arunachal Pradesh and was also ceded land illegally in PoK by Pakistan. He blamed China for attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo and said while India wanted to peacefully resolve the ongoing military confrontation, it was fully prepared to deal with any situation. Singh said all provisions have been made for Indian troops deployed in the high altitude terrain, indicating India's preparedness to dig in. He said India had foiled repeated Chinese intrusions, and said he as well as foreign minister S Jaishankar had clearly told their Chinese counterparts in recent meetings that violent actions, including the Galwan clash, were a violation of agreements reached in 1993 and 1996. As India and China's perception of the LAC overlapped, there were protocols governing how troops should deal with face-offs which China had cast aside "As of now, the Chinese side has mobilised a large number of troops and armaments along the LAC as well as in the depth areas," Singh said, adding India had counter-mobilised as well. He also spoke of the most recent August 29-30 action, saying a fresh move by Chinese troops to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Tso had been resolutely countered. The reference was to the Indian Army's success in taking control of key heights on the south bank that has more than neutralised the advantage the PLA held after it had surprised India by occupying the Finger 4-8 ridgeline. Singh agreed that the situation was serious when he said the current face-off, in terms of the extent of deployment of rival troops, was fairly unprecedented as compared to previous confrontations. He admitted India was “facing a challenge” in eastern Ladakh this time and did not elaborate on the current ground situation, saying he could not go into “sensitive operational issues”. “Even though the situation this year is very different, both in terms of scale of troops involved and the number of friction points, we do remain committed to the peaceful resolution of the current situation. At the same time, the House can be assured that we remain prepared to deal with all contingencies,” the defence minister said. Stressing that no one should doubt India’s determination to safeguard its borders, Singh said the armed forces have made “appropriate counter-deployments” in the friction areas in eastern Ladakh, which included Gogra, Kongka La and the north and south banks of Pangong Tso. The military confrontation has seen over 50,000 soldiers each from the two armies as well as tanks, howitzers and other weapon systems amassed within firing distance of each other along the frontier in eastern Ladakh for over four months now. With casualties and shots being fired for the first time in 45 years, India has also reinforced its troop positions all along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) right till Arunachal Pradesh, as was earlier reported by TOI. The minister said Col Santosh Babu and 19 other soldiers had gallantly laid down their lives after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “created the violent face-off” in Galwan Valley on June 15 in violation of all agreements and understandings. But Indian troops also inflicted heavy costs, including casualties, on the Chinese side, he said. The PLA once again engaged in “provocative military manoeuvres” in an attempt to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Tso on August 29-30. “But yet again, timely and firm actions by our armed forces along the LAC prevented such attempts from succeeding,” he said. “The conduct of our armed forces throughout these incidents shows that while they maintained ‘sayyam’ (restraint) in the face of provocative actions, they have also equally displayed ‘shaurya’ (valour) when required to protect the territorial integrity of India,” he added. Read AlsoRajnath Singh: PLA’s violent conduct completely violates all normsIn a strongly worded statement that repeatedly named China for violating all border agreements with India, defence minister Rajnath Singh told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday India was fully prepared to deal with any situation and that the morale of Indian troops deployed at heights of 15,000 feet remainedThe minister said China does not accept the “customary and traditional alignment” of the boundary, which is based on well-established geographical principles as well as historical usage and practice well known for centuries to both sides. But the two countries had agreed to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border by minimal deployment of forces and strictly respecting the LAC, through both the 1993 and 1996 agreements and other protocols, till the complex boundary question was settled in a fair and mutually acceptable manner. Consequently, China’s recent attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo was simply “unacceptable’, and this had been made clear to the country through both diplomatic and military channels, he said. “India’s position is that while bilateral relations can continue to develop in parallel with discussions on resolving the boundary question, any serious disturbance in peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas is bound to have implications for the positive direction of our ties,” Singh said. Watch India told China that attempts to unilaterally alter status quo were in violation of bilateral agreements: Rajnath||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-singh-plas-violent-conduct-completely-violates-all-norms/articleshow/78136855.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||In football, higher chances of match-fixing at lower levels: Sportradar||PANAJI: When Sportradar red-flagged six matches in the Goa Professional League, everyone raised their eyebrows in surprise. How could match-fixing happen in a relatively unknown competition, one where matches were not even televised? There were no live updates anywhere too. How could someone in the United Kingdom, or anywhere in the world, keep track of what’s happening at the Duler football stadium, in games where attendance doesn’t cross 100 spectators? For London-based Sportradar, who have tracked suspicious matches at all levels, in different sports, this wasn’t alarming. They’ve seen that far too many times to be rubbing their eyes in disbelief. “We cannot talk of specifics because of the confidentiality involved, but in the last 10 years, we have detected match-fixing at all levels of sport. Detected in the top leagues in football, detected in regional and amateur leagues and even down to seventh and eighth tier in football,” Tom Mace, director global operations for Sportradar’s integrity services, told TOI in an exclusive interview. The trend, though, in the last 10 years has seen a decline of match-fixing at the biggest sports events, while the lower levels continue to be more susceptible to the temptation to manipulate matches.  “What we have seen in the last few years is a definite trend, firstly within football, the match-fixing is starting to come down the levels. There is constant competition between bookmakers to offer more and more on football. That means lower divisions, youth competitions, sometimes regional or amateur competitions. “As the betting exposure on these competitions grows, when you combine this with the actual financial situation of the participants, sometimes amateurs, kids, not earning much money or if any money at all, this is where it increases (the risk of manipulation),” said Mace. Mace’s entire career has been spent in the betting industry. Before joining Sportradar, he gained experience at William Hill as retail manager and Ladbrokes in content production. So when he says football is the biggest betting product in global sport and lower levels have seen more manipulations, suspicious matches in Goa should have been taken more seriously. That, however, has not been the case. The Goa Football Association (GFA) kept the fixing report hidden from everyone for six months (from March 3 to August 2, 2020), failing to initiate any measures. Even more than a month after TOI reported exclusively (on August 3), the GFA has been still found wanting. “In football, we have seen continued trend of fixing downwards the league system. We have seen a lot now in the third and fourth tier and youth competitions. We have also seen diversification of match-fixing in different sports because the betting coverage globally on other sports has also continued to grow,” said Mace. Asia continues to be a hot-bed for match-fixing even though the continent has seen a sharp decline over the last six years, thanks largely to the efforts of the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) and its integrity partner - Sportradar. According to rough estimates, illegal gambling is worth $400 billion in Asia alone. “Over the years, we were able to detect over 5000 suspicious matches. We reached 5000 mark this year and we are looking over 500-600 matches which are highly manipulative or suspicious each year which we report to our partners,” said Mace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-football-higher-chances-of-match-fixing-at-lower-levels-sportradar/articleshow/78134650.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
September 16, 2020||India||Attempt was made to influence Delhi polls, says ex-staffer of FB||NEW DELHI: A former Facebook employee, Sophie Zhang, has alleged that a "coordinated attempt" was made on the social media platform to “influence” the Delhi elections in February this year. “I worked through sickness to take down a politically-sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence the election,” she wrote in a 6,600-word internal memo meant for Facebook employees which has been published online. Facebook never publicly disclosed this “network” or that it had taken it down. It is not mentioned who was running the “network”. Read AlsoFacebook does not profit from hate speech: India MDSpeaking publicly for the first time after the recent controversy around not banning influential people posting hate messages on its platform, Facebook India MD Ajit Mohan told TOI: Facebook doesn’t profit from hate speech of any kind. "It’s not good for us...(We) lean in as much as we can to bothBJP IT cell head Amit Malviya shared excerpts from the memo and wrote that a “network” tried to influence local elections in Delhi. “AAP won,” he tweeted, insinuating that the party was involved in this coordinated campaign to influence elections. AAP IT chief Ankit Lal countered Malviya’s remark. “It is well known that the platform (Facebook) favours BJP. If by ‘coordinated campaign’ he means that we were organized, then yes we were. You can’t fight BJP by being unorganized. If by ‘coordinated campaign’ Malviya means we were in sync with Facebook, then that’s a lie,” said Lal. Excerpts from Zhang’s memo were first published by BuzzFeed News, which had obtained the “internal” document meant for Facebook employees. The leak comes at a time when Facebook is facing intense scrutiny over its election integrity efforts and how it moderates content in India. Read AlsoAccording to the memo, Zhang had allegedly found evidence of coordinated campaigns to boost or hinder political candidates or outcomes in countries such as India, Ukraine, Spain, Brazil, Bolivia, and Ecuador. She claimed to have turned down $64,000 from the social media giant to avoid signing a non-disparagement agreement. While elaborating the kind of campaigns she took down, Zhang wrote that she found “multiple blatant attempts by foreign national governments to abuse our platform on vast scales to mislead their own citizenry...” “I have personally made decisions that affected national presidents without oversight, and taken action to enforce against so many prominent politicians globally that I’ve lost count,” she wrote. Zhang also wrote that she felt having “blood on her hands”. According to her LinkedIn profile, Zhang worked as a data scientist for the Facebook Site Integrity fake engagement team, which oversees bots influencing elections. Watch Facebook attempted to influence Delhi polls: FB ex-staffer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/attempt-was-made-to-influence-delhi-polls-says-ex-staffer-of-fb/articleshow/78137058.cms||Anam Ajmal
September 16, 2020||India||Colour-coded masks in a school bubble||GURGAON: When students return to school, they could find themselves grouped into ‘bubbles’ instead of the familiar red, blue, green and yellow houses. These protective bubbles, each consisting of groups of around 20 kids, have been introduced at the two government schools in Karnal and Sonipat that have opened for a trial run of Covid-19 safety protocols. The experience of these schools will determine how the bubble system is rolled out across schools in the state. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/colour-coded-masks-in-a-school-bubble/articleshow/78137160.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
September 16, 2020||India||Centre asks Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Delhi to ramp up testing||The Centre has asked Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Delhi to ramp up testing as the positivity rate in these states continues to be significantly higher than the national average of 8.4% . An analysis of daily average of new cases week-on-week in the top five states showed that Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh were adding more cases, while numbers had stabilised over the last three weeks in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. There were also initial signs of decline in Tamil Nadu, the government said. The positivity rate was highest in Maharashtra at 21.5% and the state has so far tested around 51.73 lakh samples. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka had positivity rate of over 12% whereas Delhi had a rate of 8.9%. A sustained high positivity rate points to not only the need for more testing but also carrying out contact tracing and isolation. Laxity towards measures like using masks is also fuelling the pandemic. “The number of tests conducted by states has to be seen in tandem with the positivity rate reported by them. If in spite of largescale testing, a state is seeing higher positivity, it needs to ramp up testing further,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Overall, India has conducted 5.8 crore tests so far, while the number of infected cases has touched almost 50 lakh and deaths have hit 81,331. India’s 58 million tests are behind the US with 92 million and China with 160 million. Its test per million population average is 42,000. The Centre again pointed to the infection burden being concentrated in a few states. Five states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu — continue to account for 60% of total active cases. Four states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh — have more than 50,000 active cases. On the other hand, 18 states have 5,000-50,000 active cases, while 14 states and UTs have less than 5,000 active cases. Similarly, for deaths, Maharashtra and UP are seeing rise in average daily deaths week-on-week, while Karnataka is showing some stability. Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have shown early signs of decline in daily deaths over the last three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-asks-karnataka-andhra-pradesh-maharashtra-and-delhi-to-ramp-up-testing/articleshow/78137187.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 16, 2020||India||India’s Covid cases cross 5 million, last million came in 11 days||NEW DELHI: India has become the second country in the world after the US to record 5 million Covid-19 cases, with the last 1 million coming in a world-record time of 11 days. The grim milestone was reached on Tuesday, when over 90,000 fresh infections were reported while deaths rose by 1,275, the highest single-day toll recorded so far. While it took 167 days for cases in India to reach the first 1 million — the slowest among the worst-hit countries, with a strict lockdown in place — infections in the country have been racing ever since. The next 4 million cases have come in 61 days, the fastest rise in the world. Only the US, with 6.7 million infections, has more recorded cases. Active cases in the country also crossed the 1-million mark on Tuesday. As with the total infection count, India’s active cases are also the second highest in the world after the US, where the tally is 2.5 million. With 90,789 new infections on Tuesday, India’s caseload has risen to 50,14,395, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. More than 1.3 million cases, 27% of the total, have been recorded so far in September alone. Meanwhile, India recorded its highest single-day death toll, mainly on account of a big surge in fatalities in Maharashtra, which alone reported a record 515 deaths. Deaths also surged in Uttar Pradesh, which reported 113 fatalities, Karnataka (97), Punjab (90), Andhra Pradesh (69), Tamil Nadu (68) and Bengal (59). The daily count of cases was over 90,000 again after dropping to 80,663 on Monday, as per TOI’s data. Cases rose in most of the worst-hit states (except Karnataka, where lower testing led to cases decreasing by around 1,500). Bengal, with 3,227 fresh cases, and Rajasthan with 1,760, recorded their highest single-day jump in infections. With the addition of 515 deaths on Tuesday, the highest reported for any day, Maharashtra’s total death count crossed the 30,000 mark and stood at 30,409, accounting for 37% of Covid-19 deaths in India. Covid mortalities in the state have doubled from a daily average of 202 in the first week of July to 409. Earlier, the highest deaths reported in a day were 495, on September 10. Tuesday was the first time in over six months since Covid-19 struck Maharashtra that the state reported 500 deaths. The state’s fatality rate stands at 2.7%. A record 113 Covid-related deaths were reported in Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours. This is the maximum number of deaths reported in a single day so far. With this, the total number of Covid-19 casualties in the state reached 4,604 on Tuesday. As per an official Covid-19 bulletin, Lucknow accounted for maximum 15 deaths, taking the total number of deaths in the capital city to 539. Meanwhile, the Odisha government asked the district administrations to avoid referring patients to Cuttack and Bhubaneswar where the intensive care units (ICUs) are almost full.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-cases-cross-5-million-last-million-came-in-11-days/articleshow/78137205.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
September 16, 2020||Business||Trump says Oracle close to TikTok deal as ByteDance aims for majority ownership||WASHINGTON/NEW YORK: President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he had heard that Oracle Corp was very close to a deal over ByteDance's TikTok, even as sources said the Chinese company was seeking to keep majority ownership of the popular short video app. Trump has ordered ByteDance to divest TikTok amid U.S. concerns that user data could be passed to China's Communist Party government. He has threatened to ban TikTok in the United States as early as Sunday if ByteDance does not comply. Under ByteDance's proposal, however, the Beijing-based company would keep a majority stake in TikTok's global business and create headquarters for TikTok in the United States, the sources said. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Monday that ByteDance has also offered to create 20,000 U.S. jobs with TikTok. Oracle would become ByteDance's technology partner responsible for the management of TikTok's data and take a minority stake in TikTok, the sources added. "I heard they are very close to a deal," Trump said, adding that he was a fan of Oracle's chairman, Larry Ellison. He added that he would look into the proposed agreement. The ByteDance proposal calls for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), the U.S. government panel that is overseeing the deal talks, to supervise how TikTok will be operated, one of the sources said. Mnuchin, who chairs CFIUS, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross were meeting at the White House on Tuesday to consider ByteDance's proposal, two of the sources said. It is unclear whether Trump will approve ByteDance's proposal, the sources said, requesting anonymity because the deliberations are confidential. The White House, ByteDance and Oracle did not immediately respond to requests for comment. While TikTok is best known for dancing videos that go viral among teenagers, U.S. officials have had concerns since last year about whether the personal information of its 100 million U.S. users could be compromised under its Chinese owner. ByteDance's plan calls for restrictions in its control of TikTok, the sources said. It asks CFIUS to agree to operational arrangements similar to those it put in place when it allowed SoftBank Group Corp to acquire U.S. wireless carrier Sprint in 2013, according to the sources. These could include the U.S. government approving board directors at TikTok, as well as its relationships with major vendors, the sources said. ByteDance is also hoping that Ellison’s fundraising for Trump, as well as Oracle Chief Executive Safra Catz’s backing of Trump’s transition team four years ago, will boost its chances, Reuters has reported. Watch Oracle wins TikTok over Microsoft in Trump-urged bid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/trump-says-oracle-close-to-tiktok-deal-as-bytedance-aims-for-majority-ownership/articleshow/78137241.cms||---
September 16, 2020||World||Trump says Oracle close to TikTok deal as ByteDance aims for majority ownership||WASHINGTON/NEW YORK: President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he had heard that Oracle Corp was very close to a deal over ByteDance's TikTok, even as sources said the Chinese company was seeking to keep majority ownership of the popular short video app. Trump has ordered ByteDance to divest TikTok amid U.S. concerns that user data could be passed to China's Communist Party government. He has threatened to ban TikTok in the United States as early as Sunday if ByteDance does not comply. Under ByteDance's proposal, however, the Beijing-based company would keep a majority stake in TikTok's global business and create headquarters for TikTok in the United States, the sources said. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Monday that ByteDance has also offered to create 20,000 U.S. jobs with TikTok. Oracle would become ByteDance's technology partner responsible for the management of TikTok's data and take a minority stake in TikTok, the sources added. "I heard they are very close to a deal," Trump said, adding that he was a fan of Oracle's chairman, Larry Ellison. He added that he would look into the proposed agreement. The ByteDance proposal calls for the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), the U.S. government panel that is overseeing the deal talks, to supervise how TikTok will be operated, one of the sources said. Mnuchin, who chairs CFIUS, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross were meeting at the White House on Tuesday to consider ByteDance's proposal, two of the sources said. It is unclear whether Trump will approve ByteDance's proposal, the sources said, requesting anonymity because the deliberations are confidential. The White House, ByteDance and Oracle did not immediately respond to requests for comment. While TikTok is best known for dancing videos that go viral among teenagers, U.S. officials have had concerns since last year about whether the personal information of its 100 million U.S. users could be compromised under its Chinese owner. ByteDance's plan calls for restrictions in its control of TikTok, the sources said. It asks CFIUS to agree to operational arrangements similar to those it put in place when it allowed SoftBank Group Corp to acquire U.S. wireless carrier Sprint in 2013, according to the sources. These could include the U.S. government approving board directors at TikTok, as well as its relationships with major vendors, the sources said. ByteDance is also hoping that Ellison’s fundraising for Trump, as well as Oracle Chief Executive Safra Catz’s backing of Trump’s transition team four years ago, will boost its chances, Reuters has reported. Watch Oracle wins TikTok over Microsoft in Trump-urged bid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-oracle-close-to-tiktok-deal-as-bytedance-aims-for-majority-ownership/articleshow/78137242.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||Bill Gates: 3 of 6 vaccines in trials may work||NEW DELHI: A vaccine for Covid-19 is expected early next year and of the six leading ones which are undergoing trials probably three of them will work, billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates has said asserting that India has a huge role to play in scaling up manufacturing for these. “If they succeed in their phase three, which is still underway, we want to be able to ramp up that manufacturing capacity,” Gates, who is the co-founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation told TOI in an interview over Skype. Read AlsoIf we do a brilliant job, we could end the coronavirus pandemic in 2022: Bill GatesBill Gates, billionaire philanthropist, is optimistic the Covid-19 pandemic could end in 2022 if countries cooperate and do “a brilliant job”. In a Skype interview with TOI, Gates said that if there are lots of good vaccines made in volume then the health system will be back fairly quickly. GatesGates said India will play a major role in manufacturing these vaccines in high numbers as several vaccine companies in the country have the capacity to ramp up production. “And, of course, India has a huge role to play in that. Because the highest volume vaccine manufacturers in the world, who have done a fantastic job, and partnered with us on many of these life-saving vaccines — including Serum, BioE, Bharat (Biotech) — they have capacity. We have been in lots of conversations with the companies, with the vaccines that look like they will be low-cost and very scalable, including AstraZeneca, Novavax — Sanofi — and Johnson and Johnson,” said Gates. He said the progress on reducing poverty across the world would be set back by a few years due to the pandemic and if all countries cooperate and the world is lucky to have some good vaccines health systems could recover fast. “If we do a brilliant job, we end the pandemic in 2022 — if we are lucky to have a lot of good vaccines that are made in volume, I am sure the health system should be able to get back fairly quickly. “We’ll have to do catch up vaccination. But the economic damage — particularly in countries that couldn’t borrow huge additional sums, like some of the rich countries — will have big setbacks. ...Some of the extreme poverty type things could take us five to ten years to get back to where we were at the start of 2020,” said Gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bill-gates-3-of-6-vaccines-in-trials-may-work/articleshow/78137283.cms||Surojit Gupta
September 16, 2020||India||No 'actionable inputs' on nexus between film industry and drug peddlers: Govt||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Tuesday told the Lok Sabha that Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is investigating the alleged drugs angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by hanging, had on its own, not received any actionable inputs “during the period of Covid-19 lockdown” pointing to a nexus between people in the film industry and drug peddlers.  “NCB carries out search, seizure, arrest and investigation continuously throughout the year on actionable inputs developed on its own and/or on receipt from other sources,” MoS for home G Kishan Reddy said adding that no actionable inputs were received during the Covid-19 lockdown suggesting a links between people in the film industry and drug traffickers. “However, a case in this regard has been registered by NCB Mumbai Zonal unit on 28.08.2020. Till date, in this case 10 persons have been arrested. Drugs such as ganja, hashish, tetra hydro cannabinol and lysergic acid de-ethylamide have been seized in the operation,” said Reddy. Incidentally, the total arrests by NCB, which reports to home ministry, have now gone further up to 16. The arrested include Bollywood actress and Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-actionable-inputs-on-nexus-between-film-industry-and-drug-peddlers-govt/articleshow/78137289.cms||Bharti Jain
September 16, 2020||India||Adverse reaction in some to plasma therapy: ICMR||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research on Tuesday said early evidence from one of its randomised controlled trials on the efficacy of convalescent plasma for Covid-19 patients has shown the possibility of adverse reactions in some cases, even as the therapy did not reduce mortality nor did it prevent progression from moderate to severe disease. The study conducted on 464 patients across 39 hospitals in 25 districts spread over 14 states and UTs was still under peer review and full publication of the results was awaited, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said. "Once peer review happens and we get full publication out, this data will be considered again by the national task force and joint monitoring group of the health ministry and then a decision will be taken if we should continue with this or not because at the moment, we have got permission to use plasma therapy (off label) in India," he said. "There are a few cases where some reactions can occur and, therefore, we will take a considered view once we get the full publication of this study," Bhargava said, indicating that the government may review its earlier guidelines on the use of plasma therapy. The comments assume significance as many states have now set up plasma banks even as results of the trials to establish its efficacy are yet to be published.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/adverse-reaction-in-some-to-plasma-therapy-icmr/articleshow/78137307.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 16, 2020||India||Alert well in time if oxygen low, govt tells states||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns about the supply of medical oxygen, the Centre on Tuesday said adequate supply is available but asked states to ensure hospitals have an effective inventory management and an alert is raised well in time before stockout to ensure timely replenishment. "These (Covid) patients and also other non-Covid patients with essential health requirements for oxygen together account for about 2,800 metric tonnes daily. The industry requirement is about 2,200 MT. So we have a surplus of about 1,900 metric tonnes," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Bhushan said the country's current daily capacity of oxygen production is more than 6,900 metric tonnes. "As per this morning’s data, about 6% of Covid-19 patients were on oxygen," he said. With India having a little less than 9.5 lakh active Covid cases, that would mean around 60,000 are on oxygen. However, Bhushan underlined the need for inventory management and raising a timely alert so that oxygen can be replenished before a hospital runs out. "If a shortage is likely then immediate action should be taken to replenish it on time and help should be sought from the Centre," Bhushan said. He also said that meetings have been held with states and they have also been asked to set up a control room for monitoring the situation of oxygen stock, and a virtual control room has also been set at the central level. Earlier this week, senior officials from different ministries, including health and pharmaceuticals, held a meeting with Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on ensuring adequate oxygen availability in all healthcare facilities, and unrestricted intra- as well as inter-state movement of oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/alert-well-in-time-if-oxygen-low-govt-tells-states/articleshow/78137387.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 16, 2020||India||2 Noida, 4 Mumbai healthcare workers are confirmed cases of reinfection||MUMBAI: Two healthcare workers from a Noida hospital could be the country’s first genetically proven cases of Covid-19 reinfection, according to the preprint of a research paper submitted by the prestigious Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research laboratory located in Delhi. The IGIB team has also established reinfection in four healthcare workers from Mumbai – three from Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central and one from Hinduja Hospital, Mahim. The Mumbai results were submitted to an international medical journal for publication six days ago. Stating that his laboratory’s work proved Covid-19 reinfection in India, IGIB director Dr Anurag Agarwal told TOI, “Apart from the two cases in a Noida hospital, our laboratory has found variations in six other samples. While four are from Mumbai, two others are from a Delhi hospital.” Using genetic sequencing, an IGIB team has so far analysed samples of 16 healthcare workers (HCWs) from across the country. Two swab samples per HCW – one from the first infection and another from the second – were used for the sequencing. In case of the Noida HCWs – a 25-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman -- the test showed nine variations between the two SARS-CoV2 viruses that infected them. The HCWs tested PCR-positive for the first time on May 5 and May 17 respectively; the second time was on August 21 and September 5 respectively. The IGIB sequencing machine takes around 24 hours to establish the genetic differences. Dr Rakesh Gupta from Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida, said both the healthcare workers were asymptomatic both times. “While one is admitted in our hospital for observation, the other one is in home isolation,” he added. Dr Shridhar Sivasubbu from IGIB said these healthcare workers could be diagnosed only because of the continuous surveillance carried out in collaboration with IGIB. “Without surveillance, these workers could have carried the infection around, exposing their family, colleagues and patients,” he said. “Our analysis suggests that asymptomatic reinfection may be potentially under-reported,” said the IGIB preprint. However, on Tuesday, Indian Council of Medical Research head Dr Balram Bhargava said globally reinfections have been noted, but they are “very rare” and not a “matter of serious concern.” In Mumbai, three cases of reinfection were suspected among healthcare workers in BYL Nair Hospital and one from PD Hinduja Hospital. All three Nair doctors had tested for Covid-19 for the second time within one to three months of recovering from their first episode. Among them was a resident doctor from the medicine department, a senior medical officer and an additional professor from the department of anaesthesia. The anaesthesia professor, in her late 40s, suffered the second bout exactly three months after the first infection. Dr Charulata Deshpande, head of the department, recalled the doctor had symptoms such as dry cough, severe bodyache and sore throat during the first infection, while massive exhaustion alerted her of the infection second time round. “Since it was the second time she was infected, we were closely observing her condition. To our relief she has recovered well,” she said. The professor has since resumed work. The 27-year-old resident doctor from the medicine department tested positive for the second time in a span of a month. Her symptomatic period was 9-10 days in the first episode and 8-9 the second time. “Her symptoms were almost similar during both episodes. Fever and cough were common,” said one of the batchmates. The resident too has resumed work. A suspected case of reinfection in Sion Hospital of an anaesthesia resident, though, has not been studied in detail, a doctor from the hospital said. The Mumbai samples were initially processed by Nair Hospital’s microbiology department and BMC’s molecular diagnostics lab in Kasturba Hospital before being sent to the IGIB lab. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the initial tests showed a genome sequence that is not normally found in SARS-CoV2. “We have now sent the samples to Pune for further genome investigations. We are awaiting further communication,” he said. Reinfection has grabbed headlines ever since a Hong Kong lab proved it using entire genome sequencing in late August. Random cases have been reported from across the world, including the US and the Netherlands. If reinfection is more common than expected, vaccination norms for Covid-19 would have to be drawn up accordingly. ICMR head Dr Bhargava said, “One point has been noted. In cases of reinfection, both infections (episodes) have been mild and therefore the reinfection occurs,” he said. Watch COVID-19: Healthcare workers from Noida and Mumbai confirmed for reinfection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-noida-4-mumbai-healthcare-workers-are-confirmed-cases-of-reinfection/articleshow/78137409.cms||Malathy Iyer
September 16, 2020||Business||Parl panel for scrapping LTCG on startup stakes||NEW DELHI: The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance has strongly recommended that tax on long term capital gains be abolished for all investments in startups which are made through collective investment vehicles (CIVs) such as angel funds, alternative investment funds AIFs), and investment LLPs. The panel headed by BJP MP and former junior finance minister Jayant Sinha said this should be done for at least the next two years to encourage investments during the pandemic period. It said that after this two year period, the Securities Transaction Tax (STT) may be applied to CIVs so that revenue neutrality is maintained. Investments by CIVs are transparently done and have to be done at fair market value. “Thus it is easy to calculate the STT associated with these investments. This can be done in lieu of imposing LTCG on these CIVs and to make the taxation system fairer, less cumbersome, and transparent. This will also ensure that investments in unlisted securities are on par with investments in listed securities,” the panel said in its report which was presented to Parliament. The panel said that substantial growth capital is required to scale up startups in India and for unicorns in particular. Unicorns initially require seed capital of hundreds of crores, and then as they grow they need thousands of crores to build global scale businesses. It said capital going into India’s unicorns comes mainly from foreign sources such as the US and China. “The committee believes that this dependence be reduced so that India becomes self-reliant by having several large domestic growth funds powered by domestic capital to support India’s unicorns,” according to the report. The panel was of the opinion that the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) Fund-of-Funds vehicle should be expanded and fully operationalised/utilised to play an anchor investment role. It said that SIDBI should play a pivotal role in disbursing more funds that would help startups and unicorns to scale up significantly. The panel said that these funds be managed by top quality professional management teams who specialise in different sectors such as healthcare, e-commerce, agritech, cyber security among others. The committee was also of the view that the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) should allow venture capital funds to invest in Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) which would help enhance their capital base. The panel said that successful Initial Public Offerings (IPOs) of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) and Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvITs) have already shown that asset portfolios can be packaged together to attract specific investor type and thus would like to recommend that NBFCs also be allowed to list on stock exchanges to be able to draw in a larger investment pool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/parl-panel-for-scrapping-ltcg-on-startup-stakes/articleshow/78137433.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Business||Toyota nixes new car, factory plans, blames ‘prohibitive’ tax rates||NEW DELHI: Japanese auto major Toyota is suspending plans to launch new cars in India and is also putting a halt to fresh factory investments as it blames "prohibitive" taxes on vehicles for depressing consumer demand, leaving automakers with high costs and unutilised and idle capacities. The tax rates, the company says, has blunted the ease of doing business in India and has made vehicles expensive for customers. Also, with lower demand, companies have failed to utilise factory capacities and harness the underlying business potential. "Don’t treat this (auto industry) as a sin good. This is a sector that generates a lot of employment, goodwill, and lots of export potential," Shekar Viswanathan, vice-chairman of Toyota Kirloskar Motors, told TOI. Viswanathan said it is unfair to load a customer who is already paying personal income tax with high taxation on goods such as cars. "…Why should s/he not benefit from a lower tax rate. There will be more people to buy. I am batting for the consumers." Toyota runs its business in India in partnership with the Kirloskar family, the latter holding a minority stake in the company. Viswanathan said that the scope for expansion remains challenging. "Unless tax rates come down, demand will not go up. It’s a simple equation. If it (demand) goes up, then only can we think of a new factory." Asked whether the company — which is taking models from Maruti to meet its requirements — will launch new cars under its own brand, he said it is not possible in the present circumstances. "The launch of a new car is prohibitively costly — to develop a new platform, launch it, and then get volumes to defray costs, including for technology development. It’s a huge risk." Viswanathan, who has often been vocal about the industry’s demand for reduction of taxes, said that while the companies make only about 7-10% through sale of vehicles, the government makes as much as 50% on bigger vehicles (through GST and additional levies) and over 28% on smaller cars. "This is a very complex subject. Investors such as ourselves cannot take a decision to expand unless it becomes more sensible to do business… ease of doing business is also tied to the tax rates." Toyota has two plants in India around Bengaluru, and while the first plant (annual capacity of one lakh vehicles) is fully utilised, the second, and bigger, plant is utilising only around 15% of the installed capacity of 2.1 lakh units. "We are barely making 30,000-35,000 vehicles in the second plant. So, there is no rational of expanding to a third plant. Tell me how to expand. Until I can show 75% capacity utilisation, how can I expand. Can anyone do it?" Despite its over-two-decade-long presence in India, Toyota has not been able to crack the Indian market and its volumes have been struggling. Its market share in August this year stands at a poor 2.6% in the passenger vehicles category against 5.7% recorded in the same month of last year. This despite the fact that other companies such as newcomers Kia Motors of Korea and MG Motors of China have managed to get numbers. Even older players like Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai have boosted their share. Viswanathan said that if demand comes back, the company will gain and only then can it think of expansion. "If the market is there, factories will come. The government must take a look at GST rates to spur growth."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/toyota-nixes-new-car-factory-plans-blames-prohibitive-tax-rates/articleshow/78137437.cms||Pankaj Doval
September 16, 2020||India||'Mughal museum' to now hold Braj artifacts||AGRA: The museum in Agra originally planned to showcase the city’s Mughal culture, now renamed after Maratha warrior-king Shivaji, will also undergo a “conceptual change”. Additional chief secretary, UP, Awanish Awasthi told TOI on Tuesday “the museum will be dedicated to what is Indian, the Braj culture, tradition and heritage”. This comes a day after CM Yogi Adityanath said the original name, Mughal Museum, was a display of “servility” because Mughals “can’t be our heroes.” So, the CM had said, the museum would instead be named after 17th-century Maratha ruler Chhatrapati Shivaji, who had engaged for 27 years in wars against the Mughals. Work on the museum, coming up near the eastern gate of the Taj Mahal, had started in 2016 with a 2017 completion target. “The idea was to introduce tourists to the grand Mughal era of the city. In a creatively crafted space, Mughal history and architecture would be on display … Historians and scholars were to be brought on the committee to ensure accuracy,” Alok Ranjan, former chief secretary who was part of the project when its foundation was laid by then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, told TOI. The decision to change what the museum will showcase has surprised historians. “Mughals were in Hindustan 150 years before Taj was built. All monuments in Agra were built by them. The history of the city is the history of Mughals,” historian and professor emeritus at Aligarh Muslim University Irfan Habib told TOI. “I don’t have an opinion on what the museum should be called but this is wrong.” Other academics said they were shocked. “It’s shocking to learn that a museum in a Mughal city will be named after Shivaji. There is no connection except that he was imprisoned in 1666 in the haveli of Ram Singh, son of Mirza Raja Jai Singh, who had defeated Shivaji and forced him to surrender. Later, he escaped from Agra,” said Prof M Pundhir from AMU’s history department. Former chairperson of the department, Prof Syed Ali Nadeem Rezavi, added, “Braj is a region devoted to the cult of Krishna and Chaitanya, it has no link with Shivaji ... It is general consensus that museums near monuments reflect the culture of the latter. They could build another museum away from Mughal monuments for Braj culture. Tourists come to Agra to see Mughal architecture. When they want to soak in Braj culture, they go to Mathura. A city’s history cannot be kept aside.” For now, though, work on the structure is stalled. “About 75% of the project is complete…the exhibition design plan has been initiated,” a representative of Noida-based architectural firm Studio Archohm said. The firm is collaborating with UK-based architect David Chipperfield’s Berlin office for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mughal-museum-to-now-hold-braj-artifacts/articleshow/78137457.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 16, 2020||India||NSCN-IM brass in Delhi to thrash out final deal||Top NSCN(IM) leaders have assembled in New Delhi for negotiations with the Centre and hammer out a final settlement to the vexed Naga issue. This comes amid appeals of reconciliation between NSCN(IM) and Naga National Political Groups (NNPG) by the Naga society. The NNPG is a conglomerate of seven Naga groups with whom the Centre is holding parallel dialogue. “We will have informal talks before shifting to the final discussions with the government of India. The entire leadership is here to facilitate a wider consultation. The way things are moving at the moment, we can see the settlement getting signed soon,” said a top NSCN(IM) functionary. A 15-member NSCN(IM) delegation led by its chairman Q Tuccu and vice-president Tongmeth Wangnao have joined the group’s general secretary, Th Muivah, who has been camping and holding informal talks with IB representatives led by its director Arvind Kumar on a daily basis. The Forum for Naga Reconciliation (FNR), which is leading the voice for reconciliation between NSCN(IM) and NNPG, said, “After a protracted process towards a political agreement, the NSCN(IM) and NNPGs are currently engaged in what seems to be parallel processes with the Centre. The Naga people are now saying it is time for these two Naga political groups to meet and take forward the unfinished task of reconciliation.” “The FNR urges leaders of the two groups to meet and explore a workable mechanism of cooperation around the ‘competencies’ and the ‘agreed position’ in consonance with the Naga common ground. This is fundamental because the parallel processes have polarised the Naga public, tribal and civil society organizations.” The NNPGs have said their discussion with the Centre has concluded and the “Agreed Position” has been signed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nscn-im-brass-in-delhi-to-thrash-out-final-deal/articleshow/78137464.cms||Prabin Kalita
September 16, 2020||India||SC halts TV show 'vilifying' minorities||NEW DELHI: Stopping further telecast of a TV programme allegedly insinuating that Muslims were attempting to infiltrate the civil services, the Supreme Court said as the highest court of the land, it could not allow such “insidious” comments in the name of freedom of the press to vilify a particular community to disturb harmony in a country that has been a “melting pot of cultures”. “The edifice of a democratic society committed to the rule of law under a regime of constitutional rights, values and duties is founded on the co-existence of communities. India is a melting pot of civilisations, cultures, religions and languages. Any attempt to vilify a religious community must be viewed with grave disfavour by this court as the custodian of constitutional values. Its duty to enforce constitutional values demands nothing less,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph said. On a PIL seeking to stop telecast of a serialised programme ‘Bindas Bol’ on Sudarshan TV, which has already telecast four out of 10 parts of the “investigative documentary”, the bench made no secret of its deep distress over the content of the programme and said, “When you say students of Jamia are part of the conspiracy to infiltrate civil services, that is not permissible. You cannot target one community and brand them in a particular way, that too on factually wrong facts. As the Supreme Court of India, we cannot allow you to say that Muslims are infiltrating the civil services. It is a slur on the UPSC also. While doing so, you cannot say that journalistic freedom is absolute.” The bench also asked about the necessity for self-regulation of content on electronic media. It stopped further telecast till September 17, when it will resume hearing on the PIL. It asked the parties to file their responses to the petition as well as issues raised by the court on putting in place a self-regulating regime for electronic media. "The problem with electronic media is about their race for TRPs. In doing so, they do not bother about damage caused to the reputation of others," the bench said. The bench’s comment came in the backdrop of TV channels, over the last few months, going berserk in their coverage of cases relating to the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, alleged involvement of Rhea Chakraborty, Kangana Ranaut's outbursts and demolition of alleged illegal construction in her Mumbai office. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta recounted a TV channel running a 'Hindu Terror" programme continuously for some days and availability of numerous videos on websites and YouTube vilifying one community or the other. He said it would be difficult to rein in the media in this age and time. There was a web video programme which indulged in scaremongering by airing programmes about alleged food scarcity and food riots immediately after the first pandemic lockdown, leading to massive migration of workers, he said. "That was no less serious than hate speech," he added. "Regulating media is both disastrous and damaging to democracy," Mehta said and informed the court that the government had issued a notice to Sudarshan TV to ensure that the contents of the impugned programme conformed to the programme code under the Cable and Television Networks (Regulation) Rules. The SC asked him to file what steps were taken by the government after the first four of the 10-part programme was aired on the channel. Appearing for the channel, senior advocate Shyam Divan said the programme was not about vilifying a community but an investigative journalistic activity. The programme was about huge foreign funding from sources inimical to India, he said and requested the court not to form an opinion by watching snippets from here and there. He said it would be an affront to the sanctity of journalistic freedom if the court stopped telecast of the programme without watching all its 10 parts. The bench said, "At this stage, prima facie, it does appear to the court that the intent, object and purpose of the episodes which have been telecast is to vilify the Muslim community. An insidious attempt has been made to insinuate that the community is involved in a conspiracy to infiltrate the civil services." "Several statements in the episodes, which have been drawn to the attention of the court, are not just palpably erroneous but have been made in wanton disregard of the truth. There is no relaxation either in the age limit or in the number of attempts available to the Muslim community in the civil services. The drift, tenor and content of the episodes is to bring the community into public hatred and disrepute." The bench, which had refused to stop telecast of 'Bindas Bol' on August 28, said it was changing its mind as now it had prima facie knowledge about the nature of the programme. "The remaining episodes admittedly will be in the same vein. On the basis of what has been aired, we are of the view that it will be necessary to interdict any further telecast," it ordered and restrained the channel from airing the same content in any other name. Watch SC halts TV show 'vilifying' minorities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-halts-tv-show-vilifying-minorities/articleshow/78137469.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt to reply on equipment in hospitals for Covid patients||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday sought state health department’s reply on availability and functioning of x-ray, CT scan and MRI machines in all government medical colleges and hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court was hearing a batch of six PILs filed by Shivani Kaushik, Dinesh Kumar Singh, Aditi Hansaria, Ashish Sinha, Kishore Kunal and Abhinay Priyadarshi on the problems being faced amid Covid-19 pandemic. While Kaushik has urged for safety, security and incentives for people like doctors, policemen and sanitation workers, Singh pleaded for the court’s directive to direct the authorities concerned for conducting rapid antigen tests on a large scale, sero survey, creating plasma bank, proper disposal of the bodies of Covid-19 patients after death. Other petitioners also made similar prayers in their PILs. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar directed the health department to give details of all such equipment required and available for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court fixed Friday as the next date of hearing. Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who was present during the virtual hearing, assured the court that he would submit a report on the issues mentioned. Advocate general Lalit Kishore appeared for the state government. The court sought the details after counsel Dinu Kumar, assisted by Ritika Rani, raised the issue of lack of equipment and malfunctioning of machines. They submitted that Covid-19 patients were largely suffering from lungs and chest ailments even after recovery from the infection and the government medical colleges and hospitals either didn’t have the equipment or most of them were lying defunct. “It is only through the equipment that doctors can ascertain how much a patient has recovered even after testing negative for Covid-19,” the counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-reply-on-equipment-in-hospitals-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78134902.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: NIA arrests Godhra man for links with Pakistan spies||AHMEDABAD / VADODARA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested Imran Giteli, 37, rickshaw driver from Godhra for his alleged involvement in the Visakhapatnam naval espionage case of December last year. In a statement on Tuesday, the agency said, “NIA arrested a key accused viz. Giteli Imran, 37, resident of Godhra in Panchmahal district in connection of NIA, Hyderabad, under section 120B and 121A of IPC along with sections 17 and 18 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment (UAPA) Act and section 3 of official secrets act for his involvement in espionage activities and working for Pakistani intelligence agency ISI.” Imran, a resident Vali Falia in the Polan Bazaar area of Godhra, was allegedly associated with Pakistani spies and agents under the guise of cross-border cloth trade. Acting on the directions of Pakistan-based spies, he allegedly deposited money in the bank accounts of Indian Navy personnel at regular intervals in lieu of sensitive and classified data provided by them, NIA said. Some digital devices and incriminating documents have been seized in the search conducted at his house on Monday. The case relates to an international espionage racket in which Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information on locations and movements of Indian Naval ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. Investigation revealed that some Navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani agents through social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp. They shared classified information in lieu of money deposited into their bank accounts through Indian associates of Pak ISI who had business interests in Pakistan. A chargesheet has been filed in the case on June 15 this year against 14 persons. Further investigation is on. Imran used to drive an auto-rickshaw in the town for a living till he was arrested. His father Yakub also drives a rickshaw and has been avoiding the media ever since Imran was picked up in the early hours on Monday. Sources said that Imran was earlier a ladies tailor, but gave up the work due to back pain issues. He was also involved in trading of fabrics and clothes from his home. According to those who know the Giteli family, the family has some relatives in Pakistan. But this is not surprising as several persons from the minority community in Godhra have relatives in Pakistan and are even married to men or women from across the border. Karachi even has a Godhra Colony that is named so as migrants from Godhra settled in the area. Sources said that Imran is married and has four children. Other members of the family include Imran’s parents and Imran’s two brothers who are married.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nia-arrests-spy-godhra-auto-driver/articleshow/78132560.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Mask safer than face shield’||PATNA: Face shields cannot be a substitute for masks in blocking viral particles of Covid-19, claims a recent study published in the journal, ‘Physics of Fluids’, established by the American Institute of Physics. It also says a two-layered cloth mask, which covers the chin in addition to the nose and the mouth, provides protection against aerosol transmission. The study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of face shields, valved masks and cloth face coverings in blocking viral particles. Indian Academy of Pediatrics-Bihar president Dr Arun Shah told this newspaper that a lot of people preferred face shields to cloth or surgical masks because “they are more comfortable to wear”. “Safety is more important than comfort. The only advantage of using face shields is that they protect the eyes. The risk of transmission is higher because small virus-laden droplets can pass through them from the sides or the bottom. Hence, those, who are in the vicinity of an infected patient, should wear double-layered masks along with safety goggles,” Dr Shah said. According to the study, masks act as filters and capture the droplets and particles one expels. If the droplets are 10 microns or less, shields are unable to act as a deterrent. Besides, valved masks can be a concern if the fit is poor. However, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, pointed out that both valved and cloth masks were equally effective in blocking viral particles if worn properly. “Tight-fitted valved masks are suitable for people who wear glasses as they prevent fogging of the lenses. Similarly, cloth masks should not be loose and cover the chin, nose and mouth,” he added. Talking about the effectiveness of the widely preferred N95 masks, Dr Samendra Jha, assistant professor at the Patna Medical College and Hospital, said, “Although a valved N95 mask blocks the entry of viral particles from the outside during inhalation, it expels them into the atmosphere when the person wearing the mask exhales. Hence, an infected patient should avoid wearing it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mask-safer-than-face-shield/articleshow/78134790.cms||Arunima Lal
September 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Coronavirus brings positive changes in many people’s lives||PATNA: The Coronavirus pandemic may have turned many lives upside down, but it has also brought some positive changes in many people’s lives. Hundreds of Covid survivors, who suffered mild to moderately severe symptoms, have changed their perspective towards life. There are changes in lifestyle of those who recovered, be it the way of living to dietary habits, behavioural changes, religious ideology, hygiene or socialization. The 53-year-old Indira of Digha area said he was never polite with strangers and always felt jittery during long conversations. “Now I like to schmooze with different kinds of people. Earlier, I was more like the main character in the ‘The Selfish Giant’ story by Oscar Wilde. Now, I don’t feel irritated while having long talks even with strangers,” he said. Talking about his new habits, Indira said, “I have started participating in charitable works. I find good organizations on internet and donate money for social causes like kid’s education, feeding poor and other health-related issues.” Pawan Kumar (27) of Phulwarisharif realized the true meaning of life after spending 12 days in the isolation ward of a Covid hospital. “Every day, I read about deaths due to Covid in Bihar and across the country, which made me sick. I thought I would also succumb to the infection like others. The doctors and nurses always motivate the patients to have positive attitude towards life. This advice helped me recover,” he said. “Now, I’m much optimistic about my life. I feel like clearing all hurdles in life. Earlier, I used to sleep and rise late. But after recovery, I have adopted new lifestyle,” he added. Christi Susan Philip (24) of Walmi Brindawan Colony said, “Post-Covid recovery, I have become more conscious about hygiene. Now, I avoid junk food and eat only healthy and home cooked meal. So, there are some positive changes in my life.” Nilam Kumari (32) of Rukanpura said after recovery from Covid, her faith in God increased. “Every morning I pray to God for my health and family’s well-being. I have also started taking online yoga classes. I am also taking interest in gardening,” she said. A resident of Boring Canal Road, Suraj Singh said, “I only eat healthy food post-Covid recovery. I take food having more protein and iron. I also do light exercise and morning walk. I am going to see more changes in my life in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coronavirus-brings-positive-changes-in-many-peoples-lives/articleshow/78134775.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 16, 2020||Patna||Gaya man dug a canal for 20 years to bring water||GAYA/PATNA: Laungi Bhuiyan was 50 when he picked up a shovel to start digging an improvised canal to channel rainwater from the nearby hills to the parched fields in his remote village in Gaya district. Nearly 20 years on, his dream project — a two-km canal — is ready and the story of his extraordinary feat has brought him countrywide fame after industrialist Anand Mahindra tweeted about him, comparing him to another hero Dasrath Manjhi, the ‘Mountain Man’. Comparisons with Manjhi, who also toiled alone for over 20 years to carve a path through a rocky hill, are inevitable, not just because of their similar achievements but because Manjhi was also from Gaya. Bhuiyan’s village Kothilwa under Bankebazar block in the district falls in a remote forested and hilly region which always faced acute irrigation problem, due to which most villagers migrated in search of work as farming did not produce enough. “I used to rear goats and also collect wood from the forest to sell in the market for livelihood. But whenever got time, I took out my spade and would start levelling the soil,” said Laungi told TOI. “I started working in 2001 and normally worked two to three hours a day. Villagers called me mad. Even my family opposed but I kept working. Now I have got an Indira Awaas unit in the village and all my four sons work in other states,” Laungi added. Laungi said he undertook this massive exercise to ensure that the rainwater flowing down nearby hills gets tapped for irrigation. “Many glorious monuments have been built which have involved sweat & toil over decades. But those were usually the visions of absolute monarchs using the labour of their subjects. To me, this humble canal is no less glorious than the pyramids or the Taj,” Mahindra tweeted. The area around his village is rocky and the surface is uneven. He has carved the two-km long passage in such a way that it looks like a canal. He has also carved out some paiyns (traditional water body) to ensure rainwater reaches the farm fields. The local administration has acknowledged Laungi’s efforts. On Tuesday, Bankebazar BDO Sonu Kumar and irrigation officials visited the site. According to sources, a detailed project report would be prepared to upgrade the canal. The BDO told this newspaper that following the Gaya DM’s direction, a team of engineers visited the site of the canal carved out by Laungi. “The team has conducted an inspection and assessed how the work can be developed into a better model. We have carried out the survey and a report will be submitted to the DM on Wednesday,” the BDO said. Social activist Upendra Prasad Verma of Raniganj said, “Lot of development work has been done in the area but irrigation problem persists. But due to the effort by Laungi, around 100 acres of land in the area can be irrigated now.” He added, “There are two rivers — Morhar and Surhar. During the rainy season water that overflowed from these rivers accumulated in traditional sources of irrigation like aahar and paiyn. But due to sand mining, the level of rivers has gone deeper than aahar and paiyn. So the rainwater was getting scattered and unutilized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-man-dug-a-canal-for-20-yrs-to-bring-water/articleshow/78133462.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Patna||Patna HC seeks govt’s view on Vishnupad temple management||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday orally sought state government’s view on considering Gaya’s Vishnupad temple as a public property. The temple is managed privately by a body of priests. A division bench of Chief Sanjay Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL filed by one Gaurav Kumar Singh. He has sought the court’s direction to the state government to take over the temple management and its properties and appoint a board to manage its affairs like Vaishno Devi shrine and Tirupati Balaji temple. Though the bench didn’t pass any order, it orally directed advocate general Lalit Kishore to communicate the matter to the state government and inform the court about its view on or before the next date of hearing September 22. Counsel Sumeet Kumar Singh appeared for the petitioner. During the September 11 hearing, the high court had directed state’s additional advocate general Anjani Kumar and Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts counsel Ganpati Trivedi to take up the matter with the highest authorities of state government for required action considering the importance and significance of the issue raised in petition. The high court had earlier pulled up the temple’s managing body over its adamant attitude of controlling the affairs. It had also orally observed that all stakeholders should sit together and settle the dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-seeks-govts-view-on-vishnupad-temple-mgmt/articleshow/78133648.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Patna||Launch drive to increase number of woman voters: EC||Patna: The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday directed the DMs-cum-district election officers to launch an awareness campaign to increase the number of female voters in order to maintain the gender gap in the electoral roll. At a review meeting held in Bhagalpur and Bodh Gaya with the DMs and the SPs on Day 2 of their maiden visit to the state , deputy election commissioners — Sudeep Jain and Chandrabhushan Kumar — expressed concern over the widening gap between male and female voters in some districts. Sources said the deputy election commissioners also directed the DMs to ensure that names of the migrant workers were not left out in the electoral list. The visiting members told the officers concerned to make preparations at the polling booths in view of the guidelines issued by the EC in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. They also directed the SPs to initiate action under Section 107 of the CrPC against people who had been charged with creating disturbances at polling booths during the previous election. The visiting team later held a meeting with the chief secretary, additional chief secretary, and DGP and issued necessary instructions to ensure free, fair and peaceful election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/launch-drive-to-increase-no-of-woman-voters-ec/articleshow/78133601.cms||Ramashankar
September 16, 2020||Business||ETFs jump 26x in 5 yrs, cross Rs 2L cr||TNN Mumbai: There has been a 26-fold rise in assets under management (AUM) of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) in a little over five years to more than Rs 2 lakh crore now. The main reasons are government support for these schemes, rising popularity among investors, and acceptance by fund houses to launch equity and debt-based ETFs with lower management costs. Of the total, ETFs on the NSE’s Nifty index have a 49% market share, accounting for a little over Rs 1 lakh crore, data from MF industry body Amfi showed. And gold ETFs managed assets worth an additional Rs 13,500 crore. According to NSE MD & CEO Vikram Limaye, the exchange was working actively with the MF industry “for creating investor awareness and promotion of ETFs through various channels of communication in India”. Nifty 50 and various other Nifty indices have been well accepted and recognised for launching ETFs in India, said NSE Indices CEO Mukesh Agarwal. His entity constructs and manages various indices based on which ETFs have been launched by fund houses. “NSE Indices believes in product innovation and we will continue to work with various stakeholders in developing new indices, including debt indices, to facilitate new ETFs that will offer a variety of investment products to investors,” Agarwal said. A large part of the growth in ETFs’ AUM could be attributed to the decision by the EPFO five years ago to invest part of its incremental inflows in equities through the ETF route, fund industry officials said. The number of ETFs has also more than doubled to 82, from 34 as of end-fiscal 2015. In August 2015, the EPFO had initially agreed to invest 5% of incremental monthly inflows into ETFs based on the Nifty, and then included similar schemes based on the sensex. SBI Mutual Fund was the first to get the EPFO mandate, followed by UTI MF. While this gave a boost to ETFs in India, the mandate by the government to launch several ETFs also boosted its popularity. Fund houses run by Nippon Life, ICICI Prudential and Edelweiss currently have government mandates to run equity and debt ETFs. According to ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund MD & CEO Nimesh Shah, the two most important drivers for ETF growth in India have been the government and the regulatory thrust in this segment. “The government thrust has been largely driven by EPFO corpus allocations and adoption of ETFs for its disinvestment initiatives,” Shah said. In addition, the focused approach of the MF industry towards creating awareness about these products, digital adoption and product innovation over the years — covering simple products based on Nifty, gold and smart beta — have helped the category gain popularity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/etfs-jump-26x-in-5-yrs-cross-rs-2l-cr/articleshow/78135560.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||ABAP hails renaming of museum||Prayagraj: Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri on Tuesday hailed the decision of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to rename Mughal Museum in Agra after Chhatrapati Shivaji and condemned Ram Temple Trust secretary Champat Rai for his recent remarks on Maharashtra chief minister. Giri heavily endorsed CM Yogi’s decision of renaming the Mughal Museum in Agra after Maratha King Shivaji. “Mughals cannot be our heroes as they were invaders and exploited our masses. Our buildings and monuments cannot be named after them. Those named after Mughals should be renamed after Indians who sacrificed their lives for the nation,” said Giri. Not only the saint community, but the entire country supports this decision of CM Yogi, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abap-hails-renaming-of-museum/articleshow/78136907.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Business||Economic decline in Q1 not related to performance pre-Covid: CEA||Chennai: Linking the fall in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the quarter ended June to the India’s economic situation pre-Covid is incorrect, and is a result of “elementary confusion” treating the GDP as a flow variable instead of a stock variable, chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian, said on Tuesday.Subramanian was speaking at CII Tamil Nadu's flagship ICT conference Connect 2020 and was reacting to recent projections of an overall decline in the Indian economy for the fiscal year ended March 2021. "If Covid had started in April instead of March [the last month of the FY], then growth rate would have been far higher than 3.1% and we would have even arrested the decline in the previous quarters. I have absolutely no doubt that the potential growth rate of India has not changed and Covid is an exogenous shock," he said. The CEA said he was speaking based on real data and all indices of industrial production including the Purchasing Managers' Index were in positive territories in February 2020. During April to June, India and the rest of the world imposed an intense lockdown that impacted investments and private spending. Most economists and rating agencies predict a bleak fiscal year 2020-21 and have estimated India’s GDP to contract in double-digits.Subramanian noted that India has been in a similar situation before during the Asian financial crisis and managed to come out of it.For 12 quarters in the years 2000, 2001, 2002 the growth was less than 4% owing to the shock of the Asian financial crisis, and India responded with fiscal spending, reforms around removal of small sector reservation, and bringing in more private sector participation which led to growth of over 8% in the next five years, he said, noting a need replicate what the country did then.He also used the Behavioral economics theory of Saliency Bias to explain what he referred to as ‘negative commentary’ around India’s economic performance.“We often over-rate recent data alone, and do not consider full time-series of data,” he explained. “When reforms are being implemented, very few people have the long-run vision to see that this will manifest into growth and productivity in the future,” he said.Besides the pandemic, Subramanian squarely blamed the bad loans in the financial sector for the decline in growth. The NPAs have come back to roost after five to six years, and created risk aversion and impacted investments and consumption, he said. “Now we are in a Chakravyuh because of this.” As for the measures to get India out of this trap, Subramanian noted a need to double down infrastructure pipeline and focus on reforms around export. Reforms already initiated in agriculture, labour, on privatization, and IBC will increase productivity and help bring back growth, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/economic-decline-in-q1-not-related-to-performance-pre-covid-cea/articleshow/78134325.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Business||Take Solutions to shed non core biz, sells APA Engg||Chennai: The board of life sciences tech enterprise Take Solutions has approved sale of its entire 58% stake in subsidiary APA Engineering for Rs 17.4 crore. The transaction — a management buyout, and stake is sold to K Vaidyanathan and K Ramakrishnan, both currently founders and whole-time directors of APA Engineering, the company has said. “TAKE Solutions is moving towards becoming a full-fledged Life Sciences organisation. TAKE would like to divest its non-life sciences portfolio,” H R Srinivasan, vice-chairman and MD, Take Solutions said. APA Engineering operates in the supply chain management space, covering engineering, sourcing, compliance and technology domains. It contributed 5.98% to Take Solutions’ turnover in the previous fiscal year. The subsidiary contributed 1.61% to Take Solutions’ net worth Take Solutions also initiated the liquidation process of its step-down subsidiary Navitas Life Sciences, GmbH, Germany owing to business constraints arising from Covid-19. “The liquidity and business constraints, consequent to impact of Covid-19 pandemic, have significantly hampered the operations of a step-down subsidiary — Navitas Life Sciences GmbH, Germany,” the company said in an exchange filing on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/take-solutions-to-shed-non-core-biz-sells-apa-engg/articleshow/78134371.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court delays reopening of its courtrooms||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has decided not to reopen its courtrooms from Wednesday as it had decided earlier and postponed physical functioning for now. The reason for deferring the opening of courtrooms in a phased manner was not revealed, but the high court’s standing committee took the decision on Monday and the announcement was made on Tuesday evening. With postponement of physical hearings, the four judges — Paresh Upadhyay, A S Supehia, A J Shastri and R P Dholaria — who had agreed to sit and hear cases in courtrooms, will continue with virtual court and hear cases through video conference. The HC announced in a circular on Tuesday that the deferral of resumption of physical hearing is till further orders. Earlier this month, the HC had decided to open 3-4 courtrooms and the chief justice requested the judges to share their views and asked which of them were willing to sit in courtrooms. On September 9, the HC finally took a decision to open three courtrooms. On September 12, the court published SOP for physical hearing in order to avoid any Covid-19 infection among the participants in court proceedings. However, as the court was to resume physical hearing, though in phased manner, Covid-19 tests were conducted on court staff last week. After 12 employees were tested Covid-19 positive. This led the HC to shut its functioning completely. It stopped virtual hearing and postponed physical hearing from September 14 to September 16. As the testing continued for the HC employees, as many as 30 staffers including a court master of a sitting judge were tested Covid positive. Sources said that this might have prompted the HC to defer its decision to resume physical hearing. Meanwhile, the HC permitted the taluka level courts across the state to open with 50% judicial officers. The judges in lower courts have been asked to work on rotation basis every week. The high court had shut its courtrooms on March 24 due to Covid-19 and the lockdown. Few days later, it started virtual courts to hear urgent cases like bail applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-high-court-delays-reopening-of-its-courtrooms/articleshow/78134581.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Business||Happiest Minds gains in grey market||MUMBAI: The unofficial, grey market for stocks is indicating a strong listing for the just-closed Happiest Minds Technologies IPO. This could mean the investors in this may see their investments double on Thursday, when the company is expected to list on both the BSE and NSE. On Tuesday evening, the current grey market premium (GMP) for the stock was hovering between Rs 140 and Rs 146, indicating a listing price of between Rs 306 and Rs 312 (that is, the IPO price of Rs 166 plus the GMP). On September 9, when the Happiest Minds IPO application process closed, the offer was oversubscribed 151 times. This made it one of the most subscribed offers in over a decade. For hugely oversubscribed IPOs, the GMP usually shows an uptrend as the listing day nears. This value also depends upon the market conditions on the listing day, veterans of Dalal Street said. Successful IPO applicants were allotted their shares on Tuesday morning. The Rs 702-crore IPO had raised Rs 316 crore from anchor investors just a day before it opened on September 7. And when the IPO application process closed, it had a book size of nearly Rs 58,300 crore, data from the exchanges said.The institutional part was subscribed over 77 times, the non-institutional part, also called the HNI or the high net worth investors’ portion, was subscribed more than 351 times, and the retail portion 71 times. Happiest Minds IPO was the second offer since the lockdown started in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/happiest-minds-gains-in-grey-mkt/articleshow/78135488.cms||Partha Sinha
September 16, 2020||Business||Munich Re leads $60 million round in insure-tech Acko||BENGALURU: Munich Reinsurance’s investment arm Munich Re Ventures has led a $60-million funding in digital-only insurance startup Acko. The online insurance startup is now valued at upwards of $400 million after the fund-raise. Its existing investors Amazon, RPS Ventures and Intact Ventures also participated in the latest round and the investment has been approved by insurance regulator Irdai. The company will use the new capital to invest in existing lines of products and expand into new segments like direct-to-consumer health insurance policies. So far, 60-70% of its business has come from auto insurance. But it started corporate health insurance earlier in the year and is expanding into retail health insurance too. Avendus Capital advised Acko on the capital-raise. “Auto is getting bigger for us, while health is new and is scaling well. So far, we have been doing employee-focused health insurances covering about 1.5 lakh employees and their family members. We aim to cover about 5 lakh such employees by March and we have started selling health policies directly to consumers,” said Acko CEO Varun Dua. He had previously started insurance aggregator Coverfox. Some of these companies include Swiggy and MakeMyTrip. Acko did see a dip in business during April and early-May. But it has seen sales of digital insurance policies getting accelerated over the last two months. It had 40-45 million unique customers in March and the same is now 60-65 million. Dua added the company is currently eyeing an annualised revenue run-rate of $120-150 million for fiscal ending March 2021. It closed the previous financial year with a revenue of around $60 million. Acko is also seeing increased adoption of device protection policies with the higher sale of smartphones and other electronic devices via e-commerce platforms. In 2017, Acko was spun off as a separate venture from Coverfox, following which Dua made an exit from the company. Flipkart co-founder Binny Bansal, Accel India, SAIF Partners and Infosys co-founder N R Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran Ventures are among Acko’s other existing investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/munich-re-leads-60mn-round-in-insure-tech-acko/articleshow/78135367.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Patna||Textbook sales plummet by 60% in Patna since lockdown||PATNA: The closure of educational institutions since mid-March due to the Covid pandemic has badly hit the textbook publishers and distributors. They say the sales of school and college textbooks have plummeted by 60% in the city since lockdown. Major book outlets like Gyan Ganga and Bharti Bhawan have been finding it difficult to get customers. Shakti Singh, vice-president of Gyan Ganga Limited (Bihar circle), said though the book retail shops have been opened in the city for the past one and a half months, the overall sales are down by 60% in all six retail outlets. “Less than 30 customers buy books at each shop per day,” he said on Wednesday. “The sales were never that low before. We saw rush of people to buy books, especially at the beginning of the academic sessions. The footfall used to be low only in December and January. This time, everything was shut before the beginning of new academic session,” Singh said. He added: “Parents and kids are no longer interested in buying books as more than half of the session has already passed. Besides, kids are also relying on digital books as schools are conducting classes online.” The bookstores in city reopened for a short period between April 23 and 30 amid lockdown. But less than 20% of the stock were cleared even by offering home delivery option. Pankaj Sinha, manager (projects) of Bharti Bhawan (P & D), said majority of kids would not buy textbooks unless the schools reopen. “Only Bihar-centric books are being purchased by the Class X to XII students of Bihar School Examination Board. There are negligible sales of private school textbooks. Bihar-centric books are locally available across the state,” he said. Talking about the losses, Sinha said the dealers or distributors would now return the unsold textbooks. “We have not estimated how much loss we are going to bear. But it is going to be huge. There was no selling between March 15 and April 15, which is the peak time for textbook sales. The situation is the same for all the publishing houses as they are sitting on piles of unsold stocks,” he said. Kids and parents are also not taking interest in buying textbooks as they are dependent on digital books. Ramesh Shah, whose two sons study in Class V and VIII, said when the kids are attending classes and getting assignments and study materials online, what’s the use of physical books. “Buying new books will be a waste of money,” he said. Birendra Kumar (36) of Lohanipur, whose daughter studies in Class III, also said buying textbooks would be a waste of money. “Less than five months of the current session are left. Buying new books is not a good idea. I had copied down important topics from the digital books and printed few materials for my daughter to study,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/textbook-sales-plummet-by-60-in-city-since-lockdown/articleshow/78133715.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 16, 2020||Patna||40 litres of country liquor seized, 2 held||The Bagaha police conducted two separate raids on NH-727 near Ratanmala under the Bagaha town police station area and Chautarawa Chowk under the Chautarawa police station area on Tuesday. They seized 40 litres of country liquor from two cars and arrested the drivers. “Two cases under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act, 2018 have been lodged,” Bagaha SDPO Kailash Prasad said. CM condoles Vaishya’s death: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday condoled the death of Rajkumar Vaishya, who had created a record by completing his masters in economics from Nalanda Open University at the age of 98 in 2017. He died at the age of 101. Nitish said Vaishya’s name has been mentioned in the Limca Book of Records for completing his MA at the age of 98. “When he achieved this feat, I had personally congratulated him and visited his home. He was like a father to me,” said Nitish in a statement. Officers told to visit polling stns: At a training-cum-orientation programme held on Tuesday, Saran DM-cum-district election officer Subrat Kumar Sen directed the sector officers to visit every polling station allotted to them along with police officers. He also told them to find out what difficulties the voters had faced during the last elections and redress them. Altogether 4,239 polling stations have been identified for the 10 assembly constituencies in the district. ‘Clone’ trains: The East Central Railway has decided to start eight ‘clone’ trains from September 21 on various routes with stoppages at different stations under the Samastipur railway division. The ticket prices will be similar to those of Humsafar Express.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40-litres-of-country-liquor-seized-2-held/articleshow/78133425.cms||Arunima Lal
September 16, 2020||Meerut||Student wings of SP, RLD hold protest against ‘rising crime & unemployment'||Meerut: Student wings of Samajwadi Party (SP) and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Monday held a protest at collectorate premises here against what they alleged rising crime, unemployment and pending cane dues. They also handed over a memorandum addressed to the UP’s governor highlighting all the issues they were holding the protests for.Heavy police force was deployed at the main gate of the collectorate as protestors on tractors tried to force their way inside. Senior police officers tried to pacify the agitators.The SP’s district unit has been up in arms against the BJP government.Senior SP functionaries Rajpal Singh and Atul Pradhan have led protests, first against recovery of fake NCERT books and recently over the deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor. The party is planning to hold a ‘mahapanchayat’ on September 16 if their demands of compensation to the families of the deceased and strict action against culprits are not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/student-wings-of-sp-rld-hold-protest-against-rising-crime-unemployment/articleshow/78133221.cms||Piyush Rai
September 16, 2020||Pune||Pavana full, yet not enough water for residents of Pimpri Chinchwad||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pavana dam, which supplies water to nearly 25 lakh people in Pimpri Chinchwad, is full to the brim. With bountiful rains in August and the beginning of September, the dam now has storage to last another 365 days. Yet, the PCMC has not been able to supply even 100 litres of water to each person in many parts of the township despite lifting at the rate of 145 litres per day per person and borrowing some water from MIDC areas. “We hardly get 50 to 60 litre water from PCMC,” said Santosh Maskar, chairman of over 1,000 apartment Roseland Residency in Pimple Saudagar. However, it is a tough task for the society committees as they toil to provide at least 135 litres per day per person. Many still depend on water tankers despite several initiatives. “We get 45,000 to 1.35 lakh litres every alternate day for our 1,000 members. We depend on 10-14 tankers daily even now,” said Balvinder Singh, secretary, Siddhivinayak Ginger Society. “The distribution system has not kept pace with the rapid development. We have issued a tender for relaying of many pipelines under government’s Amrut scheme, but that will take another two years,” PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said. The civic body is also building elevated water reservoirs in different parts of the township but progress is tardy. For instance, the 15 lakh EWR work in a garden in Pimple Saudagar has been under construction for nearly two years. Meanwhile, societies are extracting water from almost 300-feet beneath ground, against recommended 60-70 feet by ground water survey agency. The PCMC has pinned its hope on getting water from Andhra and Bhama Ashked dams, both of which are still fledgling projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pavana-full-yet-not-enough-water-for-residents-of-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/78134576.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Students trained in nuances of agriculture||Trichy: At a time when the number of youngsters taking up agriculture as a profession is decreasing, an organization conducted a programme to teach agricultural activities in Trichy. Voice Trust NGO taught the basics to 35 school and college students and also issued them certificates. The students were given training in Siruganur village on the outskirts of the city. The students, mostly of girls, were taught on how to grow plants, recycle waste for use as manure, pest control and selecting nutritive food for a healthy life. “Out of the 35 children, 33 had little space in their home surroundings to raise plants and vegetables. With the help of the training, some students have started a home garden in their backyard,” said R Kavitha, an organic farming organizer, and coordinated the program. Thangasamy Tirupathi, the resource person, said that agriculture was more viable when young and old worked with adults and extended support in small ways for success. S Praveen Kumar, an engineering graduate from Siruganur, who participated in the programme has started to cultivate onion on a small piece of their ancestral land. “Though I am from an agricultural family, the organic farming method is completely new for me. Once I succeed in my initial attempt to raise onion, I am planning to cultivate onion on around one acre”, Praveen Kumar told TOI. “We are in agriculture activities from 1995 for reviving agriculture as a viable and valuable activity. We have an organic farm in Siruganur certified by the Organic Certificate Department of Government of Tamil Nadu,” said A Gregory, project director of the trust. “Agriculture school is a new idea by Voice Trust to create interest among school children and college students to join agriculture as a profession. We completed 10 classes in July, August and September and certificates were also given,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-trained-in-nuances-of-agriculture/articleshow/78136213.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 16, 2020||Trichy||UK hands over three 15C bronze idols stolen from Tamil Nadu temple 42 years ago||TRICHY: Three bronze idols of Rama, Sita and Lakshmana, which were stolen from the Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple at Anandamangalam in Nagappattinam district in 1978 and were in the possession of an art dealer, were handed over to the High Commission of India (HCI) in London at a function on Tuesday. The online event was attended by Union minister of culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel, Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam, DGP J K Tripathy, ADGP, idol wing CID, Abhay Kumar Singh and Co-Founder of India Pride project S Vijay Kumar. The idols believed to be dating back to the 15th century were traced to London after the idol wing CID reopened the case after several years. “The quest started four years ago when our routine checks on web pages of dealers of Indian art threw up a rather interesting profile of a UK dealer. BADA profile (British Antique Dealers Association) web page showed a rather superlative example of a standing Vijayanagara Bronze,” he said. He said that after three years of search to match the idols with those with the dealer, a tip from a volunteer in London helped them confirm the similarities of the Rama idol after which the group informed the HCI. Idols may soon be flown in via DelhiThe matter was taken up with the Art and Antique Unit of the London Metropolitan Police as well as the idol wing of TN police. The idol wing led by ADGP Abhay Kumar Singh sent a report confirming that the theft took place in 1978 at the Rajagopalaswamy temple. As the the art collector was contacted by the Art and Antique unit of London Metropolitan Police, he verified his documents and confirmed the similarities.Going further,he also informed the HCI that he was in possession of Sita and Lakshmana idols along with Rama idol and handed them over to the HCI. The officials said that the person who sold the idols to the dealer was no more now. An official said the case in connection with the theft of the three idols was registered in 1978. Some of the accused in the case had also been convicted then but the idols could not be recovered.“The idols may be flown to New Delhi and sent to Tamil Nadu or it may be directly sent to Chennai,” said an official. Watch UK hands over 3 15th century idols stolen from Tamil Nadu temple 42 years ago||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/uk-hands-over-three-15c-bronze-idols-stolen-from-tn-temple-42-years-ago/articleshow/78138214.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 16, 2020||Patna||Interceptor vehicles on highways soon to reduce accidents in Bihar||PATNA: The state government has decided to procure 17 interceptor vehicles to restrict the speed limit on National Highways (NHs) in order to minimize road accidents in Bihar. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the interceptor vehicles would be equipped with speed laser guns, cameras, breathalyser, e-challan machine and other gadgets to enforce the road safety rules. “Most of the people who died in road fatalities is mainly due to the over- speeding vehicles. If we look at the data of last 3 years, around of 70% road accidents and deaths took place on highways. Besides interceptor vehicles, equipment like commando lights (63), metal cutters (23), hydraulic door busters (21), first aid kit (103), e-challan devices (40) and portable amplifiers (63) will also be purchased for road safety,” Agarwal said on Sunday. “The home department will purchase the interceptor vehicles along with the other equipment by spending Rs16 crore from the Road Safety Funds of transport department,” he added. Agarwal said the interceptor vehicles would be positioned at six important NHs, including NH-2 (Aurangabad-Gaya), NH-28 (Barauni-Gopalganj), NH-31 (Purnea), NH-57 (Darbhanga-Araria), NH-77 (Hajipur- Sitamarhi) and NH-80 (Mokama-Farakka road). “Maximum 427 road fatalities took place at NH-31, 386 on NH-28, 297 on NH-2, 277 on NH-57, 149 on NH-80 and 109 on NH-77,” he said, adding that with the help of equipment, the constables would help the commuters learn about road safety. As per the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data on accidental deaths and suicides, out of 7,205 people killed in road accidents in Bihar, 4,766 died due to overspeeding of vehicles. Around 3,403 died on NHs in the state, which accounts for 48% of the total road deaths. Altogether 1,854 died on state highways (SHs) in Bihar last year. Agarwal said there has been a decrease in road accidents in the last few quarters. “Constant efforts are being made to reduce the number of road fatalities in the state. When we compared first three quarters of 2019 with the corresponding period in 2020, the number of road accidents and deaths has registered a decrease of 25.4% and 21.7% respectively,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/interceptor-vehicles-on-highways-soon-to-reduce-accidents-in-state/articleshow/78133733.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘If elected to power, NDA govt to focus on wooing investors’||PATNA: The JD(U) will seek people’s mandate to form next government in the state on the basis of development works carried out in 15 years of its rule and vision of state’s development in next five years, state building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary said on Tuesday. Choudhary said since basic infrastructures like electricity and roads have already been made available, the NDA, if re-elected to power, will now focus on more investments from outside and setting up of industrial units in the state. “If given the opportunity to serve, our government will invite industrial houses to set up agro-based industries in Bihar,” he added. Without taking name of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the minister said those who don’t have proper education can’t think of ushering in development in the state. “Padhe likhe netritva ka prabhav padta hai,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a function to mark the Engineers’ Day on Tuesday.. Earlier, highlighting the achievements of the Nitish Kumar government, water resources department minister Sanjay Jha said the state has progressed in every sphere in the last 15 years.  “For the first time, Bihar used the latest technology to save people from floods. A 12-foot iron sheet piles were erected to protect roads from damage caused by floodwaters between two villages,” he said. Jha said the state had the capacity used to fulfil only 22% power demand in 2005, which went to 100% in 2018. Similarly, in 2005, only 34% roads were concrete, which went up to 97% in 2020, he added.Jha said around 6,074 new big and small size bridges were built in the last 15 years, while the number of bridges in the state was just 20 in 2005. “There were only 837km rural roads in 2005 and the number has now reached 96,5000km. The length of NH in the state was only 7,583km and it has now gone up to over 13,000km,” the minister added. Jha also talked about the Patna Museum, which is of international repute. “It is regarded as one of the best museums in the world. The artefacts put on display in the museum are rare,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/if-elected-to-power-nda-govt-to-focus-on-wooing-investors/articleshow/78133619.cms||Ramashankar
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Kerala CM should give logical answers’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged on Tuesday that CM Pinarayi Vijayan should start addressing the ‘ridiculous predicament of his government’ and stop terming all grievous charges against his ministers (K T Jaleel, E P Jayarajan) and children of CPM leaders as fictitious. Addressing media, Chennithala said it was ridiculous for Vijayan to justify ministers, leaders and their sons who are under a cloud for their alleged links with persons accused in the gold smuggling case. “Why does the CM fail to explain things to people? He says KT Jaleel was summoned by ED to clear some doubts. He says it all as if ED was more than satisfied with Jaleel’s clarifications. People should notice his eagerness to trivialize the quizzing of a state minister by ED in connection with a smuggling case that amounts to treason,” he said. A Waqf minister has no business with the UAE consulate. Or else, it should be clarified who asked him to associate with the consulate, added Chennithala. “Of course, ED must not have summoned Jaleel to ask if the dates, brought from the Gulf, were good. ED summoned him to ask what other things that were brought along with the dates,” he said. CM was using the same method to hide the real purpose why minister Jayarajan’s wife opened the bank locker. “Nobody said there was anything surprising in Jayarajan’s wife having a locker facility at the bank where she retired as a senior manager. What is baffling is why she rushed to the bank and opened the locker immediately after she was tested for Covid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-should-give-logical-answers/articleshow/78134609.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: NIA arrests Godhra man for links with Pakistan spies||AHMEDABAD / VADODARA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested Imran Giteli, 37, rickshaw driver from Godhra for his alleged involvement in the Visakhapatnam naval espionage case of December last year. In a statement on Tuesday, the agency said, “NIA arrested a key accused viz. Giteli Imran, 37, resident of Godhra in Panchmahal district in connection of NIA, Hyderabad, under section 120B and 121A of IPC along with sections 17 and 18 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment (UAPA) Act and section 3 of official secrets act for his involvement in espionage activities and working for Pakistani intelligence agency ISI.” Imran, a resident Vali Falia in the Polan Bazaar area of Godhra, was allegedly associated with Pakistani spies and agents under the guise of cross-border cloth trade. Acting on the directions of Pakistan-based spies, he allegedly deposited money in the bank accounts of Indian Navy personnel at regular intervals in lieu of sensitive and classified data provided by them, NIA said. Some digital devices and incriminating documents have been seized in the search conducted at his house on Monday. The case relates to an international espionage racket in which Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information on locations and movements of Indian Naval ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. Investigation revealed that some Navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani agents through social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp. They shared classified information in lieu of money deposited into their bank accounts through Indian associates of Pak ISI who had business interests in Pakistan. A chargesheet has been filed in the case on June 15 this year against 14 persons. Further investigation is on. Imran used to drive an auto-rickshaw in the town for a living till he was arrested. His father Yakub also drives a rickshaw and has been avoiding the media ever since Imran was picked up in the early hours on Monday. Sources said that Imran was earlier a ladies tailor, but gave up the work due to back pain issues. He was also involved in trading of fabrics and clothes from his home. According to those who know the Giteli family, the family has some relatives in Pakistan. But this is not surprising as several persons from the minority community in Godhra have relatives in Pakistan and are even married to men or women from across the border. Karachi even has a Godhra Colony that is named so as migrants from Godhra settled in the area. Sources said that Imran is married and has four children. Other members of the family include Imran’s parents and Imran’s two brothers who are married.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nia-arrests-spy-godhra-auto-driver/articleshow/78138311.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Patna||Will complete projects on time, Bihar CM tells PM||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar assured PM Narendra Modi that the state government would complete all the central government’s projects launched by him on time. The PM inaugurated and laid the foundation for seven projects related to Namami Gange, urban infrastructure and safe piped drinking water for rural and urban areas through videoconferencing on Tuesday. Nitish managed to extract a smile from the PM at the function while telling him about the queer practice seen among the rural people of the state after piped drinking water facilities had been provided in their villages. Nitish, smiling and rather embarrassingly, said the villagers had been seen washing their buffaloes with the piped drinking water meant for them! At this, the PM could not resist his smile. Nitish took the opportunity to tell the PM to reconsider the decision to supply piped safe drinking water to people for 24 hours, suggesting thereby that water so supplied could be misused by the villagers, like for washing their buffaloes! “The 24-hour supply of water will also adversely impact environment. The supply of water should be for adequate time, but attention should also be paid to protecting the environment,” Nitish said, obliquely pointing out that it could lead to depletion of the underground water resources. The suggestion from the CM appeared to go well with the PM, who nodded his head in unison. Saying that the sewage treatment plants being constructed under the Namami Gange project to treat the dirty water from the drains in towns would help in improving the quality of Ganga water, Nitish also said that “only treated water should be allowed to flow into the river”. He appreciated the development of riverfront along Burhi Gandak at Muzaffarpur and also said the Centre and the state government together had improved the riverfront at Patna. The CM said the people of Bihar had somewhat become aware of the need to keep the rivers clean and also its judicious use. He said before launching the Jal Jeevan Hariyali (JJH) project in the state, his government had organized human chain to solicit their involvement in the project. “As many as 5.16 crore people formed the human chain that was 18,000km-long,” he said. Nitish had earlier informed the PM about the impurity of the Ganga water by citing his childhood experiences at Bakhtiyarpur, 60km away from Patna, when he used to bathe in the Ganga, drink its water and also bring home a bucket full of it. “It cannot be done today, because water of the river has been polluted beyond use,” he said. Earlier, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi presented statistical details of the works done and achievements made under urban renewal and the Namami Gange projects, which the PM also referred to in his speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-complete-projects-on-time-nitish-tells-pm/articleshow/78134644.cms||Abhay Singh
September 16, 2020||Patna||Centre’s push for growth in Bihar||PATNA: Some major projects for state launched by PM Narendra Modi, including four related to water supply, two to sewerage treatment and one to riverfront development scheme, is expected to improve delivery and quality of urban infrastructure services in the state. The projects worth Rs 541 crore have been launched under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and the Namami Gange Mission. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who had attended the virtual launch of projects of urban development and housing department (UDHD), said two sewerage treatment plants (STPs) in Patna, which were developed with an expenditure of Rs 151 crore, would relieve Punpun and Ganga rivers from bearing 8 crore litres of household waste water per day. He said timely implementation of STP projects would ensure purity of river water and help devotees perform Chhath rituals on the banks of the rivers. “Effluent treatment plants (ETPs) have been installed at 57 industrial units located along Ganga. These units were polluting the river water,” the deputy CM said, adding ETPs resulted in zero discharge of industrial waste into the river. The deputy CM thanked the PM for announcement of ‘Project Dolphin’ and said Asia’s first dolphin research centre is being set up with an expenditure of Rs 30.52 crore on 2-acre campus of Patna University. “As per the survey of 2018-19, there are about 3,031 dolphins in India, including 1,455 in Bihar,” he added. UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma said various projects under the AMRUT and Namami Gange Mission like water supply projects in Siwan Municipal Council and Chhapra Municipal Corporation and Karmalichak and Beur STPs would boost urban infrastructure. “The PM also laid foundation for Muzaffarpur riverfront development project, including three ghtas – Chandwara Ghat, Poorvi Akhada Ghat and Seedhi Ghat – and water supply projects in Munger Municipal Corporation and Jamalpur Municipal Council,” he said. Beur and Karmalichak STPs have capacity of 43 MLD and 37 MLD. The Beur STP will have 108-km-long sewer networks in Patna and work on 124km has already been completed. Of the 96.54km-long sewer network in Karmalichak STP, work has been completed on 62km. BUIDCO chief engineer Ramavtar Sah said the benefits of these two STPs would be visible in next 3- 4 months once all the sewage networks are connected to households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centres-push-for-growth-in-bihar/articleshow/78134754.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid tally crosses 1.60 lakh-mark||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases crossed 1,60,000-mark in the state on Tuesday with 1,575 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The state health department has confirmed five more Covid deaths in state. With this, Covid toll in the state has jumped to 836. Of 1,61,101 Covid patients in the state, 1,46,533 have recovered so far. Active cases in the state now stand at 13,732. More than 1 lakh samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. According to the health department, the number of sample tests in the state crossed 50 lakh-mark on Tuesday. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar, in his daily briefing on Tuesday, said the state’s recovery rate has reached 90.96%, nearly 13% higher than the national average. “Altogether 1,514 people have recovered from Covid infection in the past 24 hours, taking the number of recovered patients to 1,46,533,” he said. Anupam said the number of active cases in state has been decreasing. “On September 14, 1,07,492 samples were tested in the state and the cumulative testing figure has reached 50,94,239,” he said. As per the data shared by the health department, 183 new cases were reported in Patna on Tuesday, taking the district’s Covid tally to 24,374. Active cases in the district stood at 1,817 on Tuesday. Altogether 22,369 people have so far recovered from the virus in the district, including 131 in the past 24 hours. The district’s recovery rate has now touched 91.7%. Other districts which reported maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours included Supaul (100), Purnia (77), Araria (75) and Nalanda and Bhagalpur (72 each). No fresh Covid causality was recorded at NMCH and AIIMS-P on Tuesday. Six patients were discharged from NMCH and nine from AIIMS-P on Tuesday. State gets Rs 113 crore for Covid management: According to a PIB release issued on Tuesday, of Rs 4,230 crore allocated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare to states and union territories for Covid-19 management under National Health Mission, Bihar has received Rs 113 crore, which will be released in two instalments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-tally-crosses-1-60l-mark/articleshow/78134836.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 16, 2020||Business||LVB and Clix Capital merger talks enter next stage||Chennai: The proposed merger talks between capital-strapped Lakshmi Vilas Bank and PE investor Clix Capital, moved to the next level with the bank informing the exchange that parties have initiated discussions on the next step after completing mutual due diligence. In a regulatory filing to exchanges, the Karur-based private bank said “the mutual due diligence is substantially complete, and the parties are in discussions on the next steps.” The next steps will involve the appointment of valuers who will independently value the companies and then arrive at a merger ratio. Post this, both parties will move the banking regulator to the merger, it is learnt. Parallelly, the Bank’s board approved a fund raise of Rs 1,500 crore, in a combination of equity and debt. The equity will be either a QIP or a rights or a public float for Rs 1,000 crore while the debt will be on a private placement basis for Rs 500 crore. The stock price of LVB fell 2% at Rs 20.35 apiece at the BSE on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-and-clix-capital-merger-talks-enter-next-stage/articleshow/78134355.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 16, 2020||Business||Cos will shift from WFH mode to work-from-anywhere tech||By S Ramesh ShankarThe workplace of tomorrow is going to be radically different than what we have seen so far. Nobody would have imagined how businesses will transform overnight, and thereby the places of work too. I am trying to predict the workplace of tomorrow based on my imagination and insight. If it comes true, you can give credit to the teams with whom I worked in my career as they instilled this wisdom in me. And if it fails, I take responsibility for it as I failed to assimilate knowledge over the years from my teams. * Work from anywhere: Work from home (WFH) has become the norm in the days of the lockdown in most organisations today. In tomorrow’s organisation, work from anywhere will be the norm. This is because organisations will realise that if the majority of their employees are able to connect online, it does not matter where they work from. In the past, many old-age leaders felt insecure allowing employees to work from home since they were not sure how productive they would be. However, thanks to Covid, work from home was thrust on organisations as the only alternative and most organisations and employees have willingly and effectively adopted it. * Offline to online: Most of us have got used to fulfilling almost all banking needs online due to the internet and mobile apps. So, it will be seen that most business transactions will move online. People will prefer to buy everything possible online. This would mean that physical infrastructure will have to give way to a robust IT infrastructure. What we have seen in the days of the lockdown is that the internet speeds were impacted due to heavy overload as the service providers were not ready for this catastrophe in any way, same as most of us too. * Interpersonal to intra-personal behaviour: All organisations focused a lot on building teams and thereby developing interpersonal skills of their team members. This is likely to give way to focus on individual behaviour, which I have termed as intra-personal behaviour. How do I behave when I work alone at home and still have to deal with other teams online? This would mean conscientiousness and self-discipline. Employees and their managers have to trust each other and focus on deliverables rather than the time spent by the employee at the workplace. * Manufacturing will be robot-driven: We will see a radical transformation in the shop floors of production units. We may see more robots and automation take over manual labour. This would mean that human beings have to move up the value chain and focus on quality, productivity and innovation. The minimisation of human interface in production lines will see improvement in quality, productivity and consistency. This does not mean that human interface will vanish from shop floors. It means that human beings will value-add to what robots will, and can never do even in the future. * Remote servicing: An interesting development will be that servicing will become more remote than it is today. Most service centres will provide remote diagnostics and will be able to service products remotely. Even today, power plants are monitored remotely, troubleshooting and repairs can be done remotely through connected devices. In the digitalisation era, it may become possible for all products to be monitored and serviced remotely, except for possibly replacement of parts. Even that may change with modular designs where consumers may be able to replace parts themselves based on artificial intelligence and remote service guidance. * Paperless firms: One of the positive outcomes for the future will be that organisations will truly become paperless. Everything will be transacted online. From the offers of employment to employees to purchase orders to suppliers and invoices to customers — the entire value chain will be operated with the aid of online connected technologies. This will not only ensure efficiency and effectiveness, it will also eliminate waste and non-productive processes within organisations. * Boundary less organisations: One of the dreams of organisations is to dissolve the stringent boundaries between functions within the organisation, which actually come in the way of delivering value to customers. In the future, we will see that such needless boundaries will not only disappear within the organisation but will also vanish between organisations. All institutions that add value to a customer or supplier will form a continuum and thereby produce more with less in the future. * Social equity: The transformation of workplaces in the future will have a positive outcome in terms of social equity among employees. Employee value-addition will be clearly measured by outcomes and not by efforts and time spent. This means that people contributing the same or similar outcomes are likely to get paid similarly. This will become necessary rather than obligatory as it will be otherwise very difficult to monitor remotely how employee performance can be differentiated. Employment types: Organisations will no longer have all employees on their rolls. It will be a combination of full-time employees, part-time employees, consultants, gig workforce, contractual, interns and short-term employees. While all these categories may exist in most organisations today, the proportion of full-time employees to others may reverse. This means most organisations will try to operate with a basic minimum number of employees on their rolls. The rest of the workforce may consist of all or most of the earlier-mentioned categories of employees. * Work-life balance: The line demarcating workplace from home is going to diminish further. While this will bring in flexibility both for the organisation and the individual employee, it will have its repercussions in terms of relationships, again both at the workplace and at home. Family and marriage as institutions will be under strain and hence psychologists, social workers, psychiatrists, counsellors and coaches will have a bigger role to play in maintaining harmony at the workplace and at home. If all or any of the above predictions come true, I may be lucky as I will survive as a student of management. However, if all of them bite the dust, then I have to start writing on philosophy in the future. Being a born optimist, I believe the changes in workplaces will benefit organisations and individuals as long as we prepare for it and train our employees to embrace the change. (The writer is the chief joy officer, Hrishti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-will-shift-from-wfh-mode-to-work-from-anywhere-tech/articleshow/78135294.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||At 1,444, state reports most daily discharges||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday, Gujarat added 1,349 positive cases, taking the total to 1.16 lakh. It was the seventh consecutive day on which the state recorded 1,300-plus daily cases. In all, 1,444 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period — single-day highest so far — taking the total to 96,709. The discharges include 265 from Surat, 249 from Rajkot, 215 from Ahmedabad, 125 from Jamnagar, and 102 from Vadodara. The new positive cases in Gujarat included 277 from Surat, 172 from Ahmedabad, 141 from Rajkot, 129 from Vadodara, and 123 from Jamnagar. Ahmedabad and Vadodara districts have crossed 34,000 and 10,000 cumulative cases respectively. Cases in Surat and Rajkot reached 24,736 and 6,989 respectively. The state also registered 17 deaths, taking the toll to 3,247. The deaths in Gujarat include five from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, three from Jamnagar, two from Vadodara, and one each from Gandhinagar, Mahisagar, and Rajkot. Surat district’s death toll has reached 700 whereas the figures for Ahmedabad, Vadodara, and Rajkot are 1,765, 154, and 116. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 16,389 active patients, or 14% of the total Covid-19 positive patients. The shares of discharged and deceased patients are 83.1% and 2.9% respectively. Gujarat in the 24 hours carried out 78,182 tests, taking the total to 34.38 lakh. The state health department said that the testing rate is 1,203 per day per million population. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 7.43 lakh persons under quarantine — 501 of the total were under facility quarantine, and the rest under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-1444-state-reports-most-daily-discharges/articleshow/78134573.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||Govt doctors go on strike for 5 days||Hubballi: Government doctors working in health facilities run by the health and family welfare department have gone on a five-day strike from Tuesday. However, the doctors continued to attend to patients. The strike was launched to demand for revision of pay as per the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). The doctors said that they will not submit any reports to the higher officials, and will not attend meetings chaired by these officials, until their demands are fulfilled. As many as 118 doctors from Dharwad took part in the protest. The doctors launched the protest under the banner of Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA). The Dharwad branch doctors in a memorandum submitted to the deputy commissioner, said that they have been working round-the-clock to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, without taking a break for a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-doctors-go-on-strike-for-5-days/articleshow/78133214.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Moideen junks Akkara’s allegations on MCH visit||Thrissur: Local self government department minister A C Moideen on Wednesday refuted Congress MLA Anil Akkara’s allegations that he (the minister) made an unannounced visit to the medical college hospital when the gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh was admitted there. In a Facebook post, the minister said he had gone to the medical college in the noon on September 9 to attend a programme there, while it was the MLA who went to the hospital after 9pm, without any scheduled programme. The minister clarified that he went there as per the medical college principal’s invitation for a programme connected with the launch of ‘Prana Air for Care’, meant to ensure oxygen supply to the patients at their bedside in Covid-19 ICU through dedicated pipelines. There were about 20 people, including a leader of a pro-Congress NGO association, at the programme. What ‘clandestine’ action could be performed there in the presence of so many people, the minister asked. Meanwhile, Akkara said that he forwarded his memorandum to the governor demanding CBI enquiry into various allegations related to Life Mission housing project of the government. The complaint has been forwarded to the deputy secretary in the chief minister’s public grievance redressal cell, the MLA said in a statement. In another development, city police commissioner Aadhithya has asked the district crime branch ACP Babu K Thomas to probe into the charges that six women police officers had taken selfies with Swapna. The commissioner has set a time limit of two months to complete the probe. The police officials had allegedly taken selfies when Swapna was admitted to the medical college hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/moideen-junks-akkaras-allegations-on-mch-visit/articleshow/78155057.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Three held for sexual assault on trader in Gujarat's Veraval||RAJKOT: Three persons were detained on Tuesday night for allegedly forcing a 25-year-old trader into having oral sex in Garib Nawaz Colony of Veraval of Gir Somnath district. The accused were identified as Aman Lagat, Rahil Fakir and Mohsin Sattar. “Lagat, who had befriended the victim on the Facebook, called him at an under construction house in Garib Nawaz Colony on August 11. Lagat allegedly threatened to kill the victim, bragging that it was his area and that if he wanted to stay alive, he would have to do as he said,” said an official from Veraval police station. Then Lagat forced the victim into oral sex, while Fakit and Sattar allegedly shot the video of the act on their cellphones. Then after a week, Lagat made calls to the victim, saying that the owner of the house where he was sexually assaulted was demanding Rs 5 lakh. “Lagat expressed his willingness to pay half the amount, while asking the victim to pay the remaining Rs 2.50 lakh. When the victim refused, Lagat sent the video to him. Then all the three accused went to the victim’s factory and asked for Rs 4.50 lakh,” said the official. The victim eventually approached the police which rounded up the accused on Tuesday night. “At present, we have detained the accused. Once they undergo Covid-19 test, they will formally be arrested,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-held-for-sexual-assault-on-trader-in-veraval/articleshow/78154375.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: People will uproot NDA govt, says Congress's Harish Rawat||PATNA: The Narendra Modi government may bring an ordinance to scrap the provision of Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers in the country, former Uttarakhand CM and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said on Tuesday. Addressing a virtual rally of Congress workers of Saran and Vaishali districts, Rawat said the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre had introduced the MSP to help the farmers. “But Bihar will send a strong message by uprooting the NDA government in the state,” said Rawat, who was recently appointed Congress secretary general and party’s incharge of Punjab. Slamming PM Modi for “misleading” the people of the country by hiding facts about the Chinese infiltration, Rawat drew a parallel between the Manmohan Singh government and that of the Narendra Modi in dealing with economic recession in the country. MLA and member of state screening committee Kazi Nizamuddin said like Modi, CM Nitish Kumar has also been making false and fabricated announcements. “The people of the state are being deceived by the two leaders,” he added. Taking a dig at Nitish, Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha alleged that police personnel were being thrashed by liquor mafia in Patna when CM was addressing a virtual rally. Nitish’s promise to give jobs to 2 crore people also proved hollow, Jha said. Congress’s state working president and MLA Ashok Ram, MLA Amita Bhushan and MLC Samir Kumar Singh also spoke on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-will-uproot-nda-govt-in-state/articleshow/78133545.cms||Ramashankar
September 16, 2020||Chennai||UK hands over three 15C bronze idols stolen from Tamil Nadu temple 42 years ago||TRICHY: Three bronze idols of Rama, Sita and Lakshmana, which were stolen from the Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple at Anandamangalam in Nagappattinam district in 1978 and were in the possession of an art dealer, were handed over to the High Commission of India (HCI) in London at a function on Tuesday. The online event was attended by Union minister of culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel, Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam, DGP J K Tripathy, ADGP, idol wing CID, Abhay Kumar Singh and Co-Founder of India Pride project S Vijay Kumar. The idols believed to be dating back to the 15th century were traced to London after the idol wing CID reopened the case after several years. “The quest started four years ago when our routine checks on web pages of dealers of Indian art threw up a rather interesting profile of a UK dealer. BADA profile (British Antique Dealers Association) web page showed a rather superlative example of a standing Vijayanagara Bronze,” he said. He said that after three years of search to match the idols with those with the dealer, a tip from a volunteer in London helped them confirm the similarities of the Rama idol after which the group informed the HCI. Idols may soon be flown in via DelhiThe matter was taken up with the Art and Antique Unit of the London Metropolitan Police as well as the idol wing of TN police. The idol wing led by ADGP Abhay Kumar Singh sent a report confirming that the theft took place in 1978 at the Rajagopalaswamy temple. As the the art collector was contacted by the Art and Antique unit of London Metropolitan Police, he verified his documents and confirmed the similarities.Going further,he also informed the HCI that he was in possession of Sita and Lakshmana idols along with Rama idol and handed them over to the HCI. The officials said that the person who sold the idols to the dealer was no more now. An official said the case in connection with the theft of the three idols was registered in 1978. Some of the accused in the case had also been convicted then but the idols could not be recovered.“The idols may be flown to New Delhi and sent to Tamil Nadu or it may be directly sent to Chennai,” said an official. Watch UK hands over 3 15th century idols stolen from Tamil Nadu temple 42 years ago||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/uk-hands-over-three-15c-bronze-idols-stolen-from-tn-temple-42-years-ago/articleshow/78136235.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Stranded Pakistani citizens on NORI visas return||NAGPUR: Over 360 Pakistani citizens including 40 from Maharashtra who were stranded across the border following Covid outbreak began returning to India on Monday after a wait of six months. They were accompanied by 36 Indian citizens who were either their children, elderly parents, or spouses. The Pakistani citizens are Indian residents living here on long term visas and had applied for citizenship. They had gone to Pakistan to meet their kin under no-objection return to India (NORI) visas allowed for three months but were stranded due to Covid lockdown. The crossover through Wagah-Attari border continued till late in the night. By 9 pm around 200 had crossed to the Indian side after getting their rapid antigen test for Covid done. Their kin kept calling them from Nagpur and other parts of the state. By evening, some of them sent anxious messages on a whatsapp group of returnees, asking others to locate their family members as they had lost touch over phone. Rajesh Jhambia of Sindh Hindi Panchayat who has been coordinating with the stranded persons said the government should also now ensure the return over 100 others who had gone on NORI visas and are stranded in Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stranded-pak-citizens-on-nori-visas-return/articleshow/78136234.cms||Shishir Arya
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan puts egg debate to rest, says milk is a better option||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday made it clear that his government will not distribute eggs in mid-day meals in anganwadis. Milk will be served instead. Chouhan said: “We will begin serving milk to children in anganwadis from September 17 during Seva Saptah, which is being observed on the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The government will serve milk, not eggs, to malnourished children during the campaign.” This comes just two weeks after state women and child development minister Imarti Devi, a Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist, announced that eggs will be given in mid-day meals to those who want it to combat malnutrition.  “As a minister in the previous Congress government, I had announced to serve eggs to children in anganwadis. I am firm on my decision and reiterate that those who eat eggs will be given eggs, and those who do not will be given fruits like banana or apple,” Imarti Devi had said in Gwalior. BJP had strongly opposed her idea when she was with Congress — even going so far as to say that kids will turn into cannibals if they have non-veg — but this time, saffron leaders were largely silent on this, until CM Chouhan made the stand clear. Imarti’s decision evoked sharp reactions from the Jain community, who approached the government to scrap the decision. As the controversy intensified, Scindia said it was up to the CM and his ministers to decide on policy matters. After Chouhan’s no-egg statement, Congress said that BJP ministers and the chief minister differ on policy matters. “There are different versions on serving eggs to children. The minister says yes, while CM says no. The CM seems to have instructed the ministers to be in their limits,” Congress state media coordinator Narendra Saluja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-puts-egg-debate-to-rest-says-milk-is-a-better-option/articleshow/78136251.cms||Rajendra Sharma
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSHSEB 12th Supplementary result 2020 declared, girls fare better than boys||AHMEDABAD: The supplementary exam for Class XII science stream was taken by 1,826 candidates, or 9.26% of the total. In all, 19,724 candidates had taken the exam recently, of the 23,689 who had registered. Girls performed better than boys. Among Group A candidates, 16.84% of the girls cleared the exam; 12.29% of the boys were successful. In the case of Group B, 8.80% of the girls and 7.52% of the boys cleared the exam. Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) had extended the September 4 deadline for candidates who wanted to take the supplementary exam for Class XII general stream. The deadline was extended till September 8, for students who had failed in one or two subjects, to fill up the examination forms. The results for Class XII science stream were declared on May 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/supplementary-exam-girls-fare-better-in-class-xii/articleshow/78136979.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Take early symptoms seriously to avoid hospitalisation, say doctors||NAGPUR: Due to weather changes, many people are experiencing symptoms similar to Covid-19 these days and panicking. Though every fever and every throat infection is not Covid-19; it is the first thing that hits the mind. The first person most of us visit is our family physician. TOI spoke to some family physicians in city for their advice. Dealing with hundreds of Covid-like cases daily, these doctors are first-responders for the people and they have important observations about Covid-19 pattern in city. “Covid-19 starts with fever in symptomatic patients. Most patients visiting my clinic experience fever for a day or two and suspect it as Covid-19. After that the fever recedes and patients think it wasn’t Covid-19 but some other illness,” said Dr Abhishek Sambhre, whose clinic is in Rameshwari area. “Covid provides this false sense of relaxation for two-three days. I advise people to use this period to get themselves tested. Most refuse as they don’t have any symptom,” he said. Later, symptoms like cough and soreness in throat begin. If ignored at this stage, the condition may deteriorate. According to Dr Sujata Bhagat, whose clinic is in Manewada, people are reluctant to get themselves tested due to stigma and fear. “Many still fear isolation, hospitalization, and hence avoid tests. If you test early at asymptomatic or mild symptomatic stage, you can avoid hospitalization,” she said. “Ignoring the symptoms for more than seven-eight days has landed many patients into trouble. Youngsters and healthy people get recovered with their immunity, but they spread infection to vulnerable people like elderly,” she added. Doctors also highlighted need of following home isolation and physical distancing. “Even if you have mild symptoms, just isolate yourself from family members to safeguard them. Especially, don’t come into contact with senior citizens and those having diabetes, hypertension, kidney and asthma,” said Dr Ejaz Sheikh having clinic in Jaripatka. “I have seen many young patients recovering in two-three days, but their elderly family members got serious infection in next two weeks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/take-early-symptoms-seriously-to-avoid-hospitalization-say-docs/articleshow/78136286.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 16, 2020||Pune||Postal dept to resume dak adalat||Pune: The Pune postal region, which covers Pune, Satara, Ahmednagar, and Solapur districts, will resume dak adalat on September 28. It will be conducted by the postmaster general, Pune, at his office beside the General Post Office, Camp, according to a release issued by the postal department. However, unlike previous such hearings, the complainants will be required to send copies of the complaints to the postal department. They cannot be present in person to plead their cases. Officials said that all cases will be accepted, decided, and settled remotely through post in order to avoid any crowding as a precaution against the pandemic. Complaints need to be sent to the postmaster general by September 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/postal-dept-to-resume-dak-adalat/articleshow/78134610.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Allahabad||Akhara Parishad hails renaming of Mughal museum after Shivaji||Prayagraj: The president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) Mahant Narendra Giri on Tuesday hailed the decision of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to rename Mughal Museum in Agra after Chhatrapati Shivaji and condemned Ram Temple Trust secretary Champat Rai for his recent remarks on Maharashtra chief minister. Giri heavily endorsed CM Yogi’s decision of renaming the Mughal Museum in Agra after Maratha King Shivaji. “Mughals cannot be our heroes as they were invaders and exploited our masses. Our buildings and monuments cannot be named after them. In fact, the ones already named after Mughals should be renamed after Indians who sacrificed their lives for the nation,” said Giri. Not only the saint community, but the entire country supports this decision of CM Yogi, he added. Referring to the comment of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai on saints banning the entry of Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray in Ayodhya, Giri said the remark was arrogant.“The statement made by Rai shows that he has developed arrogance, he is an old leader of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and should remember his stature. If a saint (Raju Das) made a statement, Rai should not have contradicted it in the way he did,” said Giri. An arrogant, egoistic person does not last long, he added. “What Sant Raju Das of Hanumangarhi had said against Maharashtra CM was just a symbolic protest. The seer community is angry over callousness of the Maharashtra government in punishing those lynched two seers of Juna Akhara and their diver in Palghar,” Giri said. No one’s entry is prohibited, but Rai should have refrained from making such an arrogant remark. He further said that no saint should issue such statements as no one has the right to stop any person of Sanatan Dharma from visiting a holy city or temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/akhara-parishad-hails-renaming-of-mughal-museum-after-shivaji/articleshow/78133259.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||Bus service from Pune to Panaji, Surat starts today||PUNE: The Pune division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation will start two buses, one each to Panaji in Goa and Surat in Gujarat, from Wednesday. The state transport body is already running buses to Surat and Nizamabad in Telangana from Aurangabad and Dhule, and is in talks to start a service to Karnataka. “The buses from Pune will start from the Wakdewadi depot in the morning hours,” a senior Pune MSRTC official said, adding, “A non air-conditioned bus will leave for Panaji at 5.30am. The same bus will return to Pune at 10am the next day.” MSRTC has fixed the fare for this sleeper bus at Rs795. “A semi-luxury bus will leave Wakdewadi for Surat at 8am and, on the return journey, it will start from Surat at 7.45am. The fare will be Rs625,” the official said. The official added that only one bus each to each destination will be pressed into service for the moment. “We don’t want to hurry into inter-state transport. The number of buses will be increased depending on the response to this service. The Covid-19 situation is still serious and all the safety protocols are being followed. One passenger is allowed per seat,” the official said. Each 44-seater bus will carry a maximum of 22 passengers. Last month, the MSRTC announcing the setting up of 30 petrol pumps and five liquefied natural gas pumps on their vacant plots. An agreement was signed with the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), under which the infrastructure related to the pumps will be built by IOC and operated by the MSRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bus-service-from-pune-to-panaji-surat-starts-today/articleshow/78134588.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Bring tenant farmers too under Kisan scheme: DMK||Trichy: DMK Rajya Sabha member M Shanmugam on Tuesday said lakhs of tenant farmers in the country have not been brought under the PM-Kisan scheme. During the zero hour in Parliament, Shanmugam urged the central government to extend the benefit of the scheme to tenant farmers. The farming community in delta districts have been demanding the government to include all the tenant farmers under PM-Kisan scheme since the cash benefit scheme was launched. During his speech in the Rajya Sabha, the MP said the cash benefits to tenant and lease-holder farmers with less than five acres of land are excluded from this scheme. There are many states which have registered tenant farmers who are given benefits such as loan eligibility cards in permitted cultivation of land, provision to claim damages to crops, social security and to prevent incidents of suicides, he stated. In Tamil Nadu, especially in the Cauvery delta region, where most tenant farmers grow paddy, it is a very risky cultivation, he said adding that all farmers should enjoy the benefit of the scheme as a social security measure. “Therefore, I would urge upon the Prime Minister and the agriculture minister to include tenant and lease-holder farmers also in the scheme as they hold the land for a long tenure of years. They should be taken care of by the central government if they claim that they are bringing welfare schemes for the farmers,” Shanmugam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bring-tenant-farmers-too-under-kisan-scheme-dmk/articleshow/78136245.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Re-examine closure of school which buried the body of student who was beaten to death by seniors: HC||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand high court has directed the secretary of school education to re-examine the report submitted by the inquiry committee on the boarding school where a 12-year-old boy was allegedly beaten to death by his seniors in 2019. The HC has given six weeks’ time to the state to reconsider. To recall, a minor boy named Vasu was tortured by his seniors and thrashed with a cricket bat and stumps after he allegedly stole a packet of biscuits. Subsequently, outings for the students at the hostel were cancelled. Later on March 10, the victim boy succumbed to his injuries in the hospital during treatment and was buried in the premises of the school in Ranipokhari area on the outskirts of Dehradun. When the crime came to light, the department of school education withdrew the NOC given to the school which led to its closure. The Dehradun district administration and education department had then constituted a committee of chief education officer of Dehradun, the sub-divisional magistrate of Rishikesh, and the district probation officer to investigate the school’s role in the murder. According to sources from the education department, the school authorities were allegedly trying to cover up the crime by delaying the news of Vasu’s demise and misinforming his parents about his health. The secretary education R Meenakshi Sundaram had confirmed to TOI that on the basis of the committee’s report and recommendations, the education department had cancelled the school’s registration. Earlier this year, the school had approached the High Court with an appeal that its closure was depriving underprivileged children, who were enrolled there, of education. After the state’s counsel didn’t object to the plea, the HC has now asked the secretary of school education to go over the report again, within six weeks. The court maintained that if the NOC is granted by the state, they can seek affiliation from the CBSE. Kanwaljeet Singh, lawyer for the educational institution in question, told TOI that the court was informed that the school was set-up by a British couple and that most of the kids studying in it were kids of leprosy patients from across India. “The school charges nominal fees from students, from all castes and creeds, and provides them food, accommodation, and education till class XII. As the school has been closed for a year now, the underprivileged kids are being deprived of education. The school has a great track record and no complaint regarding the school has ever come into the notice of the education department prior to this matter, which is very unfortunate but because of this, the future of other kids shouldn’t suffer,” added Singh. Commenting on the allegations made by the committee appointed by the education department to probe the matters, Singh said that the committee has supported the school in its report and what was told to the media was incorrect. “Actually the committee report was our main ground to file the writ petition in the court as the committee had maintained that the school was doing good work and shouldn’t be closed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/re-examine-closure-of-school-which-buried-the-body-of-student-who-was-beaten-to-death-by-seniors-hc/articleshow/78133246.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paatil tests negative for Covid, to be discharged today||Gandhinagar: State BJP president C R Paatil, who had been admitted to a private hospital in Ahmedabad on September 8, has been cured of Covid-19 infection and will be discharged on Wednesday. Paatil’s Covid-19 test on Sunday was positive. As he did not have any symptoms, a test was done on him on Tuesday, which was negative, and doctors decided to discharge him from hospital on Wednesday. Paatil tweeted, saying that his Covid-19 test report is negative and thanked all those who wished him a quick recovery. Sources said, “Although Paatil’s hospitalisation will be over on September 16, he may have to be under home isolation for a week or 10 days for complete recovery.” Due to Paatil’s hospitalisation, many of the BJP’s routine party decisions have come to a standstill. Just before his hospitalisation, there was a strong buzz that there would be a major reshuffle in the party organisation. Party leaders say that once Paatil resumes work, there could be a major reshuffle in both the organisation and the government. State BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya has also recovered from the Covid-19 infection and got discharged from hospital on Tuesday. Pandya had accompanied Paatil in several public rallies and both tested positive for Covid-19 on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paatil-tests-negative-for-covid-to-be-discharged-today/articleshow/78134611.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Jumbo Covid hospital: HC warns of summoning chief secretary||NAGPUR: Slamming Maharashtra government over inordinately delaying 1,000-bed jumbo Covid hospital at Mankapur indoor stadium, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday warned of summoning chief secretary if no decision is taken within a week. Expressing anguish over severe bed shortage leading to a spate of deaths, the division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala directed private hospitals and nursing homes to provide list of their paramedical staff to the government for utilizing their services for Covid patients within two days. “Else, HC would be constrained to issue a bailable warrant to secure their presence,” they said. Censuring the government for not rising to the occasion to reduce death rate, the bench expressed surprise over its failure to respond to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) proposal on the much-hyped hospital. “The city’s situation is dreadful and the death rate is increasing day by day. Since mortuaries are full, there is a queue at crematoriums. The patients are not getting ventilators and oxygenated beds. The situation is becoming ferocious. We direct the government to take a decision on NMC’s proposal within a week. If no action is taken, we direct the chief secretary to personally remain present to make a statement and explain difficulties in discharging duties,” the bench said. The court’s ultimatum came while hearing a suo motu PIL based on TOI report of August 24 exposing shortage of beds where Shreerang Bhandarkar has been appointed as the amicus curiae assisted by lawyer Nidhi Dayani. Earlier, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B pointed out their proposal on creation of jumbo hospital on August 19 to the government. Out of 1,000 beds, 400 were to be allocated for ventilators and 300 were oxygenated. He complained that the government wasn’t responding to their proposal. In the last hearing, counsel Sudhir Puranik had demanded directives to the government to immediately release funds for the project, which would have saved many precious lives. “It’s the government’s duty to make all infrastructural and medical facilities available to save the lives of people who’re affected or likely to be affected by Covid,” the judges said. Additional government pleader Deepak Thakre informed on the government’s letter of September 9 to 20 hospitals and nursing homes for sending their paramedical staff for Covid duties, that failed to evoke any response. “The collector shall bring this order to notice of these establishments so that they can be hauled up for contempt if there is non-compliance of court’s order,” the judges said. Earlier, the NGOs, who had filed intervention based on TOI reports pointed out towards facilities at railway hospitals for utilizing them for the patients. “We put this to the NMC commissioner who’s empowered authority under the Disaster Management Act to see whether the services, staff and facilities at these hospitals can be requisitioned for treatment of patients who require ventilated and oxygenated beds,” the judges said. After Radhakrishnan assured to examine the intervener suggestions stating that if thought fit, railway hospitals can be requisitioned with specific instructions, the bench directed him to complete formalities before Thursday so that the patients can get immediate medical aid. He earlier made a statement that a list of Ayush Doctors, postgraduate and super-speciality students, who’re summoned to work under guidance and instructions from senior doctors would be placed on record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jumbo-covid-hosp-hc-warns-of-summoning-chief-secretary/articleshow/78136274.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 16, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: 650 teachers to be recruited in 10 days||AHMEDABAD: As many as 650 teachers will be recruited in government-run schools in the next 10 days. This was decided at a meeting of the Gujarat State School Management Association, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and senior government officials. “The fifth round of recruitment of teachers will soon be held. Among other decisions, the filling for 1,664 vacant post for principals in various schools was discussed today,” said government sources. It was also proposed at the meeting that some schools that are planning for reduction in classroom numbers should refrain from it. It was also proposed that in case of rural areas, the classroom strength be 18 students while in the case of urban it be 25. At the meeting it was also decided to approve contingency plan for 11 months to schools that do not have office peons, said sources. On the issue of the result-based grants for Class 10 and 12 boards, the education minister and secretary admitted schools do not have teachers in important subjects and that it is natural for children to fail in such subjects and that it is not appropriate for the school board to cut maintenance grants due to poor results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/650-teachers-to-be-recruited-in-10-days/articleshow/78140602.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 650 teachers to be recruited in 10 days||AHMEDABAD: As many as 650 teachers will be recruited in government-run schools in the next 10 days. This was decided at a meeting of the Gujarat State School Management Association, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and senior government officials. “The fifth round of recruitment of teachers will soon be held. Among other decisions, the filling for 1,664 vacant post for principals in various schools was discussed today,” said government sources. It was also proposed at the meeting that some schools that are planning for reduction in classroom numbers should refrain from it. It was also proposed that in case of rural areas, the classroom strength be 18 students while in the case of urban it be 25. At the meeting it was also decided to approve contingency plan for 11 months to schools that do not have office peons, said sources. On the issue of the result-based grants for Class 10 and 12 boards, the education minister and secretary admitted schools do not have teachers in important subjects and that it is natural for children to fail in such subjects and that it is not appropriate for the school board to cut maintenance grants due to poor results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/650-teachers-to-be-recruited-in-10-days/articleshow/78140599.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||BITS Goa to continue online classes till January||PANAJI: Given the spike in Covid cases, BITS Pilani K K Birla Goa Campus, Zuarinagar, has for now decided to continue conducting its current semester online. It is also considering the possibility of continuing this up to January 2021, maybe even beyond if the need arises. The institute commenced the first semester for the academic year 2020-21 online on August 17. Director G Raghurama said that the institute had been using Moodle Learning Management System (LMS) even before the pandemic and so it was easy for teachers and students to make the shift entirely to the online mode in a very short time. Classes for all courses were held live using Google Classroom and Google Meet. By mid-March, students across programmes were asked to vacate hostels. Most students continue to be off-campus, barring a few PhD students who need to access laboratories to conduct critical experimental studies as part of their research. The director said that whenever students have to return on campus, it is the remaining PhD students who are likely to be allowed first, possibly around December 2020. On the other hand, students of BE, MSc and ME programmes will not be back on campus till December end, he said. “As of now, we are evaluating the possibility of getting them back to campus by January. If the situation improves, the campus may reopen for physical classes by January 2021. However, looking at the current spike in Covid cases across the country, we are preparing ourselves to look at the possibility of online classes continuing for some more months after January,” said Raghurama. He said that a final decision in this regard is expected to be taken around October or November. Raghurama said that one of the challenges in conducting off-campus classes has been managing courses with laboratory components. To overcome this challenge, a combination of simulations, virtual laboratories, video demonstration and assignments are used to conduct the experimental sessions. The institute ensured that students who were in the final year did not face undue delay in their graduation during the pandemic. “Faculty members first focused on students who were graduating and conducted their final evaluations in May. The online evaluations held were in the form of viva, take home assignments and presentations. Since most of them were either doing a thesis or undergoing internship in industries, they were already being assessed on a continuous basis,” said Raghurama. He said that as BITS places emphasis on continuous learning and evaluation, the weightage for the ‘final component’ was in any case less than 30% or so, even before the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bits-goa-to-continue-online-classes-till-jan/articleshow/78136749.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic encouraging small towns to develop co-working office spaces||Mangaluru: The pandemic has definitely brought in a change in the way people work. It caused a shift to remote working and has altered the idea of workspace. Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor, on seeing the professionals attached to IT sector working from petty shops or bus shelters due to non-availability of internet signals inside their homes, is encouraging businessmen to launch co-working office spaces. IT professionals returned home due to lockdown Sanjeeva Matandoor told TOI, “We are encouraging setting up of co-working office spaces in my constituency. Professionals, particularly those in the IT sector, have returned home during the lockdown and are likely to continue working from home at least until the year-end. Though many have opted for Wi-Fi connections, some employees continue to struggle due to lack of proper internet signals at home and come to the town every day to work from shops etc. As I was thinking of setting up co-working office spaces, I met businessmen Keshava Prasad Muliya and Krishna Narayana Muliya who were also thinking on the same lines. They have launched a co-working office space about 15 days ago with eight cabins and 27 cubicles and the demand has been good,” he said. Further, the MLA said, the development is also an attempt to project that smaller towns have the capacity to accommodate IT industries. This is a win-win situation for both the user and the service provider, and in case this turns out to be a success, we will consider setting up more co-working zones, he said. A pilot initiative Keshava Prasad Muliya, partner, Muliya Cubic Spaces said: “When we were planning to expand our business in Bengaluru about a decade ago, I worked from a co-working office space in the city and since then having a co-working office space in Puttur has always been in my mind. We have taken this up on a pilot basis.  “If smaller cities upgrade themselves with IT support system, it is definitely the best place to work — all sans traffic congestion. Government should encourage such projects in smaller towns across Karnataka,” Muliya said. 100 acres requested for industrial park According to an estimate, more than 2,500 people from the taluk are working in the IT and related sectors, mostly in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, under Prime Minister’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the MLA has requested the government for a 100-acre industrial park in Puttur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-encouraging-small-towns-to-develop-co-working-office-spaces/articleshow/78133275.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Healthy trees on Musiri road pruned illegally||Trichy: Private contractors have axed branches of at least eight trees along the Musiri-Thuraiyur road under the pretext of removing dried trees. Over 10 tonnes of wood with good timber value was found removed illegally by contractors inviting the ire of locals in the nearby villages. The branches of healthy trees on the 15 km stretch of the road falling under Musiri sub-division of the state highways department were cut. In all, five private contractors were given tender for clearing around 12 dry trees along the stretch on September 5. However, along with those trees, the branches of several healthy tamarind trees aged over 40 years that were providing shade to the road were chopped off by the contractors last week. A neem tree was fully axed down by unscrupulous workers of the private contractor, said locals from nearby Ayithampatti and Soriyampatti villages. Following complaints, K Manoharan, assistant divisional engineer (ADE), Musiri sub-division, took stock of the illegally chopped branches on Tuesday and inquired with the assistant engineer and road inspector who had processed the tender. He said that tree branches were found to be chopped off and they are planning to lodge a police complaint on Wednesday. Inquiry will be conducted with all the five contractors. While demanding legal action against the erring contractor instead of letting them off with just fine, M Sekaran, member, Trichy district road safety council, said the state highways department staff were equally culpable. “Even if permission was given to the contractor to remove dried trees, it is the responsibility of the state highways staff to monitor if they are removing only dried trees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/healthy-trees-on-musiri-road-pruned-illegally/articleshow/78136300.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: 650 teachers to be recruited in 10 days||AHMEDABAD: As many as 650 teachers will be recruited in government-run schools in the next 10 days. This was decided at a meeting of the Gujarat State School Management Association, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and senior government officials. “The fifth round of recruitment of teachers will soon be held. Among other decisions, the filling for 1,664 vacant post for principals in various schools was discussed today,” said government sources. It was also proposed at the meeting that some schools that are planning for reduction in classroom numbers should refrain from it. It was also proposed that in case of rural areas, the classroom strength be 18 students while in the case of urban it be 25. At the meeting it was also decided to approve contingency plan for 11 months to schools that do not have office peons, said sources. On the issue of the result-based grants for Class 10 and 12 boards, the education minister and secretary admitted schools do not have teachers in important subjects and that it is natural for children to fail in such subjects and that it is not appropriate for the school board to cut maintenance grants due to poor results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/650-teachers-to-be-recruited-in-10-days/articleshow/78140598.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 650 teachers to be recruited in 10 days||AHMEDABAD: As many as 650 teachers will be recruited in government-run schools in the next 10 days. This was decided at a meeting of the Gujarat State School Management Association, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and senior government officials. “The fifth round of recruitment of teachers will soon be held. Among other decisions, the filling for 1,664 vacant post for principals in various schools was discussed today,” said government sources. It was also proposed at the meeting that some schools that are planning for reduction in classroom numbers should refrain from it. It was also proposed that in case of rural areas, the classroom strength be 18 students while in the case of urban it be 25. At the meeting it was also decided to approve contingency plan for 11 months to schools that do not have office peons, said sources. On the issue of the result-based grants for Class 10 and 12 boards, the education minister and secretary admitted schools do not have teachers in important subjects and that it is natural for children to fail in such subjects and that it is not appropriate for the school board to cut maintenance grants due to poor results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/650-teachers-to-be-recruited-in-10-days/articleshow/78136971.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Army veteran shines in virtual Boston marathon||LUCKNOW: Brimming with the energy of youth, 60-year-old army veteran Col (retd) Bajrang B Singh, the only and first from Uttar Pradesh, finished first in the above 60 age-group among Indian participants in 2020 Boston Marathon Virtual Experience. Singh made the cut for the prestigious Boston marathon scheduled in April, but was deferred and converted to a virtual experience due to the pandemic. To realise his dreams on the American turf, he will be running the 2021 Boston Marathon in April next year. On Monday, Singh ran the marathon in Lucknow and clocked 3 hours 38 minutes and three seconds — his best so far. “As I crossed the finishing line, I realised that I smashed my earlier record by more than two minutes,” Singh told TOI. Unaware of Covid curbs, Singh touched down in the US on March 4 to practise on the tortuous tracks of Heartbreak Hill on Boston marathon route, only to suffer a heartbreak after the marathon was put on hold. Singh returned to Lucknow on August 28, and quarantined himself for 14 days and this gave him hardly two days for the virtual run. Apart from the time, the hot and humid weather posed a challenge. “While in America, I could practise anytime of the day as almost all roads had sidewalks and weather was cool. In Lucknow, the weather is dreadful. High temperature and extreme humidity made running difficult. It slowed me down, sapped my energy. And absence of sidewalks didn’t allow practice on any time of the day,” Singh said. The most difficult aspect was the route and time selection, he said. An out-and-back route was what he preferred. He kicked off his race as early as 3.30 am to limit exposure to sun and remain fit. Tackling the blinding darkness to avoid stumbling, Singh decided to do loops, which is a to-and-fro journey on a route, which was a 7km stretch near a point at Kalindi Park in Vrindavan Yojana on Rae Bareli Road. He ran this loop three times and a little more. Another challenge, Singh said was to remain hydrated and avoid exhaustion. At this point, he sought help from his wife and friends who made water available every 3.5km. “Till about 28km, I felt strong, and then I began slowing down. The heat and humidity took its toll but I just couldn’t give up on my dream. I kept moving my legs,” Singh narrated. An ex-serviceman, Singh discovered his passion for running after retirement. He ran his first race in 2016 in Pune, when he was 56 years old. It was a 10km run. What started as a small step ended up becoming the beginning of a long journey, recalls Singh. He later ran his first full marathon in Goa, followed by a half-marathon in Pune again. Four years later, he has 70 competitive races with 30 half-marathons (21.1 km), 15 full marathons (42.2 km) under his belt. His best timing in a full marathon is 3 hours 40 minutes at a Hyderabad event. Born in Parwarbhar village in Sultanpur district, Singh did his schooling from a government-aided school and engineering from Kanpur’s Harcourt Butler Technological Institute (HBTI), followed by an MTech from IIT-Roorkee. While pursuing graduation, he was selected in the Army and joined the engineer corps. Serving in combat role, he was part of anti-insurgency operations between 1996 and 1997.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/army-veteran-shines-in-virtual-boston-marathon/articleshow/78136954.cms||Isha Jain
September 16, 2020||Pune||Army doctors perform surgery to save life of 14-day-old baby||PUNE: A team of doctors performed a life-saving surgery on a 14-day-old baby at the Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS) in the city recently. The newborn, a serving soldier’s son, is now in a stable condition at home. After birth, the child was detected to have a slow heart rate. The baby was referred to the team of specialists at AICTS for further medical and surgical management. “Since medical intervention could not increase the heart rate, it was decided to provide mechanical stimulation to the heart by inserting a permanent pacemaker. The team of AICTS doctors conducted the operation and a permanent pacemaker was implanted in the upper abdominal wall of the child, which is connected to the heart through a lead positioned surgically on the surface of the heart by opening the chest wall,” stated the statement issued by the Southern Command on Tuesday. This was a rare case and it is found in one in 22,000 births, said the Southern Command authorities. “The child has been successfully operated and the doctors at the Army Specialist Cardio Thoracic Facility deserve compliments for undertaking the difficult life-saving surgery on a new born baby, who has been discharged from the hospital and is stable at home,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-docs-perform-surgery-to-save-life-of-14-day-old-baby/articleshow/78134615.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Red Brick Summit at IIM-A to go virtual||Ahmedabad: The Red Brick Summit (TRBS), a flagship management student event of IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) that sees participation of top B-schools of the country, will go online for the 2020 edition that will take place on October 24 and 25. According to the event website, it will have 20-plus business events, 15-plus speakers, 15-plus workshops, five panel discussions, and a management symposium. Some of the events include Quiz Fest, Shark Tank Challenge, Masterplan, Exchequer, Blitzkrieg, TradeCraft, etc. The event is known to test the business acumen of students through strategy games, case study challenge, domain-specific planning challenges, strategy marathons and even pitch for business ideas. Participation is likely to increase due to online nature of the event, said sources. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/red-brick-summit-at-iim-a-to-go-virtual/articleshow/78134616.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Swapna Suresh, K T Ramees found fit, discharged from hospital||THRISSUR: The key in accused the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and K T Ramees were discharged from the Thrissur Medical College Hospital (TMCH) on Tuesday afternoon. Ramees was taken back to the high security prison at Viyyur and Swapna to the women’s prison there as both of them are remand prisoners. The health condition of both were found stable. The MCH authorities had planned an angiogram for Swapna, for a clearer diagnosis of her condition, on Tuesday. But since she declined to undergo the test, it was not conducted, MCH sources said. However, Ramees was subjected to endoscopy and no major ailments were diagnosed. He has been asked to undergo a checkup at the OP wing of MCH’s gastroenterology department after two weeks, jail sources said. Swapna’s mother, husband and daughter had reached MCH to meet her. However, they could not meet her as MCH authorities asked them to undergo Covid-19 antigen tests. Meanwhile, six women police personnel in Thrissur have landed in trouble following reports that they had taken a selfie with Swapna. According to reports, they took the selfie when Swapna was admitted to MCH. The city police commissioner Aadhithya R said enquiries are on into the complaints against them and disciplinary actions have been initiated. In another development, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials asked MLA Anil Akkara to clarify why he visited TMCH on September 7, when Swapna was admitted there. The MLA said that he had gone to MCH to alert officials about security lapses. He said he had complained to NIA officials on the security lapses that night itself. There were allegations that Swapna had contacted someone using the phone of nurses at MCH. However, Kerala Government Nurses’ Association district president V B Sobhana and secretary M J Joshy refuted the allegations. In a joint statement they said there was heavy security at the TMCH and even the duty staff could enter the ward, where Swapna was admitted, with the permission of the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swapna-ramees-found-fit-discharged-from-hospital/articleshow/78134624.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Corporator logs in for NMC meeting from pothole-riddled road||Nashik: Shiv Sena corporator Santosh Gaikwad on Tuesday staged a sit-in agitation along with his supporters to raise voice against the pothole-riddled roads and negligence of the civic administration during the online general body meeting of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). Gaikwad attended the online meeting while sitting on a potholed-road in the Satpur division. “The condition of the roads are so bad in the Satpur division and other parts of the city. Residents and motorists are facing inconveniences because of the potholes. However, the civic administration is yet to start filling the potholes,” he said. “The condition of roads has also deteriorated in the industrial areas. The Satpur division houses an industrial estate and the civic body gets the maximum tax revenue from this division, but proper services are not delivered,” he added. Other corporators also raised the issue of potholes and demanded immediate road repairs. Mayor Satish Kulkarni said he has already directed the officials of the public works department (PWD) to fill the potholes immediately. Kulkarni added that he would visit the Satpur division and other parts of the city to review the road infrastructure. The corporators also created ruckus over the transfer of 700 NMC sanitation workers from Nashik East and Nashik West divisions to the four other divisions, and replacing the same number with contract workers. The corporators said the administration should stop the transfers and bring the workers back in both the divisions. Kulkarni said he had given a ruling during the last GBM that NMC sanitation workers of these two divisions, who have critical ailments or are aged above 50, be appointed within two km radius of their place of residence, but leaders of these sanitation workers did not agree and they moved court. “As the matter is in the court, we will abide by the court’s order,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/corporator-logs-in-for-nmc-meeting-from-pothole-riddled-road/articleshow/78136312.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||City’s Covid doubling rate up from 15 to 21 days in 2 weeks||Nagpur: The case doubling rate of Covid-19 in Nagpur city has improved from 15 days to 21 in last two weeks. Doubling rate represents the number of days it takes for the number of total Covid-19 cases to double. It’s an indicator of how quickly cases are increasing. Despite the city reporting a spike in cases daily, the increase in doubling rate is seen as good news.“Doubling time of Covid-19 cases in the city has increased to 21 days. It was 15, a few days back,” said additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma. According to statistics provided by NMC, Nagpur city has shown significant improvement in doubling rate for the first time since July 27.Nagpur’s doubling rate at the end of June was 44 days. Since then, the outbreak of Covid-19 increased and city has been witnessing spike in cases. Doubling rate reduced to 15 in July and August. In first week of September, it improved slightly to 17 days. But, on Tuesday, doubling rate reached 21 days, a sharp rise. Maharashtra state’s average doubling rate on Tuesday was 32 days.According to experts, improvement in doubling rate is an important indication of containment of Covid-19. “The longer the doubling rate, the slower the disease spread, and the flatter the curve becomes,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Shrikant Shinde. “In China, the present doubling rate is more than 200 days while in Delhi, it’s 85 days. In Mumbai, although cases are reducing, the doubling rate is 54 days. So, Nagpur still has a long way to go,” he said.Authorities are currently considering total number of Covid-19 cases to calculate the doubling rate. As per Vrinda Joglekar, retired head of Hislop College’s statistics department, the doubling rate should be calculated on the basis of active Covid-19 cases, not the total registered cases.“For effective planning, we need to estimate the number of patients who would need medical care or hospitalization in the coming days. The patients who have already recovered are not relevant to this calculation. So doubling rate of active Covid-19 cases is the critical parameter, rather than the doubling rate of total cases,” Joglekar said.Doubling rate in Nagpur (City)Date | Doubling timeJune 27 | 44July 27 | 15August 27 | 15September 6 | 17September 14 | 21||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-covid-doubling-rate-up-from-15-to-21-days-in-2-weeks/articleshow/78136315.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 16, 2020||Kanpur||Woman kills daughter, ends life in Banda||Kanpur: Due to a dispute in family, a 28-year-old woman committed suicide after killing her two-year-old daughter in Chilla locality under the Kotwali police station of Banda district on Tuesday morning. According to police, Rajni first killed her daughter Shalini and hanged her, at their home in Chilla locality under Kotwali police station and then committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan hook. Villagers told the police that her husband Shivdas had married another woman, owing to which Rajni used to quarrel with him on regular basis. “When Shivdas, who had gone somewhere returned home on Tuesday morning, he found Shalini and their daughter bodies from the ceiling of one of the rooms of the house,” police said quoting the local people. In-charge Kotwali police station Ramshray Singh said investigations are underway into the incident. He said that after getting the autopsy report, the scientific details of the death would be known. “We have taken the woman’s husband into custody and are questioning him to ascertain the exact reasons that prompted his wife to resort to extreme step,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-kills-daughter-ends-life-in-banda/articleshow/78136305.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor police busts illegal arms-making unit, 2 arrested||Bijnor: Police busted an illegal arms manufacturing unit being run in a dilapidated factory in Nodhana mohalla of Sherkot town on Tuesday. Two persons were arrested and over a dozen illegal arms seized. This was the sixth illegal unit to be busted in a span of 10 days in the district.Crackdown on illegal arms-making factories has been stepped up in view of the upcoming panchayat polls, scheduled in December.Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police police, said acting on a tip-off, police raided the illegal arms unit and arrested one Aarif and seized 16 illegal arms and equipment used for making them from the premises.Aarif was arrested in 2019 after recovery of illegal arms in a madarssa. He was lodged in Bijnor district jail for the last eight months and came out on bail recently. Aarif said he was making illegal arms as he had no money.According to an officer, six illegal arms-making factories have been busted in the last 10 days. They were in Kiratpur, Najibabad, Chandpur, Mandawar, Kotwali Shahar and Sherkot areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-police-busts-illegal-arms-making-unit-2-arrested/articleshow/78133306.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Private hospitals start protest against Covid rate curbs||NAGPUR: Representatives of many private hospitals in city visited Indian Medical Association (IMA) office on Tuesday and surrendered the registration papers of their respective hospitals with the apex body of the private medical practitioners. This was part of the protest by private doctors against the increasing curbs on private hospitals regarding Covid treatment that make them unaffordable to operate. “Hospital owners have submitted copies of their hospital registration to IMA Nagpur. Together, we will collect these papers and then request the state government to take over and run these hospitals. It’s not possible to run hospitals at the rates forced on us,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of IMA Nagpur. “On one side the unaffordable rates have been forced on the doctors and on the other doctors are being prosecuted by sending auditors even if there is any minor mistake in the bills. At the same time, ministers and leaders have continuously been proclaiming that doctors are robbing patients. Because of this unjust criticism, the doctors are losing their confidence,” she added. As next phase of the protest, doctors may go into ‘self-quarantine’ if their demands are not addressed. “Just as many leaders and government officials in Maharashtra have themselves ‘self-quarantined’, it is time for us doctors to be ‘self-quarantined’, as a mass movement. The separation period may range from one day to 14 days,” reads an official release by the IMA. As a final step, doctors will be filing a petition in the Bombay high court against this unilateral, unjust decision that tramples the values of democracy, said the IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hosps-start-protest-against-covid-rate-curbs/articleshow/78136325.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Western Railway: New trains to Bihar, Delhi||AHMEDABAD: Western Railway has decided to start new trains to Darbhanga, Delhi, and Patna and one train from Surat to Chhapra. The trains will be special trains and will halt only at speciific stations. The Ahmedabad-Delhi train will run from Ahmedabad on Sunday and Wednesday and will halt at Abu Road, Ajmer and Jaipur, While the Delhi-Ahmedabad train will run on Monday and Tuesday. The Ahmedabad-Darbhanga train will run on Friday and will halt at Ratlam, Ujjain, Guna, Jhansi, Kanpur, Lucknow, Faizabad, Chhapra and Samastipur while the train from Darbhanga the train will leave on Monday. The Ahmedabad-Patna weekly train will leave Ahmedabad on Wednesday and will leave from Patna on Sunday. The train will halt at Ratlam, Kota, Agra Fort, Kanpur, Prayagaj among other stations. The Surat-Chhapra train will leave on Monday and will leave for Surat from Chhapra on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-trains-to-bihar-delhi/articleshow/78134619.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nashik||NMC to repair 10 defunct ventilators||Nashik: The Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) has decided to repair and maintain 10 defunct ventilators that it had received under Prime Minister’s care fund. Currently, the civic body had written a letter to the company concerned, urging them to either appoint an agency to repair the ventilators sought under the PM care fund or allow the civic body to repair and maintain them on its own. However, it did not receive any response, following which the NMC has undertaken the repair work on their own. The NMC had received 56 ventilators from the Centre around three months back. Of these, 10 ventilators were defunct and could not be installed. “We have written a letter to the company concerned that manufactured the ventilators and dispatched us, urging them to get the defunct ventilators repaired at the earliest. But, the company has not yet responded. Hence, we have decided to repair and maintain the ventilators on our own, but we want the company’s permission so that there will be no issue of warranty,” said NMC officials. “We are in the process of writing a letter to the company in this connection. We want the company to either appoint an agency to repair and maintain ventilators or allow us to repair and monitor these ventilators on our own,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-repair-10-defunct-ventilators/articleshow/78136319.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Newborn with Covid gets surgery for TOF at Civil||Ahmedabad: The family of a newborn girl were in shock when they learned that the girl tested positive for Covid-19. The discovery was made when the girl could not breastfeed after birth and was taken to Civil Hospital for a diagnosis. “Apart from the viral infection, the girl had a condition identified as tracheo esophageal fistula (TOF) where her trachea and oesophagus were connected,” said Dr Rakesh Joshi, head of the paediatric surgery department. “The girl was treated for both the complications as she tested negative after seven days. Her surgery was also successful as she started feeding without any assistance.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/newborn-with-covid-gets-surgery-for-tof-at-civil/articleshow/78134625.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Allahabad||4 addl judges to be sworn in today||Prayagraj: Four senior district judges will be sworn in as additional judges of Allahabad High Court on Wednesday at the courtroom of Chief Justice at 10 a.m. with social distancing. The oath will be administered by Chief Justice Govind Mathur. These four senior district judges, who will be administered oath as additional judges of Allahabad High Court are Sanjay Kumar Pachori, Subhash Chandra Sharma, Subhash Chand and Smt. Saroj Yadav. According to the Registrar (protocol) of Allahabad High Court, Ashish Srivastava , the President of India by a notification dated September 11, 2020, had appointed them as additional judges of Allahabad High Court. Before entering upon office, they shall make and subscribe an oath or affirmation on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/4-addl-judges-to-be-sworn-in-today/articleshow/78133300.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Covid-19 case load of entire August surpasses in half of September||NAGPUR: Vidarbha once again reported a hike of over 3,000 Covid cases — 11th in 15 days of September — on Tuesday. This took the total case count of the region to 1,04,686. However, 45,773 (44%) of these cases have been reported in just 15 days of September. This number is even bigger than cases reported in the entire August (43,981). Total 93 deaths were reported in the region on Tuesday taking the toll to 2,719. Barring Gadchiroli, all districts in Vidarbha reported deaths. These include Nagpur (51), Amravati (11), Wardha (7), Chandrapur (6), Yavatmal (5), Gondia (4), Bhandara (3), Akola (3), Buldhana (2), and Washim (1). Of the total deaths, 42% have been reported in 15 days of September. The new cases include Nagpur (1,536), Amravati (296), Chandrapur (251), Yavatmal (245), Buldhana (218), Washim (165), Bhandara (142), Gondia (138), Wardha (122), Akola (73), and Gadchiroli (47). On the other hand, 2,666 patients recovered and were discharged during the day. These include Nagpur (1,666), Buldhana (273), Washim (167), Bhandara (133), Amravati (121), Gondia (103), Chandrapur (88), Wardha (56), Akola (31), and Gadchiroli (28). Now, recoveries are nearing the 75,000 mark. The recovery rate of Vidarbha has surpassed 70%. In the last 15 days, Vidarbha’s recovery rate has seen surge of 7%. Amravati records 11 deaths, toll reaches 215 AMRAVATI: Eleven deaths, including six of two days ago, and a spike of 296 cases took the district’s Covid death toll to 215 and count to 9,381 on Tuesday. The civil surgeon’s office stated that five patients succumbed to Covid in the last 24 hours while there were six more deaths two days ago that were not reported earlier. The 11 deceased included three women aged 59 ( Ravinagar, Paratwada), 43 (Patvipura) and 39 ( Kasbegawhan, Anjangaon Surji). The deceased males included a 45-year-old from Paratwada, 50-year-old from Bhatkuli, 53-year-old from Navsari, 64-year-old from Yashodanagar lane no. 2, 53-year-old from Rukmininagar, 50-year-old from Turanjade in Anjangaon Surji, 45-year-old from Rampuri Camp here and a 60-year-old from Dhamangaon. With 121 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients has reached 7,212. There are now 1,954 active cases, including ten taking treatment in Nagpur and 488 in home isolation. The rural belt accounted for 86 cases, taking the count to 2,973. Anjangaon Surji reported 19 cases while Daryapur ten. Bhatkuli and Chandur Railway reported eight each while Purva Daturna village recorded seven. Chandur Bazar reported five while Rajura four. Three cases came from Warud while two each from Nandgaon Peth, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Teosa, Achalpur, Dharni, Rahatgaon and Mahuli Jehangir. Single cases came from eight other villages and eight cases were from outside the district. The remaining 202 cases were reported from the city with Yashodanagar reporting nine. Rajapeth reported six cases while five each came from SRPF Camp and Sainagar . Four each came from Police Ashiana Club, Amba Apartment, Jewadnagar and Shikshak Colony in Ramnagar. Three cases each were reported from Dasturnagar, Badnera, Ravinagar, Gopalnagar, Mohannagar, Surajnagar, Girls High School Square, Kalyannagar and Budhwara. Sixteen localities reported two cases each while the rest came from different localities. CHANDRAPUR: There was uproar in the city over lack of beds for Covid patients and private hospitals asking for advance deposits up to Rs1.50 lakh as the total surged to 6,309 with detection of 251 new cases. Meanwhile, six deaths were registered during the day taking the toll to 84. There was also a record discharge of 493 patients during the day, taking the recoveries to 3,538. There are now 2,687 active patients here. Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar agreed that the health department lacks manpower to deal with the situation as the number of patients is rising rapidly, but said they will recruit manpower through outsourcing. President of Chandrapur IMA Dr Anil Madurwar clarified that private hospital are charging as per the directives of the government. Health minister Rajesh Tope held a video conference with people’s representatives and officials on Monday and directed them recruit 50 doctors immediately. He directed to set up a taskforce for Covid-19 and take over private ambulances. WARDHA: As many as 7 deaths were recorded for the second consecutive day. Total 122 new cases were reported while 56 were discharged after recovery. The deceased included four men from Wardha, a 65-year-old man from Pulgaon, 54-year-old woman from Hinganghat and a 70-year-old man from Karanja. The cases were recorded from Wardha (53), Hinganghat (27), Deoli (21), Ashti (4), Arvi (3) and two each from Selu and Samudrapur. Of the 630 reports, 84 men and 28 women tested positive. The total case count in the district has reached 2,741. The active cases are 1,313 in the district . YAVATMAL: The district recorded 5 deaths on Tuesday. The deceased include a 49-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman from Yavatmal, 66-year-old man from Pandharkawda, 65-year-old man from Darwha and a 60-year-old woman from Pusad. There are 245 new positive patients of which 165 are men and 80 women. Yavatmal alone has reported 64 new positive patients of whom 46 are men and 18 women. According to GMC sources, there are 306 patients in isolation wards. Total 63,444 swab samples have been sent to the lab so far of which 62,014 reports were received. BULDHANA: Recording another 200+ spike, Buldhana’s case count surged to 5254 on Tuesday. Two men — a 55-year-old and a 75-year-old — both under treatment in Buldhana died taking the toll to 66. Record breaking 273 patients recovered on Tuesday. With this, the number of recovered patients surpassed the 4,000-mark. Buldhana’s recovery rate is about 77%. Total 1,155 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: It was a record-breaking day for Washim district as 165 new patients were detected while 167 recovered. Total number of cases surpassed the 3,000-mark and reached 3,041. Recoveries surpassed the 2,000-mark and reached 2,128. Washim’s recovery rate is still at 70%. A Covid-19 patient died in Washim taking the death toll to 55. Now, 858 patients are under treatment here. AKOLA: Three women patients died during treatment in Akola taking the death toll of the district to 189. All three deceased women were senior citizens and were under treatment since September 8 and 12. Akola witnessed a spike of 73 cases and taking the total to 5,796 while 31 patients were discharged. Now, the district has 1,204 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: The district reported 47 new cases and 28 recoveries. Now, there are 1,709 patients in the district — 1,251 of them recovered and 7 dead. The district has 451 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-case-load-of-entire-august-surpasses-in-half-of-sept/articleshow/78136374.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Covid patients at Thakkar's Dome all praise for facilities provided to them||Nashik: From mediation and exercises to Zumba dance, carrom boards to chess and hundreds of books to read, the facilities provided at the Thakkar's Dome Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the city is winning praises from patients. Many patients who are admitted at this 328-bedded facility for treating those with mild symptoms, have thanked officials of the Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) and medical staff, including doctors and nurses, who provide timely care and treatment to them. The day at this Covid care centre begins with bed tea provided to the patients at around 7 am followed by breakfast at 9 am. Post breakfast, all the patients perform a series of exercises, inlcuding meditation and Zumba. At around 12.30 pm, they are provided with a nutritious meal after which they head for some rest in the afternoon. Patients admitted at this centre are given an option to keep themselves engaged at all times with a variety of activities such as carom, chess or reading books. Senior doctors at the centre said that there are at least 250 books on various topics available for reading. Before dinner, the management plans a recreational activity for patients where people can present performances such as dance, singing a song, making a speech, sharing his/her life experience, etc. “The doctors, nursing staff and everyone who is cooking tea, breakfast and lunch/dinner is doing an outstanding job. They would surely get blessings of all those who are admitted here and those who have been released from the centre after recovery,” said a patient admitted at the centre. “The doctors and nurses insist us not to take phone calls or spend time on Whatsapp which would remind us about our illness. Instead, we are encouraged to speak to one another or engage ourselves in the activities at the centre,” said another patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-patients-at-thakkars-dome-all-praise-for-facilities-provided-to-them/articleshow/78136326.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Over 2,500 years old cairn circles found near Karur dist||Trichy: Cairn circles, which are more than 2,500 years old and dating back to 5th century BC, were found near Kulithalai in Karur district by a group of archaeology enthusiasts. Ten such cairn circles were found intact in Thoppamadai village of Kulithalai. Cairn circles are a sequence of stone slabs arranged in a circular pattern over a burial site. “In order to bury the dead during those days, a rectangular pit is dug to place the body in an urn and with the belongings. Cairn circle is formed over the burial site,” said V Parthiban, member of Yaadhum Oore Yaavarum Kelir, a voluntary group. The team goes in search of undiscovered archaeological sites and informs the archaeological department after finding archaeologically significant sites. He said over 50 such cairn circles were found in Jegathabi in Karur district which was recorded by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Terming the Thoppamadai site to be unique in terms of the sites found in the past around central region, another member of the team R Kumaravel said that the site is mostly undisturbed unlike sites in Jegathabi or Trichy. Since the land is unused, a dedicated excavation and study of the place can unravel many hidden facts and bring out interesting information on the life of people of that age, he said. The local villagers told the team that the place is under worship and considered holy by a section of people. “Many such sites were found to be either dug out by people mistaking it to be treasure trove or hide it over the fear of losing their land,” said Parthiban. While burial sites are found across the world, people in every region are following its own unique practise which reflect a particular culture. Burial sites found in Cauvery delta are unique for the usage of laterite rock and a lot more remains unexplored which needs to be researched and studied, he added. Raja Mohamad, former curator Pudukkottai district Museum who has done extensive study on cairn circle said that these are iron age burial monuments established for worshipping those who passed away. Cairn circle found mostly as arrangements of laterite rocks or granite slabs. These are built for influential people like kings and community leader as it is not easy to raise such monuments during those days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-2500-years-old-cairn-circles-found-near-karur-dist/articleshow/78136329.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||New academic year for pharmacy, engg courses from Oct||Ahmedabad: The new academic year for first-year undergraduate diploma and degree pharmacy courses in Gujarat will begin from October 12, the admission committee said on Tuesday. In the case of engineering students, the new academic year will begin from October 5. The last date for online registration process for the first round of admissions to pharmacy courses ended on September 11. The finalization of the institute seat matrix will be done on September 18 following which the provisional merit list will be declared on September 21, sources added. The choice filling for the mock round will be from September 21 to September 29. The final merit list will be announced on October 1 after the declaration of mock round results on September 30. The first allotment list will be out on October 8. “The online deposit of token tuition fees and the generation of admission letter will be done between October 8 and October 13. The commencement of the academic term will be from October 12,” said a source. The online cancellation of admissions for round one can be done from October 8 to October 15. After the results of GUJCET were announced earlier this month, a huge rise was recorded in the number of students registering for pharmacy courses. This was reflected in the applications received on September 5, the last day of registration, before the admission committee extended the deadline till September 11. Of the 9,500 applications received for pharmacy courses, 800 were filed on September 11. The declaration of the provisional merit list for engineering courses will be on September 18 and the final merit list will be announced on September 25. The online cancellation of admission for round one can be done from October 3 to October 12. There are currently 66,128 seats available in degree engineering colleges. The admission committee has been given the task to fill about 50,000 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-academic-year-for-pharmacy-engg-courses-from-oct/articleshow/78136996.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Data retrieved from gadgets, says NIA||KOCHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) submitted before the NIA court in Kochi, on Tuesday, that they have retrieved data worth 2,000GB from the laptops and smartphones of accused persons in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. Similarly, 2,000GB amount of data altogether was retrieved from digital gadgets of other three accused too. Even the deleted data, including videos, pictures and documents were recovered with CDAC’s help. NIA told the court that they need to confront the accused persons with newly-found evidence and need to probe further into the possibility of existence of new evidence. The court then granted four-day custody of Sandeep Nair, Muhammad Shafi and Muhammad Ali Ebrahim to NIA for further interrogation till Friday evening. Even though NIA sought custody of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the case, she could not be produced in court as she is admitted in Thrissur medical college hospital following chest pain. The court will seek the hospital’s medical board’s opinionon Swapna’s health. The court will consider the application for her custody based on the medical report. NIA had also sought custody of Muhammad Anwar TM, another accused in the case, through the same petition on Monday. However, due to some clerical mistake at Viyyur Central Jail, where he is lodged, the authorities could not produce him in court on Tuesday for the hearing. He will be produced in court on Wednesday. Swapna’s counsel submitted that despite court’s permission for Swapna to meet her family jail officials did not allow it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/data-retrieved-from-gadgets-says-nia/articleshow/78134636.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Drum seeders help farmers save on labour, cost and time||Trichy: To overcome labour crunch and minimize costs, farmers from the district have started to adopt paddy drum seeders. “As this direct seeding method helps farmers to avoid raising nursery and costs involved in the process, farmers are willing to go for this method,” officials from the agriculture department said. “Despite Covid-19 lockdown, farmers are finding it difficult to get labourers to execute agricultural activities. Even if anyone is willing to work in the field, farmers need to spend thousands as wage,” say ryots. A paddy drum seeder is a simple device with germinated paddy seeds and the drum is rolled on the field to sow paddy directly in the wetland. Baffles are provided inside the seed drum between the seed holes to ensure uniform seed distribution. Each seed drum has two rows and four drums are assembled to form eight rows to plant in a single stretch. “Sowing paddy using drum seeder will minimize the cost of labour, time and water too,” said M Saravanan, a progressive farmer from Sirugamani in the district. “I am the first farmer who used a drum seeder to sow paddy seeds on my one-acre land. Usually, we spend Rs 1,000 to raise nursery and fertilizer. For transplantation we have to pay Rs 4,000 as wages. We can also save money on seeds as in the traditional method, we have to buy 20kg of seed for an acre. In the case of drum seeder, just 7kg is enough for an acre and save around Rs 1,000. Since we are sowing directly, the time spent on transplantation will also be saved”, Saravanan said. Despite these benefits, the reason for farmers not opting the drum seeder was rain. “If there will be a heavy downpour on the day of sowing by using the seeder, there is a chance of the seeds getting washed away. However, many farmers in our area were eager to use the device,” he stated. “Since, the device is simple and easy to carry, within one or two hours sowing can be completed on an acre,” farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/drum-seeders-help-farmers-save-on-labour-cost-and-time/articleshow/78136322.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jain Gacchadhipati turns centurion today||Ahmedabad: Acharya Dolatsagarsuri, the Gacchadhipati of the Sagar Samuday sect of Jainism, will turn 100 on Wednesday. His devotees said that in the past century, he is only the third Gacchadhipati after Acharya Siddhisuri and Acharya Bhadrasuri to reach the milestone. Acharya Dolatsagarsuri’s 100 years are counted based on the Vikram Samvat calendar, as he will turn 100 next month based on the Gregorian calendar. Acharya Harshsagar, a disciple, said that Acharya Dolatsagarsuri’s life is inspiring. “He was born to a Patel family in Mehsana. He came to Ahmedabad at a very young age to seek employment and started working with a Jain family,” Acharya Harshsagar said. “Jain monks who used to visit the household left a deep impression on him and he decided to follow their path.” Acharya Harshsagar went on to say: “He took diksha at the age of 14 and ever since has led an exemplary life of compassion and dissemination of knowledge.” Acharya Dolatsagarsuri is known for his Aagam Mandir in various parts of the state where the Aagam sutras are written on copper plates and attached to the premises of the derasar. Except his elevation to Panyas, Ahmedabad has been a witness to all the major events of his life. Even at this age, the Acharya is relatively healthy and doesn’t need glasses to read, said his disciples. Suresh Shah, a Jain leader, said that Acharya Dolatsagarsuri is the guru to more than 900 sadhus and sadhvis. “We have organized a major event in Surat — where the Acharya is currently based — to mark the occasion. We will follow Covid-19 guidelines, but we have made arrangements to ensure that thousands of his devotees take part virtually.” Shah went on to say: “There will be special angi in several households and derasar and ayambil by his followers to mark the occasion. Health camps and donation drives have also been organized.” Organizers of the event said that it’s an unusual occasion for society as a man born in the Patidar community attained the highest position in the Jainism hierarchy. “To celebrate the confluence, we have also invited several Patidar community leaders,” said Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jain-gacchadhipati-turns-centurion-today/articleshow/78136999.cms||Bharat Yagnik
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation nod must for private hospitals to admit walk-in patients||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has come down heavily on private hospitals, directing them to immediately stop admitting walk-in non-critical patients, and provide real-time data on vacant beds. The civic body has warned it would cancel registration and register offences under Indian Penal Code (IPC) against hospitals flouting the order. Meanwhile, the NMC’s health department, on Tuesday, issued an order to all city hospitals having more than 10 beds to treat Covid-19 patients. “No hospital should deny any Covid-19 patient coming for treatment to their respective hospital/nursing home. All hospitals having more than 10 beds are being designated as dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHC),” reads an order issued by Dr Sanjay Chilkar, health officer of NMC. TOI has reported on hardship faced by Covid-19 patients and their family members in finding a bed at government as well as private hospitals. Officials said a major reason behind this was that information regarding vacant beds was not being updated frequently. Also, private hospitals were allowing walk-in patients, due to which vacant beds would get occupied without the knowledge of the civic body. On Tuesday, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B issued an order that admission of all patients should be only through NMC’s control room. “Hospitals cannot admit Covid patients without telephonic consent of the civic body. If a patient is critical and needs urgent treatment, hospitals can admit him, but they need to inform the control room about such admission and also update it on the portal within one hour,” the order stated. This is being done to ensure real-time data of vacant beds is available with NMC, so citizens can be provided accurate information. “A non-critical patient has the privilege of time, and he should call the helpline desk for admission. If a hospital is found admitting a non-critical patient without NMC’s consent, we will take strict action,” said additional commissioner Jalaj Sharma. NMC has received many complaints from citizens regarding private hospitals denying admissions. The civic chief has directed that all hospitals should ensure 80% of their beds reserved for Covid-19 under the government rule are fully utilized at the regulated rates. “Hospitals should not charge beyond the prescribed rates,” officials said. TOI has also highlighted many such complaints. Recently, the paper reported discrepancy in number of beds available and numbers displayed on the NCM portal. “Private hospitals are not updating real-time data of admissions and bed availability, which is causing extreme hardship and psychological trauma to patients and their kin,” Radhakrishnan said, adding that this has also affected the health of some patients. Meanwhile, mayor Sandip Joshi has instructed NMC officials to issue notices to all 637 private hospitals in city to make them treat Covid patients. According to him, each hospital will have to reserve at least 5 beds for Covid patients and those who do not comply might face cancellation of licenses. Joshi further said that hospitals unable to reserve beds should provide manpower to NMC and government medical colleges. “NMC has 200 beds but due to insufficient manpower it is not able to provide services. IGGMCH can treat 300 more patients and GMCH can treat 100 more patients if they get manpower. Private hospital owners should behave altruistically and offer services to government hospitals,” he said. The mayor held a meeting with representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) wherein he highlighted that number of Covid-19 cases has risen exponentially this month, leading to extreme shortage of beds. State government has also taken cognisance of excess bills being issued to Covid patients by private hospitals. The chief secretary has issued a directive to NMC, and the latter has constituted a pre-audit committee to vet bills of private hospitals. Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said hospitals which charge more than prescribed NMC rates will be strictly dealt with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-nod-must-for-private-hospitals-to-admit-walk-in-patients/articleshow/78136331.cms||Manka Behl
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow, Kanpur get new commissioners, Mahoba DM removed||Lucknow: In a late night spree of transfers, the government shifted commissioners of Lucknow and Kanpur -- the two places hit hardest by the coronavirus in the state. Ranjan Kumar has replaced Mukesh Meshram as the new commissioner of Lucknow division. Kumar was earlier secretary, PWD. Kanpur's new commissioner is Raj Shekhar, who was formerly managing director UPSRTC. The district magistrate of Mahoba, Awadhesh Tiwari, has been replaced by Satyendra Kumar. Tiwari, whose name surfaced in the slain Mahoba whistle-blower's audio tape, has been sent to the agriculture produce commissioner branch as special secretary. Meshram has been transferred as principal secretary, culture and tourism. He has replaced Jitendra Kumar, who continues to hold charge of the departments of national integration and general administration as the principal secretary. Kanpur commissioner Sudhir Bobde, who also held charge of labour commissioner, has been transferred as member (judicial) of the board of revenue. He has been replaced as labour commissioner by Mohammed Mustafa. Meanwhile, transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu has also been given charge of MD UPSRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-kanpur-get-new-commissioners-mahoba-dm-removed/articleshow/78136993.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nashik||1,107 cases, 18 deaths in Nashik dist||Nashik: As many as 1,107 Covid-19 positive cases, including 812 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 53,940. Nine of of 18 people from the district who succumbed to the contagion were from the city. The death toll stands at 608 in the city and 1,091 in the district. As many as 1,466 patients were discharged from across the district on Tuesday, of which, 502 were from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1107-cases-18-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/78136343.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers on Covid duty seek insurance in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Teachers from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) schools on Covid-19 relief duty have submitted a letter to mayor Sandip Joshi and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B raising several demands including health insurance, free treatment facility and special hospitals for them. The teachers said besides long duty hours and inadequate protection, they have been doing non-teaching jobs as Covid warriors since March. “Joshi has convened a meeting of Mahanagar Palika Shikshak Sangh on September 18,” sangh secretary Devrao Mandavkar told TOI. Around 1,181 teachers from NMC schools have been engaged to aid the administration’s efforts to tackle the pandemic. Their roles include door-to-door survey of patients with comorbidities, duty at quarantine centres and checking oxygen suring survey through oximeters. Despite working as frontline warriors, many officials are using abusive language against us, which needs to be stopped, the letter stated. The NMC has been violating Covid-19 guidelines by deploying 25 teachers above 55 and suffering from ailments. Two teachers have died due to Covid while 15 have tested positive. The teachers complained that they haven’t been promised any compensation despite working non-stop 11-12 hours daily, with no weekly off, risking their life and family members’ safety. NMC should deploy private school teachers on Covid duties, they said. “The teachers are sharing the same risk (as medical staff) but there is no protection for us unlike for other frontline workers, which we feel is very unfair. On humanitarian grounds, at least the NMC should keep one hospital reserved for NMC teachers and staff,” Mandavkar said. The Sangh also demanded reinstatement of its president Rajesh Gavre who was suspended on April 14 for allegedly leaking information pertaining to the containment drive launched by the NMC. The Sangh had been seeking a few benefits like health insurance, masks, gloves etc for teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-on-covid-duty-seek-insurance-separate-hosp/articleshow/78136385.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Covid care facility for cops awaits doctors||NASHIK: The city police are awaiting deployment of doctors for the proposed Covid care facility at the headquarters. The police are planning to set up a 100-bed Covid care centre dedicated to police personnel, home guards and their family members. It would be set up at the police headquarters area so that those admitted there do not feel out of place. The facility would need five doctors, 10 nurses and 20 ward boys. However, the staff has not been appointed yet. DCP (HQ) Pournima Chaugule said they have written to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to give them the required staff. At present, 50 personnel of the city police commissionerate are home quarantined and 25 others are hospitalised for C-19 infection. So far, over 150 personnel have caught the infection and four have succumbed. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey held meetings with the personnel of all the four units to sensitize them about the dos and don’ts with respect to preventing Covid-19 spread. Ever since the outbreak of coronavirus, immunity booster tablets have been given to nearly 3,200 personnel and officers from time to time. Apart from this, the police personnel have also been provided with health straps that monitor body temperature, blood pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-care-facility-for-cops-awaits-doctors/articleshow/78136336.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Agri officer caught taking Rs 1.5 lakh bribe||Vadodara: An agriculture officer in Chhota Udepur was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau on Tuesday for accepting a bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh from a shopkeeper dealing in agri products in Naswadi town. Yogesh Amin, a class II officer, wanted the amount to settle a notice which he had served to the shopkeeper for selling unauthorized pesticides. ACB officials said that Amin, who hails from Vadodara city, had given a show-cause notice to the shopkeeper which he later said he will ‘take care’ of if he is paid Rs 2.5 lakh. After some negotiations, Amin agreed to take Rs 1.5 lakh. The shopkeeper then informed the ACB. ACB officials, to trap Amin, asked the shopkeeper to call him to his shop to accept the bribe amount. Amin agreed to come on Tuesday and when he accepted the bribe, ACB sleuths nabbed him and booked him .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/agri-officer-caught-taking-rs-1-5-lakh-bribe/articleshow/78133282.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Students taught farming by NGO during lockdown||Trichy: At a time when the number of youngsters taking up agriculture as a profession is dwindling, an organization in Trichy conducted a program to teach organic farming to students. The NGO, Voice Trust, has trained 35 school and college students and issued them certificates during the lockdown period. The students were taught the basics of agriculture in the program named 'Agriculture School' conducted at Siruganur, located on the outskirts of the city. The students, most of them girls, were imparted training on growing plants, recycling of wastes for reusing as manure, pest control, and choosing nutritive food for a healthy life. R Kavitha, a proponent of organic farming and coordinator of the program, said that with the help of the training, some students have started growing plants at the backyard of their homes. S Praveen Kumar, an engineering graduate from Siruganur who participated in the program said that he has started cultivating onion on a small piece of ancestral land. “Though I am from an agricultural family, the organic farming method is completely new for me. Once I succeed with my attempt to raise onions, I am planning to cultivate onion on around one acre of land”, Praveen Kumar told TOI. “We are in involved in promoting activities for reviving agriculture as a viable and valuable activity from 1995. We have an organic farm at Siruganur certified by Organic Certificate Department of the government of Tamil Nadu,” A Gregory, project director of the Voice Trust said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-taught-farming-by-ngo-during-lockdown/articleshow/78136341.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Nine depts join hands to launch decisive battle against Japanese Encephalitis, Acute encephalitis||LUCKNOW: Nine departments would join together to launch a decisive battle against vector-borne diseases in the state. Undeterred by the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the UP government has decided to launch an aggressive campaign against vector-borne diseases, particularly encephalitis, from October 1. “The initiative taken by the state government over the past three years has helped in bringing the problem of Japanese Encephalitis and Acute encephalitis syndrome under control. By taking the correct steps and ensuring their effective implementation through highest levels of inter-departmental coordination, UP has set an example of sorts for the world,” the CM told heads of nine departments which have to work together for the infectious diseases control campaign. The state has seen a sharp fall in the number of JE, AES cases over the past three years. Speaking in Gorakhpur early this month, the CM said: “In Gorakhpur, at least 600 children used to die due to AES every year between 1977 and 2017. After we came to power in 2017, several people joined Swachh Bharat Mission. Only six children died due to acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) in Gorakhpur this year, which means we have controlled over 99% deaths.” Gorakhpur and adjoining districts have been a hotbed for the JE and AES for the past three decades. The nine departments which would join the campaign are health, medical education, education, rural development & panchyati raj, Swachh Bharat Mission, Women and Child development, ICDS, urban development, animal husbandry and agriculture. The month-long campaign will be the third this year and will also include house-to-house awareness 'Dastak' fortnight in which health teams visit every house to spread awareness about all infectious diseases. Admitting that the task to implement the campaign had been complicated by Covid-19 pandemic, the CM said: “All the departments concerned should work in tandem to ensure that the system to counter infectious diseases is in place. Also all possible precautions to save the field staff from Covid-19 must be taken.” Setting the goals for the officials, the CM stated: “while the health department must ensure that treatment facilities in the CHCs, PHCs and district hospitals of JE affected districts are in place, stakeholder departments must ensure that there cleanliness objectives are met.” The CM also emphasised the role of clean drinking water in communicable diseases prevention besides directing health officials to identify children who missed out their regular routine immunization shots and reach out to them in a mop up round. He also emphasized the need for sensitising women and children about communicable diseases with the help of ASHAs and Anganwadi workers. Officials from the education department were told to make use of the online platform to create awareness about JE, AES and other viral diseases like dengue, chikungunya, H1N1. In addition to this, the CM told officials from the information and public relations department to make use of radio, electronic and print media to undertake awareness programmes and distribute informative handbill, electronic in the vulnerable districts. The CM made it clear that no laxity in tackling JE, AES and other communicable diseases will be tolerated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nine-depts-join-hands-to-launch-decisive-battle-against-je-aes/articleshow/78137025.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||Buses stopping only at new terminal irks passengers||Hubballi: To ease traffic problems at KC Circle here, the transport authorities have directed that buses must stop only at the New Bus terminal on Gokul Road. But, it has not gone down well with commuters. The commuters who arrive in the city or travel from the city in the night say they are put to great hardship. People who reach Hubballi from Maharashtra, Mangaluru and other areas in the night are struggling to get proper connectivity from the bus terminal to reach their final destinations. Commuters want the authorities to reconsider their decision and want buses to be allowed to stop at KC Circle in the night. Earlier about 1,800 buses would stop at KC Circle to drop or pick up passengers. In November last year, the stoppage of 500 to 600 buses heading Belagavi, Goa, Sirsi, Mangaluru, Karwar and Maharashtra was shifted to the new bus terminal. Earlier passengers used to catch long route buses from the old bus stand. Though the new bus stand on Gokul Road was built 15 years ago, it was not functioning completely. Suleman H, a social activist, said “Many people who reach the city in the night are finding it difficult to reach home from the new bus stand. Late in the night auto drivers demand high fare and there are insufficient security arrangements at the terminal.” The authorities should start a pre pre-paid auto system, set up a police out post or should allow long-route buses to go up to Old bus stand to drop passengers, he added. Ramanand Bhat, a resident of Gabbur on the outskirts of Hubballi said, “Recently me and my family reached Hubballi from Sirsi at 3:30am in night. There were hardly any autos and they were demanding Rs 400 to 500 to drop us to Gabbur. As I was with my family, I agreed to pay Rs 350 and reached home.” H Ramangoudar, DC NWKRTC, Hubballi division said, “We will solve this problem soon by discussing with other officers concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/buses-stopping-only-at-new-terminal-irks-passengers/articleshow/78128786.cms||J Abbas Mulla
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Centre gives funds for GMCH project at Nandurbar||Nashik: The move to set up a maiden government medical college and hospital (GMCH) in north Maharashtra's Nandurbar district has gathered steam after the Centre approved and provided budget for the same. District collector Rajendra Bharud told TOI that the Centre has provided Rs 195 crore for the project and the state government would chip in Rs 140 crore. "A team from Medical Council of India (MCI) has started the process of inspecting the infrastructure to establish the medical college hospital. They would be submitting their findings to the government as soon as possible," said Bharud. The MCI team's visit to the district was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Bharud said that the project would be a boon for the residents as there is no government-managed medical college hospital in the district. "The specialist doctors of the district GMCH would be able to treat the ailing patients effectively," added Bharud who himself is a medical graduate. At present, scores of tribals from Nandurbar have to travel to Surat, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and Dhule for treatment. According to Bharud, the district will use infrastructure of the nursing college, polytechnic college, etc. to start the medical college. The administration will also use the civil hospital premises. The district administration has even zeroed in buildings and quarters that would be used as hostels. "We have decided to earmark funds under DPDC to set up laboratories for the medical college," said Bharud. District administration sources said that the initial intake could be 100 students. The GMCH project of Nandurbar has been pending for over a decade after it was proposed in 2009. The state government had approved the project in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/centre-gives-funds-for-gmch-project-at-nandurbar/articleshow/78136387.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 16, 2020||Allahabad||MNNIT scholar designs ‘smart blind stick’ to make commuting easy||Prayagraj: To make commuting easy for a blind person, a research scholar of the department of applied mechanics department of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) have designed a censored based hi-tech walking stick for blind persons. He has named this stick as ‘smart blind stick’. The otherwise simple looking stick is no less than a ‘magic wand’ for its targeted users. Fitted with radio frequency (RF) transmitter and receiver, the stick is also equipped with Light Dependent Resistor (LDR) sensor and an ultrasonic sensor, informs Sajal Babu, the research scholar who has developed this stick under the guidance of Prof Ravi Prakash Tiwari. “We have fitted the stick with RF transmitter because of, which any blind person will be able to find his or her stick with a distance of about 15 meters because the rod has a receiver too. The user will just push a button on the remote in his hand and the stick would sound the buzzer, telling the place where it is placed”, explained Sajal. Likewise, the stick will also inform the user about the luminosity of his surroundings. “Suppose the user enters a room which is dark, the stick would make a sound through, which the blind person can know that is dark and he or she have to switch on the light” he said. Likewise, the ultrasonic sensor would tell about the hindrance on the path. The stick will make sound of beep, frequency of which would increase as the hindrance would come nearer, he added. Sajal has used a simple blind stick, which is available in the market and made the modification. The stick folds in three layers and is fitted with a rechargeable lithium battery, which last for 24 hours. In coming days, we will also add more sensors in the stick after, which would navigate the path to the user through google map, tell the number of steps that they have to climb and also inform beforehand about any pit or uneven path that lies in their way, inform Sajal. The first prototype of the stick has cost us around Rs 800 but if there is mass production, this would come down further, he added. The patent process for this stick would also be initiated by the department in days to come. “I am happy that after getting patented, this would be made in India product and easily available to consumers for nominal price as there are around 2.68 crore blind persons in India as per 2011 census”, said the research scholar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mnnit-scholar-designs-smart-blind-stick-to-make-commuting-easy/articleshow/78133349.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Colleges not paying salaries despite reserves: Delhi deputy CM||NEW DELHI: A day after teachers of a few Delhi University colleges moved Delhi High Court over non-payment of salaries, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia alleged on Wednesday that the colleges were not paying the teachers despite having funds in the reserve. Citing initial investigation results of an independent audit conducted by Delhi government, the education minister threatened action and said the university administration was acting as a pawn of BJP. The colleges, however, said it was wrong to term the student society fund as a reserve fund and it shouldn’t be used to pay teachers. The 12 colleges funded by Delhi government have salary dues. Sisodia claimed, “It was observed in these reports that colleges have kept a huge amount of money as fixed deposits rather than paying the salaries. Keshav Mahavidyalaya has Rs 10.52 crore as fixed deposits. If they have so much money, why are they not paying salaries to their teachers?”He also said Bhagini Nivedita College had around Rs 2.5 crore in fixed deposits. “It is surprising that they are claiming lack of funds, and at the same time, not cooperating with the auditors also.” The principals of both these colleges will address a press conference on Thursday. Sisodia said Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies didn’t even provide their audited balance sheets. “However, it was found that they have around Rs 3.5 crore in their balance sheet in 2018-19 and Rs 10.45 crore in fixed deposits.” Even Deen Dayal Upadhyay College has a reserve of about Rs 6.5 crore and one college even donated Rs 25 lakh, he added. Sukhdev College principal Poonam Verma said, “These are student funds and the money comes to the college under various heads for various activities. It will be a gross financial irregularity to use them for salary. This money has been collected over 33 years.” Verma claimed she had records of providing all documents to the auditors and for 2018-19, the college had completed the ELFA and CAG audits. “They are targeting these colleges because the chairperson of the governing body is not their nominee,” she alleged. DDU principal Hem Chand Jain said, “If anyone has paid that money as loan, they can hang the whole college administration. The reserve is collected from students for ICT infrastructure improvement and student activities. It is not possible to use funds for students to pay salaries. If the government finds it correct, they should tell us that.” Sisodia also raised the issue of how the funds given to these 12 colleges had almost tripled since 2014-15. “These people are playing with lives of their own staff members. AAP government stands together with the faculty and students of DU. But it seems the DU administration is singing the tunes of BJP and behaving like BJP’s party office. They are only focused on blaming Delhi government,” he said. “Under the pattern of assistance, it is mentioned that provisioning of grant will be made only on net deficit basis.” Different teachers’ groups condemned the government’s allegations. Delhi University Teachers’ Association said, “It is unfortunate that teachers are caught in the crossfire of these allegations. DUTA believes that the employees must be paid their dues immediately.” A K Bhagi of NDTF said, “It’s the duty of the government to pay salaries and other allowances and give grants for new infrastructure and maintenance.” INTEC called these allegations a diversion tactics of Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/colleges-not-paying-salaries-despite-reserves-says-dy-cm/articleshow/78156514.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Do-gooder falls laying Covid dead to rest in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Workers of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind (JuH), who are carrying out last rites of Covid victims in Kamptee, lost a comrade while on the job. Naqeeb Akhtar, 54, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday as he was waiting with the team to go for a funeral. JuH, an organization of clerics, has volunteered to carry out funerals of Covid victims irrespective of the religion. Dressed in PPE kits, a team of four handles Covid body as others like Naqeeb assisted them from a distance. “Our team had returned from one funeral and were waiting to receive the second body. Naqeeb offered us to have a cup of tea till then. As we waited at the shop ,Naqeeb tumbled, we rushed him to hospital but he was dead by then,” said Maulana Mumtaz Ahmed, president of JuH Kamptee. He was accompanying Naqeeb at that time. Ahmed said JuH had conducted nearly 50 funerals in Kamptee out of which 30 may have been persons of other religions. “Naqeeb used to accompany us often, he would stand at a distance and provide us assistance. As wearing PPEs left us sweating, Naqeeb was always there to offer water,” he said. “We continued the work, as Naqeeb’s body was taken to his home. Another team took over to do the last rites for which we had come,” said Ahmed. Soon messages were spread on the social media with condolence pouring in. Naqeeb was an active worker and had taken part in relief work during lockdown and also last month’s flood that had affected Kamptee too, said his colleague.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/do-gooder-falls-laying-covid-dead-to-rest/articleshow/78136436.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Covid situation improving in Dhule||Nashik: A declining trend of daily Covid-19 positive cases in north Maharashtra's Dhule district has been observed in the last one week. The development has raised hope among the local administration that the pandemic curve could flatten by end of this month if the positive cases continue to drop over the next 15 days. While the daily positive cases were around 146-150 in the last seven days, it was over 200 cases a day a week before. The per day tests remained constant at over 500 during the entire period. "We are cautiously optimistic that things would gradually start improving from early October. But, the next 15 days would be crucial in terms of decreasing number of positive cases," district’s novel coronavirus nodal officer Vishal Patil told TOI. Of the 11032 total Covid-19 positive cases registered in Dhule so far, 1,374 are currently active. Last week, the number of active cases stood at around 1,800. Dhule district, which had the worst case fatality rate (CFR) at 11.8% during the last week of May, has CFR of 2.6% at present. Last week, it was around 2.98%. "Our efforts to trace and test Covid-19 suspects as well as begin early treatment of positive patients is surely yielding results. We would continue to conduct tests aggressively," added Patil. Interestingly, active cases (611) in the Dhule city is lesser than rural parts of the district (763). Even, the death toll in rural Dhule is higher than that of the city. "The population in rural parts of Dhule is much higher as compared to the city and, hence, the infected number of people are more in rural parts of the district," added Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-situation-improving-in-dhule/articleshow/78136416.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||CM: Resources not utilised properly||Hyderabad: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said the UPA government had failed the country in not utilizing the available water resources and energy. “In our country 70,000 tmcft of water is available and still some cities like Chennai are facing acute drinking water problem,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-resources-not-utilised-properly/articleshow/78134683.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Uproar in Chandrapur over lack of beds for Covid patients||CHANDRAPUR: There was uproar in the city on Tuesday over lack of beds for Covid patients and private hospitals asking for advance deposits up to Rs1.50 lakh. The Covid total surged to 6,309 with 251 new cases. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) slammed guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar for the situation and demanded that he stays at the headquarters to tackle the pandemic. AAP delegation met Wadettiwar and told him that the health mechanism in the city has completely collapsed, while private hospitals are seeking exorbitant deposits in advance. Party officials demanded immediate arrangement of additional beds and necessary manpower for patients as well as action against private hospitals. Wadettiwar agreed that the health department lacks manpower to deal with situation, but said that they will recruit manpower through outsourcing. In a media statement, president of Chandrapur IMA Dr Anil Madurwar clarified that private hospitals are charging as per the directives of the government. State health minister Rajesh Tope held a video conference with people’s representatives and officials on Monday evening and directed them ti recruit 50 doctors immediately to deal with the situation. He directed to set up a taskforce for Covid- and take over private ambulances. Following instances of unrest among the relatives of critical patients, the guardian minister on directed the officials to install CCTVs in Covid wards and build information centers to brief the relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uproar-in-chanda-over-lack-of-beds-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78136423.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Damning tapes give murky turn to Mahoba businessman’s murder||Lucknow: The murder of Mahoba businessman Indrakant Tripathi, who succumbed to gunshot wounds on Sunday, turned murkier with the leak of five audio tapes on social media early Tuesday. Mahoba superintendent of police Manilal Patidar was suspended for corruption less than 24 hours after Tripathi, who blew the whistle on the IPS officer, was found inside his car with a bullet in his neck. Four taped conversations purportedly of the slain businessman, days before he was shot at, provide a damning insight into the extortion racket involving politicians, police and district administration over stone mining at Bundelkhand. The first conversation is between a trader, local MLA and unidentified persons, while the fifth is between Tripathi’s cousin, Brijesh Shukla, and a criminal, Ashu Bhadauria. In one of the audios. Tripathi is heard talking to an unknown person on phone and saying — Jo demand SP saheb ki wo hi demand DM ki hai. Rs 5 lakh SP, Rs 5 lakh DM aur Rs 5 lakh baki sab (The demands of SP and DM are same. Both want Rs 5 lakh each and others Rs 5 lakh. What will we eat and how will we survive?). TOI doesn’t confirm the veracity of these audio tapes. In the same audio, the unknown caller is heard saying he paid Rs 6 lakh to the superintendent of police in June and July, but when stone crushing work was stopped by the administration, he could not cough up more. In another 4.26-minute audio, Tripathi is heard telling a colleague he met SP Mahoba for the first time and told him “Aapki hi chhatra chhaya main ji rahe hain, aap jaisa bolenge waisa karenge (I am living under your patronage. Whatever you say will be done). In the same audio, Tripathi says he never visited the SP to pay bribe, but would be assigned a desolate spot, where the amount would be handed over to a henchman. Similarly, in another 28-second audio, Tripathi is heard saying he has paid Rs 5 lakh bribe to SP and another Rs 1 lakh to station officer. In subsequent conversations, Tripathi is heard chatting with an MLA and complains how he was being coerced to cough up Rs 6 lakh by the Mahoba SP, Patidar. Likewise, in another audio of 1.49 minutes, made just hours before Tripathi took a bullet on September 8, local goon Bhadauria is heard telling the businessman’s nephew that Raja Saheb (SP Mahoba) is very annoyed. “Track down your uncle Indrakant. If you don’t enquire about his whereabouts, you will suffer the consequences,” the criminal is heard saying. Arun Srivastava, who took over as Mahoba SP after his predecessor was suspended, told reporters these audios are being verified. “An officer of the rank of DySP is probing the case,” he said. State DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy told TOI that the three-member SIT has the mandate to probe into the murder of businessman, Indrakant Tripathi. On September 8, Tripathi was shot at by unidentified persons, hours after he made a video viral, accusing then SP Mahoba Mani Lal Patidar of extortion and even alleged if anything happened to him, Patidar should be held responsible. Tripathi succumbed to injuries on September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/damning-tapes-give-murky-turn-to-mahoba-businessmans-murder/articleshow/78137052.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||Digital divide takes toll on students even as univs push for online classes||Kolkata: As the intermediate semester classes begin, several private and state-aided colleges and universities have issued guidelines for teachers on how to conduct live, online classes as well as how to hold asynchronous classes, under which they are supposed to send study materials to students on their mails and WhatsApp numbers. In most colleges, decisions have been taken to store recordings of live classes, audio clippings and documents that can be later accessed by students, who may miss out on online lessons due to the digital divide. Aritra Chatterjee, a second-year student at a CU Behala college, complained he had been missing out on even class notes that are occasionally being shared by his teachers of chemistry department over emails and WhatsApp. “Limited materials are being shared that I can study only after downloading them on my mobile. I do not have a laptop and have to spend a considerable amount on data,” he said, adding teachers had also suggested some ebooks, some of which had to be paid for. At Jadavpur University, Debraj Debnath, a final-year PG student and JU local committee secretary of SFI, said the unions had identified students who did not have smartphones. “Departments formed panels with teachers to identify such students and provide them with mobiles and data-pack. . Since some classes have started in the second and fourth UG semesters and second PG semester, audio clippings, recorded videos and other study materials are being preserved so that students, who will get data-pack and mobiles, can download them later,” Debnath added. To bridge the gap, along with digitally storing every document and audio-visual clippings, several colleges have urged teachers to be considerate towards students, even if they fail to cope with online learning. At J D Birla Institute, teachers have been requested to follow a flexible timetable. “ Teachers have been given an internet allowance to update phone data. Each subject teacher has to share his/her Zoom link to the official email of students registered with college. It has to be done 24 hours earlier,” said principal Deepali Singhee. “Any resources that need to be shared will be done through HoDs and a copy has to be preserved in the library for later reference. Textbooks have been digitized and shared with students. But students have to keep their videos on during live lectures. If they can’t join due to internet problem, a report has to be sent to the respective HoDs, ” Singhee added. St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata principal Fr Dominic Savio said the college had been supportive of students who might face difficulties attending online classes. “I have told HoDs to identify anyone facing trouble. We are ready to help them with mobiles and data-pack,” Savio said. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said, “Our classes hold live lectures and all students attend them.” A student at another CU college, however, said, “Internet access and teachers ensuring all students can attend online classes are happening at prominent colleges. For the rest, we have to depend on study materials occasionally shared on WhatsApp. As long as exams are not held, we can manage later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digital-divide-takes-toll-on-students-even-as-univs-push-for-online-classes/articleshow/78134718.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Release incentives so that we stay afloat: Exporters||Ludhiana: Faced with financial crunch due to drop in sales, exporters are demanding expeditious release of incentive under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS). According to exporters, their claims worth thousands of crores under the MEIS scheme are pending with the departments concerned. Moreover, with processing of IGST refunds taking time, exporters are facing huge financial problems. A few exporters are of the view that the Centre should consider introducing a relief package for exporters. Rahul Ahuja, convenor, Punjab State Committee of Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) said, “According to our estimates, MEIS benefits of over Rs 10,000 crore have been pending from April 1 all over India. In addition to this, IGST refunds of exporters from micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector are also pending. Due to this, huge funds of exporters are stuck with the departments concerned. The fund crunch could not have come at a worse time as exporters have started receiving orders from abroad after almost six months of record losses.”Exporters added that since they don’t have any alternative source of funding except for their money stuck in form of MEIS and IGST, the government should support them. They said both the MEIS and IGST claims of exporters should be processed in a time-bound manner so that exporters do not face any problems. According to Harish Dua, president of Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation, “MEIS scheme for apparel sector was withdrawn some time back but for the engineering sector, extension of a few months was given. However, it is unfortunate that in spite of the extension, claims of MEIS for the engineering sector have not been processed due to which exporters are now facing financial crunch. In addition to this, long delays in processing IGST refunds has made matters worse for exporters from all sectors.” Dua said the garment industry is not an exception. “Already, huge stock of our summer collection could not be exported due to lockdown in India and other countries. Now, when lockdown has been lifted, the season has changed and we will only get orders for winter clothing. But since our money was blocked in the summer production, we are unable to execute fresh orders. So every sector has its own set of problems and then there are common problems too. Exporters are dying a slow death and we can be saved only if the government, besides refunding our money, introduces some relief package for us,” he said.According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary, Ludhiana business forums, “Several members of our association are reporting non-receipt of their MEIS claims from the government even after filing the application. This is slowly becoming a major issue and its high time the Centre takes some corrective measures to resolve the issue as it is causing huge liquidity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/release-incentives-so-that-we-stay-afloat-exporters/articleshow/78133419.cms||Mohit Behl
September 16, 2020||Nashik||2-member team for daily Covid hospitals in city||Nashik: During the general body meeting of the Nashik municipal corporation (NMC) held online on Tuesday, it was decided that a two-member team of medical officers of the civic body will be appointed to co-ordinate with all Covid hospitals in the city. The team will also take review of the bed availability and other Covid-related issues faced by patients as well as hospitals on a daily basis. The team will then submit the report to the civic administration, following which a solution will be worked upon. Moreover, the general body also decided to conduct RT-PCR tests of Covid-19 suspects who had tested negative though antigen tests, but are experiencing Covid-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-member-team-for-daily-covid-hospitals-in-city/articleshow/78136433.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Highest-ever toll: 19 from dist succumb to deadly virus||Times News Network Ludhiana: The district witnessed 27 Covid deaths on Tuesday, the highest single-day toll so far. Of these, 19 are from Ludhiana. Earlier on August 31, as many as 18 deaths were reported from the district. On the day, 505 persons tested positive, of which 438 were from Ludhiana and 67 outsiders.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana case count has reached 14,622 and that of outsiders stood at 1,599. He said of the patients reported on Tuesday, 27 were contacts of positive cases, 145 were from OPD, 120 from the flu corner, two police personnel, 12 healthcare workers, five pregnant women, two undertrials, five were with severe acute respiratory infection and 120 from the tracing process. He said of the 27 deaths reported, 19 were from Ludhiana district, two from Fatehgarh Sahib, one each from Ferozepur, Sangrur, Moga and Hoshiarpur and two from Haryana. The death toll of Ludhiana has reached 607, besides 163 outsiders have died here so far. He said the casualties included a 15-year-old boy from Prem Nagar, Lohara; a 75-year-old woman of Chandar Nagar with diabetes and hypertension; a 60-year-old man from Rishi Nagar with TB, diabetes and hypertension; a 78-year-old man from Agar Nagar with diabetes and hypertension; a 90-year-old woman from Rishi Nagar, who had paralysis; a 56-year-old man from Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar with diabetes, hypertension and obesity; a 67-year-old diabetic patient from Janta Colony; a 44-year-old man from Mullanpur with head injury; a 55-year-old man from Samrala Road, Khanna, with diabetes and TB; a 64-year-old diabetic woman from Khanna; a 65-year-old obese and diabetic man from Kalgidhar Road; a 35-year-old man from Shimlapuri with hypertension and kidney disease; a 53-year-old diabetic man from Amargarh; an 82-year-old woman of Basti Jodhewal; a woman, 53, of Balmiki Nagar with diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease; a 67-year-old man from Adarsh Nagar; a 60-year-old diabetic man from Boparai Khurd; a 77-year-old diabetic man from Doraha and an 80-year-old man from Jalandhar Bypass. The officer said 11,990 (81.9%) persons have recovered from Covid-19 to date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/highest-ever-toll-19-from-dist-succumb-to-deadly-virus/articleshow/78133407.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Government to introduce E-Muster roll to ensure transparency in wage payment||BHUBANESWAR: In a major step towards ensuring transparency in payment of wages to workers engaged in projects of different departments, the state government has planned to introduce E-Muster roll on October 2. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday reviewed progress of the online system that has been proposed under the 5T model of governance. Under this initiative, muster rolls will be maintained in electronic format (E-Muster roll) that will ensure transparency and help prevent manipulation, said official sources. The state works department will be the nodal department to carry out the initiative. “It is a critical step towards ensuring transparency and accountability,” said Naveen during the review. The idea behind introduction of the E-Muster roll is to bring about transparency to the labour engagements and labour payments made by contractors, by getting all data into a single portal. It will also help ensure wages reach the intended beneficiaries by transferring money directly to the bank account of construction labourers, said a senior government official. This will also ensure stricter monitoring of minimum wages and timely deposit of funds like ESI and EPF dues by contractors. It was decided in the meeting that in the first phase, E-Muster roll will be implemented in projects worth more than Rs 10 crore in five state government departments which take up massive construction works like works, rural development, water resources, panchayati raj and drinking water and housing and urban development. The initiative has been introduced in as many as 75 projects of the five departments. Naveen during the meeting also directed all departments to have a system in place by January 1, 2021, for universal implementation of E-muster roll. The chief minister also emphasized on use of robust technology in implementing this initiative along with enabling legal frame work, state-level training of staff on the project and extensive information, education and communication (IEC) campaign for all categories of workers to make them aware of the system. “The reforms will be a game-changer in contract management,” chief secretary Asit Tripathy said, .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-to-introduce-e-muster-roll-to-ensure-transparency-in-wage-payment/articleshow/78133442.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept tests positive for negligence, yet again||Ludhiana: Again, a Ludhiana family faced a dilemma over Covid-19 report confusion. A 37-year-old government schoolteacher from Khanna ran fever for three days — September 3 to September 5. He took medicines and recovered. On September 11, he suffered respiratory problems and reached Khanna civil hospital, where, after a check-up, doctors said his oxygen level was fine and asked him to come the next day for Covid-19 test. “My wife too had mild fever so both of us reached Khanna civil hospital. I gave my sample for RTPCR, and when my wife asked for fever medicine, someone sent her to the flu corner. There, doctors took her sample for Covid-19 test and a woman health official asked her to bring our children too for the test. I brought both my sons, aged 12 and six years, and they also gave samples for the rapid test. According to the rapid test, my wife and sons tested positive and I was negative. Since they all were asymptomatic, the officials asked us to remain under home isolation,” he said. “My RTPCR report is still awaited. Meanwhile, on Monday, my wife received a call from a health official, who told her that I was also positive and they will visit our house with isolation forms. I thought I had a respiratory issue too, so must have contracted the virus. But hours later, I received a call from an official, who claimed that only my sons and wife were positive. I got confused and shared the contact of the previous health official and requested to cross-check my report. Minutes later, the official again called back and said the previous official did not have my test report, therefore it is unconfirmed if I was positive or not,” he said. Annoyed and tense, the Khanna resident said, “The health officials created so much panic and confusion. They visited our house and got some forms filled. But till now I have no idea if I am positive or negative.”His 35-year-old wife said, “My husband had symptoms, but his rapid test is negative. My sons and I had no symptoms, but our rapid tests were positive. The calls of health officials created so much confusion. When they visited our house, I asked for medicines in case I got a fever or any other health issue. They gave us a list of medicines and asked us to purchase on our own. Now under home isolation, how are we supposed to get medicines? Since the health department officials visited our house, everyone knows we are positive and nobody is ready to deliver anything to our house.”Khanna civil hospital SMO Dr R Gulati said, “I don’t have details of the patient, so I cannot say about his report. But it seems there is some confusion as before visiting a house, the health officials always get the confirmation report. I will get the matter checked.”Confirmation still awaitedOn Tuesday late evening, the teacher received a message from Punjab health department that stated that his “corona report is negative. However, further confirmation will be done by the laboratory or health team concerned”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-tests-positive-for-negligence-yet-again/articleshow/78133428.cms||Payal Dhawan
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Doctors warn of bandh over capping of treatment charges||NASHIK: Members of the Nashik unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have warned of a state wide bandh if office-bearers of their state-level organisation are not invited for talks with respect to the capping of treatment charges by private hospitals. At the state level, the IMA is protesting against the financial constraints levied on private hospitals with respect to capping charges treatment charges for Covid as well as non-Covid patients. In Nashik, a token protest was also carried out by the office-bearers of IMA by burning a copy of the registration of Maharashtra Medical Council in front of their city office on Friday. President of IMA Nashik Sameer Chandratre said, “So far, the state government has not paid heed to our problems. Operating hospitals has become a herculean task for us. There is no capping on the prices of medicine, the rates of oxygen have been increased three times recently, but the government is threatening us by coming up with new orders every time.” “We will hand over our hospitals to the government and ask it to operate them by paying us the rent and giving salaries to our nurses, ward boys and other staff,” added Chandratre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/docs-warn-of-bandh-over-capping-of-treatment-charges/articleshow/78136441.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 16, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Accident victim dies as doctor talks on phone, argues with cop||BAREILLY: A 48-year-old woman who sustained injuries in a road accident in UP’s Badaun district died for want of medical attention after precious time was lost when the doctor at the community health centre (CHC) she was taken to allegedly refused to see her as he was "busy on his phone" and later got into a 20-minute-long argument with the sub-inspector who had brought her. A video of the incident that occurred on Monday has drawn flak on social media following which Badaun SSP Sankalp Sharma raised the matter with district magistrate Kumar Prashant. The DM told TOI further action would be taken after looking at the autopsy report. “If the death is due to negligence, appropriate action will be taken against those responsible,” he said. The footage purportedly shows the doctor arguing with the cop instead of attending to the injured woman. Sub-inspector Sushil Panwar at Ughaiti police station who drove the woman to the CHC told TOI he got into an argument with the doctor after the latter remained glued to his phone and refused to come out of his room at the Bilsi CHC despite repeated requests. The victim, Rambeti, was travelling on a motorcycle along with her son, Manoj, and nephew, Amit Kumar, in Badaun when an unidentified vehicle hit them, said the SI, adding that her critically injured nephew was shifted to a higher medical facility while he took the woman and her son to the CHC. The son is recovering at the centre. The family is yet to file a complaint. The policeman said, “The doctor’s behaviour was callous and unacceptable. When I asked him to hurry up and look at the patient whose condition was deteriorating, he said accident cases were all too common in the area and there was no need to worry.” Meanwhile, chief medical superintendent of Badaun Yashpal Singh said he was not aware of the issue. “I will look into it and order a probe if needed.” Watch Shocking negligence: Accident victim dies as doctor talks on phone, argues with cop in Uttar Pradesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/accident-victim-dies-as-doc-talks-on-phone-argues-with-cop-who-brought-her/articleshow/78131218.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Proposed electricity bill usurps states’ powers: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Terming the Centre’s proposed Electricity Bill, 2020 as ‘draconian’ and aimed at taking away powers of the states, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday said PM Narendra Modi is working towards complete centralisation of power. The UPA government too had centralised power in some sectors, he added. “The Electricity Act of 2003 was against the federal spirit and intended to curtail the powers of the states. Chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Delhi have spoken with me. Our TRS MPs will take up the issue in Parliament,” Chandrasekhar Rao said during a short discussion on the new Electricity Bill. The assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed a resolution, moved by the CM, against the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 and asked the Centre to withdraw it. “We have seen what happened to BSNL, LIC and other public sector undertakings. The governments at the Centre are working to hand over every sector to private parties,” he said. “If the Bill is passed, the distribution system will go into the hands of private players and éxistence of Telangana distribution companies — Transco and Genco— will become a big question and many working in these power utilities, may lose their jobs,” he said. “Some pressurised me to give distribution to private firms and I rejected the proposal saying our government will not give even a MW of power distribution to private agencies,’ KCR said. Explaining how the new Bill would impact the state’s interests, the chief minister said the government will have to fix meters to about 26 lakh agriculture motors, which itself costs about Rs 700-750 crore and all farmers, who have been getting 24x7 free power, will have to pay bills every month. For taking meter readings, the government would have to engage 3,000 people. Many sectors will get affected with this new bill as the government is giving cross subsidy to industries and some domestic consumers like SCs & STs,” he said. The CM said, renewable energy was a big conspiracy to help some firms in north India. “The Centre will not consider hydel power generation by Nagarjuna Sagar and Srisailam project. If the state fails to comply with norms and ensure renewable energy, Centre may impose a penalty of 0.50 paise to Rs 2 per unit. This will compel the state to reduce power generation in state-owned thermal power plants. What kind of rules are these?” KCR questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/proposed-electricity-bill-usurps-states-powers-kcr/articleshow/78134716.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government estimates Rs 1600 crore for development of SCBMCH||BHUBANESWAR: The state works department has prepared an estimate of Rs 1,580 crore for development of the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack into a world-class healthcare institution. The Odisha Bridge and Construction Corporation (OB&CC), under the state works department, is the implementing agency of the redevelopment project. It has prepared the estimate and sought administrative approval of the state health and family welfare department. State works secretary Krishan Kumar on Tuesday wrote to health secretary P K Mohapatra in this regard. The estimate has been prepared for development of additional 1,000 beds and two playgrounds along with hostel, staff quarters and administrative buildings, said a works department official. Although initially the state government said it would invest Rs 1,000 crore on development of SCB, the cost has been revised after a detailed estimate, said official sources. The OB&CC has engaged Gurgaon-based AECOM lndia Pvt Limited as the master planning and programme management consultant for re-development work of the oldest medical college and hospital in the state. The agency will oversee the design, preparation of master plan, organizational development, contractor selection, project supervision and monitoring during the construction period. On March 5, which marked the completion of the 20th year of his government and coincided with the 104th birth anniversary of former CM and his father Biju Patnaik, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had laid the foundation for transformation of the 76-year old institution. Although the state government announced expenditure rationalization in view of the fall in revenue because of Covid-19, works department sources said transformation of SCB would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-estimates-rs-1600-crore-for-development-of-scbmch/articleshow/78133429.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 16, 2020||Allahabad||Three hit by lightening in Kaushambi, die of burns||Prayagraj: Three people, including two sisters and one teenager, died due to lightning in Gauspur and Kazipur village of Puramufti police station area of the neighbouring Kaushambi district, on Tuesday. According to reports, four goats and a buffalo too died while around half a dozen people are being treated in hospitals after being injured by the lightening. As per reports, Sarla, wife of Shankarlal, a resident of Gauspur in Chail tehsil area had gone to graze the cattle with her daughter Archana (17), Sanjana (10) and Aanchal (06). She was coming back in the evening when sudden lightning struck them. Sarala, Sanjana, Aanchal and Archana came in its grip and Aanchal and Sanjana died due to severe burns. Sarla and Archana were admitted to the hospital and are undergoing treatment. Similarly, Rajkaran (15), a resident of Hiralal, Kazipur and who was grazing the goats in the fields also died after being struck by lightning. Four goats of Rajakaran have also died. Hussainmai resident Ram Manohar (45) is severely burnt and is hospitalized. As soon as the incident was known, SDM Jyoti Maurya visited Gauspur, Junaidpur and Hussainmai villages. Meanwhile, rain was reported in the city also. Several roads, which have poor drainage, were water-logged for hours together while several rural areas witnessed lightening too. According to the met department of the Indian Air Force, Bamrauli, the maximum temperature of the city was recorded as 35.6 degree Celsius while the minimum was recorded as 27.5 degrees. The city received 4mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/three-hit-by-lightening-in-kaushambi-die-of-burns/articleshow/78133445.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt to give Rs 7,500 crore to farmers before Yasangi||Hyderabad: The state government will deposit Rs 7,500 crore into the bank accounts of farmers before the second crop i.e. the ensuing Yasangi (Rabi) crop as Rythu Bandhu benefit. Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said the government has already disbursed Rs 7,279 crore among farmers towards Rythu Bandhu benefit for the ongoing Vaanakalam (Kharif) crop. Replying to queries raised by Congress member Jeevan Reddy in the state legislative council on Tuesday, the minister said the government has already waived crop loans of farmers, who had obtained loans below Rs 25,000. “The second phase exercise to give crop loan waiver to the farmers who had obtained above Rs 25,000 crop loan is in progress. The government has decided to implement its promise of waiving farmers’ crop loans of up to Rs 1 lakh in four phases,” the minister said. The minister also assured the members that the government will issue directions to the farmers’ cooperative banks not to hypothecate the pattadar passbooks of the ryots to give loans. He said the state has so far paid Rs 211 crore as part of its share of interest. There are financial constraints due to Covid-19 pandemic and the government will release necessary funds for payment of interest soon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-give-rs-7500-crore-to-farmers-before-yasangi/articleshow/78134721.cms||Roushan Ali
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Speaker tells MLAs to wear masks properly||Hyderabad: Assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy on Tuesday told the MLAs in the House to wear masks properly. As soon as the session began in the morning, the speaker said that he had been telling the MLAs to wear the masks properly and not move around unnecessarily. “I have been repeatedly telling you (MLAs) to wear the masks and also not move around from your seats and be seated where your are,” he said. He also gave a detailed account of social distancing norms for the MLAs. Several MLAs were seen in coloured masks. Meanwhile, the speaker asked the ruling TRS MLAs to be brief and precise while posing questions. “Do not go on elaborating. Just ask your questions,” he advised the legislators. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speaker-tells-mlas-to-wear-masks-properly/articleshow/78134728.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nashik||3 cases of cheating in city||Nashik: Three cases of cheating amounting to Rs 10 lakh were registered with different police stations of the city on Tuesday. While one complaint was registered with the Upnagar police, others were filed with the Indiranagar and Bhadrakali police stations. In a complaint registered with the Upnagar police, the 24-year-old complainant said that he was cheated to the tune of Rs 9.30 lakh by a woman from the Anand Nagar Nashik Road area. The suspect had set up an office where she offered a shipping-related course. The victim, who had enrolled for the four-month course, had made a payment of Rs 4.50 lakh. Later, he paid another Rs 4.50 lakh for placement to Australia. The suspect even gave him an air ticket. However, the victim later learned that the ticket was fake. He then approached the police with a complaint. In the other case registered with the Indiranagar police, a woman was robbed of jewellery worth Rs 24,000 after the suspect went to her house on September 10 and impressed upon her that she would be given a cheque of Rs two lakh, provided she gave him the jewellery. In the third incident, a 22-year-old man was cheated of Rs 10,000 in March. He told police that an unidentified person assured to double a certain amount in a matter of a few days by making investment in Bitcoin. The victim gave money to the suspect, but did not get any returns. He later approached the Bhadrakali police and filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-cases-of-cheating-in-city/articleshow/78136452.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Bear with bumpy rides for some more time: Civic officials||Ludhiana: City residents will have to travel on potholed roads for some more time because the civic body will not start work on its bitumen plant this week, as stated by mayor Balkar Sandhu recently. Officials said they would start the plant only after they were absolutely sure that there would be no more rain. Last week, Mayor Sandhu said if everything went according to plan, they would start repair work from September 15. Officials said they tried to fill the potholes with tiles and other material but it did not hold as roads were damaged due to rain and waterlogging. However, they said patch work done before the rainy season sustained for a long time and now roads were damaged in new areas. Superintending engineer of bridges and road department Parveen Singla said, “We will be able to start road repair work most probably by next Monday. Though rainfall has stopped and it did not rain from almost 15 days, but they want to be completely sure that rainy season is over. If they started patch work and repair of roads now, another spell of rain will render the work futile.” He said major roads would be repaired first, followed by internal streets so that patch work could be finished before the onset of winter. Under the circumstances, residents have no choice but to wait. Ashok Parmar, a resident of Chander Nagar complained, “Here in the area, a few roads are in such a condition that nobody can say a road was constructed at this place because now only potholes are left.” He underlined the need to do something to strengthen the roads. Another resident from Jassian Road, Krishan Gopal Dutt said, “The problem of roads is not only because of the material but also because of poor drainage system. The civic body has failed to solve the problem of waterlogging and when rainwater gathers at one place for a few hours, the road will be damaged.” He said civic authorities should consider this factor and resolve both issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bear-with-bumpy-rides-for-some-more-time-civic-officials/articleshow/78133452.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Three booked for duping citizens||Vadodara: The Warasia police have booked three persons for duping citizens by promising houses under the chief minister’s housing scheme. The cops have launched a hunt for the accused who used to approach gullible citizens looking to buy a house. According to the police, one of the accused Arjun Marwadi had approached the complainant identified as Naresh Marwadi in 2018. Arjun told Naresh that he could get the latter a house in a CM housing scheme in Fatehpura. Arjun then took Naresh to another accused Hitesh Khemchandani, who promised the complainant a house in the scheme. Naresh paid Rs 1.70 lakh to Hitesh for the house. Two other victims Alka Marwadi and Idayat Vohra too paid Rs 1.20 lakh each to Hitesh. Hitesh kept dilly-dallying for over two years and told the victims that the house allotment is getting delayed due to some subsidy issues. The victims then demanded their money back following which Hitesh gave them cheques through the third accused Girdhar Parmar. When the cheques bounced, the victims filed a complaint with the Warasia police on Monday night. “We have detained Hitesh and sent him for Covid-19 tests. The search for other two accused is on,” said K N Lathiya, Warasia police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-booked-for-duping-citizens/articleshow/78133312.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cabinet approves bridge over Subarnarekha in Bhubaneswar||BHUBANESWAR: In a major infrastructure push in Balasore district, the state cabinet on Tuesday approved the tender for a bridge over the Subarnarekha river. The 993-metre long and 62-metre wide bridge, to be developed with an investment of Rs 138.75 crore, will provide direct link between Baliapal and Bhograi blocks in the district. “The Subarnarekha river is creating a barrier between the economically and culturally important places on both sides of the river. The proposed bridge will ensure connectivity boost to the economically and culturally important places like Subarnarekha mouth port, Chandaneswar, Bhusandeswar and Talsari beach,” state works secretary Krishan Kumar said. “Besides reducing the distance between Baliapal and Bhograi blocks, the bridge will also help in economic development of the people in the area,” Kumar added. While seven bidders had qualified to implement the bridge project, the state cabinet selected infrastructure-giant L&T Geo. The project, targeted to be completed within 30 months, will be developed with funding from the Central Road Fund, said an official source. Implementation of the proposed bridge is significant in view of the upcoming port at Subarnarekha mouth and also a mega petrochemical complex and downstream industries in Baliapal block. As the state government has planned to develop Talsari beach and nearby areas in Balasore district, the bridge will serve as a major boost to road communication. Among others, the state cabinet also gave its nod to the Odisha Goods and Services Tax (amendment) Bill, 2020, which will be tabled in the forthcoming session of the assembly, scheduled from September 29. “Following recommendations of the GST council, the Union and state governments made necessary changes in the central GST and state GST acts, respectively. Accordingly, the central government had made some amendments and we had also promulgated two ordinances to facilitate extension of dates for filing returns in view of Covid-19. The proposed bill will replace two ordinances,” state finance secretary Ashok Kumar Meena said. The proposed bill will also provide certain facilities to the tax payers and tax authorities. The bill also proposes stringent penal provisions for availing input tax credit in a fraudulent manner by making it a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The bill will be tabled as a money bill in the assembly. The bill will have provision to extend the due date in case of war, epidemic, flood, fire, cyclone, drought and earthquake. The cabinet also approved amendment of the Odisha Local Fund Audit Act, 1948, to include electronic mode of service for surcharge notices and orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cabinet-approves-bridge-over-subarnarekha/articleshow/78133457.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||11 years on, first London flight to land in Kolkata||KOLKATA: At noon on Wednesday, Air India flight AI 1550 will take off from Heathrow airport in London for Kolkata airport, reconnecting the umbilical cord that had been snapped 11 years ago when first AI and then British Airways withdrew services from the sector. The flight is scheduled to arrive in Kolkata at 2.20am on Thursday and take off for London again at 6.20am on Thursday. “There is a lot of hope riding on the flight. Though it has been initially scheduled for only five weeks, we will try to convince AI to persist with the flight and make it part of the regular service between the two cities. Once the flight becomes regular, it will attract passengers bound for not only the UK but to the rest of Europe and the US as well,” said a leading travel agent on the eve of the flight’s arrival. The current flights under the Vande Bharat mission have been scheduled between September 16 and October 24. The travel trade fraternity hopes it will be extended as part of the bubble flight pact between India and the UK. There is one area of concern though. Only a quarter of the first pair of inaugural flights have been booked. While poor passenger load isn’t unusual when a new flight is introduced in an international sector with three-four months needed to attain flier confidence and stabilise the flight, the travel trade fraternity is concerned that the airline top brass may pull the plug prematurely, citing poor loads. The Boeing B787 aircraft with a reduced capacity of 234 passengers will fly in with barely 60 passengers from London and fly out with 70. Incidentally, Vistara that started its direct service to London from Delhi had fewer passengers on the inaugural flight. Loads have since improved. “One needs to give a flight some time. Unfortunately, that is what’s been lacking when it comes to treatment with flights from Kolkata. We are glad that AI has scheduled the flight. The airline will do everyone a big service if it continues to operate the flight beyond October 24,” said another travel agent. What has been heartening is the sale of business class seats. Though Kolkata has traditionally had a problem with business class occupancy, 14 out of the 16 business class seats have been sold with passengers willing to shell out the additional price for social distance. Economy class passengers will also be able to maintain a good distance with fellow passengers as there are enough empty seats around. Also, the halt in Kolkata will be among the longest between flights to enable a complete sanitization of the aircraft, including disinfection of common touch points like tables, seat arm-rests and accessories in the toilets. Usually an international flight stops for an hour and half for cleaning, ground checks and refuelling. But the flight to London will take off at 6.20am, some four hours after its arrival from Heathrow. Bidhannagar Police said they will ensure availability of enough pre-paid taxis and app cabs outside the airport to ensure passengers coming to the city do not face any trouble in heading back home early on Thursday. “We will ensure passengers can get cabs easily. Cops will also be stationed at the airport to help them,” said a senior officer of the commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/11-yrs-on-1st-london-flight-to-land-in-kol/articleshow/78134723.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Three arrested in cheating case||NASHIK: The Mumbai Naka police have arrested three people, including two women, from Thane in connection with a cheating case. The trio and a few of their associates had allegedly cheated 22 residents of Nashik city by taking money from them on the pretext of granting loans. Those arrested have been identified as Harshal Sangle, Ragini Palkar and Komal Pawar. They were arrested on September 11 and remanded in five-day police custody. They were sent in 14-day judicial custody on Tuesday. API Kiran Rondale, of the Mumbai Naka police station, said four more individuals are yet to be arrested. Rondale said the three arrested suspects used to sit in the office they had set up in the city and take money from people after promising to get them a loan. On August 13, a woman lodged a complaint that she had been cheated of Rs 22,000. Later, 21 others approached the cops and it was found that they had all been cheated, collectively to the tune of Rs 2.62 lakh. The case is being investigated under the guidance of police commissioner Deepak Pandey and DCP Amol Tambe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/three-arrested-in-cheating-case/articleshow/78136458.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||With Rahat, govt extended relief to 35 lakh migrants||Lucknow: Even as the state government waged a pitched battle against the pandemic, its efforts were backed by a mobile application called ‘Rahat’ that enabled convergence of various department and facilities, according to a latest concept paper prepared by the state government. According to it, the data of nearly 35 lakh migrants was collected through the application to facilitate the support in terms of food, shelter, health and livelihood in times of the Covid-19 pandemic. Records show that the application has brought as many as nine departments and facilities together on one platform to provide relief to the migrants. The departments were food and civil supplies, urban development, labour, training and employment facility, home, health, Panchayati Raj, CM helpline and rural development. To begin with, data was acquired through the application from the food and civil supplies department to supply ration free of cost to migrants who had an Aadhaar card. Those who did not have it were reached through food inspectors for issuing ration cards and providing free of cost ration. Those who could not be reached by the food and civil supplies department have been reached through the urban development department which supported the programmes to provide nutritional back up to migrants and other people in containment areas. “For this, the department also took the help of local public representatives and ward-level workers,” said an official, while speaking to TOI. Even the CM helpline has used the application data to monitor the support provided by the government and also for facilitating transport of the returning migrants. At the same time, the labour department pitched in and used the application data to find who had experience in various construction works to engage them in places where they were located. The department, according to a concept paper prepared by the state government, also relaxed the mandatory three-month residence period required for registering with the department for the job. Similarly, the training and employment facility of the state government culled out data for persons having experience in various odd jobs and engaged them accordingly. On the other hand, the home department kept a close watch on the movement of people in the state and coordinated with other departments in providing relief to the migrants. The data was shared by the health department with frontline workers of respective villages for Covid tests and providing nutrition to children. The rural development department used the data exhaustively to plan and monitor the implementation of Grameen Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, the flagship scheme of the Centre and also for generating employment under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-rahat-govt-extended-relief-to-35-lakh-migrants/articleshow/78137097.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||‘Being careful and keeping my fingers crossed’||This is the first time, I am flying to Europe direct. In the past, it has been via Delhi, Mumbai or Dubai. I am fortunate the direct flight has happened at this crucial juncture when travellers want to avoid layovers at other airports. This is also the first time I am travelling since the pandemic outbreak. My last travel abroad was to Brazil last October. I had never expected overseas travel would begin this early. It’s a calculated risk and I am taking all precautions possible to minimise the risk. I will be travelling with essential stuff in the cabin bag. I know the airline is taking care to disinfect and sanitise surfaces but I wish to do it additionally, both before and after use, for my safety and that of others. I have taken a disposable bag to trash the wipes so that they can be safely disposed of on reaching the destination. While we should always be conscious about not littering, it is imperative now as it can lead to virus spread. On reaching London, I plan to set the clothes I am wearing for travel aside for at least 24 hours before having them laundered. I will take all the precautions on my flight back, too. The return flight should be in the first week of October. I am travelling on work and hope to back home safe after shoot. (The filmmaker and actor spoke to Subhro Niyogi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/being-careful-and-keeping-my-fingers-crossed/articleshow/78134756.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 2.9k RTE admissions in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Around 2,922 students were admitted in first round under 25% seats reserved in schools from Aurangabad district under RTE Act 2009 by Tuesday evening, official data shows. The district had witnessed a total of 16,587 applications for admissions for the academic year 2020-21 as against 5,076 reserved seats in 584 registered schools in the district. Authorities attached with the Aurangabad zilla parishad said that the response to admission process this year was satisfactory. “Even if the admissions under RTE Act took place in the shadow of Covid-19, over 57% parents secured admission for their wards after the first round. The percentage is good considering the annual trend and also considering the turn of wait-listed parents still to come,” authorities said. In a major change in the admission process this year, the state education department had de-centralised document-verification of beneficiaries at school levels instead of through centralised committee at district level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-2-9k-rte-admissions-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78136469.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||Fake info may cost you your seat, warn colleges||Kolkata: Given the uncertainty over when the documents furnished by candidates for admissions can be physically verified, college heads are worried about the chances of being misled by false information. In a bid to avoid being duped, some colleges are asking students to verify the data they are providing and to submit a declaration, stating they had submitted correct information. If the information is found to be false during physical verification, those admissions will be cancelled and admission fees forfeited. One such institute that has asked undergradute applicants for a declaration was Lady Brabourne College. Scottish Church and Loreto College have also told candidates that they may lose their seats if they are found not to have provided correct information. At Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College, a notification stated that commencement of classes and verification of documents would be announced on the institute’s website and students would be alerted through email or text messages. “Documents will be verified after classes begin. Admission is liable to be cancelled if the documents are found not in conformity with the online application data and declaration,” said Asok Mukhopadhyay, principal of Jaipuria. All affiliated colleges must forward the details of their fresh candidates to Calcutta University for registration in a few weeks after the admission process is wrapped up. Candidates have to furnish multiple documents at the time of admission, including mark sheets, plus-two exam certificate, proof of birth and domicile certificate if seeking admission under a reserved category. “Some candidates gave incorrect information, especially those pertaining to reserved category and marks obtained in boards. Once found out, they were not granted admission,” said the principal of a north Kolkata college.  With institutes being shut and gatherings not encouraged, physical verification of documents can’t be carried out initially. Applicants are supposed to fill forms and attach scanned copies of their documents. “Some errors may even creep in. So, we are requesting applicants to be careful while filling in the details. Minor negligence may cost them their seats,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fake-info-may-cost-you-your-seat-warn-colleges/articleshow/78134764.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Min: Srisailam plant revival works on||Hyderabad: Energy minister G Jagadish Reddy on Tuesday said restoration works at the fire-ravaged Srisalam left bank hydroelectric station are on at a brisk pace. In the fire at the plant last month, nine employees had died. The minister said the government had already constituted a five-member expert committee and ordered a CID probe. “The government had asked the committee to submit a report within 15 days, but with three of the five members testing positive for Covid-19, filing of the report has been delayed. The panel will specify the circumstances under which the fire mishap had taken place at the plant and suggest measures to avoid such mishaps in future,” the minister informed the legislative council.  As many as 29 persons were working on August 20 night when a huge inferno swept through the plant. “I along with CMD of TSGenco D Prabhakar Rao rushed to the spot. Teams could not enter inside the plant due to thick smoke which engulfed the area,” he said. Meanwhile, in the assembly during a short discussion on the new Electricity Act, Jagadish Reddy said Telangana had an installed capacity of 7,778 MW during the formation of the state in 2014, which has now reached 15,888 MW. “Many plants such as 600 MW at Bhupalpally, 120 MW at Pulichintala, 1200 MW Singareni (Jaipur), 800 MW at Palwancha (KTPS) and 1,000 MW being procured from Chhattisgarh have been completed,” he said. He said the state is also on top in per capita consumption of power. “The per capita consumption is 2,071 units, 863 units more than the national average,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-srisailam-plant-revival-works-on/articleshow/78134749.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||HC upholds cop’s acquittal in corruption case||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently upheld the acquittal of a police head constable by Jalna special judge on charges of accepting a bribe of Rs 7,000 on the ground that the prosecution has not been able to prove the charges. The 48-year-old head constable, Ramesh Wagh, of Jalna police station was arrested in 2011 by the anti-corruption bureau for allegedly accepting the bribe from a farmer for not arresting him in a bailable case involving a dispute with his brothers in 2011. The adhoc additional sessions judge-3, Jalna on March 4, 2015, had acquitted him from the offences punishable under section 7, 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Wagh, who was represented in the high court by lawyer Joydeep Chatterjee, had taken a stand that the complainant had forcefully put the amount in his pocket and at the same time the ACB officials came and arrested him. Prosecution had claimed that it had recorded the statement of the accused. However, while upholding the acquittal, the bench observed: “The prosecution has not produced the said conversation in any form before the trial court. It was the best corroborative piece of evidence to support the oral testimony. When such corroborative piece of evidence was available, yet it was not produced by the prosecution, then definitely adverse inference is required to be drawn.” It added: “Mere production of the extract of the recorded version is not sufficient. Each time when the conversation has been reproduced, it is stated, that it has been got verified from the recorded conversation, then even before the trial court it ought to have been produced and proved by admissible mode.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-upholds-cops-acquittal-in-corruption-case/articleshow/78136468.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||More direct ops to tier-II cities from today||Kolkata: Flight count at Kolkata airport is set to increase further from this Wednesday with IndiGo airlines reintroducing direct flights to multiple tier-II cities, where its services had been suspended due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Airport officials said they are set to host 110-plus flights on Wednesday, for the first time since the resumption of flight movements with additional services to Kochi, Bhopal, Dehradun, Surat and Baroda. “As air travel gathered pace we have reinstated a few of the direct flights from pre-Covid days. This includes direct flight to Kochi, Bhopal, Dehradun, Surat and Baroda, along with additional flights to other metros and tier-II cities. With domestic transfer facility being inaugurated at the airport by the end of this month, more additions are expected in near future,” said an IndiGo official. Experts in the aviation sector said the additional flights are being made by the airlines in keeping with the trend of passenger travel in recent times. The resumption of flight movements has seen a rush of passengers, mostly labourers, to Kerala and they were taking a rerouted journey in absence of direct flights. “The increase in flights to tier-II cities hints at movement towards normalcy. Hopefully, by the end of this year, we will be able to reach the pre-Covid numbers of domestic flights (both arrival and departure) from all sectors,” said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, the airport director. The airport crossed the 30,000-flyer mark last Sunday for the first time since restarting services post lockdown. On Wednesday, when flights from the six Covid-prevalent cities will be operational, the passenger count is set to increase further. The additional flights came on a day the airline also crossed 1 million passenger carriage post lockdown. Airport sources said, the one millionth passenger — a couple from Bangalore who were on transit in Kolkata heading to Silchar — were congratulated at the airport on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-direct-ops-to-tier-ii-cities-from-today/articleshow/78134772.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Mins seek SC/ST views on schemes||Hyderabad: Welfare ministers Koppula Eshwar and Satyavathi Rathod on Tuesday asked the elected representatives, including MLCs and MLAs from SC and ST communities, to give their suggestions for improvement and effective implementation of various schemes. At a meeting convened with the elected representatives from SC and ST communities on the directions of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, the ministers told them that they can submit their suggestions on podu, assigned and other forest lands on which mainly the STs have been doing agriculture but are facing problems from the government authorities, particularly the forest department. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mins-seek-sc/st-views-on-schemes/articleshow/78134766.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 580 parks to come up in Greater Hyderabad limits: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday said 587 parks in GHMC limits and 103 parks in HMDA area would be developed this year. Replying to a query during question hour on urban parks in the state, the minister said 1,109 parks would come up in other municipalities. “A total of 1,799 urban parks will be developed this year as tree parks, landscape parks and urban forest parks and some of them will be developed as panchatatva parks,” he said. KTR told the House that 1,893 parks had been developed across the state. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is keen that all urban areas should have lung space and accordingly, steps are being taken,” he said. He said green cover in the state had gone up from 7% in 2014 to 29% now. “This year, we will also set up 1,000 nurseries in the municipalities,” he said. The minister said gyms and public toilets would be part of the parks in Hyderabad along with rainwater harvesting structures. The minister said plans were afoot to use recycled water for landscaping and gardening. “We will soon bring a policy on recycled water. We have 780 MLD sewarage treatment plants (STPs) and water from the plants can be used for recycling.” He said citizens will have oxygen parks. “The chief justice of the high court has expressed happiness over the oxygen park near Nalsar University recently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-580-parks-to-come-up-in-greater-hyd-limits-ktr/articleshow/78134757.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: No clean chit yet, ED likely to summon K T Jaleel again||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Enforcement Directorate, which is probing the gold smuggling case, is likely to summon higher education and minority affairs minister K T Jaleel again for interrogation, top agency sources confirmed. A section of the visual media had on Tuesday reported that the agency had given a clean chit to the minister. “All those whose names have come up in connection with the case, and against whom the agency has obtained reasonable proof to probe in connection with the case are under investigation. Since the investigation is continuing, the question of clean chit to anyone does not arise, and that includes the minister as well,” a top official said. Media reports had earlier said the agency was satisfied with the explanations given by the minister, and the agency sleuths have unofficially confirmed that there is no need to interrogate him again. Sources said the violation of protocol is a matter that came under the ministry of external affairs, but the enforcement directorate is probing if there was any material gain from it. “The Quran consignment is a deep mystery. Those involved in the gold smuggling case are also involved in the food kits and Quran consignment. The statements given by the minister need to be analysed. It has to match with the available evidence and statements of others who have been interrogated. The agency may have to summon the person again to corroborate the findings. The rule is applicable to the minister as well,” the official said. It is also reliably learnt that the agency had interrogated the minister for two days -- on Thursday evening and Friday, after which he left for his native place in Malappuram. Jaleel had initially claimed that he had not appeared before ED, but later changed his position when agency sources themselves revealed that he was interrogated. He then claimed that he had explained everything to the agency beyond any need for further clarification. Meanwhile, the agency has also started a preliminary probe into business deals of P K Jaison, son of industries minister E P Jayarajan, as part of the gold smuggling case. A photograph of him with Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the gold smuggling case, is being circulated in the social media while there are reports that he had a role in the Wadakkanchery Life Mission deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-clean-chit-yet-ed-likely-to-summon-jaleel-again/articleshow/78134770.cms||KP Saikiran
September 16, 2020||Allahabad||Haridwar Kumbh ’21: UP copsgive tips to Uttarakhand Police||Prayagraj: With Haridwar Kumbh 2021 inching closer, Uttarakhand Police recently sought tips on traffic and crowd management from UP Police who had been successful in managing Kumbh 2019 in Prayagraj smoothly and without any mishap. Uttarakhand police recently invited Inspector General, Prayagraj range, K P Singh, who served as DIG/SSP Mahakumbh 2019, to seek guidance in strategy and planning on traffic and crowd management and benefit from his experience. IG Singh told TOI, “I shared the strategy, measures we had adopted for traffic and crowd management in 2019 Mahakumbh and our experience with IG (Mela) Sanjay Gunjyal. I advised them to have a one-way traffic system in Haridwar like we did during Mahakumbh.” Uttrakhand Police were advised not to allow vehicular movement at the mela site, demarcate markings and provide transport to pilgrims from there to the mela campus. Devotees and pilgrims should walk to ghats, ashrams, maths and akhara tents. “We advised them to ply shuttle bus service for pilgrims to prevent traffic jams and mishaps. Prayagraj police had plied over 400 shuttle buses to ferry devotees and pilgrims from parking slots to the mela site,” he added. Sharing his experience, Singh suggested Uttarakhand Police to manage crowd and traffic in Haridwar and divert them to different ghats to avoid chaos. During 2019 Mahakumbh, Prayagraj Police had diverted crowds towards Phaphamau, Arail, and Jhunsi ghats to prevent overcrowding at Sangam. We also suggested keeping multiple entry and exit points at Mela site, added Singh. The Haridwar mela site has less holding area (space for devotees taking bath on ghats) compared to Prayagraj, so the IG suggested dividing the area into sectors and divert equal volume of devotees for better crowd management, besides keeping public holding areas outside mela site to control flow of traffic and devotees. “Haridwar Mela police have also been suggested to coordinate with neighbouring district police for deployment of public transport and private vehicles, besides arranging cranes and other traffic equipment at strategic locations,” he said. Singh also shared the security blueprint plan with IG Haridwar Kumbh mela Sanjay Gunjyal and security measures for Shahi Snan days. The officials also discussed special crowd management with focus on Covid protocol so that a distance of 1.6 metre is maintained between two devotees during the mega event. They also discussed the volume of crowd to be allowed entry to the mela site at a time to ensure Covid protocol is not violated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/haridwar-kumbh-21-up-copsgive-tips-to-uttarakhand-police/articleshow/78136483.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Uniformity threatening secularism: Singhvi||Hyderabad: Congress MP Abhishek Singhvi on Tuesday said ‘uniformity’ is threatening democracy, secularism, diversity and federalism. He was delivering the keynote address on ‘Indian democracy in 2020’ through a webinar held by Dr M Channa Reddy memorial trust. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uniformity-threatening-secularism-singhvi/articleshow/78134776.cms||Roushan Ali
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||500 milk parlours across state soon, says Talasani||Hyderabad: Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Tuesday announced that 500 milk parlours will be established across the state soon. Replying to a question on the dairy industry during the question hour, he said milk is procured from 2.13 lakh farmers, three government dairies and also Vijaya Dairy. “The government is keen on making the parlours commercially successful so that farmers will benefit,” he said. The minister said that the government is coming up with one of the biggest dairies in Vavilala mandal of Rangareddy district. It is being set up at a cost of Rs 245 crore with state-of-the-art technology and hygienic surroundings. “Successive governments had left Vijaya Dairy to fend for itself. We revived it and made it self-sustaining,” he said. He added that dairy farmers need not worry about delay in incentive payment. “It will be paid soon. The delay is due to Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/500-milk-parlours-across-state-soon-says-talasani/articleshow/78134781.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Flood hit farmers to get aid at 5-year-old rates in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Farmers affected by the floods in eastern Vidarbha will be compensated as per five year old rates. The state’s revenue department that issued a notification spelling out details of compensation package, said it had gone by the rates fixed in the government resolution (GR) of May 2015. This will bring a total compensation of Rs 20,400 to a farmer growing regular crops of Kharif season like paddy, soyabean or cotton. It comes to Rs 36,000 for those having year round crops that mainly include fruit orchards. According to the GR issued on Monday for seasonal crops, Rs 6,800 per hectare will be provided from the state disaster relief fund (SDRF). This assistance has been capped at two hectares. Another Rs 6,800 a hectare will be provided from the state government’s kitty which is again capped to a single hectare. The total amounts to Rs 20,400 for each farmer. To get the compensation, the loss has to be more than 33%. Farmers TOI had met during the trip to flood hit villages in Bhandara said they had ended up investing around Rs 1 lakh on 5 to 7 acre of farms. Farmers also demanded that they should be compensated for the loss of income due to the floods rather than be given a fixed amount. It is estimated that 5% of the farm land in the five flood hit districts has been affected. A number of farmers had farm insurance while quite a few did not. Farmers said their per acre expenses alone were more than Rs 20,000. Diwakar Mane, a farmer from Tiddi village in Bhandara, said expenses for sowing till harvest comes to around Rs 35,000 for a paddy grower. “The compensation granted by the state government during such calamities has never been enough,” he said. Farmer activist Vijay Jawandhia also said that the amount may not cover the entire losses. The floods occurred at a time when entire sowing expenses were done and only harvest had remained. The order on compensation will be followed by allocation of funds that includes the grant from the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) also. The compensation will be released in phases according to availability of funds, said a state government official. The order also calls for paying Rs 10,000 each to the affected families for the loss of personal belonging including clothes due to waterlogging. Those whose homes were inundated for two days or totally destroyed will also be given 10kgs each of rice and wheat apart from 5 litres kerosene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flood-hit-farmers-to-get-aid-at-5-year-old-rates/articleshow/78136491.cms||Shishir Arya
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Amul eyes big play in fresh milk market in south||Hyderabad: Amul is now readying plans to grab a bigger slice of the south Indian fresh milk market by making Andhra Pradesh its base to cater to states like Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. While Amul already has a limited presence in Hyderabad, where it ships in fresh milk and milk products from its plants in West India, it has now inked an MoU with the Andhra Pradesh government for setting up an extensive milk procurement and processing network. “Our main focus in AP is milk procurement as the quality of the milk is more or less similar to what we get in Gujarat. We plan to make AP our procurement hub for South India that will feed key markets like Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru, Vijayawada, Vizag and Chittoor in the south,” RS Sodhi, managing director, Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF), which manages the Amul brand, told TOI here. Sodhi said GCMMF is initially planning to start with procurement of about 4-5 lakh litres of milk per day from four to five districts of AP and then ultimately scale it up to 30-40 lakh litres of milk per day across more districts. “We are looking at investing Rs 150-200 crore over the next three to four months in setting up our base in the South,” he said, adding that Amul is open to utilising processing capacities of cooperatives or even private dairies initially after which it will focus on setting up its own processing facilities. He indicated that Amul eventually plans to set up processing facilities in almost all districts of AP from where it is procuring milk. The plan is to sell fresh milk and milk products like curd and paneer initially and then later set up facilities for value addition locally, he explained. Amul will be procuring the milk directly from farmers through cooperative societies and expects its foray to expand the organised milk market in South India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amul-eyes-big-play-in-fresh-milk-market-in-south/articleshow/78134796.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||‘Govt must recruit ICT coordinators for schools’||Kolkata: West Bengal ICT School Coordinator Welfare Association on Tuesday demanded that ICT computer coordinators at state-run schools be engaged by the government directly and not enrolled by an agency contracted with the government. In a four-point charter, the association said computer should be made a compulsory subject at school and the teachers be provided with proper remuneration. With an aim to create digital literacy among students and teachers of government and government-aided schools, this project envisages setting up of ICT (Information & Communication Technology) labs and providing manpower to manage them for five years. According to the association in August 2019, the monthly pay of ICT computer teachers was revised to Rs 10,000. It was, however, never implemented, impacting the livelihood of around 6,500 ICT teachers in Bengal alone, the association stated, adding that despite the hardship, the teachers had continued with their work. In April 2019, several people, including policewomen, were injured after a protest by 350 ICT coordinators turned violent at Minto Park. The association indicated they would again intensify their protest if their demands were not considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-must-recruit-ict-coordinators-for-schools/articleshow/78134782.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Mammoth survey for Kerala Bird Atlas ends||KOCHI: A mammoth effort by the birding community in the state — spread over 600 days in five years, 4,000 locations and involving over 1,000 birders — to create a comprehensive bird atlas has concluded. The exercise, considered the largest citizen science project to map avifauna in the Asian continent — surveyed 10% of the state’s 38,863-sq km area in both dry and wet seasons from 2015 to 2020. The data from the exercise will be used to create detailed distribution and habitat relationship maps of different species. The Kerala Bird Atlas (KBA) will aid spatial conservation planning and serve as a baseline to assess change over time. “It was a dream for us. We could achieve it with the support we got from the birding fraternity and the timely permits and logistics support by the state forest department,” said P O Nameer, head of the department of wildlife science, Kerala Agricultural University. Atlases for three districts — Alappuzha, Thrissur and Kannur — have been released while draft reports of Kottayam, Kozhikode and Kasaragod have been submitted to the forest department. “We expect to complete the state-wide report by the end of 2020,” said Praveen J, one of the project coordinators. A detailed analysis will follow in the first half of 2021. To select the locations, the state was first divided into cells of 6.6 x 6.6 km each, cells divided into four quadrants of 3.3 x 3.3 km each and quadrants divided into nine 1.1 x 1.1 km sub-cells. "We then selected 4,000 locations through random sampling to ensure that there was no bias. This was the most scientific approach," said Nameer, who is also special officer, Academy of Climate Change Education and Research, KAU. Each district had a team led by senior bird watchers who coordinated activities in the exercise, which followed a decentralised model. "We also provided capacity building by providing regular training in areas like bird identification and survey methodology," Nameer said. Besides volunteers, around 25 NGOs also assisted them. The survey had faced several challenges in the wet season (July-September) because of floods. The Covid-19 pandemic also restricted them to 80% of locations planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mammoth-survey-for-kerala-bird-atlas-ends/articleshow/78134787.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||Centre must curb China’s spying: Ex-CM||Bagalkot: One country should not spy on another one; if it is happening, the Union government should curb such activities, said former chief minister Siddaramaiah at Badami on Tuesday. During a visit to his constituency, Siddaramaiah was commenting on reports of finding names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi and himself in China’s spying list. “Such activities are not good for any country. If China’s list is genuine, the Union government should act seriously,” he urged. When asked about reports that he had been invited to contest from Kolar in the next elections, he said he is currently representing Badami and there was no thought of contesting from anywhere else. “We have not finalised the candidate for Sira bypolls yet. We are holding a meeting tomorrow to take a decision,” he said. Siddaramaiah inaugurated drinking water projects and launched various development programmes in his constituency. He was accompanied by his son Yatindra, former ministers BB Chimmanakatti, HY Meti and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/centre-must-curb-chinas-spying-ex-cm/articleshow/78133554.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Criminal past catches up with murderer 20 years later||VADODARA: Living incognito under a pseudo name couldn’t save this painter from Dabhoi after his criminal past caught up with him two decades later. Mahendra alias Dahya Tadvi, a 65-year-old murder convict’s game ended as soon as Vadodara rural police knocked at his door at Kamrej in Surat on Monday. On the run for 20 long years after jumping an interim bail in December 2000, Tadvi had been served a life term in 1993 by a sessions court in Bharuch for torching his wife out of infidelity issues. He was then sent to Vadodara Central Jail. What happened thereafter only came to luight on Monday. “When we called his name as Dahyabhai, he responded and when asked about his surname he blurted out Tadvi,” said sub-inspector A K Raulji of parole furlough squad. Tadvi had adopted his second wife, Ranjan’s surname – Dhodiya (Patel) — and abandoned his first name Mahendra. He adopted his nickname Dahya which is still his identity among his village people, cops said. “Later, although he confessed, he was dumbfounded realizing that cops could see through his façade that he so cleverly fooled people for so long,” Raulji added. After jumping bail, Tadvi came to Surat and worked in a factory and lived at Bhatha village. It was here that he met his second wife, Ranjan, whom he in a simple ceremony. After marriage, Tadvi adopted her surname and moved into her father’s house at Navinagri in Kamrej. Both started working as painters and were living alone. Police said that even Ranjan did not know about his past. Police had been keeping a watch on him for a week. “It was through our information network and after questioning his family and friends that we could find him,” cops added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/criminal-past-catches-up-with-murderer-20-years-later/articleshow/78133326.cms||Jay Pachchigar
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Labourer held for molesting three children||Rajkot: A 25-year-old paedophile was arrested by Rajkot police on Tuesday. The man from Uttar Pradesh is accused of molesting three children living in his neighbourhood. Accused Satyen Bhaiya, a casual labourer, was nabbed after the mother of two children approached the police accusing the man of luring the two siblings – six-year-old boy and his seven-year-old sister – along with another six-year-old girl to his home on Sadhu Vaswani Road and touching them inappropriately. According to the police, Bhaiya would take the kids to his home on the pretext of playing and then molest them. Police said that in last fortnight he took the trio to his home thrice. However, a neighbour caught him red-handed while trying to sodomize the boy a few days ago and informed the parents of the children. After it created an uproar in the neighbourhood, the mother of two kids approached the Mahila police with a complaint. “We have booked him for molestation and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act based on the complaint and arrested him on Tuesday,” said sub-inspector K J Jhalani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourer-held-for-molesting-three-children/articleshow/78133250.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Illegal sand mining rampant in M’luru City North, says former MLA||Mangaluru: Former MLA BA Mohiuddin Bava on Tuesday launched a political broadside against his successor Y Bharath Shetty over rampant illegal sand mining in Mangaluru City North assembly constituency limits. Bava accused Shetty of not acting on the information of illegal activity in his constituency which he said was taking place openly at places such as Baikampady, Tannirbhavi, Nayarkudru, Meenakaliya and Adyar. Speaking to reporters, Bava alleged that most of those involved in illegal sand trade in these and other places in the constituency are BJP workers. Illegal sand mining is going on in both coastal regulation zone (CRZ) and non-CRZ areas, he said. Sand mining is being carried out on revenue land too, he said, adding that the entire district machinery has been reduced to mute spectators. This illegal activity has pushed the rate of sand to almost Rs 18,000 per truck load, which is almost three times higher than what it should have been, had the administration regulated the sand trade legally, he said. Stating that he has already flagged this issue with deputy commissioner KV Rajendra, Bava said if the administration failed to reign in those involved in open illegal sand mining, Congress workers and locals will resort to a large scale agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/illegal-sand-mining-rampant-in-mluru-city-north-says-former-mla/articleshow/78154686.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 reinfection confirmed in 4 Mumbai health workers||MUMBAI: Two healthcare workers from a Noida hospital could be India’s first genetically proven cases of Covid reinfection, according to the preprint of a research paper submitted by the prestigious Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research laboratory located in Delhi. The IGIB team has also established reinfection in four health workers from Mumbai —three from Nair Hospital and one from Hinduja. The city results were submitted to a global medical journal for publication six days ago. Stating that his laboratory’s work proved Covid-19 reinfection in India, IGIB director Dr Anurag Agarwal told TOI, “Apart from the two cases in a Noida hospital, our laboratory has found variations in six other samples. While four are from Mumbai, two others are from a Delhi hospital.” Using genetic sequencing, an IGIB team has so far analysed samples of 16 healthcare workers (HCWs) from across the country. Two swab samples per HCW—one from the first infection and another from the second—were used for the sequencing. In case of the Noida HCWs—a 25-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman—the test showed nine variations between the two SARS-CoV2 viruses that infected them. The HCWs tested PCR-positive for the first time on May 5 and May 17 respectively; the second time was on August 21 and September 5 respectively. The IGIB sequencing machine takes around 24 hours to establish the genetic differences. Dr Rakesh Gupta from Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida, said both the healthcare workers were asymptomatic both times. “While one is admitted in our hospital for observation, the other one is in home isolation,” he added. Dr Shridhar Sivasubbu from IGIB said these healthcare workers could be diagnosed only because of the continuous surveillance carried out in collaboration with IGIB. “Without surveillance, these workers could have carried the infection around, exposing their family, colleagues and patients,” he said. “Our analysis suggests that asymptomatic reinfection may be potentially under-reported,” said the IGIB preprint. However, on Tuesday, Indian Council of Medical Research head Dr Balram Bhargava said globally reinfections have been noted, but they are “very rare” and not a “matter of serious concern.” In Mumbai, three cases of reinfection were suspected among healthcare workers in BYL Nair Hospital and one from PD Hinduja Hospital. All three Nair doctors had tested for Covid-19 for the second time within one to three months of recovering from their first episode. Among them was a resident doctor from the medicine department, a senior medical officer and an additional professor from the department of anaesthesia. The anaesthesia professor, in her late 40s, suffered the second bout exactly three months after the first infection. Dr Charulata Deshpande, head of the department, recalled the doctor had symptoms such as dry cough, severe bodyache and sore throat during the first infection, while massive exhaustion alerted her of the infection second time round. “Since it was the second time she was infected, we were closely observing her condition. To our relief she has recovered well,” she said. The professor has since resumed work. The 27-year-old resident doctor from the medicine department tested positive for the second time in a span of a month. Her symptomatic period was 9-10 days in the first episode and 8-9 the second time. “Her symptoms were almost similar during both episodes. Fever and cough were common,” said one of the batchmates. The resident too has resumed work. A suspected case of reinfection in Sion Hospital of an anaesthesia resident, though, has not been studied in detail, a doctor from the hospital said. The Mumbai samples were initially processed by Nair Hospital’s microbiology department and BMC’s molecular diagnostics lab in Kasturba Hospital before being sent to the IGIB lab. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the initial tests showed a genome sequence that is not normally found in SARS-CoV2. “We have now sent the samples to Pune for further genome investigations. We are awaiting further communication,” he said. Reinfection has grabbed headlines ever since a Hong Kong lab proved it using entire genome sequencing in late August. Random cases have been reported from across the world, including the US and the Netherlands. If reinfection is more common than expected, vaccination norms for Covid-19 would have to be drawn up accordingly. ICMR head Dr Bhargava said, “One point has been noted. In cases of reinfection, both infections (episodes) have been mild and therefore the reinfection occurs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reinfection-confirmed-in-4-city-health-workers/articleshow/78137161.cms||Malathy Iyer
September 16, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 28, & son, 6, drown as two-wheeler slips into river in Rampur, one injured||Bareilly: Two people were drowned in Pila Khaar river at a place under Bhot police station in Rampur on Monday, after the rider lost control of the two-wheeler they were commuting on, near the banks of the river and slipped into it. The deceased were identified as Rajkumar (28) and his six-year-old son Krishna, resident of Shahbad. Rajkumar’s relative, Kamal, from Patwai, survived and was rushed to the district hospital for treatment. The incident happened at around 11 pm on Monday night when the trio were returning from Bilaspur on Rajkumar’s motorcycle, and going towards Patwai to drop Kamal. Rajkumar was working as a labourer in Rampur. Locals who spotted the trio drowning in the river informed police, following which all three were fished out from the river and taken to the district hospital, where Kumar and his son were declared brought dead. Rajkumar is survived by his wife and another son. The bodies have been sent for postmortem, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-28-son-6-drown-as-two-wheeler-slips-into-river-in-rampur-one-injured/articleshow/78132440.cms||Maria Khan
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||CM: Resources not utilised properly||CM K Chandrasekhar Rao said the UPA government had failed the country in not utilizing the available water resources and energy. “In our country 70,000 tmcft of water is available and still some cities like Chennai are facing acute drinking water problem,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-resources-not-utilised-properly/articleshow/78134937.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s average daily deaths higher than in Andhra Pradesh, TN||MUMBAI: With the addition of 515 deaths on Tuesday, the highest reported for any day, Maharashtra’s toll crossed 30,000 to touch 30,409, accounting for 37% of Covid-19 deaths in India. Covid mortalities in the state have doubled from a daily average of 202 in July first week to 409. The highest deaths reported earlier were 495, on September 10. It took the state just 30 days to add the latest 10,000 deaths; the toll was 20,037 on August 16. The state’s fatality rate now stands at 2.7%. The Nagpur municipal corporation reported the highest deaths (76) on Tuesday.  Tuesday was the first time in over six months since Covid-19 struck Maharashtra that the state reported 500 deaths. Of the total, 302 were from the last 48 hours, 116 from the last one week and 97 deaths from the period before that, the state update said. The daily average deaths in Maharashtra are significantly higher compared to other big states. An analysis by the Union health ministry showed that Andhra Pradesh, which has the second highest cases in India, is seeing an average of 69 deaths daily, while Tamil Nadu is witnessing an average of 72 deaths daily at present. AP has around 5.83 lakh cases and Tamil Nadu 5.14 lakh. Mumbai also registered a spike in deaths, its 49 reported on Tuesday being the highest in 28 days. The total Covid-19 deaths in the city are now 8,230. Maharashtra was back to adding over 20,000 new cases, with Tuesday’s addition of 20,482 taking the total tally to 10.9 lakh. The city recorded a dip in new cases on Tuesday after six days of adding over 2,000 cases as it reported 1,586, taking its total cases to 1.7 lakh. The positivity rate of the state was on the rise and was 20.3% on Tuesday. But the state recorded its highest recoveries -- 19,423 -- in a day. The total recoveries in the state are now 7.7 lakh. The MMR region added 4,556 cases and 113 deaths. The total cases in the region are over 4 lakh and deaths are at 14,263. The active cases in the state and the city saw a dip for the first time in the last 10 days. There are 2.9 lakh active cases in the state and 30,938 in Mumbai. From MMR, Thane reported 302 fresh cases, taking its tally to 30,903, while six deaths took the toll there to 907. Thane city however has a recovery rate of 85% and 3,560 patients are under treatment at the moment. There were 311 fresh cases from within NMMC areas, taking the total Covid count there to 31,316. Of these, over 87% patients have successfully recovered from coronavirus. NMMC said six deaths were reported, taking the toll there to 671. The PCMC areas reported 215 cases and five deaths, taking the positive count there to 15,335 and toll to 352. After the state government started its ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation has decided to survey 4.76 lakh houses. Kalyan-Dombivli is the second worst- affected city in MMR region after Mumbai. On Tuesday, the twin city crossed 36,000 cases with 396 fresh patients and 11 new deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/500-deaths-in-state-first-time-toll-over-30000/articleshow/78137163.cms||Bhavika Jain
September 16, 2020||Varanasi||Girl gangraped by boyfriend, aide; duo arrested after video goes viral||Varanasi: A girl of a village in Fefna area of Ballia district was allegedly gangraped by her boyfriend and his accomplice near Badabandha area on September 9. The two accused have been arrested after a named FIR was lodged against the two on Tuesday. This incident came to light on Monday evening after the video clips of the incident went viral on social media. Taking note of it, SP Ballia Devendra Nath ordered the Fefna police to register a case and nab the accused at earliest. On Tuesday, after the Fefna police swung into action, the girl’s mother also turned up and lodged a named FIR against her daughter’s boyfriend and his accomplice alleging that the duo raped her after taking her to a lonely place. Inspector Fefna Rajiv Mishra said that both accused have been arrested. The video clips, one showing the girl requesting some youths to let her go and the other of sexual assault on her, went viral on social media. Senior police officials also tweeted the incident seeking necessary action in this case. Until the police started investigation, nobody had turned up with the complaint, although on the basis of videos names of many local youths were being circulated on social media as rapists. However, when police started investigation the girl’s mother turned up to register a complaint in this connection on Tuesday afternoon. Inspector Fefna said that on the basis of her complaint, a named FIR against the girl’s boyfriend Niraj of Karimuddinpur in Ghazipur district and his accomplice identified as Radheyshyam of Narahi area has been lodged under section 376 (rape), 120B (conspiracy) and also sections of IT Act, said Mishra adding that both the accused have been arrested. Regarding many boys evident in the viral video, the police said that those boys had caught the girl, Niraj and Radheyshyam at Badabandha in objectionable condition but following intervention of local village head they left the trio at the spot and returned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/girl-gangraped-by-boyfriend-aide-duo-arrested-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78134941.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Varanasi||Second absconding inmate of govt shelter home found||Kanpur:The police on Tuesday found the second absconding inmate of the city's government women shelter home, from where two minor girls escaped on Wednesday last (Sept 9), at her alleged brother-in-law's house in Firozabad. "A 16-year-old girl of Etawah had been recovered from her boyfriend's house in Kisni area of Mainpuri on Sept 12, while other 16-year-old hailing from Agra was missing. As per the entry in the register, the two were brought at government shelter home in Swarupnagar on Sept 4. The Agra girl has been recovered from her alleged brother-in-law's house in Firozabad district on Tuesday,” said Inspector Swarupnagar Ashwini Pandey. "She has been sent back to shelter home this evening," he said. The police managed to zero-in on the girl, as she had used a tempo driver's phone number to arrange money via a Cash Ap. "As she was running short of money, she had asked her brother-in-law who lives in Firozabad to deposit cash worth Rs 900 via an app in tempo driver's account. The same tempo driver had helped her in boarding a Firozabad-bound bus. On reaching Firozabad, she had told her brother-in-law that she was released by government shelter home authorities. Taking help of E surveillance, we rigorously scanned her family members mobile phones and tracked down tempo driver's phone number and managed to recover her from her brother-in-law's house in Firozabad, " said Pandey further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/second-absconding-inmate-of-govt-shelter-home-found/articleshow/78136545.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Cases stay low even amid ramped up Covid-19 testing||Vadodara: Despite testing reaching new highs in the city and district, number of fresh cases detected in the past 24 hours since Monday evening have gone down as compared to the previous day. Of the 3,528 samples tested between Monday and Tuesday evening, 125 tested positive. In the preceding 24 hours between Sunday and Monday evening, 3,343 tests were conducted of which 127 were detected positive.Out of the new cases, 85 were detected in VMC limits, while 40 tested positive in areas outside VMC limits. Within the VMC limits, the west zone accounted for the highest number of new cases with 27 here testing positive. This was followed by the south zone and north zone where 22 and 21 new cases were detected. As many as 15 new cases came to light in the east zone of the city.With the 125 fresh cases, the total number of cases that have come to light in the city and district since the pandemic began has increased to 9,918 cases. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed one more death due to Covid-19 being the primary reason. With this the total number of deaths went up to 164 so far.Total 102 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation on Tuesday .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cases-stay-low-even-amid-ramped-up-covid-19-testing/articleshow/78133357.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||Pune's Sassoon hospital out of bounds for new Covid-19 patients till Sept 23||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday said Sassoon General Hospital would not admit any new Covid-19 patient till September 23, as the repair work and augmentation of the oxygen supply system at the state-run health hub would continue for at least a week. “We are closely monitoring the progress of the work at the hospital. The new patients, who otherwise would have been accommodated in Sassoon, will be referred to the jumbo Covid-19 hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,” Rao told a virtual news conference. Civic and district administration officials stated that a sizeable increase has been witnessed in the number of active Covid-19 cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and other parts of the district and western Maharashtra. The administration is under pressure to ensure adequate bed availability, as nearly 25%-28% of people admitted to hospitals in Pune are from nearby districts. “Most patients from many parts of the state are coming to Pune due to lack of oxygen-supported beds in those districts. Limited availability of oxygen is compelling such patients to seek treatment in Pune. The authorities are working towards providing more medical oxygen and oxygen-supported beds in these districts. The aim is to reduce the patient load on hospitals in Pune,” he said. Rao said the administration was promoting the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (health scheme) on a large scale, especially in the rural areas. He said, “The number of beneficiaries of this scheme has gone up to 7,200 from 4,000 in the past 10 days.” The divisional commissioner said the administration was working on the “chase the virus” strategy that was adopted in Mumbai. “Apart from the urban areas, the rural areas will be on the administration’s radar in terms of contact tracing. The testing ratio per million has reached to 1 lakh in Pune,” he said. Rao added that the district and civic administration would rope in volunteers from schools, colleges and NGOs to implement the “chase the virus” initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-sassoon-hospital-out-of-bounds-for-new-covid-19-patients-till-sept-23/articleshow/78136549.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolhapur||43% of district’s active cases are in Kolhapur city||KOLHAPUR: Around 43% of the active Covid-19 patients from across the district are in Kolhapur city, keeping the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on its toes. According to a health official, around a month ago, the number of active cases in the city was limited to 25%. “Now, out of the 11,257 active cases across the district, 4,856 are in the city. The city is also on top in terms of number of deaths reported and case tally,” he said. “The rising number of positive cases are now posing serious challenges in front of the authorities who are also dealing with issues like shortage of beds, oxygen and doctors,” the official added. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said the civic body has stepped up testing using both RT-PCR method and rapid antigen test kits. “This is the major reason for increase in the number of cases. We have started door-to-door survey for early detection of Covid patients. We have a challenge of rising death count and we are ensuring to bring the figures down at the earlies,” he said. “There are adequate beds available at Covid care centres, but not all beds are oxygen-supported. Most patients seeks oxygen beds instead of regular beds and the administration is trying hard to get oxygen supply normalised,” he added. The city has a total capacity of around 2,500 beds in Covid care centres and private hospitals. CPR Hospital and D Y Patil Hospital together have 650 beds. “Around 800 patients are under home isolation and 250 are undergoing treatment in hotels. Further rise in cases may make the situation worse,” Kalshetti said, adding that the district administration is planning 400 oxygen beds in the district out of which almost half will be required for the patients in Kolhapur city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/43-of-districts-active-cases-are-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/78132466.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||3,215 new cases in Kerala, 656 in Thiruvananthapuram alone||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 was confirmed in 3,215 persons in the state on Tuesday while 2,532 recovered from the disease. Among the new cases 3,102 people, including 89 health workers, were infected through contact. The source of infection of 313 patients remains unknown. The total cases reported in the state have risen to 1,14,033, of which 31,156 are active cases. Till now 82,345 have recovered from the virus. Meanwhile, 12 more deaths were reported, taking the total toll to 467. The deceased are Muhammed Ali Haji, 87, Paulson, 53, and Chandran Nair, 79, from Thrissur; Madhavan, 63, from Malappuram; Leela, 60, Harindran, 67, Shahunathumma, 64, Narayana Pillai, 89, and Stanley, 54, from Thiruvananthapuram; Raveendran, 69, from Kozhikode; Ismail, 55, from Ernakulam and Khalid, 55, from Palakkad. For the first time, the new cases in the state capital crossed over 600 mark. The new active cases from Thiruvananthapuram are 656, followed by Malappuram (348), Alappuzha (338), Kozhikode (260), Ernakulam (239), Kollam (234), Kannur (213), Kottayam (192), Thrissur (188), Kasaragod (172), Pathanamthitta (146), Palakkad (136), Wayanad (64) and Idukki (29).  Overall, there are 2,08,141 people under observation across the state and 22,627 of them are in hospitals. On Tuesday, 2,324 people were admitted to hospitals. So far, 21,98,858 samples have been sent for testing, including 41,054 samples in the last 24 hours. There are 12 new hotspots even as 10 places were excluded from the list. Now, there are 617 hotspots in the state. Protests putting state at risk: CM Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the ongoing agitations, especially the ones in the state capital, would contribute to the spreading of Covid-19. Even though the Covid protocol stipulates that wearing of mask and social distancing are mandatory, all the agitations are being organized in violation of the protocol. The CM said that political parties who are carrying out agitations are putting the entire state at risk. The political parties have crossed all the boundaries and hence the state government is viewing it very seriously. “We cannot put the entire state under risk, when the pandemic is prevailing. We are not in the safe zone. Everyone has the responsibility to maintain the Covid protocol since the state cannot afford to let go the situation out of control,” the CM said. However, the government has not taken any decision to ban the agitations since it is not a healthy practice in a democracy. It is up to the leaders of the political parties to decide whether they are doing any good for the state. “Even the police had to devote the entire time for maintaining the law and order now. The police were actively involved in the contact tracing and other Covid-prevention activities. Due to these agitations, now they are being pulled back into law and order,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/3215-new-cases-in-state-656-in-tvm-alone/articleshow/78134375.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Varanasi||Youth held for making bomb threat||Varanasi: The police held a youth of Shivpur area on Tuesday after his hoax call created an alarm and the men in khaki had to carry out a search drive on the district court compound with bomb disposal squad for hours. He had dialled 112 and informed the police that a bomb was planted there. SP City Vikas Chandra Tiwari said that one Aman Maurya of Shivpur area has been arrested in this connection. During initial interrogation he confessed to had made the call just for fun. After a few hours of the opening of the district court police received a call. The caller informed police about planting of a bomb. Taking note of it Cantonment police called the bomb disposal squad and a massive search drive was carried out in and around the district court compound for over two hours. CO Cantt Rakesh Kumar also camped there to monitor the situation. After it became clear that it was a hoax call, the cops launched a manhunt to nab the caller. Tiwari said that cops succeeded in tracing the caller in Shivpur area and arrested him. Tiwari, who also interrogated Maurya, said that it was a mischief. Maurya was sent to jail after registering a case in this connection, he added. The district court of Varanasi is among highly sensitive sites as on November 23, 2008 it had witnessed serial blasts by terror groups. Since then security plan for this compound is in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/youth-held-for-making-bomb-threat/articleshow/78134955.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ventilator-supported ICU beds too few for demand||PUNE: Care for critical Covid-19 patients continued to be a challenge, as only seven ventilator- supported ICU beds were vacant across the city and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits on Tuesday evening. The oxygen supply system augmentation work at Sassoon General Hospital has added to the problem, as the state-run hospital will not be able to admit new patients for ow. The hospital’s administrative controller, S Chockalingam, told TOI that the oxygen supply system augmentation started from Monday and around 40 patients had to be internally shifted for the work. “Since we could not shift our patients to other facilities across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, we have decided to continue with the work internally. It will take another 12 days to complete the oxygen supply network at the new building that caters to around 500 patients,” he said. “The patients’ inflow has not stopped and the hospital gets around 45-50 new patients every day,” Chockalingam said, urging the patient’s families to arrange hospitalisation as suggested by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icu-beds-with-ventilators-still-too-few-to-meet-demand/articleshow/78136551.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 16, 2020||Business||Facebook does not profit from hate speech: India MD||BENGALURU: Facebook India MD Ajit Mohan said Facebook doesn’t profit from hate speech of any kind. Speaking publicly for the first time after the recent controversy around not banning influential people posting hate messages on its platform, Mohan told TOI: “It’s not good for us, not for people on the platform. There is no constituency that benefits from hate speech…(We) lean in as much as we can to both enforce our community standards and keep all kinds of harm away from the platform.” Asked about the alleged delayed action in banning BJP MLA Raja Singh for his hate messages, Mohan said what has been missed by most people during recent discussions is that Raja’s hate messages were taken off in 2018 and 2019. He indicated the issue of banning someone from the platform is a more complicated one, and Facebook was close to concluding that evaluation on Raja when the controversy broke. “The bias is for more speech to be on the platform than less. If it’s the speech of an elected official, the idea is that the voters and constituents should be able to make a call for themselves in terms of the nature of that speech...we should not be in a position, which is possible, of censorship, of speech from elected officials or political leaders. But having said that, there is no exception for hate speech and therefore even in this case, going back to 2018, we have taken down content that violated our community standards on the platform,” he said. Facebook banned Singh earlier this month, a few weeks after the Wall Street Journal wrote that it had not banned Singh because of pressure from the ruling BJP. Mohan, who took over his current role 20 months ago, said Facebook’s commitment towards curbing hate speech has been visible in the last three years. He said it removed over 22 million pieces of hateful content from the platform in the June quarter. This was just about 1.7 million in the December quarter of 2017. “That’s the multiplier movement between 2017-end and mid-2020. We have made enormous investments in automation and AI to make sure we are dramatically improving our capability to pick up content that violates our community standards, including hate speech, even before people report them. Of all the content pieces taken down, more than 90% were identified by these automated systems,” he said. Mohan said there are also more than 35,000 people who work on issues linked to safety and security which include enforcement of Facebook’s community standards. “That’s a big shift over the last 2-3 years. Besides investing in automation capabilities, we have human reviewers to identify hateful content before users report it,” he said. Early this month, Mohan was called before a Parliamentary panel to discuss the alleged misuse of the social media platform. He was also summoned by the Delhi Assembly on the matter. Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg accusing the India management of deleting pages to reduce the reach of “right-of-centre ideology.” Asked about criticism that Facebook is succumbing to demands from political parties in power, Mohan said it doesn’t look at party affiliations or any kind of other criteria, apart from taking an objective view of things – whether something violates its guidelines or not. “There are established protocols for legal orders. When there are legal orders for content take-down that involve issues related to law enforcement, security of all kinds, we honour that,” he said. Asked about 41 NGOs around the world writing to Zuckerberg demanding that the India public policy head Ankhi Das be sent on administrative leave for her alleged role in perpetuating hate speech on the platform, Mohan said Facebook follows processes and systems designed to make sure that content policies meet community standards and no one individual can make an unilateral decision. “We feel comfortable that the decisions that have been taken on the content enforcement side are objective and non-partisan. We take it extraordinarily seriously that we need to be neutral as a platform. Second, it's important to highlight that the public policy team that Ankhi leads as part of my team is separate from the content policy team that enforces these decisions. In India, it's separate and independent. In this case, public policy in India was not a decision maker,” he said. Watch Facebook India MD breaks silence, says FB does not profit from hate speech||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/facebook-does-not-profit-from-hate-speech-india-md/articleshow/78137587.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Man accused of spiking drink, raping neighbour||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Tuesday booked a 28-year-old Ludhiana resident for raping his neighbour.The 27-year-old woman said in her police complaint, “I had got married in 2016. Due to strained relations, I parted ways with my husband and started living with my parents in November 2019. The accused lives in our locality. He befriended me and promised to marry me. Even his mother had consented to our alliance.”In March, during the lockdown, the accused called her to his house. “He was alone at home and offered me a cold drink. It was laced with sedatives as I lost consciousness after having it. The accused then raped me and clicked my pictures. On gaining consciousness, I objected to it, but he said he would soon marry me,” she added. In July, when she asked him to marry her, he started skirting the issue. “He threatened to make my pictures viral if I lodged a complaint against him. He said he had links with drug peddlers and that he would murder me and my family. Thereafter, I told my parents about it and lodged a police complaint on July 21,” she said. ASI Daljit Singh said after investigation, an FIR was lodged under sections 376 (rape) and 417 (punishment for cheating) of the IPC.Labourer, 25, arrested for sexually abusing 7-yr-oldThe police have arrested a 25-year-old labourer for raping his seven-year-old neighbour on Monday night. The minor’s father said in his police complaint, “We live in a rented accommodation and the accused lives nearby. On Monday evening, when my wife was sleeping, the accused lured my daughter with candies to his room. There, he raped her. My wife woke up on hearing our daughter’s screams and rushed to the room of the accused. When she raised the alarm, the accused escaped from there.”Investigating officer sub-inspector Sunita Kaur said the accused has been arrested under sections 376 (rape) of IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-accused-of-spiking-drink-raping-neighbour/articleshow/78133675.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Jayant Patil warns of lockdown as cases rise across Sangli||Kolhapur: Expressing concern over the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients and deaths, Sangli district guardian minister Jayant Patil has warned of a lockdown if the citizens failed to follow rules and avoid crowds. In a message to the public through social media, Patil announced strict enforcement of all the rules from Wednesday, particularly at market places, where crowds can always be seen. Patil earlier held a meeting with officials and elected representatives. Patil said that police and other administrative officers would be deployed from Wednesday at public places, where people are crowding. “People should not complain if action is taken,” Patil said, adding that police had been asked to enforce all the rules very strictly. “If the people do not follow the rules, we will have to think over lockdown,” Patil warned. Patil admitted that administration was under stress because of increasing number patients. He said administration was taking all the efforts to have adequate number of beds, ventilators and oxygen. He appealed to the people to cooperate with the administration by following the rules. Patil’s stern warning comes as the district has seen a steep rise in Covid-19 patients and deaths for the past one-and-half months now. Officials admit that high rise in number of patients, coupled with lack of infrastructure. They also attribute it to the tendency among the patients to approach health workers at late stage. On August 1, district had 2,799 positive cases and 1,443 of them were active. By the end of the month, district had 12,394 positive cases and 4,543 of them were active. The number of positive patients increased by 9,595 in August. The district has 24,039 positive cases currently and 9,341 of them are active. The number of patients has doubled in the first two weeks of the current month. While district has recorded 90 deaths on August 1, their number went up to 495 in a short span of one month till August 31. On September 14, the number of deaths had reached 893. As many as 488 deaths have been recorded in the first two weeks of the current month. With the increase in number of patients, those in critical conditions are also rising. On August 1, district had 96 critical patients, while their number on August 31 was 723. According to the official data, district had 979 critical patients on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/jayant-patil-warns-of-lockdown-as-cases-rise-across-sangli/articleshow/78132482.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Varanasi||Devpt of Sevapuri block satisfactory: Niti Ayog CEO||Varanasi: A team of Niti Ayog, led by its chief executive officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant, expressed satisfaction over the progress in the work of saturating all villages of Sevapuri block with government schemes and elevating life standard of all by measuring them on prescribed key performance indicators in order to develop it as the first model block of the country till November 15. The Niti Ayog CEO along with a big band of officials reached Sevapuri block to assess the progress in the work prescribed for developing it as first model block. During a review meeting, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma gave a power-point presentation on all the projects and said that 90% target of all the work has been achieved so far. The overall quality and life standard of people has started improving while they have also started showing an intention to carry forward the developmental issues as a public movement. Later, the CEO made it clear that as per the wish of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, one block of this district had been selected to develop as model block and later execute the development plan on the same line across the country. The coordination of Centre, state and district yields positive results in it, said the CEO expressing satisfaction over the progress in work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/devpt-of-sevapuri-block-satisfactory-niti-ayog-ceo/articleshow/78134991.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||Civic body plans upgrade too||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to increase the number of oxygen-supported beds at civic hospitals. In total, 150 beds will added at four hospitals, including the jumbo facility at Baner in ten days. “The demand for oxygen-supported beds is high in the city. Patients are finding it tough to get beds at private hospitals. So the decision to increase oxygen-supported beds at civic hospitals has been taken and the process has been started,” said additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal. As per data from the Covid-19 dashboard, 5,616 isolation beds with oxygen support were allocated while there are 677 vacant isolation beds with oxygen support at both private and government hospitals. More beds will be added to the four civic hospitals including Khedkar hospital (30 beds), Covid-19 jumbo hospital at Baner (30), Laygude hospital (40) and Dalavi hospital (50). The increase in the number of beds will help improve availability of beds in areas like Bopodi, Shivajinagar, Dhayari and Baner. “Non-availability of beds is a major concern in private hospitals. The civic body wants to add more beds so that people won’t have to wait for treatment,” said a senior PMC official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-plans-upgrade-too/articleshow/78136564.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||Pune cantonment board to double oxygen cylinders at its hospital||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has decided to double the number of jumbo oxygen cylinders from the existing 100-200 units at its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel general hospital in the wake of the rise in the number of critical Covid-19 patients at the facility. At the moment, the hospital has 52 patients on oxygen support and 10 others on ventilator support. PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar on Tuesday said, “We (the board) have decided to augment the number of oxygen cylinders from various sources. Two more agencies, in addition to the existing one, are being hired on contract to supply oxygen cylinders. Each cylinder will have a capacity of 7,000 litre.” Kumar told TOI, “We had a tough time arranging for oxygen cylinders in the past three weeks, as our current supplier was unable to meet our demand. We had to rush to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri and other health hubs to get the oxygen cylinders. We have told the Khadki and Dehu Road Cantonment authorities to work in coordination and share oxygen cylinders as and when needed.” PCB resident medical officer V D Gaikwad said, “We also get critical patients from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. But we can’t accommodate them, as our facilities are fully occupied. A critical patient needs at least 10 jumbo cylinders in 24 hours.” He said, “We are yet to administer high flow oxygen to patients. But if we have to do that, then we would require 60 litre of oxygen per minute. Considering all these possibilities, we have to acquire more oxygen cylinders. The PCB is set to add 10 ICU and 20-30 oxygenated beds soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-double-oxygen-cylinders-at-its-hospital/articleshow/78136562.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 16, 2020||Mysuru||Kin protest after man dies in hosp||Hassan: A 57-year-old man who was suffering from dehydration died on Monday night at the Arsikere taluk hospital. His relatives protested in front of the taluk hospital on Tuesday morning alleging doctor's negligence. The deceased is Sanna Sollapuri Bhovi, a resident of Bhovi colony in Kanakatte hobli, Arsikere taluk. In her complaint, Bhovi’s wife alleged that around 11am on Monday, he was brought to the taluk hospital as he was suffering from vomiting and dehydration. The doctor treated him and said he was out of danger. But around 9pm, the patient succumbed. Arsikere rural police have registered a case. Arsikere taluk hospital assistant medical officer Dr Shadakshari said the cause of death would be known from the post-mortem which would come in four days. “We guess he might have sustained a cardiac arrest,” he added. Four days ago, some 15 people at Banduru Bhovi Colony of Javagal hobli in Arsikere taluk had complained of the same problems faced by Bhovi. The villagers had complained of contaminated water supply from the local administration. “But the report said the water was clean. All the people who fell ill had attended a function in another village,” said Arsikere tahsildar Santhosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kin-protest-after-man-dies-in-hosp/articleshow/78133713.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mumbai||Do wellness resorts have to pay GST? Tax bodies rule differently||MUMBAI: At the crack of dawn, you will invariably find guests at any naturopathy resort performing pranayama (deep-breathing) on its lush lawns. Typically, additional yoga exercises, ayurvedic treatments, massages, acupuncture, et all, as prescribed by the resort’s doctors for each individual, would fill up the day’s schedule. However, for the purposes of goods and services tax (GST), this regimented vacation is usually treated on the same level as that of a hotel stay and about an 18% levy (it would depend on the room tariff) would be payable by most on their final bills. Recently, the Gujarat bench of the GST Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) denied Nimba Nature Cure Village (a unit of Oswal Industries) a tax exemption as its services did not fall in the category of ‘health care services by a clinical establishment’. A few divergent rulings on whether a naturopathy resort is eligible for GST exemption is available. “Conflicting rulings lead to confusion and go against the objective of providing certainty. While the views of one advance ruling authority are not binding on another, judicial discipline would suggest at least detailed reasoning should be provided for that,” says Sunil Gabhawalla, chartered accountant and GST specialist. Nimba Nature Cure Village, stated to be one of India’s largest naturopathy centres, had approached the AAR, saying it offered wellness facilities like naturopathy, yoga, ayurveda, meditation, physiotherapy to treat diseases ranging from lifestyle disorders to respiratory problems. Professional naturopathy doctors, researchers and support staff carried out diagnosis and treatment through recognised systems of medicine. Thus it qualified as a clinical establishment and should be eligible for exemption under ‘health care services’ as per Entry 74 of Notification 12/2017, it contended. The AAR noted that the services provided were a composite service – comprising accommodation, food and therapy. There was no option for the guests to avail of the therapy without opting for accommodation. Thus, the ‘accommodation service’ was the principal supply and the GST rates relating to it would apply. Incidentally, in January 2019, the Goa bench of the GST-AAR, in the case of Devaaya Ayurveda & Nature Cure Centre, held it to be a clinical establishment offering health care services that was entitled to GST exemption. A government official did not get into the nitty-gritty of the recent ruling, but said applicants are free to appeal. “Each state also has an appellate AAR. In certain cases of conflicting rulings, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs steps in with a clarification,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/are-wellness-resorts-exempt-from-gst/articleshow/78137193.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||Ganja cultivation common at Bangla camps of Raichur||Belagavi: Cultivation and selling of cannabis at four Bangladesh refugee camps are rampant even as the Namasudra community culturally consider marijuana a sacred plant. The camps — RH 2, RH3, RH 4 and RH 5 — are tucked in the remote corners of Sindhanur taluk in Raichur district. Last year, the police department had seized over 500kg of cannabis from the camps, while its cultivation has come down drastically this year. The refugees grow these plants amidst tur, cotton and chilli crops on land that was granted to them when Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister. The settlers came to Raichur in 1971 after East Pakistan was carved to form the new state Bangladesh as they were undergoing persecution. The settlers were given citizenship in 1979, after which it was stopped. However now, all those in the camps are entitled to secure citizenship after the Citizenship Act was amended. According to activist Prasen Raptana, people in these rehabilitation camps smoke ganja. Raptana, who is also fighting for the rights of refugees with regard to caste, citizenship and land, said: “Those who consume marijuana grow one or two plants, and it is widely common here. But now I have come to know that some are into selling it. Police are now conducting raids as part of a statewide crackdown on drugs.” Prasen further pointed out that people offer ganja to Lord Shiva during Trinath puja at their homes. The weed is offered only to god, and not for consumption. Pranab Bala, an advocate and RSS activist from the camp, said last year he himself tipped off police about ganja cultivation, and the subsequent raid led to the seizure of a large consignment of the weed. “People here have been growing cannabis for several years now. But it is coming down due to awareness. It will be difficult to launch a campaign against ganja at camps as it leads to conflict within the community,” he said. Raichur SP Prakash Nityam told TOI that 600gram ganja was recovered recently. Thanks to police vigil, its cultivation has come down compared to last year. “As and when we receive information, we crackdown on this illegal natural drug,” he said, adding that cannabis crop look similar to tur, cotton and chilli, and the camouflage makes it difficult to spot the illegal crop amidst others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ganja-cultivation-common-at-bangla-camps-of-raichur/articleshow/78110932.cms||Shreyas HS
September 16, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region tally tops 2.31 lakh, 70 more dead in 24 hours||PUNE: The Covid-19 caseload surged above 2.31 lakh in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, with the addition of 3,889 cases in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries also stayed above 3,000 in PMR on Tuesday. At 3,334, the number of recoveries were just 555 less than the new cases, a report released by the district health office revealed. With this, the total recoveries in PMR have increased to 1.84 lakh. The PCMC areas recorded more recoveries than cases on Tuesday. The number of cases increased by 1,400 on Tuesday when compared with the Monday’s tally of 2,481. The increase happened mainly on account of rise in testing. As against 7,542 cases on Monday, as many as 13,197 samples were tested on Tuesday. With this, the testing tally has increased above 9.63 lakh in PMR, including 5.42 lakh tests in the Pune municipal limits, followed by 2.68 lakh tests in Pimpri Chinchwad and 1.51 lakh tests in the rural as well as Cantonment areas. The region reported 70 casualties on Tuesday, including 43 from the PMC limits, 10 from the PCMC limits and 17 from the rural areas. With this, the death count in PMR has increased to 5,292, including 3,022 casualties from the PMC limits — the highest in PMR. More cases than recoveries pushed the active patient count in the region 41,402, including 24,413 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 16,989 in home isolation. The PMC areas had a maximum of 10,592 patients in home isolation till Tuesday evening. From the PCMC areas, as many as 3011 patients were in home quarantined, while in rural parts, as many as 3,386 patients were in home isolation. According to PMC, as many as 3,420 patients were on oxygen support in the city limits and 929 were at critical stage while 473 patients were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-tops-2-31-lakh-70-more-dead-in-24-hours/articleshow/78136571.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Pench, Bor, Karhandla to reopen for tourists on October 1||NAGPUR: After Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), Pench and Bor tiger reserves as well as Umred-Paoni-Karhandla wildlife sanctuary will also open for tourism from October 1 as per the protocol issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). In a release, Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) filed director Ravikiran Govekar said, “From October 1 to 15, tourism will remain open offline in a restricted way depending on the condition of roads. From October 16 to 30, online bookings can be done on the mahaecotourism.gov.in website for 50% vehicle capacity. From November 1 to June 30, 2021, bookings will be normal.” With Covid cases on the rise, only 30% of the accommodation capacity will be allowed for booking. There is no accommodation available for now at the complexes at Kolitmara and Surewani. Not only masks, the tiger reserve has also made face shield compulsory for guides, drivers, and tourists. Gypsies will be mandatory at Bor dam and Karhandla gates while the Adegaon gate has been closed till further orders due to bad roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pench-bor-karhandla-to-reopen-for-tourists-on-oct-1/articleshow/78136569.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||‘Better strategies could revive Kochi’s public transport system’||KOCHI: With the Metro resuming its services last week, all modes of public transport system have been activated in the city. But the question is, have they succeeded in attracting their customers back? Fear of infection spread in public transports along with ither factors have kept regular public transport commuters at bay. Experts in the field suggest a proper ramping up of the system is needed to revive the sector and this, they said, should not be done in haste. Since resuming services on September 7 and commissioning operations from Aluva to Petta, the Kochi Metro has started to record an average ridership of 8,000 per day. This is in sharp contrast to the average ridership of 65,000 per day during pre-Covid times. In 2019, more than 1.6 crore passengers travelled in the Metro and opening of the stretch from Maharaja’s College to Thykoodam in September last year had led to a surge in ridership. However, Kochi Metro was forced to suspend its operations for 168 days from March 23 to September 6 in 2020. In case of private buses, private bus operators association said during pre-Covid period there were about 2,300 buses operating in the district. “But now the number has come down to 350,” said PBOA district general secretary K B Suneer. Even autorickshaws and taxi operators have been facing similar ordeal. “Be it private buses, autos or taxi services, these operators are unable to meet fuel and maintenance expenses. There must be some urgent intervention from policy makers regarding revival of public transport systems. The state of public transport is a clear indicator of a crashing economy. Better strategies and more policies could revive the sinking system and attract its customers back,” said D Dhanuraj, chairman of city-based think tank, CPPR. Meanwhile, city police which has been closely monitoring traffic movement counter the general perception that increase in the movement of private vehicles have led to traffic congestion. ACP Vijayan T B, (traffic west) said it is mainly people who come to work in the city arrive in private vehicles. “Otherwise there is a drop in number of people coming to Kochi from other regions. As trade and commerce, tourism and entertainment, shopping and other similar activities have considerably reduced there is a decrease in inflow of private vehicles.”  However, when commercial activities pick up and more public transport starts hitting the city roads, ‘there would be chaos’, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/better-strategies-could-revive-citys-public-transport-system/articleshow/78133728.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
September 16, 2020||Patna||Lightning strikes kill 15 in Bihar||PATNA: Lightning strikes claimed lives of at least 15 people in six districts as rain accompanied by thunderstorm lashed Patna and several other parts of the state on Tuesday. Weathermen have predicted that showers will continue in scattered manner in the state over the next four days. Lightning killed three people each in Gopalganj, Bhojpur and Rohtas and two each in Saran, Kaimur and Vaishali districts. The two people who died in Saran have been identified as Shilpi (18) and Kajal (15), residents of Hazaam Toli village under the Panapur police station area in the district. CM Nitish Kumar has announced an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the next of the kin of each victims. The CM has also appealed to people to take necessary precautions during the turbulent weather. “Follow all advisories issued by the disaster management department from time to time for being safe during lightning. Stay indoors and safe during bad weather,” Nitish was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the chief minister’s office on Tuesday. Death by lightening is a serious issue in Bihar as such incidents happen frequently in the region. Lightning has so far claimed lives of 150 people this monsoon, mostly in June. Meanwhile, Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday issued a yellow warning for thunderstorm with lightning at one or two places in all 38 districts of the state over the next two days. Weathermen have, however, ruled out any strong system in the region and attributed the thundershowers on Tuesday to local convective activities. According to the daily weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre, heavy to very heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places in north-east and north-west parts of the state. Light to moderate rainfall occurred at some places in north-west, north-central, south-west and south-eastern parts and most places in north-east parts of the state in the last 24 hours. Patna recorded 19.8mm of rainfall on Tuesday. (With inputs from H K Verma in Chhapra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lightning-strikes-kill-15-in-state/articleshow/78135036.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||A female lesser florican tagged||Ahmedabad: For the first time in the world, Gujarat decided to tag a female lesser florican. The move was taken in view of the rapid decline in the population of the bird. Gujarat is home to three species of bustards — the great Indian bustard, the lesser florican — locally known as ‘Khadmor’ — and MacQueen's bustard, also known as ‘Houbara’. To study the movement and behaviour of the lesser florican, the forest department tagged two birds, including a female florican. Principal chief conservator of forest Shyamal Tikadar said, “The decision to tag the lesser florican was taken after we felt the need to understand the movement and habitat use of the bird in the breeding and non-breeding seasons. A project was developed by the wildlife division of Sasan-Gir and submitted to the central government by Gujarat forest department to tag lesser floricans. The forest department has tagged these two birds with Solar PTTs (Platform Transmitter Terminals) suitable for the species.” Tikadar said it will help in developing insights in the breeding ecology of the species. “The tagging will help in obtaining data on their movement, habitat preference and ranging patterns,” he said. The lesser florican is the smallest bustard species and endemic to the Indian subcontinent and listed as ‘Endangered’ as per IUCN. Its population is declining rapidly in its native range with the global population estimated to be less than 700 individuals. The major population during the breeding season (monsoon) is found in the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh are the other range states of the species. Their habitats during the non-breeding season are yet unknown but believed to be in the south and south-east India. Experts say that the sightings in India other than the breeding season have become rare and no information regarding their migration is available. The highest population density of the lesser florican during the breeding season is found in and around Blackbuck National Park, Velavadar followed by Kutch in Gujarat. Every year, the Gujarat forest department monitors the population in Velavadar during the monsoon season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-female-lesser-florican-tagged/articleshow/78136575.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 16, 2020||Pune||Jeweller credits nutritious food for aiding Covid recovery||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Chhaganlal Deepchand, owner of a jewellery shop in Wai, was admitted to a local hospital after running a temperature for two days. “When the doctors there found that my oxygen level was depleting, they advised me to shift to a hospital in Pune. If I had stayed in the hospital in Wai, it would have taken a long time to know about my Covid test results. My sons thought it best to admit me to Bharati Hospital in Pune because my daughter was admitted there a long time ago,” said the 60-year-old businessman. His son and brother also travelled to Pune with him but failed to find a place to stay due to the lockdown. “They faced difficulties in getting food because all restaurants were closed. I told them to return to Wai and come back only when I am discharged,” he said. He tested positive after he was brought to Pune on July 10. Immediately, he was concerned about his family members back home. “I received a call from the health officer and requested him to get my family in Wai tested. Out of 8 people, my elder son (32), younger son (29), and my granddaughter (4) tested positive. Two days after I came to Pune, a hospital for Covid started functioning in Wai, where my sons and granddaughter were treated,” he said. Deepchand’s recovery was through a series of ups and downs. “Two days after my admission, I felt better and was shifted to a private room from the ICU. Suddenly, I started facing breathing problems. I was shifted back to the ICU, given some injections and kept under observation. The doctors were very knowledgeable and kept following up on my condition. They tried their best to make me as comfortable as possible and I was discharged after two weeks of hospitalisation,” he said. Friends and family members kept his spirits up with words of comfort and encouragement. But what helped him recover was good food. “I had hospital food on the first day but did not like it all. My sons found a place offering Jain food, but they didn’t deliver in the hospital area. We had to hire someone, get them an epass to bring food from there to the hospital gate. The ward boy collected the food from the gate and brought it to me. Good nutritious food is very important for the body and soul. I would get rice, dal, khichdi and vegetable preparations without any potatoes, onions and garlic, with less oil and spice, which was filling but not heavy,” he said. “Even after my discharge from hospital, I made sure to eat well. I also go to the terrace with my sons and granddaughter for an hour’s exercise every morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jeweller-credits-nutritious-food-for-aiding-covid-recovery/articleshow/78136567.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Tribal students get new classroom in Kerala||KOCHI: Tribal students of Meenkulam colony in Variyam tribal settlement in Kuttampuzha panchayat in Kothamangalam now have access to seamless online classes as a new bamboo classroom with power supply and TV has been set up through a joint initiative of Kothamangalam block resource centre (BRC) and scheduled tribes development department (STDD) with the help of residents there. The classroom was fully made up of bamboo strips and poles and the furniture in it too are made up of bamboo and wooden branches. A small solar power plant has also been set up outside the class to produce electricity to function the new LED TV and direct-to-home (DTH) connection. The new classroom caters to the academic needs of 16 students studying from Class IV to Plus Two. Though the authorities have managed to provide a TV, solar power plant and a DTH connection to the students more than a month ago through sponsors, there was no facility for the students to use it due to the lack of a classroom. The multi-grade learning centre (MGLC) functioned under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) was shut two years ago. Though the students tried to set up a classroom in one of the leaf huts there, it was not successful. It was then some of the teachers in the BRC and officials of STDD put forward the idea of setting up a new classroom. “Building a new classroom using bricks is not feasible in the short period of time as the settlement is not accessible by road. So, we talked with the elders in the colony who suggested solving the issue in their own way by making a bamboo classroom. They made desks, benches and TV stand using bamboo and wood. It will get a thatched roof too soon but as of now we used a tarpaulin to cover as the rains are strong in the area. The entire classroom is made up of eco-friendly materials except the temporary roof,” said Kothamangalam block project coordinator P Jyothish. Though the DTH is there, signal reception is not good always. So, BRC is now providing recorded videos of all classes in a USB drive to the students. “The USB is updated with new videos every week and educated tribal volunteers in the settlement help students clear their doubts and make them do assignments,” Jyothish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribal-students-get-new-classroom/articleshow/78133753.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
September 16, 2020||Pune||Cops pick up duo for creating ruckus at testing facility||PUNE: Police picked up two persons, including a woman in home quarantine, for allegedly charging at the medical staffers and damaging the swab samples as well as testing kits at a Covid facility in Katraj. Police said both of them had reached for rapid antigen tests at a government hostel near Abhinav school in Katraj, which was to start testing on Tuesday. They created the ruckus when they were told to wait for their turn by the medical staffers. The civic administration has filed the complaint with the police. Senior inspector Vasant Kunvar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) later found that the woman involved in creating the ruckus was home-quarantined as she had tested positive for Covid-19.” PMC health inspector Nitin Rajguru from the Dhankawadi civic ward office has registered a first information report (FIR) against the duo for creating hindrance for staffers discharging duties under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. A civic official said the Covid centre would continue its functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-pick-up-duo-for-creating-ruckus-at-testing-facility/articleshow/78136577.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Now, DTPC introduces portable fish garden||KOCHI: At a time when people are into gardening to manage the home-bound time during these Covid-19 restriction period, the district tourism promotion council (DTPC) has added a bit of its innovative contribution to people’s houses. “We have introduced a portable fish garden, which is compact and highly productive for other vegetable and fruit plants in the same area. For those who are trying to find self-sufficiency in vegetable cultivation, organic manure can also be produced through this fish garden,” said a DTPC official. “Watching fish is a pastime and relaxing activity. This could also inculcate pet fish care among children who are having online education and staying at homes,” said P J Varghese of tourist help desk, Ernakulam. DTPC is pitching it as part of its responsible tourism mission to promote native species. Anabas, also known as Nadan Karuppu or Kallemutty, is a local fish species that is grown in this fibre tank which has a capacity of 100L. It is sold with 12 fishlings. “Plants in the tank are mainly water cabbage seen in Kerala’s natural ponds . These plants generate oxygen for fish. There is a bioremediation facility which helps turn the water into a combination that’s suitable for kitchen gardens,” he added. “These fish can live in tap water, bore water and fresh water easily. In six months, they breed and give birth to new fry. Grown ones are edible. Water should be replaced at least twice a week,” he said. “Unlike other fish, these don’t need any special feed. Kitchen waste without oil is enough, you can drop chapati or bread pieces also. The price of this fish garden is Rs 1,500,” he added. Arrangements have been made for booking, purchasing and direct viewing of the unit through Kudumbashree at Ernakulam DTPC Boat Jetty Parking Area and Parking Centre at Durbar Hall Ground. For details, contact: 9847331200,9847044688.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-dtpc-introduces-portable-fish-garden/articleshow/78133739.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
September 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 1 lakh patients discharged in PMC limits, recovery rate hits 83%||PUNE: More than one lakh Covid-19 patients have successfully recovered in the Pune municipal limits, taking the recovery rate to 83.3%, its highest since May. With a total caseload of 1.20 lakh, the recovery count in the PMC areas reached 1,00,532 on Monday, data released by the district health office revealed. It pointed out that the recovery rate in the PMC areas was around 64% in July, which increased to 77% around mid-August before hitting 83% on September 14. In May and June, the recovery rate was around 50% and 63%, respectively. In the last one month, the PMC areas have added over 49,200 cases and recorded 45,300 recoveries, clocking the recovery rate of over 90%. “Early detection, increased testing and treatment has helped push up recoveries. We have been urging people not to ignore any symptoms and get tested at the earliest. The testing has been pushed up in the city limits and efforts are on to increase it further. About 6,000 to 7,000 tests are being conducted every day,” a civic official said. Another official said more asymptomatic patients were opting for home isolation. “Higher number of patients in the city are in home isolation than those admitted in the hospitals. This will eventually bring down the burden on the medical infrastructure. While there has been a rise in the cases, the number of patients recovering from the contagion has also jumped,” the official said. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “It is good that recoveries are up. Efforts are on to bring down mortality rate as well and provide beds to the critical patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1l-patients-discharged-in-pmc-limits-recovery-rate-hits-83/articleshow/78136573.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Ganja grower says it’s cattle appetiser||HUBBALLI: Hubballi Rural police on Tuesday seized 18.4kg ganja plants from an agriculture field near Kusugal. Police had arrested the accused, Chandrashekhar Bannikoppa of Kusugal, on Sunday. On Tuesday, he spilled beans on growing the banned crop in the middle of onion and chilli crops on his land. DSP Ravi Naik, who led the raid, said it is not yet clear as to why the accused had grown the weed. Investigation is on to whether he wanted to sell it or use it as an appetiser for cattle as claimed by the accused. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against Chandrashekhar at Hubballi Rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ganja-grower-says-its-cattle-appetiser/articleshow/78133737.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Onion price may touch Rs 100/kg by end of October||AHMEDABAD: Onion prices continue to cause tears. According to APMC sources, retail price this year is likely to touch Rs 100 per kg by October end. The price in the wholesale market has already gone up by 15-20% and by 20% in the retail market. On Tuesday, the price at the Mahuva wholesale market was Rs 25 per kg and at the Ahmedabad APMC it was between Rs 15 and Rs 30. In retail, however, the price was around Rs 50 per kg on Tuesday. An office-bearer of Bhavnagar APMC Bhikhabhai Jhaghadiya said that the onion crop this suffered because of heavy rains. “The crop has been damaged not only in Gujarat but in other onion-growing states too,” he said. “The lockdown after Covid-19 outbreak led to several crises. Last year also onion price had touched Rs 100 per kg and indications are that the retail price will increase to Rs 100 per kg in the next 50 days,” said a leading onion trader of Ahmedabad. He, however, said that ban on exports may prevent the increase in prices. Ghanshyam Patel, chairman of Mahuva APMC, said that the exports ban move has come a bit early. “Ban on exports will once again crash the market which will bring the prices to below Rs 20 per kg. This will bring losses to the farmer,” said Patel. Patel said that he will write to the Union and the state governments on behalf of the farmer to reconsider the decision. Another officer-bearer of Mahuva APMC said that it’s not that only farmers will suffer loss. “Even the traders who have stocked onion will be incurring heavy loss in the business,” he said. Small-time farmers have already sold off the produce, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/onion-price-may-touch-rs-100/kg-by-end-of-oct/articleshow/78136579.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Karad accounts for 1/4th Covid cases in Satara dist||Kolhapur: With more than 6,300 confirmed Covid-19 cases reported from 164 of the 216 villages in the tehsil, Karad — which is situated on the national highway connecting Mumbai and Bengaluru — accounts for one-fourth of the total 25,400 cases recorded in Satara district. The number of positive cases is on the higher side in Karad since the beginning of the pandemic with no signs of decline. More than 100 patients have been reported from the tehsil daily on an average since the last few days. However, the death toll in Karad (164) is the second highest in the district, of which 42 deaths have been reported from Karad town, which has reported l,200 confirmed Covid-19 cases so far. Of the 205 villages in Satara tehsil, which has reported 189 deaths so far (highest in the district), 5,149 cases have been identified in 151 villages. A large number of patients have been reported from Satara town and the surrounding villages. While Satara and Karad have been the worst affected tehsils since the onset of the pandemic, cases are now also being traced in Phaltan, Khandala, Koregaon and Khatav tehsils. All these tehsils have crossed the four-digit mark in recording positive cases. 57 of the 65 villages in Khandala tehsil have been affected by the viral infection. Koregaon tehsil has been gradually adding patients every day for a fortnight now. Till Monday night, 1,992 positive cases and 39 deaths have been reported from 93 of the 138 villages in Koregaon tehsil. Phaltan tehsil, which has a large industrial estate, has reported 1,683 cases and more than half of them have been reported in the last three weeks. 96 of the 125 villages in the tehsil have been affected. Officials are also concerned about the Covid-19 trend in Khatav tehsil, where 84 of the 139 villages have reported 1,307 positive cases. There have been 64 deaths in the tehsil—most of them in the last two weeks. Wai and Mahabaleshwar, which have a large number of tourist destinations, have also been reporting new cases.While 87 of the 126 villages in Wai tehsil have reported 2,108 positive cases and 72 deaths, 23 of the 110 villages in Mahabaleshwar have reported 679 cases and eight deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/karad-accounts-for-1/4th-covid-cases-in-satara-dist/articleshow/78132533.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Concessional bus travel for construction workers||Ahmedabad: To help reduce travel expenditure of construction workers, Gujarat Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board has launched a scheme under which the workers will be able to avail bus passes for travelling within the city at highly concessional rates. As part of the Shramik Manpasand Pass scheme, workers will have to shell out only 20% of the cost for availing monthly or quarterly bus passes, while the state government will bear the remaining 80%.  The concessional bus pass scheme has been launched in Ahmedabad first, and will be replicated in Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot soon. “The pass facility will allow construction workers to travel from their residence to the worksiteat negligible cost. The monthly and quarterly bus passes are already subsidized,” said Vipul Mittra, ACS, labour and employment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/concessional-bus-travel-for-construction-workers/articleshow/78136580.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||NGO rescues stray dog after woman ‘pours’ boiling water in Kochi||KOCHI: A three-year-old female stray dog is battling for its life with serious burn injuries at a private veterinary hospital in the city after a resident allegedly poured boiling water on the dog after caging it. The dog, which was rescued by animal lovers on Monday, sustained the injuries a week ago when a resident near Cherupilly road in ward no.5 of Cheraneloor panchayat allegedly poured boiling water on the animal after caging it, suspecting the dog attacked her rabbit. “We rescued the dog on Monday evening after we received a call from a member, who found the dog in a pathetic situation. The dog suffered injuries on her neck, stomach and legs. We had to use a net to catch it since it had burn injuries on its neck. The dog was found in an under-construction building in the area. The resident who committed the offence suspected that the female dog attacked her rabbit. A dog that attacks other animals would not be friendly, unlike this injured dog. It seems the woman caged the dog and poured water on it several times. We suspect some of the other dogs might have attacked the rabbit due to appetite. It was rescued on time, else the dog would have died of infection. Other residents in the area also said they used to give food to this dog since it is very friendly,” said Arun T R, one of the founding members of Oneness, an NGO. “The dog has sustained burn injuries all over the body. We administered antibiotics, drip and painkiller to stabilize its condition. But the next 48 hours is critical and anything could be said only after that,” said Dr S Sunil Kumar, senior veterinary surgeon of the private hospital. The local body member of the area is unaware of the brutal attack on the animal. So far, nobody has filed a complaint with police regarding the incident. “There is no point in filing a complaint. The only punishment is a fine of Rs 50. Otherwise, police would warn the assailants. Increase in fine or other punishment will deter people from attacking animals,” said Arun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ngo-rescues-stray-dog-after-woman-pours-boiling-water/articleshow/78133767.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Varanasi||KVIC to start online delivery of Lakshmi-Ganesh idols this Diwali||Varanasi: Moving a step ahead towards promotoing local products and ousting Chinese products, the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) will start online booking for delivering idols of Goddess Lakshmi and Lord Ganesh as well as earthen lamps for Diwali celebrations. Potters, mainly from Varanasi region, will play a key role in KVIC’s venture, which has entered the e-commerce industry two months ago with handmade paper packaging materials to prevent plastic pollution Talking to TOI on Monday, KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena disclosed, “We have decided to begin online sale of earthen lamps and idols of Goddess Lakshmi and Lord Ganesh this Diwali. The initiative aims to promote Swadeshi products and reduce the import of these articles from China. The KVIC will make it possible with the help of potters fraternity, especially from Varanasi region.” To revive the pottery industry, Saxena said, KVIC has distributed over 2,700 electric potter wheels among potters in Varanasi region. Similar initiatives were taken at the pottery clusters of Rajasthan, Jammu & Kashmir, Leh, Haryana and Gujarat, he said adding that Diwali articles for home deliveries on online orders will be largely procured from Varanasi while other regions will also give their contributions. The KVIC has set an initial target of selling at least one lakh Lakshmi-Ganesh idols apart from earthen lamps, said Saxena, but in case of more demand the potters will be asked to increase the production. Saxena said, potters in villages including Arjunpur, Khalispur, Dhamanpur, Mankaiya, Devapur, Daulatiya and Abhini are specifically being trained to make Lakshmi-Ganesh idols, decorative lamps, earthen magic lamps, earthen lamps, earthen chandeliers and other home decorative and gift items. With its entry in e-commerce just two moths ago, he said KVIC has ensured use of eco-friendly packaging materials as per the Khadi’s principle of ‘Green Chemistry.’ KVIC uses handmade paper envelopes/packets and carton boxes for packaging except for liquid materials where plastic wraps are nominally used to prevent leakage during transit. KVIC, is also preparing to replace plastic for packing face masks by specially designed handmade paper envelopes made of banana fibre. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has already directed e-commerce companies to put a check on excessive use of plastic in packaging while the Central Pollution Control Board has also been asked to take necessary steps to curb plastic pollution, said Saxena adding that in view of the same, the KVIC decided to enter in e-commerce with handmade paper packets and carton boxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kvic-to-start-online-delivery-of-lakshmi-ganesh-idols-this-diwali/articleshow/78135050.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||High demand, low supply put Kolkata kite sellers in a bind||KOLKATA: Bappaditya Dutta, who has been in the business of selling kites for the past 23 years, says he has never seen such demand for kites in the city. But the demand has not translated into profits as Dutta claims there is dearth in steady supply of good kites from neighbouring states, resulting in demand and supply gap. This has led to a spike in prices. “Ever since I opened my shop a week before the Independence Day, customers have been thronging here. Such has been the rush that even at 10.30pm, I find it difficult to close my shop. There have been occasions, when cops had to interfere in driving customers out of my shop,” says Dutta, proprietor of Abhiba Kites on Creek Row. Souvik Ghosh of Airplay Gobindo in Fariapukur, one of the oldest kite shops in the city, also shares a similar experience. “Lockdown triggered sales of kites and Ludo. But after shutdown, several kite artisans in Bareily and Lucknow — the hubs of kite manufactures in India — returned to their homes and also changed professions. As a result, even though there is huge demand, supply is low,” says Ghosh. With all outdoor sporting activities barred since the start of lockdown and terraces turning out to be the only hangout zones, thousands of kites made an earlier-than-usual appearance dotting the Kolkata skyline for months now. While many say they have renewed their bonding with the childhood sport, others are learning the art of flying for the first time during this lockdown. They can be seen heading to terraces in the evening leaving their favourite mobile games. “I used to fly kites when I was young. But during this lockdown, with nothing much to do at home in afternoon, I started flying kites again with my father,” says Avishek Sen, a resident of Behala. Class-XII student Rishwav Mondal says he never knew how to fly a kite and that outdoor games like football and cricket attract him much more. But the lockdown has changed it. “I couldn’t play outside and was tired of mobile games. I asked a neighbour to teach me how to fly a kite and now a group of friends come over to my place and we fly kites together,” says Rishwav. With two days to go to Vishwakarma Puja, many like Rishwav and Avishek are queuing up at kite shops. At New Town, a group of locals are even organising a kite festival mostly with young people with a caution that none should use lethal Chinese threads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-demand-low-supply-put-kite-sellers-in-a-bind/articleshow/78137200.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard kills 10-yr-old boy in Panchmahal||Vadodara: A 10-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack near the Malu village of Ghoghamba taluka in Panchmahal district. The boy was attacked by the wild cat when he was going to the field near the village to get fodder for his domesticated cattle. The deceased was identified as Mukesh Baria. He had gone to the jungle in the evening with his sister. At this time, he was attacked by a leopard. The sister saw the attack and raised an alarm. Hearing her cries the leopard panicked and ran away leaving the boy. Despite the efforts of his sister, the boy died of grievous injuries in the attack. Forest officials were informed regarding the incident and they rushed to the spot. Teams have been formed to trace the leopard. Villagers were asked to exercise caution in wake of the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-kills-10-yr-old-boy-in-panchmahal/articleshow/78133374.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMTS driver molests woman, nabbed||Ahmedabad: The ‘She’ team of Gujarat University police station on Tuesday nabbed an AMTS (Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service) driver for allegedly molesting a 20-year-old woman at bus stop when she was waiting for a bus on Saturday. Inspector V J Jadeja of Gujarat University police said the incident took place when the complaint was sitting at the Gujarat University bus stop and the accused driver, Hardik Thakkar, 36, a resident of Ghodasar, came there and sat beside her.  “He forcibly removed her mask and held her in his arms. He then snatched her mobile phone and dialled his number from it. He told her to keep in touch with him or she would face dire consequences,” said Jadeja. He said the woman was frightened by the incident and told her friend about it on Tuesday afternoon when Thakkar began calling her up constantly. Her friend approached the She team of Gujarat University police and they laid a trap for Thakkar. The complainant told Thakkar to meet her and when he arrived he was nabbed. Police booked Thakkar for molestation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amts-driver-molests-woman-nabbed/articleshow/78136591.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||5 Covid deaths in Yavatmal, 64 new cases||YAVATMAL: The district recorded 5 deaths on Tuesday. The deceased include a 49-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman from Yavatmal, 66-year-old man from Pandharkawda, 65-year-old man from Darwha and a 60-year-old woman from Pusad. There are 245 new positive patients of which 165 are men and 80 women. Yavatmal alone has reported 64 new positive patients of whom 46 are men and 18 women. According to GMC sources, there are 306 patients in isolation wards. Total 63,444 swab samples have been sent to the lab so far of which 62,014 reports were received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal-64-new-cases/articleshow/78136588.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||Afghan soil shouldn’t be used to export terror, says US||NEW DELHI: Mindful of India's security concerns, the US on Tuesday said the Afghan sides in the ongoing peace process should ensure their territory is not used by any terrorist group against any other country. This followed a visit to India by the US special representative on Afghanistan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad, during which he briefed India about the US assessment of intra-Afghan negotiations (IAN) and shared the American perspective on the Afghan peace process. The US and India shared the view that the peace process must continue until there was agreement on a political roadmap and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire, the US said in a statement. Importantly for India, the US also said after Khalilzad’s visit that the Afghan sides should ensure their territory "must not be used" by any terrorist group against any other country. Khalilzad called on foreign minister S Jaishankar in the presence of NSA Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. This was his fifth visit to India since January 2019. "Khalilzad appreciated India’s participation in the intra-Afghan negotiations held in Doha on September 12. The two sides discussed future steps and possible cooperation between India and the US in furthering the Afghan peace process," an Indian government source said. They also deliberated upon how to promote regional and international cooperation with regard to Afghanistan. India outlined its security concerns and emphasised that under no circumstances should Afghan territory be used to carry out anti-India activities. Khalilzad stressed that regional and international support was critical for the success of these negotiations and the implementation of any agreement. India and the US will work together in support of this objective. "The United States and India expressed similar views on the importance of long-term assistance, trade and investment for consolidating a peace agreement for the benefit of the people of Afghanistan, the region and beyond," the US statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/afghan-soil-shouldnt-be-used-to-export-terror-says-us/articleshow/78137702.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Agartala||59-year-old liver recipient from Tripura goes home after a month||KOLKATA: The 59-year-old patient, who underwent liver transplant surgery on August 18 with the organ from a deceased donation, was discharged from Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals (AGH) on Monday night. While liver transplant surgeries are not new in the city, the organ donation and surgery happened during these challenging times of pandemic. The patient from Tripura, Ajit Kumar Saha, suffering from end-stage liver failure, had to be flown in as a couple of potential recipients from Bengal refused to undergo the surgery due to Covid-19 fear. “The challenges were many. As many in our transplant team were either on leave or on quarantine, we had to fly in doctors from Apollo Hospitals in other cities as this was a deceased donation and we could not afford to lose time,” said Mahesh Goenka, director of Institute of Gastro Sciences at Apollo. Around 100-plus, including doctors, nurses, OT assistants and housekeeping staff, had to undergo Covid testing so that none in the transplant team got infected. While the surgery went on smoothly, the patient developed serious complications post-transplant, including heart, renal issues and cellular rejection. “Many a time we thought we were losing him. Hats off to gastro/liver transplant intensivist Indrajeet Tiwary and his team for the tremendous effort which ensured the patient’s recovery. This is one of the toughest transplant cases I have come across,” added Goenka, who led the team. Saha also needed 100 units of blood products post-transplant. Even as transplant patients are usually discharged in about two weeks, this patient took almost a month to recover due to the complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/59-year-old-liver-recipient-from-tripura-goes-home-after-a-month/articleshow/78141863.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Home isolation strategy clicks as demand for hospitals beds drops||HYDERABAD: The available beds in government and private hospitals in Telangana are 31,129 and the number of active cases on Tuesday was 30,400. With 3/4 of the patients (23,534) under home isolation, the strategy seems to have paid for the government, which was under immense pressure to offer beds to Covid-19 positive patients not long ago. In fact, the demand for beds in private hospitals from Covid-19 patients has also come down. In both private and government hospitals, there are 11,203 vacant beds — 6,533 in private and 4,670 government. Experts said time has come for a clear monitoring of bed usage in private hospitals. “There needs to be a physical verification of beds. More steps should be taken to improve health infrastructure,” Subodh Kandamuthan, Director of the Centre for Health Care Management, Administrative Staff College of India, said. Also, there is not much of a demand for regular beds (3,198 beds are available with 2,351 lying vacant), while more number of oxygen beds are occupied in private hospitals (1,964 oxygen beds are occupied out of 4,686 available), as per the available data. Officials said 2,380 ICU beds are available in both government and private hospitals. Meanwhile, the task force appointed by the government on private hospitals’ exorbitant billing has begun taking note of complaints that have been filed by the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-isolation-strategy-clicks-as-demand-for-hosp-beds-drops/articleshow/78135153.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: KKSU to conduct an online open book exam for final year students||NAGPUR: The Kavikulguru Sanskrit University (KKSU) will soon conduct an online open book examination for its final year students. The decision was taken during a review meeting conducted by state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant at the Ramtek university’s headquarters on Tuesday. It was attended by vice-chancellor Shrinivasa Varkhedi, Ramtek MLA Ashish Jaiswal, registrar Vijay Kumar, finance and accounts officer Ramchandra Joshi and others senior KKSU members. All pending works along with future planning and development, funds, final examinations and other important issues were discussed in detail. Information regarding the development fund as well as the distribution of ‘Mahakavi Kalidas Sanskrit Sadhana Award’, which was pending from the government’s side since 2015, was pointed out to the minister in the meeting. Samant said this year’s awards would be declared in a month, along with pending ones for years 2018-19 and 2019-20 and the ceremony will be held in Nagpur. “Regarding the final year exams, the students will be examined online through an open book test. Those who cannot appear online would get a chance to give an offline test and the university will take care that every student appears for the exams,” Samant said. He said he is arrived in the region to encourage universities that the government was with them in this moment of crisis. “The government’s role is to solve the problems being faced by the teachers, staff members and the universities while holding exams. I am visiting the universities to offer them moral support,” he said assuring to extend full support to the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kksu-to-conduct-an-online-open-book-exam-for-final-yr-students/articleshow/78135154.cms||Anchal Bhatia
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||One killed in car accident on SG Road||Ahmedabad: A man from the Nava Naroda area died and four others were injured when the car they were in hit an electric pole on the divider on SG Road in the wee hours of Monday. According to the preliminary investigation, the accident was caused by the driver going too fast. The car driver, Kartiksinh Champavat, 25, also suffered injuries. The deceased was identified as Indraveer Singh Gill, 26. The other injured persons were identified as Sunnyrajsinh Chauhan, Darshil Patel and Krunal Jadhav. Cops of SG-2 division traffic police made Chauhan the complainant in the case, and he accused Champavat of driving at high speed. Chauhan, a sanitation inspector with the Asarwa Civil Hospital, stated in the FIR, “I and four friends had gone towards SG Road to have some snacks. Champavat was driving car and he was driving at high speed. At the end of the Iskcon flyover near Krishna farm, Champavat drove the car onto the divider and it them hit an electric pole, causing the car to be damaged and all five persons inside suffered injuries.” Gill, Patel and Jadhav were taken to Sola Civil Hospital in a 108 ambulance service whereas Chauhan and Champavat left from the accident site. Gill was declared brought dead and police later instructed Chauhan to file a complaint against Champavat. Police registered a complaint of causing death by negligence and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-killed-in-car-accident-on-sg-road/articleshow/78136601.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||59-year-old liver recipient from Tripura goes home after a month||KOLKATA: The 59-year-old patient, who underwent liver transplant surgery on August 18 with the organ from a deceased donation, was discharged from Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals (AGH) on Monday night. While liver transplant surgeries are not new in the city, the organ donation and surgery happened during these challenging times of pandemic. The patient from Tripura, Ajit Kumar Saha, suffering from end-stage liver failure, had to be flown in as a couple of potential recipients from Bengal refused to undergo the surgery due to Covid-19 fear. “The challenges were many. As many in our transplant team were either on leave or on quarantine, we had to fly in doctors from Apollo Hospitals in other cities as this was a deceased donation and we could not afford to lose time,” said Mahesh Goenka, director of Institute of Gastro Sciences at Apollo. Around 100-plus, including doctors, nurses, OT assistants and housekeeping staff, had to undergo Covid testing so that none in the transplant team got infected. While the surgery went on smoothly, the patient developed serious complications post-transplant, including heart, renal issues and cellular rejection. “Many a time we thought we were losing him. Hats off to gastro/liver transplant intensivist Indrajeet Tiwary and his team for the tremendous effort which ensured the patient’s recovery. This is one of the toughest transplant cases I have come across,” added Goenka, who led the team. Saha also needed 100 units of blood products post-transplant. Even as transplant patients are usually discharged in about two weeks, this patient took almost a month to recover due to the complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/59-year-old-liver-recipient-from-tripura-goes-home-after-a-month/articleshow/78137202.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt inks MoU with SIDBI to help MSMEs||Ahmedabad: The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), on Tuesday signed an MoU with the state government to help develop the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) ecosystem in the state. CM Vijay Rupani, ACS industries and mines M K Das signed the MoU with the deputy MD of SIDBI, V Satya Venkata Rao. As part of the agreement, SIDBI will deploy a project management unit, which will design training and capacity building programmes for the state government in areas such as technology transfer, promotion of innovation, intellectual property rights, research and development, leveraging of technology, among others. It will also facilitate interventions, initiatives and projects in the state aimed at MSMEs. “We started with cluster outreach programmes in 10 states in the last financial year. We have also proposed a cluster development fund for supporting infrastructural aspects of cluster development in states as preparation for Atmanirbhar Bharat. The setting up of project management units (PMUs) in 11 states is targeted at placing expert outsourced teams for more focused engagement in various forms leading to a stronger MSME ecosystem,” said Rao. SIDBI has appointed an expert agency for setting up PMUs in 11 States namely, Assam, New Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-inks-mou-with-sidbi-to-help-msmes/articleshow/78136609.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||CNG terminal project to come up at Bhavnagar port||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government on Tuesday announced that it will set up its first compressed natural gas (CNG) terminal, at Bhavnagar. A sum of Rs 1,900 crore has been sanctioned for the brownfield project at Bhavnagar port. Incidentally, chief minister Vijay Rupani had made the same announcement in November last year as well. The terminal will have an annual capacity of 15 lakh tonnes. The government said that the project will be developed by a consortium of developers, including Padmanabh Mafatlal Group and one from the Netherlands. According to the government, Rs 1,300 crore will be invested in the first phase of the project. The project is a part of an ambitious plan of developing Bhavnagar where a liquid cargo terminal with the capacity of 45 lakh metric tonnes, a container and white cargo terminal, and Ro-Ro ferry services terminal will be developed. Dredging and construction of two lock gates will be carried out in the channel and the port basin to develop the terminal. Infrastructural facilities will be set up on the shore for CNG transportation. On completion of the project, Bhavnagar port’s annual cargo capacity will be raised to 9 million metric tonnes (MMT). The CM said that Gujarat will be the only state in the country to have terminals for both CNG and LNG (with LNG terminals at Dahej and Hazira). According to the state government, the project will create employment opportunities for youth of Bhavnagar and adjoining areas in logistics, transportation, and warehousing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cng-terminal-project-to-come-up-at-bhavnagar-port/articleshow/78136608.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Amravati records 11 deaths, toll reaches 215||AMRAVATI: Eleven deaths, including six of two days ago, and a spike of 296 cases took the district’s Covid death toll to 215 and count to 9,381 on Tuesday. The civil surgeon’s office stated that five patients succumbed to Covid in the last 24 hours while there were six more deaths two days ago that were not reported earlier. The 11 deceased included three women aged 59 ( Ravinagar, Paratwada), 43 (Patvipura) and 39 ( Kasbegawhan, Anjangaon Surji). The deceased males included a 45-year-old from Paratwada, 50-year-old from Bhatkuli, 53-year-old from Navsari, 64-year-old from Yashodanagar lane no. 2, 53-year-old from Rukmininagar, 50-year-old from Turanjade in Anjangaon Surji, 45-year-old from Rampuri Camp here and a 60-year-old from Dhamangaon. With 121 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients has reached 7,212. There are now 1,954 active cases, including ten taking treatment in Nagpur and 488 in home isolation. The rural belt accounted for 86 cases, taking the count to 2,973. Anjangaon Surji reported 19 cases while Daryapur ten. Bhatkuli and Chandur Railway reported eight each while Purva Daturna village recorded seven. Chandur Bazar reported five while Rajura four. Three cases came from Warud while two each from Nandgaon Peth, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Teosa, Achalpur, Dharni, Rahatgaon and Mahuli Jehangir. Single cases came from eight other villages and eight cases were from outside the district. The remaining 202 cases were reported from the city with Yashodanagar reporting nine. Rajapeth reported six cases while five each came from SRPF Camp and Sainagar . Four each came from Police Ashiana Club, Amba Apartment, Jewadnagar and Shikshak Colony in Ramnagar. Three cases each were reported from Dasturnagar, Badnera, Ravinagar, Gopalnagar, Mohannagar, Surajnagar, Girls High School Square, Kalyannagar and Budhwara. Sixteen localities reported two cases each while the rest came from different localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-records-11-deaths-toll-reaches-215/articleshow/78136607.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Aurobindo-CSIR tie up to develop Covid vaccines||Hyderabad: The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), on Tuesday, announced a collaboration with Hyderabad-based pharma major, Aurobindo Pharma Limited, to develop several coronavirus vaccines. The agreement was signed between CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Aurobindo Pharma. While three CSIR labs — CCMB, Institute of Medical Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh and the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), Kolkata -— are developing vaccine candidates using different technology platforms, Aurobindo will undertake clinical development and commercialisation of these vaccines. Speaking about the collaboration, Dr Shekhar C Mande, director general of CSIR, said: “Joining of hands of premier CSIR labs with industry for development of vaccines will amplify India’s efforts in indigenous vaccine development and also help in preparedness for future pandemics.” While welcoming the partnership with Aurobindo “who have proven manufacturing and commercialisation capabilities”, Dr Rakesh Mishra, director of CCMB, said the institute’s labs “are working on novel proteins for vaccine development that has the potential to address the need for a second-generation vaccine”. N Govindarajan, MD, Aurobindo Pharma, said they are in the process of setting up a large-scale facility in Hyderabad to manufacture Covid-19 and other vaccines. It is slated to be completed by March 2021. Apart from this collaboration, Aurobindo is already developing a vaccine for SARS COV-2 through its wholly-owned US subsidiary, Auro Vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aurobindo-csir-tie-up-to-develop-covid-vaccines/articleshow/78135174.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist reports 898 cases, 35 casualties||Kolhapur: Several tiny villages and hamlets in Satara district continue to register fresh Covid-19 cases every day, putting the local administration on high alert. as The district has reported 898 new patients along with 35 Covid-related deaths since late night on Monday. A number of small villages in Satara, Karad, Koregaon, Khatav, Maan and Phaltan have recorded new patients. Officials said that patients from a single family are being traced out in several places. Karad tehsil reported 281 new cases, including 93 from the town. Patients were reported from almost all parts and suburbs of the town and surrounding villages like Umbraj and Maklapur, said officials of the district administration. Satara tehsil recorded 181 new cases, including 93 from the town. Fresh coronavirus cases are being detected from all peth areas as well as Sadar Bazar and newly emerging housing colonies. Phaltan tehsil identified 90 cases with 32 of them being reported from the town. In addition, 83 Covid-19 cases were registered in Wai tehsil with 24 of them being from the town. Khandala tehsil also traced out 68 new patients. They included 21 from Shirval, 19 from Khandala and seven from Lonand. Koregaon reported 35 patients, including five from the town. Maan tehsil, on the other hand, registered 30 new cases, including 13 from Mhaswad village alone. Medha and Saygaon in Jawli tehsil identified 14 and 13 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-898-cases-35-casualties/articleshow/78132619.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 2,000 new Covid infections||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday reported 10 deaths and 2,058 new Covid-19 cases as the total caseload rose to 1,60,581. While the death toll climbed to 984, just 16 short of 1,000 cases, about 30,400 patients are being treated for the novel coronavirus, with 23,534 under home isolation. 1,29,187 patients have recovered so far with 2,180 people in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate of the state stands at 80% compared to national recovery rate of 78%. The state tested 51, 247 samples, below the 60,000 plus average in the last few days. The state now has reached 59,811 per million tests and in the last 24 hours, 908 samples tested are waiting for results. Along with GHMC, five other districts reported more than 100 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-2000-new-infections/articleshow/78135187.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Doubts over riots probe unfounded, says Delhi Police commissioner||NEW DELHI: Days after police icon Julio Ribeiro raised questions regarding the probe into the northeast Delhi riots in which he said that action was being taken against “peaceful protesters”, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Tuesday replied through a letter saying his force did not differentiate on the basis of caste or religion. Shrivastava started his letter by saying that he valued suggestions coming from personalities like Ribeiro. He went to say that Delhi Police had been reticent about the details of the investigation because it was ongoing, apart from court orders. He also mentioned that while Ribeiro had expressed apprehension about the fairness in investigation when they spoke over the telephone, the iconic former top cop acknowledged not having any first hand information about the cases. “Regrettably, no officer of Delhi Police was contacted to apprise yourself of the actual situation. As a highly experienced police officer, you would agree that one may not come to a correct conclusion in view of the limited information available in the public domain,” the letter stated. The commissioner also cleared doubts regarding caste or religion in the probe by saying that out of 750 FIRs, more than 410 were registered on the complaints of the minority community. The other community accounted for over 190 FIRs. “We have arrested 1,571 people irrespective of their caste or religion. The arrestees are almost equally distributed among both communities. Almost all people arrested in heinous offences have been remanded to judicial custody and not admitted to bail,” Shrivastava said. Shrivastava also told Ribeiro that owing to his years of experience he would be aware of the false perceptions that were often created by “interested” groups. “There are several entities who have their reasons to weave a web of deception and to push a false narrative of bias and insensitivity on the part of the police,” he added. He further stated that “it was best that the criminal justice system, with its inherent checks and balances, may be allowed work, lest lending one’s name inadvertently imparts a false aura of credibility and authenticity to these concocted and motivated stories”. Shrivastava said anybody aggrieved with the investigation could always seek judicial remedies. Saying that Ribeiro was known as an officer who always stood by his convictions, irrespective of extraneous considerations, the commissioner added, “Surely, you would not grudge the same independence, honesty and courage of their convictions to the officers of Delhi Police conducting and supervising these investigations.” The letter concluded by saying that Delhi Police officers were serving the oath and the Constitution with conviction, integrity and sensitivity, without fear of any self-proclaimed “true patriots” or favour towards any class, creed or community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doubts-over-riots-probe-unfounded-says-top-cop/articleshow/78136611.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown leaves kids with autism in lurch, wrecks routines||Civil engineer P Chandar's five-year-old son is among those stressed out due to the lockdown. Diagnosed with autism, the boy's routine was turned upside down and this has disrupted his cognitive and behavioural development, says the worried father. He had been taking occupational and speech therapy for a year and saw improvements. When the pandemic forced the city into lockdown in March, the child developed new patterns of behaviour such as tapping on the wall and shouting. "He used to sit through 30-minute video call sessions, but now he does not even sit for five minutes," said Chandar of Thiruverkadu. As the city limps back to normalcy, parents and therapists of children on the autism spectrum are working towards correcting new patterns of behaviour and improving deterioration in earlier developments such as sitting tolerance and attention span. "There was no commuting, meeting people and playing with peers during the lockdown, causing an absolute lack of stimulus for any development," said Praveena R, a city-based speech-language pathologist. With professionals relying on parents to communicate techniques to children through online sessions, progress is minimal. "Parents implement the activities in their own manner, which can be very different from the actual exercise," said Praveena. City-based occupational therapist Maria Karishma blames the deterioration in terms of goals on increased screen time. "As the home and workspace merged, most parents are unable to provide necessary attention," she said. Advertising professional Anita Sharma's seven-year-old daughter, diagnosed with mild autism spectrum disorder and ADHD, used to comb her hair and shower by herself. But since May, she needs help, said Anita, who believes that working from home has disturbed her daughter's routine. Throwing tantrums and crying were rare occurrences earlier, but have become common in the past few months, she added. She has been taking care of her child by herself as her husband, a frontline worker, has his hands full. No direct communication with therapists may have made things difficult for children with autism, however, in-person sessions have resumed now and can help in overcoming this period of stagnation, says Swati Narayan of We CAN, a resource centre for autism spectrum disorder. "Frustration is bound to increase with a change in lifestyle and routine. Nevertheless, they usually reduce when life returns to normal," says Narayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-leaves-kids-with-autism-in-lurch-wrecks-routines/articleshow/78146614.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||KMC sets October 15 deadline for pre-Durga Puja road repairs||Kolkata: With less than 50 days left for the city’s biggest festival, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has begun taking steps to repair the roads. Though the process starts much earlier, the pandemic has led to the delay. A meeting between agencies — which was also attended by Kolkata Police officers — on Tuesday decided that the roads department, along with the cops, will conduct a survey of battered roads.Police have already identified the stretches. “We are exchanging messages between traffic guards on WhatsApp groups where the KMC officials are members. The final list should be ready in 48 hours,” said a senior traffic officer.After this, KMC will swing into action. Firhad Hakim, chairman of Board of Administrators, on Tuesday said city roads will come under a massive repair drive keeping an eye on the Pujas. “Repair of all bad stretches will be completed by October 15. I have asked all agencies to wrap up repair job by October 15,” he said. But, KMC will give no permission for digging of roads after October 1. “Instructions have been given to put up the name of contractor, carrying out repair works, on a signboard at the site. If the instructions are not followed, action will be taken.,” said an official.While PWD will repair stretches off DH Road, Taratala Road, KMDA will take care of Bypass that include Anandapur, Science City and Ruby connectors. KMC will conduct repair of 26 major thoroughfares, including Chittaranjan Avenue, Raja Subodh Mullick Road, NSC Bose Road, Rashbehari Avenue and Bidhan Sarani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-sets-october-15-deadline-for-pre-durga-puja-road-repairs/articleshow/78137204.cms||Saikat Ray
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||NGOs plan to create awareness on drug menace||HUBBALLI: Some organisations have been working on creating awareness among people against liquor by organising awareness drives. In particular, NGOs are planning to conduct rallies and screen short movies to drive home the message on de-addiction. Rajanna Koravi, president of Zilla Janajagruti Vedike of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Grameenabhivruddhi Yojane B C Trust, said it’s high time to create awareness about drug menace and check the same. “The government has decided to eradicate the drugs mafia from the state. So we are also planning to use this opportunity to curb the menace by creating awareness,” he added. The vedike has approached the district administration seeking permission to host mass rallies and street plays to create awareness against drugs. “If the authorities allow, we are prepared to gather people in hundreds. The vedike is already working for de-addiction, and hundreds of people have been benefited with our programmes. Many have given up liquor,” he claimed. Veena Tonapi, president of Anti-Liquor Initiative Group, said they have planned to organise several activities, including a webinar on ‘Fighting drug menace: From awareness to action’. “Because of Covid-19, we have planned virtual programmes through which the participants will be enlightened on the ill-effects of drugs and the related laws. Even schoolchildren are being targeted in our programmes,” she added. Organisations are also chalking out plans to implement awareness programmes once schools and colleges reopen. Some have prepared short movies to explain the ill-effects of drugs on financial and social aspects of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ngos-plan-to-create-awareness-on-drug-menace/articleshow/78133770.cms||J Abbas Mulla
September 16, 2020||Kolhapur||MPCB notice to KMC for poor handling of biomedical waste||Kolhapur: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has issued a show-cause notice to Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) for poor handling of waste at its Kasba Bawda plant. City-based activist Dilip Desai had written to the MPCB over the alleged activity and had even shared a video that showed waste being dumped in vehicles without proper precautions along with biomedical waste lying at the site in heaps. He had written the complaint stating that the waste is not being treated properly and workers there have not been provided adequate safety gears required for handling biomedical waste. The show-cause notice signed by Ravindra Andhale, regional officer of MPCB, has stated that the waste is lying outside in the open and rain may lead to seeping of chemicals from the waste into the ground. “No safety equipment have been provided to the workers and no details of the waste sent to the other facility for processing has been submitted to the MPCB,” the notice added. The facility, with a capacity of handling 1,600 kg waste per day, is receiving around 4,000 kg of waste mainly from Covid hospitals. The excess waste is being sent to a Taloja-based private facility. Vijay Patil, in-charge of KMC’s waste management, said, “We have been told to reply in seven days to the notice which will be done. All the suggestions will be complied by us for effective running of the plant.” Along with hospitals from the city, the biomedical waste from hospitals from four talukas is also sent to the KMC’s facility. Desai had earlier alleged that the waste is being transported to for recycling. Patil, however, said that the KMC has already refuted the claim and even MPCB has found merit in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mpcb-notice-to-kmc-for-poor-handling-of-biomedical-waste/articleshow/78132634.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||ASI’s daughter jumps to death at Kolkata's Amherst Street||KOLKATA: A 13-year-old Class-VII student allegedly committed suicide by jumping from a 11-storey building around 12.50pm on Tuesday. The incident was reported from the Amherst Street Police Housing Estate. The girl’s father — an assistant sub-inspector posted in the headquarter force at Lalbazar — rushed to the NRS Hospital, where the news of his daughter’s death was told to him. Cops said that the recovery of a suicide note has left them stumped. “While it is clear that she was suffering from depression, we are not sure about the exact reasons behind her decision. Her mother was in the house when the incident took place. We will record the statements of her parents. But at this moment, they are in too much shock,” said an officer. The girl, a student of a reputable English-medium school in Bowbazar, became the third 13-year-old to commit suicide this year. Another student from Regent Park had recently committed suicide during his online class. The note recovered from the student begins with “Hi everyone”. It then went on to talk of her depression. In one sentence, she mentioned that she was not happy with her results in school. In another, she wrote that her only regret was that she would not be able to make it to the IPS any more. The note ends with a simple bye, said a source. “We heard a loud thud and went out to check. We were shocked to find the girl lying motionless,” said a neighbour. The Amherst Street police rushed her to hospital but she had passed away by then. Cops said that with several hints, blaming one aspect would be wrong. A feedback from her school and friends will be taken. According to the NCRB data for the year 2019, the city saw 112 men and 69 women commit suicide. Mental illness was blamed in 139 of the cases, forming the predominant reason behind ending one’s life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asis-daughter-jumps-to-death-at-amherst-st/articleshow/78137206.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 16, 2020||Bareilly||BJP’s Sambhal unit president held in illicit liquor manufacturing case||Bareilly: Police on Tuesday arrested BJP’s Sambhal unit president, Satya Prakash alias Satya, in the manufacturing and supply of illicit liquor. A police party had raided the outer areas and busted the racket operating on an abandoned plot in Sambhal. Around 45 cartons of illicit liquor, each weighing 2,250 litres, worth Rs 25 lakh were seized. SHO Kotwali, Sambhal, Amit Kumar told TOI, “Three accused persons were apprehended by police earlier during the crackdown while two others managed to flee the spot. Combing operation is underway while the case was being investigated. It has come to light that BJP city president Satya Prakash Saini was the kingpin of the racket of spurious liquor that was functional in the district. The accused has been arrested.” Sambhal police, acting on a tip-off, had conducted inspections to crackdown on the manufacturing and supply units of liquor operating in the district.In August, around 45 containers of rectified spirit worth Rs 25 lakh was seized by the police.Huge quantities of urea and other products were also recovered from the possession of accused persons while two four-wheelers were also impounded from the spot. Earlier, three accused—Mahendra of Sambhal, Bittu of Moradabad and another Mahendra of Nakhasa, Sambhal, were arrested.Efforts are underway to arrest others involved in the racket, who are still absconding, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjps-sambhal-unit-president-held-in-illicit-liquor-manufacturing-case/articleshow/78131605.cms||Maria Khan
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 4L degree seats up for grabs in T||Hyderabad: Introduction of new age degree courses in various colleges in the state has led to a sharp increase in the number of seats up for grabs for the academic year 2020-21. According to the Telangana State Council of Higher Education figures, a total of 4.27 lakh seats are up for grabs this year as against 4 lakh seats last year. Of the 4.27 lakh seats, 1.88 are available in bachelor of science (BSc) followed by 1.55 lakh in bachelor of commerce (BCom), 60,863 in bachelor of arts (BA) and the remaining in bachelor of vocational education, business administration, business management, computer applications, social work and diploma.  “We have increased intake for BCom in business analytics by 60 seats this year. The total number of seats now stands at 370,” said Sister P Amrutha, principal of St Ann’s College for Women, Mehdipatnam. Of the total number of seats, 1.66 lakh are available in colleges affiliated to the Osmania University followed by 1.15 lakh in colleges affiliated to Kakatiya University and the remaining in those affiliated to Mahatma Gandhi University, Telangana University, Palamuru University and Satvahana University. While seat allotment for phase 1 was initially scheduled on September 17, Telangana State Council of Higher Education postponed it. “The reason for this is the extension of the last date of registrations and web options of phase 1 till September 9 to consider the request of the parents and students. We will publish the list on September 21. The registrations and web options for phase 2 will begin on the same day,” reads a press statement issued by the DOST convenor on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-4l-degree-seats-up-for-grabs-in-t/articleshow/78135220.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka to borrow Rs 33,000 crore from market to tide over crisis||BENGALURU: Reeling under the Covid-induced economic crisis, the government is set to borrow a whopping Rs 33,000 crore from the market this fiscal year. This is in addition to Rs 18,289 crore GST compensation it’s expected to get from the Centre through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the decision to amend the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002 to borrow Rs 33,000 crore. The proposed amendment will enable the government to increase the borrowing limit from the present three per cent to five per cent of GSDP (gross state domestic product), which can go up to Rs 36,000 crore. The decision is based on the Centre’s one-time leeway to raise the borrowing limit of all states to compensate revenue losses caused by the pandemic. “We have a leeway to borrow Rs 36,000 crore, but considering our requirements, the government will go for Rs 33,000 crore borrowings,” law minister JC Madhuswamy said after the cabinet meeting. However, the decision hasn’t come at a favourable time for Karnataka as it already has huge outstanding market borrowings. “Prior to this decision, the government approximately borrowed Rs 47,000 crore,” said the minister. This would mean the state will have borrowings of roughly Rs 80,000 crore by start of the next fiscal (2021-22). Madhuswamy said with revenue losses having piled up over the past five months, the government had no other option. “While our previous borrowings were mostly for capital expenditure, this time the sum will be utilised for administrative and non-capital expenditure,” he added. The minister said the borrowings will also be used to increase the government’s strength, which is facing staff crunch and has put a freeze on recruitments. “Due to the financial crisis, we had implemented a hiring freeze and put all development projects on hold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-to-borrow-rs-33k-cr-from-mkt-to-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/78134444.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||IGNOU exams to begin from September 17||The first university level exams in Maharashtra will kick off from September 17 as Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) starts its final year papers. In Nagpur region, the exam will be held across 10 cities/towns with almost 2,000 students enrolled. Under the jurisdiction of Ignou’s Nagpur region, exam centres have been set up at Amravati, Chandrapur, Sevagram, Gadchiroli, Kurkheda, Nanded, Buldhana and Amravati Central Prison. Across the country, 3.3 lakh students are registered for final year or semester exams. Ignou vice chancellor Nageshwar Rao told TOI that 1.26 lakh students had already downloaded the hall tickets. Though originally scheduled for June, this exam got delayed due to lockdown. As per UGC mandate, the exam for final year or semester has to be conducted starting September. The exam for various streams will continue till October 16. Across the country, IGNOU has set up 718 examination centres which include 59 inside jails for inmates. Though hall tickets are available online and can be downloaded by students, even those who reached the exam centre without one will be allowed under specific conditions. Such students will have to produce a photo ID issued by the government or by the university and also have their name registered in the list at the centre. Ignou in a public statement confirmed that it will be adhering to all Covid-19 safety guidelines for its exams. All students will be checked for body temperature with the thermo gun. However, unlike JEE and NEET, there is no provision for students with fever to appear for the exam. Officials of Ignou confirmed that students having temperature will be sent back. Those who are unable to appear for the exam this time can appear in December without having to pay any separate exam fee. Ignou exams will be a completely traditional pen and paper format test. Nagpur regional director of Ignou, P Sivaswaroop told TOI that even request of change of centre by students has been accepted. He said due to the Covid-19 pandemic travelling long distances is not a feasible option for many, due to which Ignou has tried their best to facilitate their exams in the nearest centre possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignou-exams-from-september-17/articleshow/78135052.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||SP University finishes 232 exams both in online and offline mode||Vadodara/ Anand: At a time when many state universities are still struggling to conduct exams and declare results, Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Sardar Patel University (SPU) conducted 232 examinations so far and also declare the results.SPU was the first university in the state to kick off offline exams (pen and paper exam) in June-end. Based on government’s directives, the university had to put a halt on its exam schedule but conducted the remaining exams in the month of July.With 45 exams in July, 25 in August and 31 in September, the university has successfully conducted exams with a blend of online and offline modes of around 40,000 students even as it has advanced its plan to conduct internal exams of current academic year by end of this month.While some state universities like Gujarat University, Saurashtra University, Maharaja Krishnakumarsinhji Bhavnagar University and Shri Govind Guru University, Godhra are strictly following offline mode of exams, other state universities like M S University, Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University, Patan, Gujarat Technological University are conducting just online exams.Interestingly, even for the online exams, SPU explored different options. At first, it conducted online exams for three major streams – MSc (chemistry), MCom and MSW – using a software outsourced from a Rajkot-based firm. Later, a software prepared by its own computer science department was used to conduct online exams for students of MCA, MBA and MSc IT among others. Departments like statistics, mathematics, material science among others conducted the online exam on google platform.It is worth mentioning here that majority of students in education town Vallabh Vidyanagar are not locals and stay in private and university-run hostels. Yet, the university has not come across a single case of Covid-19 infection.“Fortunately, not a single student, teacher or non-teaching staffer of our university till date has tested positive of Covid-19 even as we conducted the exams in offline mode,” said SPU vice-chancellor professor Shirish Kulkarni.To ensure that Covid-19 safety protocols are followed strictly, the university hostels have turned into fortress.“When students started returning to their hostels for offline exams, medical teams carried out their complete screening. Later, students were allowed to step out from their hostels only for exams. The gates otherwise remain closed,” he said. Meanwhile, the university has started admission process for post-graduate courses since Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sp-university-finishes-232-exams-both-in-online-and-offline-mode/articleshow/78133448.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt to probe gravel extraction scam||Guntur: Taking serious note of allegations pertaining to irregularities in gravel extraction in the district, the government has ordered a probe. Panchayat raj and mining minister Pedireddy Ramachandra Reddy took the decision after receiving complaints from party legislators in the district and asked district collector Samuel Anand Kumar and mines & geology department director Venkata Reddy to conduct a probe into the issue and submit a report. Sources said the party legislator reportedly submitted a detailed report with evidence which prompted the minister to order the inquiry. The legislator is his report said that large quantities of gravel had been excavated from his constituency without requisite permits and sold to private realtors. The legislator claimed that the gravel was extracted on the pretext of land-levelling work for the house site project under Nava Rathnalu scheme. “The Mandal Parishad Development Officers (MPDOs) of at least 6-7 mandals in the district were involved in the scandal as the gravel was taken away from different quarries disproportionate to the permits issued by the mines department,” the legislator said. He submitted also certain documents to substantiate his point on the illegal mining activity. “The MPDOs requisitioned for supply of about 83,755 cubic meters of gravel for levelling... However, about 1,62,855 cubic meters of gravel was lifted from one mandal which means that nearly 79,000 cubic meters of gravel was sold out illegally,” the legislator said in his letter to the minister. He said that massive illegal mining had not only caused serious damage to the ecology but also caused irreparable loss to the exchequer. The legislator said that field level officials had taken advantage of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s programme to distribute house-sites among the poor to make money. Curiously, an MPDO, who is suspected to have played key role in the irregularities, went on long-leave, soon after the minister ordered a probe into the scandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-probe-gravel-extraction-scam/articleshow/78134151.cms||Samdani MN
September 16, 2020||Kolkata||Broadband infra boost for New Town||Kolkata: As many people are working from home and students are doing classes online, the demand for uninterrupted broadband services has gone up drastically in New Town. The New Town Telecom Infrastructure Development Company (NTTIDCO), a subsidiary of the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), has now planned to identify the shadow zones in New Town, where broadband reach is often difficult. Officials said the pandemic has increased the dependency on internet, both on mobile data and broadband. After Hidco officials held a review meeting with officials of TRAI and several service providers, it was found that internet services in New Town have been satisfactory till now except for some shadow zones in remote locations. Officials said these shadow zones will be identified by NTTIDCO, which will then engage an agency to conduct a quick survey. Special attention will be given by Hidco to see how rapid action connection (RAC) could be done in these places by putting in additional resources on a war footing. NTTIDCO is also working on plans to develop six Wi-Fi hotspots in different parts of New Town. Apart from this, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) plans to impart a provision in its building rules to have proper telecom infrastructure in all highrises and commercial establishments with basement, including cable ducting, tower locations and allied matters for the convenience of residents. Officials said that a committee will be formed by NKDA that will comprise officials from the telecom sector and representatives of the NKDA building plan wing, which will come up with advisories and draft the regulations. A workshop will also be conducted to see how best-in-world internet speeds can be provided to institutions coming up at Bengal Silicon Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/broadband-infra-boost-for-new-town/articleshow/78137223.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver sustains burn injuries in Balapur||Hyderabad: Amjed Khan, an auto driver, sustained 13 per cent burn injuries on his face and leg in Balapur limits on Tuesday. Police suspect it to be an acid attack. “He is still unconscious and only after recording his statement we can confirm whether it was an acid attack. Doctors are also yet to confirm anything. The victim is out of danger and sustained burn injuries on his face and leg,” said Balapur inspector B Bhaskar. Amjed was addicted to alcohol. He consumed liquor early morning and left home saying he is going to work.  “We are checking the Closed-circuit television cameras but cannot find any clear footage of the incident. The shops were closed and so there was hardly any crowd on the road,” added the officer. Police are yet to register a case. The 49-year-old Amjed Khan, a resident of Errakunta, left home early morning. At around 8 am locals found him lying unconscious on the roadside with burn injuries and shifted him to OGH||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-sustains-burn-injuries-in-balapur/articleshow/78135229.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Post-discharge vigil must for Covid-19 patients, says experts||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Managing patients who are testing negative for Covid-19 but continue to have symptoms is the new challenge faced by doctors. Experts point out that those who are testing negative for Covid-19 in the antigen tests must be very careful if the symptoms persist as they can develop complications at a later stage also. There is a popular misconception that once tested negative they can lead a normal life from the very next day. “At present, the people are getting discharged soon after they are tested negative and there are several instances that they continue to have symptoms even after testing negative. This is serious as the patients who are having symptoms should be monitored by the medical officer,” said Dr Arun N M, an internal medicine expert. “A person can be tested negative in eight to 10 days’ time. However, there are many cases of deaths reporting between 14 and 21 days after getting the infection. Hence, the people who are getting discharged with symptoms need to be under strict monitoring for 10 more days,” he added. The isolation should continue at least for a minimum of three days even after the symptoms subside. Though there are no chances of them spreading the disease, they should continue to be in isolation for at least seven days for their well-being. At present in Kerala there are several instances of false negative results even after 10 days of the symptoms and later complications emerge among them. Even the state protocol is to discharge after antigen test negative result, it would be better to go for a RT-PCR again on such cases. This would bring down the casualty. In certain districts, RT-PCR is being done even after antigen test becomes negative, said a community medicine expert. The British Medical Journal had pointed out that “around 10% of patients who have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 remain unwell beyond three weeks, and a smaller proportion for months”. Post-acute Covid-19 symptoms vary widely. Even so-called mild Covid-19 may be associated with long term symptoms, most commonly cough, low grade fever, and fatigue, all of which may relapse and remit, it said. “If the persons are having mild symptoms, then they can be sent for home isolation. But if these persons are having comorbidities and continue to have symptoms even after becoming negative, they should be treated in the hospitals itself,” said Dr Arun. “There is no test of cure for Covid-19. Hence the negative results should not be considered as a cure test. The people who are having mild symptoms even after testing negative can continue in isolation at homes. But symptoms like continuous fever or lower oxygen levels should be dealt seriously. Such persons should not be discharged after testing negative,” said Dr Anoop Kumar A S, chief of critical care medicine, Baby Memorial Hospital, Kozhikode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/post-discharge-vigil-must-for-covid-19-patients-experts/articleshow/78134472.cms||Rajiv G
September 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM reviews work on Ambedkar statue||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to complete the Ambedkar statue and memorial within the next 13 months. He held a review meeting on setting up of the 125- feet BR Ambedkar statue at Swaraj Maidan and the Park Development master plan. Jagan told the officials that the visibility of BR Ambedkar Statue is important and it should be seen from all directions. The ambience of the landscape to be developed at Swaraj Maidan should be pleasant, the chief minister said and directed the officials to finalise the location to set up the statue focusing on a grand look for the statue. The chief minister said constructing a Convention Hall in the park would be useful to everyone. Convention Centre and Food Court should be commercial in the park and the income from these two would be useful for maintenance of the park, the chief minister said. He also advised the officials to minimise concrete structures and develop a park and walking track on the grounds. The chief minister directed the officials to relocate the irrigation department office and other Government offices from the park before commencement of the works and added that the park’s connectivity to MG Road should be good. Representatives of various organisations presented various models of the statue and presentations regarding the construction of the park in the review meeting. Ministers Botsa Satyanarayana, Pinipe Vishwaroop, Adimulapu Suresh, Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Krishna district collector A.Md. Imtiaz and senior officials of municipal, irrigation, finance and social welfare departments were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-reviews-work-on-ambedkar-statue/articleshow/78134214.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t want ‘Covid degrees’, say Nagpur University students||NAGPUR: Nagpur University’s decision to award degrees even on zero marks of MCQ exams and its defence by none other than higher and technical education minister Uday Samant hasn’t gone down well with the final year students. According to them, NU degrees in 2020 would be known as “Covid degrees” if students were to clear exams based on their internal marks only. They said instead passing separately in both internal and theory exams should be the proper way. They said those who study throughout the year would suffer while non-serious students would benefit under present system. “Those who didn’t study would be exposed in interviews by recruiters and university would earn a bad name. Already, NU is infamous for scams like Kohchade and others controversies. If it awards these degrees based on zero marks in theory exams in this pandemic, they would be surely referred as ‘Covid degrees,” said final year MA student Gaurav Harde. Others like NSUI activist Ajit Singh, also a final year student, felt NU was compromising with quality by passing students with zero marks too. “At least, they should have insisted on separate passing in both theory and internal exams. Else, there will be almost 100% results and students like us would be sufferers.” Hislop College student Prathamesh Ghadole also said degrees shouldn’t be solely awarded on the basis of internal assessment. “Most students want to score decently in final year exams. They can't afford to have degrees with such credential. The colleges should be allowed to conduct exams with the help of technology or give home-based assignments, rather than award degrees even on zero score.” His college mate Shubham Shrawankar said exams played a huge role in student's future endeavours. “I firmly believe getting a ‘Covid’ degree would create problems for us in future. The open-book exams and home-based assignments should be encouraged for overall assessments like in top universities abroad,” he said. Surprisingly, ABVP hailed NU’s decision on awarding degrees even on zero score in MCQ tests stating students were already in distress over delay in holding the exams. “Many of them also aren’t aware of MCQ pattern. Hence, their interests should be kept in mind,” activist Amit Patle said. A student from Ambedkar College blamed NU for playing with students’ lives by making a complete mockery of UGC guidelines on holding exams. “Rather than merely completing the formalities and awarding degrees, they should stick to their earlier plan for cancellation of all exams and awarding marks based on past performance and internals,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-want-covid-degrees-say-nu-students/articleshow/78135027.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||3-year-old kidnapped from Nagpur rescued in Indore||NAGPUR: Three-year-old Mohd Adnan Shaikh, who was kidnapped from Bada Tajbagh in Nagpur on Sunday, was rescued by Indore police following information from Sakkardara cops on Monday. Swinging into action immediately after receiving information, Nagpur cops also got the kidnapper trapped by their Indore counterparts. Adnan, who stayed with mother Fatima Shaikh on the footpath near Bada Tajbagh, had been abducted by Feroze alias Bombaiyya. It’s learnt Feroze, who too stayed on the footpath, had already befriended Adnan. He lured the child to accompany him by promising to buy a kite. Fatima thought Feroze would bring Adnan back in some time. When he did not return with Adnan for a long time, Fatima approached the Sakkardara police with a complaint. The cops, under senior PI Satyavan Mane and supervision of Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, took help of cyber experts to trace the whereabouts of Feroze. The cops also conducted searches at the railway station and bus stands, as there was a chance of Feroze fleeing to Mumbai. After Feroze’s location was traced at a certain location at Indore, the Sakkardara cops sought the cooperation of Indore police, who managed to zero in on the abductor and the child. The two are set to be brought back to the city on Wednesday by Sakkardara cops, who have already left for Indore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-yr-old-kidnapped-from-nagpur-rescued-in-indore/articleshow/78135191.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||RU to open hostels for students taking final-year exam||Rajasthan University (RU) has decided to open hostels for final year students who will appear in examination starting from September 18. Final year students were demanding that hostels should be opened as those who are coming from outside Jaipur will find it difficult to arrange accommodation.RU vice-chancellor Rajeev Jain said, “We have issued a notification to open the hostels a day before the examinations and students will be allowed to stay till their test is over. As the examination will be over by October 28, hostels will be shut and students have to vacate the premise.” University administration will soon start sanitizing the hostel campus.Registrar of the university Harphool Singh Yadav said that hostels will be sanitized everyday, including the toilets, and students will be asked to leave as soon as their examination will get over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-to-open-hostels-for-students-taking-final-year-exam/articleshow/78135240.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Congress in revival mode, BJP stares at a leadership crisis||BENGALURU: While the Congress seems to be in revival mode with appointment of new office-bears both at the state and national level, the ruling BJP continues to stare at leadership crisis. In Congress, it’s a problem of plenty with too many leaders aspiring to become chief minister, but the BJP has very few potential candidates to replace CM BS Yediyurappa. Though the BJP leadership has been reportedly mulling finding a suitable successor to Yediyurappa keeping the 2023 assembly polls in mind, party insiders said it has not been able to execute its plans because of various factors, including Union home minister Amit Shah’s unavailability. The political predicament also appears to be taking a toll on Yediyurappa and governance as he hasn’t been able to expand the cabinet. The party leadership, mainly PM Narendra Modi and Shah, has not given Yediyurappa an audience for six months despite him making attempts to seek permission. The CM had planned to meet the duo when he completed one year in office but to no avail. He’s now scheduled to visit New Delhi on Thursday, where he is expected to meet Union ministers regarding flood relief, development projects related to states and GST compensation, official sources said. Speculations are rife in party circles that he may make attempts to meet the PM in the absence of Shah and party president JP Nadda but whether he’ll get nod for cabinet expansion is a million-dollar-question. “If he fails to do so, he would face open rebellion from senior MLAs who are unhappy with the delay and it would lead to another round of political crisis,” said a senior minister. “Further delay is likely. Despite threats from new legislators and our own party functionaries, the CM is unable to expand his cabinet without the central leadership’s assent,” added another functionary. Not all is well in the Congress too. Following the appointment of new office-bearers to the AICC panel, there is an uneasy calm after senior Congress functionaries Mallikarjun Kharge and Siddaramaiah were unceremoniously removed as Maharashtra in-charge and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member, respectively. Senior Congress functionaries are particularly upset with senior MLA from Gadag HK Patil being chosen to replace Kharge. “The party should make a concerted effort to infuse fresh blood in the state-level party organisation and not just play a game of musical chairs of shuffling people across positions. Those with grassroots support need to be inducted to galvanise the party,” said Sandeep Shastri, a political analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cong-in-revival-mode-bjp-faces-leadership-crisis/articleshow/78134450.cms||Manu Aiyappa
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka to borrow Rs 33,000 crore from market to tide over crisis||BENGALURU: Reeling under the Covid-induced economic crisis, the government is set to borrow a whopping Rs 33,000 crore from the market this fiscal year. This is in addition to Rs 18,289 crore GST compensation it’s expected to get from the Centre through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the decision to amend the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002 to borrow Rs 33,000 crore. The proposed amendment will enable the government to increase the borrowing limit from the present three per cent to five per cent of GSDP (gross state domestic product), which can go up to Rs 36,000 crore. The decision is based on the Centre’s one-time leeway to raise the borrowing limit of all states to compensate revenue losses caused by the pandemic. “We have a leeway to borrow Rs 36,000 crore, but considering our requirements, the government will go for Rs 33,000 crore borrowings,” law minister JC Madhuswamy said after the cabinet meeting. However, the decision hasn’t come at a favourable time for Karnataka as it already has huge outstanding market borrowings. “Prior to this decision, the government approximately borrowed Rs 47,000 crore,” said the minister. This would mean the state will have borrowings of roughly Rs 80,000 crore by start of the next fiscal (2021-22). Madhuswamy said with revenue losses having piled up over the past five months, the government had no other option. “While our previous borrowings were mostly for capital expenditure, this time the sum will be utilised for administrative and non-capital expenditure,” he added. The minister said the borrowings will also be used to increase the government’s strength, which is facing staff crunch and has put a freeze on recruitments. “Due to the financial crisis, we had implemented a hiring freeze and put all development projects on hold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ktaka-to-borrow-rs-33k-cr-from-mkt-to-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/78138327.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 7 Covid deaths in Wardha for 2nd straight day||WARDHA: The district recorded 7 deaths for the second consecutive day. 112 persons tested positive for coronavirus and 56 were discharged after recovery. The deceased included four men from Wardha (65, 50, 49 and 70 years of age respectively), a 65-year-old man from Pulgaon, a 54-year-old women from Hinganghat and 70-year-old man from Karanja. The Covid death toll reached 61. The positive cases were recorded from Wardha (53), Hinganghat (27), Deoli (21), Ashti (4), Arvi (3) and two cases each from Selu and Samudrapur. Out of the 630 test reports, 84 men and 28 women tested positive, taking the total count of positive cases in district to 2,741. The district now has 1,313 active patients, and 1,367 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-covid-deaths-in-wardha-for-2nd-straight-day/articleshow/78130388.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||ABVP leader arrested for Samant threat in Nagpur||AMRAVATI: Frezerpura police have arrested ABVP’s Vidarbha Pradesh Mahamantri Ravi Dandge for threatening minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant. Samant told the media that Dandge had phoned his PA on Monday and threatened that ABVP would not let him enter Amravati on Tuesday. Following the threat to Samant, nine activists of ABVP, including Dandge and Chinmay Bhagwat, were rounded up by the police from different localities of the city as a preventive measure. They were detained by Kotwali police. After the minister left, Kotwali police handed over Dandge to Frezerpura police while Bhagwat and the others were released. Frezerpura cops registered an offence of threatening under the relevant section and also under section 151 against Dandge and arrested him around 8.30pm. Meanwhile, ABVP has condemned Samant for the action against workers and also for refusing them a meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/abvp-leader-arrested-for-samant-threat/articleshow/78135097.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Sikkimese warrior doctor stays put to fight Covid-19 spread in Rajkot||Rajkot: Coming from the heights of the Himalayas, this lady doctor from Sikkim can now communicate in Gujarati with her patients. Meet Dr Sange Lepcha, who is doing her post graduation in the ENT department of the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay (PDU) Medical College in Rajkot. “When the first wave of coronavirus swept across the country, I could have gone home to Gangtok in Sikkim, but I chose to stay here and serve the patients,” says Dr Lepcha. “Initially, we used to take 200 samples. Some of the patients would puke on us while giving the samples. Yet, we would remain undeterred. These days, we collect more than 400 samples every day. We also go out of the hospital premises to collect the samples,” describes Dr Lepcha, who has to work while putting on PPE kit through out the day. After clearing National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NET) in 2016, Dr Lepcha had the option to take admission in Rajkot. “I knew the fact that Mahatma Gandhi had studied in Rajkot. Also, women are safe in Gujarat is the fact that I have personally experienced,” she says. “The streets are safe to walk at nights in Rajkot. People of Rajkot are friendly in nature and helpful,” she adds with a smile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sikkimese-warrior-doctor-stays-put-to-fight-covid-19-spread-in-rajkot/articleshow/78133873.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||More vistadome coaches to be added to Araku train soon||Visakhapatnam: Railways minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said a few more vistadome coaches (glass top coaches) would be added to the Araku train soon. Railways had attached one vistadome coach to the train a few years ago. But with the demand growing from tourists, YSRC’s Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy had requested Goyal to consider attaching five more vistadome coaches to the Visakha-Araku train. The minister has written back to Vijayasai, stating that the additional coaches would be attached to the train soon. Meanwhile, finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman informed the Rajya Sabha about the release of Rs 3,805 crore of pending amount towards the Polavaram project. The FM was replying to a question raised by Vijayasai, who informed the House that the project, once completed, will provide water to 23.2 lakh acres in four districts of AP. The MP said the AP government has spent Rs 3,805 crore from its own resources on the project without waiting for the release of money from the Centre. The Comptroller and Auditor General has also audited the figures and has also approved revised estimation for the project. He said chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has also written a letter to the Prime Minister to release the pending amount, adding that the government aims to complete the project by December 2021. Vijayasai also expressed his concern over the recent Air India Express crash in Kerala and requested the government to focus on the safety aspect in airports with tabletop runways or landing strips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-vistadome-coaches-to-be-added-to-araku-train-soon/articleshow/78134184.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka to borrow Rs 33,000 crore from market to tide over crisis||BENGALURU: Reeling under the Covid-induced economic crisis, the government is set to borrow a whopping Rs 33,000 crore from the market this fiscal year. This is in addition to Rs 18,289 crore GST compensation it’s expected to get from the Centre through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the decision to amend the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002 to borrow Rs 33,000 crore. The proposed amendment will enable the government to increase the borrowing limit from the present three per cent to five per cent of GSDP (gross state domestic product), which can go up to Rs 36,000 crore. The decision is based on the Centre’s one-time leeway to raise the borrowing limit of all states to compensate revenue losses caused by the pandemic. “We have a leeway to borrow Rs 36,000 crore, but considering our requirements, the government will go for Rs 33,000 crore borrowings,” law minister JC Madhuswamy said after the cabinet meeting. However, the decision hasn’t come at a favourable time for Karnataka as it already has huge outstanding market borrowings. “Prior to this decision, the government approximately borrowed Rs 47,000 crore,” said the minister. This would mean the state will have borrowings of roughly Rs 80,000 crore by start of the next fiscal (2021-22). Madhuswamy said with revenue losses having piled up over the past five months, the government had no other option. “While our previous borrowings were mostly for capital expenditure, this time the sum will be utilised for administrative and non-capital expenditure,” he added. The minister said the borrowings will also be used to increase the government’s strength, which is facing staff crunch and has put a freeze on recruitments. “Due to the financial crisis, we had implemented a hiring freeze and put all development projects on hold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ktaka-to-borrow-rs-33k-cr-from-mkt-to-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/78138328.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka to borrow Rs 33,000 crore from market to tide over crisis||BENGALURU: Reeling under the Covid-induced economic crisis, the government is set to borrow a whopping Rs 33,000 crore from the market this fiscal year. This is in addition to Rs 18,289 crore GST compensation it’s expected to get from the Centre through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the decision to amend the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002 to borrow Rs 33,000 crore. The proposed amendment will enable the government to increase the borrowing limit from the present three per cent to five per cent of GSDP (gross state domestic product), which can go up to Rs 36,000 crore. The decision is based on the Centre’s one-time leeway to raise the borrowing limit of all states to compensate revenue losses caused by the pandemic. “We have a leeway to borrow Rs 36,000 crore, but considering our requirements, the government will go for Rs 33,000 crore borrowings,” law minister JC Madhuswamy said after the cabinet meeting. However, the decision hasn’t come at a favourable time for Karnataka as it already has huge outstanding market borrowings. “Prior to this decision, the government approximately borrowed Rs 47,000 crore,” said the minister. This would mean the state will have borrowings of roughly Rs 80,000 crore by start of the next fiscal (2021-22). Madhuswamy said with revenue losses having piled up over the past five months, the government had no other option. “While our previous borrowings were mostly for capital expenditure, this time the sum will be utilised for administrative and non-capital expenditure,” he added. The minister said the borrowings will also be used to increase the government’s strength, which is facing staff crunch and has put a freeze on recruitments. “Due to the financial crisis, we had implemented a hiring freeze and put all development projects on hold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ktaka-to-borrow-rs-33k-cr-from-mkt-to-tide-over-crisis/articleshow/78138326.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD staffers celebrate as state gives its go-ahead for Brahmotsava Bahumanam||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) staffers were all cheers after the state government gave its nod to the temple body to pay Brahmotsava Bahumanam to all its staffers as per the original proposal on Tuesday. Brahmotsava Bahumanam was introduced by TTD in 1990 when the temple body paid its staffers 15 days of basic pay without any ceiling for rendering impeccable service to visiting devotees during the nine-day annual Brahmotsavams. Since then, the Brahmotsava Bahumanam paid to regular as well as outsourced staffers has sky-rocketed and in 2019, TTD trust board had resolved to pay Rs 14,000 as Brahmotsava Bahuman to all regular employees and Rs 6,850 to contract and outsourced employees. Overall, the TTD had resolved to give Rs 22 crore to all its regular and outsourced staffers for rendering their allotted duties during the nine-day annual Brahmotsavam in 2019. The Brahmotsava Bahumanam file had been pending with the government for several months but was finally cleared on Tuesday. TTD employees gave thanks to chairman YV Subba Reddy for his efforts in obtaining the government’s clearance for the Brahmotsava Bahumanam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-staffers-celebrate-as-state-gives-its-go-ahead-for-brahmotsava-bahumanam/articleshow/78134087.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 28,600 families screened on first day||Kolhapur: A total of 28,628 families from across the city were screened on Tuesday, the first day of ‘My Family, My Responsibility’, by the teams set up by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). According to a civic official, around 6 lakh people will be screened by the civic teams, comprising over 600 staff, in the next two weeks. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar inaugurated the campaign at Mirajkar Tickti. “The campaign has been initiated to stop the spread of coronavirus. Citizens must provide accurate details of their health condition as the campaign will address multiple concerns. We need to bring down the death rates immediately and save the lives of the citizens,” she said. She added that citizens showing symptoms should be strictly isolated, if possible at home or at isolation centres or covid care centres. On the first day, the ground workers experienced that the citizens are responding positively to the drive and providing all the details. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said earlier similar drives were carried out four times and it is not new for the health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-28600-families-screened-on-first-day/articleshow/78132649.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: ‘DBT in agriculture will empower farmers’||VISAKHAPATNAM: The direct benefit transfer (DBT) of free power scheme would empower farmers to question power utilities on their right to quality electricity, said state energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli. Speaking on the occasion of the 160th birth anniversary of Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya on Tuesday at Vidyut Soudha, the energy secretary said that the state government is spending about Rs 8,000 crore per annum on the free power scheme. “It is making all efforts to ensure farmers get free power for the next 30 years for which the government is also planning a 10,000 MW solar plant as well,” said Srikant. “Under the DBT, the government would deposit the entire amount of electricity bill into the accounts of farmers and, in turn, the farmers would pay to Discoms. As the farmers will pay the bills to discoms directly from their bank accounts, they will clearly know what extent they are using the free power and how much is being spent on it. This will certainly improve transparency and accountability among power utilities,” the energy secretary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dbt-in-agri-will-empower-farmers/articleshow/78134199.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur roads more accident-prone in summers: NCRB study||NAGPUR: Contrary to popular belief that more road accidents occur during monsoon when the roads develop potholes and become slippery, city roads are more dangerous during the summer season, a study on road accidents carried out by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has revealed. The NCRB studied the data of accidents of 2019 calendar year. Altogether 1,119 accidents were reported across the city of which 419 occurred between March and June, revealed the study. These accidents killed 270 people and left 1,119 injured. Winter months too saw more accidents, especially January and November when city roads recorded 105 and 97 accidents respectively. During monsoon months (from July to September), the city witnessed 244 accidents. According to traffic police personnel, the number of accidents was high in summer because of more vehicles on the road as it is vacation time and roads are dug up for various civic work as part of monsoon preparedness. One of the major reasons for rise in accidents is lax enforcement as few cops are on the road due to the harsh weather. During peak summer, it was observed that motorists, especially two-wheelers, tend to avoid spending more time in the heat and jump signals or sometimes drove wrong side leading to increase in accidents. They either collided with other vehicles or hit pedestrians who are forced to walk on the carriageway as the footpaths are encroached. The highest number of road accidents were reported in the peak times of 6am to 12 noon and 6pm to 9pm, while the least number of accidents were reported between 12 midnight and 6am. The accident numbers progressively increased as the day passed. From 6am to 9am, the city roads witnessed 108 accidents, while 187 occurred between 9am and 12 noon and 189 accidents from 6pm to 9pm. The NCRB data also revealed that two-wheeler riders were most vulnerable to road accidents. Of the 270 deceased, 122 were two-wheeler riders, followed by 81 who died after they were hit by trucks, 15 by rashly driven buses, 23 by cars, and nine by autorickshaws. Two bicycle riders and 10 pedestrians too died in accidents in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-roads-more-accident-prone-in-summers-ncrb-study/articleshow/78135227.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 16, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD chairman meets Union finance minister, seeks help on demonetised notes||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams chairman Y V Subba Reddy met finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi on Tuesday and sought her support and help in connection with a few pending financial issues affecting the temple body. Reddy told Sitharaman that despite the Union government’s decision to demonetise Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency on November 8, 2016, devotees continued to drop the notes into the temple’s Srivari hundi, leading to a huge pile-up of demonetised currency. Pointing out that TTD has over 6.34 lakh demonetised currency notes of Rs 500 denomination and 1.8 lakh currency notes of Rs 1,000 denomination, he requested her to give suitable directions to the finance ministry and the RBI to help the TTD sort out the issue that has been dragging on for nearly four years now. Reddy also sought the finance minister’s support to waive off the outstanding service tax and guard charges arrears of Rs 23.78 crore. The TTD chairman said that the temple has been availing the services of AP special protection force (SPF) since 1998, and received a communication from the SPF DG in 2019 that TTD needs to clear Rs 22.27 crore towards service tax arrears. TTD, which availed relief under the Union government’s Sabka Vishwas (legacy dispute resolution) scheme, made a payment of Rs 4.31 crore to the SPF recently. However, the SPF DG again wrote to the TTD and requested the temple body to pay Rs 23.78 crore, which includes Rs 13.63 crore towards outstanding service tax dues from April 1, 2014 to June 30, 2017 along with an interest amount of Rs 10.14 crore till June 30, 2020. Reddy appealed to the finance minister to consider waiving off the pending service tax arrears and provide relief to the temple body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-chairman-meets-fin-min-seeks-help-on-demonetised-notes/articleshow/78134174.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||‘Awareness not lockdown will flatten Covid curve’||JAIPUR: Health experts have suggested engaging communities in launching rigorous awareness campaigns instead of lockdown or restrictions to flatten the Covid-19 curve in the state. During a Corona Awareness Dialogue online programme presided by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday, leading doctors like Dr Naresh Trehan, Dr S K Sarin and Dr Devi Shetty stated that the state must launch short-term and long-term campaigns by taking the communities into confidence. Sarin advocated the need for regulated social policing for the strict compliance of masks while suggesting Gehlot that society to be given the charge of decimating Covid-19. “The campaigns like No Masks, No Entry, should be started across the state. Everyone should be involved in the campaign and if it is followed for four weeks, the curve will fall flat by November,” said Sarin, who is director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi He shared eye-opening reports demonstrate that control is in the hands of every individual. “In our hospital every month, we conduct Covid-19 test of all medical and non-medical staff which reveals that 2% of doctors, 7% nurses and 20% other staff turning positive. It is interesting to note that doctors and nurses remain in direct touch with the Covid patients, while the other staff is not supposed to come in contact with any patients. It is clear that we have become complacent,” said Sarin. The founder and chairman of Medanta-The Medicity, Trehan cautioned people who have become complacent as 98% recover after no or mild symptoms. “It is seen that those who recover after no or mild symptoms develops some lifetime damages in heart or lungs,” said Trehan. He pointed out that politicians should wear masks all the time in public which gives a strong message to the masses while referring to the meeting. The session was attended by government officials from departments to the gram panchayat level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/awareness-not-lockdown-will-flatten-curve/articleshow/78135259.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 300cr donated for Haryana Covid relief fund, Rs 114cr spent: RTI reply||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has spent around Rs 114 crore out of around Rs 300 crore, received under Haryana Corona Relief Fund (HCRF) through donations, for taking remedial measures to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. According to information provided under the RTI Act, the highest amount of Rs 41 crore has been spent by the state for procuring medical equipment and related material. The second highest spending, Rs 35 crore, was for making payments to labour class during pandemic period. The state government also spent Rs 8.21 crore to facilitate movement of stranded persons. It included all those labourers who were sent to their native states by the state government via railway, bus and other mode of transport. The amount has also been released for various other purposes including temporary accommodations, food, clothing, for medical care for people affected and shelters and in quarantine camps, for developing immunity booster and other medicines, for distress ration and boarding and lodging facilities to the doctors and paramedical staff. The state has also reserved Rs 10 crore for ex gratia payments to Corona Warriors. The information has been provided to Aseem Takyar, a Gurgaon based RTI activist, by the senior accounts officer-cum-state public information officer (SPIO) of the Haryana Corona Relief Fund (HCRF) cell of the finance department Haryana on September 9. As per the SPIO, donations are being received through internet banking, IMPS, UPI, direct cheques, unknown donations directly in the Haryana Corona Relief Fund accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-300cr-donated-for-haryana-covid-relief-fund-rs-114cr-spent-rti-reply/articleshow/78135258.cms||Ajay Sura
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Sulphur-like stench in parts of Hyderabad again, locals cry foul||HYDERABAD: Fresh complaints of sulphur-like foul smell have again poured in, a day after the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) issued notices to the commissioner of industries and the member secretary of Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB). Jubilee Hills residents said that early on Tuesday, they were forced to stay indoors because of the foul smell.  “There had been a strange sulphur-like smell permeating Road 56, Jubilee Hills. It made me feel sick, causing heaviness in the head. I had to close all doors and windows to stop the headache,” said Sangeeta Varma, a resident of the area. Ann Oommen, a resident of the same area, also complained of the smell. “I hope the leak can be contained and the source discovered so that it does not happen in future. It may be dangerous and injurious to health,” she said. Several areas from Bachupally to Gachibowli and beyond had been engulfed by the smell last week. On Tuesday, residents of these areas said they had to bear the smell again. Divya B, a resident of Hafeezpet, said: “We’ve been complaining to TSPCB about the pollution for years but no action has been taken. We’ve heard it all from PCB, from no manpower, not being able to recognise the polluting industry to not experiencing the smell when they reach the complaining area hours late.” She says it is almost impossible to put up with the issue. “There have been days when we’ve woken up to this smell or even because of it. Even in the evenings, when one would want to go down for some outdoor activities, it becomes impossible.” Roshan Miranda of Hill County, Bachupally, who suffers from asthma, said: “My wife and I are runners, but we often have to turn back home because of the smell. Even during good weather, we cannot open our windows because the entire area feels like a chemistry lab.” TSPCB sources said it is especially during cloudy weather that the smell is greater. “The heat lets the pollutants rise and disperse, but when it is cloudy the air parcel just moves from place to place,” said one of the officials investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sulphur-like-stench-in-parts-of-city-again-locals-cry-foul/articleshow/78135271.cms||Uttara Varma
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||90 succumb, Punjab death toll rises to 2,514; 2,481 +ve||Chandigarh: Coronavirus snuffed out the lives of 90 people and infected another 2,481 on Tuesday, taking the number of Covid-19 deaths in the state so far to 2,514 and the number of cases to 84,482. Nine districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Mohali, Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot — recorded cases in three figures and accounted for 78% of the cases reported in the last 24 hours. The health department removed 53 duplicate death entries added in the tally of September 14 and nine cases belonging to other states were also removed. The state’s fatality rate stood at 2.97%. When this report was filed, 88 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support, while 481 patients were on oxygen support. Among the new fatalities, 19 were in Ludhiana, 12 in Jalandhar, 10 in Amritsar, eight each in Gurdaspur and Kapurthala, six in Hoshiarpur, five in Ferozepur, four each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala, three in Muktsar, two each in Nawanshahr, Pathankot and Ropar, and one each in Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. The highest of number new cases were reported in Ludhiana, 409, which was also the highest number of new cases recorded in a district in a day so far in the state. Besides, 261 new cases were reported in Jalandhar, 214 in Amritsar, 204 in Patiala, 197 in Gurdaspur, 154 in Hoshiarpur, 189 in Pathankot, 188 in Mohali, and 120 in Bathinda. As many as 84 people were found to be infected in Kapurthala, 81 in Muktsar, 67 in Sangrur, 62 in Faridkot, 48 in Nawanshahr, 43 each in Fazilka and Fatehgarh Sahib, 37 in Tarn Taran, 33 in Moga, 28 in Mansa, 11 in Barnala, seven in Ropar, and one in Ferozepur. A total of 1,815 people were discharged from hospitals, with which the tally for patients discharged so far reached 60,814. The state had 21,154 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/90-succumb-punjab-death-toll-rises-to-2514-2481-ve/articleshow/78135253.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Private agencies to run 10,000 public toilets||HYDERABAD: Thanks to GHMC elections, baby steps towards privatisation of sanitation in the city has begun. By Gandhi Jayanti, around 10,000 public toilets will be constructed in the city which will then be handed over to private agencies. Another change in the sanitation wing is submission of circle-wise self declaration form by officials and staffers to avoid proxy attendance of sweepers. “The six zonal commissioners are identifying only commercial stretches in their respective zones,” said a GHMC official. As per Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme , apart from maintaining 709 kms main roads by taking up road restoration works, the onus on sweeping the main roads also lies with private agencies. “Tenders have not been floated yet, steps to ensure there is no overlap of stretches will be taken,” said Rahul Raj, GHMC additional commissioner for sanitation wing. As per civic body’s estimates, the annual maintenance of all the public toilets is Rs 23 crore. An estimated cost of annual maintenance of commercial stretches has not been drafted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-agencies-to-run-10000-public-toilets/articleshow/78135257.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Back to work after Covid, Khattar reviews govt work from home||Chandigarh: Back home after 20 days of treatment for Covid-19, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday reviewed the progress of state government-run schemes and programmes and issued necessary directions to officers. He asked officers to expedite the process for issuing IDs to properties in HSVP and HSIIDC areas, and raise efforts for distributing Parivar Pehchaan Patras (family identification letters). Other projects which were discussed during the review meeting included a film city in Pinjore, hiring of drones to check illegal mining, and making agri malls functional, among others. Reviewing the arrangement for procuring kharif crops, he directed officers that every farmer registered on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal be asked to indicate dates which will be convenient for them to bring their produce to the mandi of their choice and whether they would like to be paid directly or through arthias. He directed officers to make arrangements for the purchase of farmers’ produce in mandis across the state. He said it should be ensured farmers did not face inconvenience. Those present in the meeting included chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, principal secretary to the CM Rajesh Khullar, additional chief secretary (home) Vijai Vardhan, and additional chief secretary (agriculture and farmers’ welfare) Sanjeev Kaushal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/back-to-work-after-covid-khattar-reviews-govt-work-from-home/articleshow/78135261.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Two more children drown in rain-battered Kalavad taluka||Rajkot: The spate of drowning incidents in Kalavad taluka of Jamnagar, which was battered by heavy rains, continues unabated.Two more children drowned in a water-filled pit in Khad Dhoraji village of the taluka late on Monday evening. Earlier on Sunday, five children had drowned in separate incidents reported from the adjoining Kalmeghda village. Radha Madariya (10) and Sunny Charoliya (10) accidentally fell into the pit while playing outside their house. When they were nowhere to be seen, the families started searching for them and noticed a body floating in the pit. Police were called and both bodies were fished out. The families of both children work as farm labourers. Kalavad taluka has received a total seasonal rainfall of 1,498mm, which is 251% of the average annual rainfall. Due to incessant rains, all reservoirs and water bodies are brimming. In the last 24 hours ending Monday too, Kalavad has received 74mm rainfall. On Sunday, Rahul Thakor (10), his sister Kiran and cousin Riya, both aged five, met similar fate in Kalmeghda village. They fell into the water-filled pit while trying to save themselves from cattle that had run amok. On the same day, nine-year-old Alpesh Shataji and his six-year-old sister Puna were swept away in turbulent waters flowing over a low-level bridge. They were riding pillion on a bike being driven by Vikram Adivasi. Adivasi was, however, saved by locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-more-children-drown-in-rain-battered-kalavad-taluka/articleshow/78133907.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Negligent driving caused 9 out of 10 deaths in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Nearly 90% fatal road accidents in the first seven months of this calendar year were due to negligence of motorists in Nagpur, reveals an analysis of accident figures with Nagpur city traffic police. Negligent driving claimed 100 persons in 112 fatal accidents between January 1, 2020, and July 31, 2020. According to the study, Nagpur city witnessed a sharp decline in road accidents this year compared to the same period in 2019. In 2019 (from January 1-July 31), there were 704 accidents (including 154 fatal ones), while this year there were 458 accidents with loss of 122 lives. Figures show many more men (110) were killed in accidents than women (12). The two-month Covid-induced lockdown is a major reason for the decline in number of accidents, said traffic experts. According to data, seven people died when their vehicle collided with fixed objects such as trees, electric poles etc. Overspeeding claimed the life of five persons, while three died after drivers lost control over their vehicles. A series of accidents at night due to stationary vehicles being hit by others too is a cause of concern for traffic police. In four mishaps vehicles parked on the roads were rammed by other vehicles due to various reasons, including speeding and low visibility. Drunk driving caused two deaths while one person was killed in head-on collision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/negligent-driving-caused-9-out-of-10-deaths-in-mishaps-traffic-police/articleshow/78135280.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 1 crore fine waived, Telangana man returns from Dubai after 13 years||HYDERABAD: A man from Telangana, who was stuck in Dubai for 13 years without any valid documents, landed in Hyderabad on Monday after he got a penalty waiver of 500,000 dirhams (Rs 1 crore) from the UAE government under an amnesty scheme. “No better birthday gift to Pothugonda who returned to Hyderabad today after 13 years with help from the consulate in getting his travel documents, fine waiver and ticket to India. Bit challenging for us, but happy to assist,” consulate general of India office in Dubai tweeted on September 13. No better birthday gift to Sh. Pothugonda, 46, who returned to Hyderabad today after 13 years with help from Consul… https://t.co/Y62Lb7GtGm— India in Dubai (@cgidubai) 1600001156000Jitender Singh Negi, consul, labour, handed over to Pothugonda Medi his air tickets and documents, including a temporary passport for him to fly out of Dubai to India.  His travel back home was speeded up by officials because his birthday was nearing and it was to be a perfect birthday gift. “While he did not have to pay the penalty and also got a ticket from the CGI to fly back home, there is more to his story than just that,” said social worker TR Sriniwas. When Pothugonda walked into the CGI Dubai office on, he could provide no paper evidence as his passport copy had been taken away by his first employer, said Srinivas. “He was literally in tears and in a pathetic situation,” Sriniwas recalled. A post on social media by Sriniwas on October 9, 2019 asking if anyone could identify the person in the photograph with his correct name and address, helped. “One Yeruva Srihari Reddy responded saying the person in the photograph was from his village and that he knew him and his family. That was a major breakthrough,” Sriniwas told TOI. Sriniwas then approached Nizamabad MP Arvind Dharmapuri for help. On July 24, 2020, the MP wrote a letter to the CGI, Dubai after ascertaining that the Pothugonda was from Pegadapalle village in Bodhan of Nizamabad district.  “My office has fully verified physically about his family and house,” Dharmapuri said. Though there variations in some other documents, it was found that he was the same person. Pothugonda is now at a hotel in quarantine and will proceed to his village later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1cr-fine-waived-t-man-returns-after-13-yrs/articleshow/78135245.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||‘Chhota Bheem’ takes on the virus||Ajmer: Chhota Bheem will spread awareness on Covid and social distancing in addition to distributing masks to people moving in crowded places.The district administration on Tuesday launched Chhota Bheem, a popular cartoon character, who will move around the city. “The aim behind the move is that children should learn that they have to maintain social distancing and also wear masks,” said an official. District administration came up with the idea after finding out that Chhota Bheem was the extremely popular among children. People dressed in Chhota Bheem attire will move in different parts of the city especially in places where crowds gather. Beside launching the awareness drive, vehicles have been deployed to spray sodium hypochlorite in the city. “It is important to educate people not to spit in public place and keep distance while moving in the markets,” added the official.In Ajmer, the number of Covid infection is increasing rapidly prompting the administration to order more beds with oxygen facility in JLN Hospital.Former chief medical and health officer and at present superintendent of a private research centre Dr Jawahar Gargia said early diagnosis and early treatment are crucial to saving lives. Meanwhile, penalties were imposed on 242 people who violated Covid protocol in public places which generated a fine of Rs 31,700.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chhota-bheem-takes-on-the-virus/articleshow/78135276.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana set to cross 1 lakh cases||Chandigarh: With a record 26 deaths during the day and 2,493 new cases, Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Tuesday reached 98,622 with 1,026 deaths. Also, a record 2,454 patients were discharged from hospital, taking the number of discharges to 77,166 and pushing the recovery rate to 78.24%. The state’s Covid positivity rate was 6.45%. Active patients in the state are 20,430, including 329 of them who are critical and are on oxygen or ventilator support. Gurgaon topped the state with 324 cases and two deaths. Its tally has reached 15,923. There were 270 new cases and two deaths in Faridabad, taking the district’s total to 16,409 cases with 195 deaths. Hisar got 195 new patients and two deaths. In Ambala, 190 people tested positive and two patients died. Panchkula reported 181 cases and four deaths. It was followed by 173 cases and two deaths in Fatehabad. Rohtak reported 151 new patients. In Karnal, there were 149 new cases and five deaths. Kurukshetra reported 145 cases and two deaths. Yamuanagar reported 123 cases. It was followed by 121 cases in Panipat. Rewari reported 88 new cases, followed by 87 cases and one death in Sirsa and 76 cases in Sonipat.Palwal reported 50 new cases. In Bhiwani, there were 38 new cases and one death. Jhajjar got 34 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-set-to-cross-1-lakh-cases/articleshow/78135284.cms||Manvir Saini
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 1,500cr hawala case: Hyd, Vizag firms under ED radar||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate investigation into the Rs 1,500-crore hawala case has revealed that several companies in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam were involved in laundering of money with the help of shell companies of hawala operator and money launderer Bhimendra Kumar Goyal. An ED official said Goyal had floated around 200 shell firms and done transactions with companies in Telangana and AP. “We have issued summons to these companies and are recording their statements,” he said. Investigations have also found that Anirudh Sharma, who had a long association with Goyal, had ended life after he was questioned by the investigating agencies in 2019 in connection with CID and ED cases. ED officials said Goyal’s son Ayush Goyal was also facing money laundering charges. “The accused had initially smuggled electronic goods into India. Later, Goyal started exporting customised software. Actually, he was routing hawala money in and out in the guise of software exports and imports,” said a senior ED official. Officials said Goyal also has connections with Nepal as his brother operates from there. “From Singapore, he came to Nepal after an Interpol red-corner notice was issued against him. He didn’t choose to fly as he will be caught. From Nepal, he entered India through the land route and surrendered before AP police,” he said. However, with AP police failing to file the chargesheet in the stipulated period, he was out on a bail. “Sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence tracked and arrested him. He was brought to Visakhapatnam under the prisoner transit warrant and produced in the court under PMLA,” said an official. Goyal’s accomplice Vaddi Mahesh set up the shell companies in Viskhapatnam and Kolkata and transferred the money to China, Hong Kong and Singapore. The transactions had initially come under scanner of the income tax department, which alerted the AP police. It was the AP CID which had registered a case first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1500cr-hawala-case-hyd-vizag-firms-under-ed-radar/articleshow/78135320.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Cancer patients at high risk due to Covid-19, say experts||Hyderabad: For those battling cancer, and their families, the Covid-19 situation is worrisome, as cancer and its treatment can lower the ability to fight infection. Patients undergoing cancer treatment have their immune system compromised, making them more vulnerable to infections, including that of coronavirus, said experts. And those with hematological malignancies such as acute myeloid leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma may be vulnerable as these cancers weaken the immune system, experts said. On World Lymphoma Awareness Day, observed on September 15, doctors said the focus was on the means to protect those at risk of infections, and its adverse effects. “Immune system of an individual weakens when put through chemotherapy or immunotherapy or radiation therapy and increases the risk of patients undergoing these treatments to get infected with Covid,” said Dr Bhanu Prakash, Consultant Medical, haemato-oncology, Medicover Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cancer-patients-at-high-risk-due-to-covid-19-say-experts/articleshow/78135288.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kolhapur||548 fresh Covid cases emerge in Solapur district||KOLHAPUR: As many as 548 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 15 deaths were reported from Solapur district on Tuesday. While 73 cases and two deaths were reported from Solapur city, the rural areas of the district accounted for 475 cases and 13 deaths. As many as 91 new cases were identified in Pandharpur tehsil followed by Barshi with 88 cases. As many as 85 people in Malshiras tehsil tested positive. Of the 13 deaths reported from the rural areas on Tuesday, six were senior citizens. Akkalkot, Barshi, Pandhapur and Karmala reported two deaths each. Pandharpur tehsil continues to have the highest number of patients. 1,070 of the 3,794 positive cases reported in the tehsil are active cases. The death toll stood at 85 till Tuesday evening. Barshi tehsil has reported 3,533 positive cases, of which 470 are active. As many 128 people have succumbed in Barshi tehsil. Of the 7,596 positive cases reported in Solapur city, 448 patients have succumbed and 787 are currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/548-fresh-covid-cases-emerge-in-solapur-dist/articleshow/78132720.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu introduces bill to set apart 7.5% MBBS seats for govt school students||CHENNAI: Admitting that the number of government school students securing MBBS seats has become "dismally poor", the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday introduced a Bill to set apart 7.5% of seats in UG medical courses for them. The government runs 3,054 out of 7,968 higher secondary schools in the state and has 3.4 lakh students on its roll in class XII, which is 41% of the total strength. Of the 4,043 state quota MBBS seats, the government school students get only 0.15% of the seats. Introducing the bill, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the AIADMK government had been consistently opposing the NEET, which had become an obstacle to rural students to access medical courses.  "I firmly state that the government of Tamil Nadu will continue to wage a legal battle against NEET... Since 7.5% horizontal quota will ensure equal justice, more than 300 seats will go to the poor students in UG medical courses," the CM said, pointing to the recommendation of a committee constituted by his government in March to assess and analyse the reasons for the lower number of government school students in medical admission. "The committee, in its finding, has reported that the students were placed at a disadvantageous position as compared to their counterparts in private schools due to cognitive gap created by the socio-economic factors such as caste, wealth, parental occupation, parental education, gender and these psychological and socio-economic barriers cannot be bridged by a few months of intensive coaching for NEET, even if provided for free," said the bill, in its statement of objects and reasons. The commission recommended that 10% of seats can be set apart to students from class VI to class XII. The DMK demanded that the quota be increased to 10% and ensure the government-aided schools also get advantageous of the provision. "This is only a first aid to the students and parents affected by the NEET. The government should ensure there is no setback to the bill, legally," DMK Mailam MLA R Masilamani said. Palaniswami said the previous DMK regime had only increased the number of UG medical seats by 300, while the successive AIADMK government 1,400 seats in the last nine years. Additional 1,650 seats are guaranteed in the coming years due to the opening of 11 more medical colleges for which foundation has been laid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-introduces-bill-to-set-apart-7-5-mbbs-seats-for-govt-school-students/articleshow/78146696.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer tehsildar dies of coronavirus||Tehsildar Peetambar Das Rathi, who was tested positive for Covid-19, died on the way to Ahmedabad for treatment on Tuesday. After breathing problems, he was referred to Ahmedabad on Monday. Jaisalmer MLA Ruparam, his wife and all his family members had tested positive on Monday. Municipal council chairman Harivallabh Kall tested positive and was admitted to AIIMS Jodhpur. The cases in Jaisalmer are increasing as large number of people from other places is coming to Jaisalmer. Collector Ashish Modi said that a strict watch was being kept on infected people under home quarantine. There are many cases in which infected people are roaming in the streets. Therefore, vigilance has been enhanced, he said. Additional district collector and CMHO visited Bisani Pada, Ghati Colony and Gandhi Colony and took stock of the situation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-tehsildar-dies-of-coronavirus/articleshow/78135295.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cuts wait for walk-in sample collection to 15 mins||Chandigarh: Samples of anyone approaching the health facilities for voluntarily getting themselves tested for Covid-19 in Punjab will be collected within 15 minutes. To encourage people to voluntarily get them themselves tested and to make the process hassle free, the Punjab government has cut down the waiting period. For timely identification and isolation of people infected with coronavirus, the state government has been pressing people to come forward for testing. However, the long waiting period was deterring people from visiting government-run facilities for testing. Limited time period for collection was also a hindrance. To achieve the time frame, the health department has decided to form additional teams and sampling sites\kiosks at health facilities at different levels. At least three additional teams and three sites will be constituted apart from already existing flu corners for collecting samples of those who come for walk-in testing. To facilitate people, one of the teams will continue to collect samples till 4pm. Earlier, samples were collected only during OPD hours. Minimum of two additional teams at sub-district hospitals and one additional team at community health centres will be formed for speeding up the walk-in testing. These teams will comprise trained manpower such as ayurvedic medical officers, pharmacy officers, community health officers and other paramedic staff. In case of manpower shortage, civil surgeons have been authorised to hire trained volunteers on a daily basis as per norms of National Health Mission (NHM). The move will supplement collection of samples for conventional reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests done at flu corners across the state. To screen all suspected cases of respiratory tract infection or coronavirus, the government has set up 226 flu corners — 19 in district hospitals, 42 in sub-divisional hospitals, 18 public health centres and 142 in community health centres. These corners are serving as the first point of contact for patients. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said cutting down the waiting time was important to encourage people to come forward. “Additional testing points and teams have been formed to expedite the sampling process,” said Dr Bhaskar. Though emphasis is being laid on testing, Punjab still lags behind many states. By conducting 46,420 tests per million, Punjab is slightly ahead of the national average of 42,494.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cuts-wait-for-walk-in-sample-collection-to-15-mins/articleshow/78135292.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||20-year-old woman allegedly raped by two in Patan village||PALANPUR: Two youths were booked for allegedly raping a 20-year-old woman in Balisana village of Patan district on Tuesday. According to the complaint filed by the woman, she that the accused Pankaj Patel of Manunj village had offered her lift at 8pm on Monday. But instead, he took her to an isolated place and allegedly raped. Later, one of his friends also came and raped her, the complaint added. The woman mentioned in the complaint that the second accused was also from Manunj village. Patel and his friend were booked for rape and under the SC/ST (Prevention) Atrocity Act as the woman belongs to the Dality community. The accused are on the run, police officials said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/20-year-old-woman-allegedly-raped-by-two-in-patan-village/articleshow/78133916.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||HC seeks RU, UGC reply on online exams||Jaipur: The issue of PG and UG final year examinations of Rajasthan University reached the Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday. After hearing the petition, the high court adjourned the hearing till Wednesday, seeking response from Rajasthan University and UGC.The petition has requested the court to order the exam in some alternative way instead of the conventional pen-paper method.Petitioner Tej Kumar Yadav said the threat of Covid-19 is even greater now as cases are increasing day by day. There are more chances of the disease spreading among the students if exams are conducted. In such a situation, the university should postpone final year examinations.Counsel for the petitioner Yuvraj Samant said, the students are at their homes, many of them are from other states. At this time, it is not possible for them to sit for the exam. He claimed that the UGC has not given instructions to conduct the examinations in this way.If the examinations cannot be postponed, it can be done either online or in an open book manner. The court then adjourned the hearing till Wednesday, directing UGC, Rajasthan University and the state government to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-seeks-ru-ugc-reply-on-online-exams/articleshow/78135313.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||No registration required for Himachal entry||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh government has now allowed entry in the state without registration. Decision to this effect was taken in the cabinet meeting held here on Tuesday. The cabinet decided to continue with the suspension of interstate movement of buses but kept the decision on opening of educational institutions pending. It also decided to provide relief to tourism industry.  The cabinet also decided to constitute nagar panchayat in Nerwa in Shimla district and make Lamblu and Parwanoo sub tehsils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-registration-required-for-himachal-entry/articleshow/78135328.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: PMC bank accused now held in Rs 1,032 crore redevelopment cheating case||MUMBAI: City economic offences wing (EOW) on Monday arrested developer Sarang Wadhawan (43) in a cheating case of redevelopment of 672 flats for tenants and around 2.3 lakh sq metre constructed area for Mahda. Sarang, a director of Guruashish Construction Pvt Ltd, and other directors allegedly cheated Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority of Rs 1,032 crore. Sarang was arrested last year in the Rs 4,700-crore Punjab and Maharashtra (PMC) cooperative bank loan fraud case and was jailed. “We took him from Arthur Road jail and produced him in court. Sarang was remanded to police custody till September 19,” said an EOW source. The accused have been booked under sections 409 (breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. Mhada chief executive engineer Nitin Gadkari had lodged a complaint and Kherwadi police filed an FIR on March 13, 2018, against the directors of Guruashish, a subsidiary of HDIL. He said the company took up Patra chawl aka Siddharth Nagar Sahkari Graha Nirman Sanstha Ltd at Goreagon (W) for redevelopment. The land was leased to Sarang’s company to build and redevelop nearly 3,000 flats. Of these, 672 were for rehabilitation of Mhada tenants at Patra Chawl. EOW had in February arrested Pravin Raut (58), a director in Guruashish. “The company took up the project for redevelopment from Mhada. The firm was to construct and give 767 sq ft to each tenant and a constructed area of around 2.3 lakh sq metre to Mhada,” the complainant told police. The agreement was executed in April 2008. An EOW source said, “Guruashish sold its saleable component to seven developers for Rs 1,032 crore in 2011-13. In November 2011, there was a deed of modification and confirmation.” It sub-contracted redevelopment to others. Sarang’s father, Rakesh, is also a director and is in jail in the PMC case. Police sources said Guruashish mortgaged its saleable component with IL&FS and Union Bank of India and took a loan of Rs 400 crore. “Police had asked IL&FS and Union Bank for details of transactions, loan agreement and if Guruashish repaid the loan,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pmc-bank-accused-now-held-in-rs1032cr-redevpt-cheating-case/articleshow/78134783.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur & Jaipur report 35% new Covid infections||JAIPUR: The two worst-affected cities — Jaipur and Jodhpur — collectively reported 608 new Covid-19 cases, accounting for 35% of the total cases reported in the state on Tuesday. In Jaipur, 340 persons, while in Jodhpur 268 persons were found infected with the virus as the state reported 1,760 new infections bringing its overall tally to 1,05,898. Fourteen persons died too, taking the state’s toll to 1,264. For the past seven days, the state is setting new records in single-day spike. The figure of 1,760 new infections is the biggest single-day spike the state has ever reported. In active cases, Kota has surpassed Jodhpur and is now at second place in the list of districts currently with highest number of active cases. Jaipur is at the top of the list with 5,671 active cases, followed by Kota (2,614) and Jodhpur (2,243). A health department official said that the state government has taken a major decision on Tuesday of slashing the price capping on Covid-19 test from Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,200 for the benefit of the people. It will help the patients who are going to take healthcare services from private hospitals and laboratories for test. Udaipur reported its 37th Covid death, Sirohi 19th, Pali 49th, Kota 89th, Ajmer 88th, Bhilwara 17th, Churu 10th, Jaipur 302nd, with two more deaths in Bikaner fatalities rose there to 96, Chittorgarh reported two casualties taking its toll to 96, and with two more deaths, Jodhpur’s toll touched 125-mark. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (340), Jodhpur (268), Kota (139), Udaipur (104), Alwar (94), Sikar (90), Ajmer (85), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-jaipur-report-35-new-covid-infections/articleshow/78138886.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Shimla||Last 5,000 cases in 22 days in Himachal Pradesh, 1st 5,000 in 158||SHIMLA: Covid-19 cases crossed the 10,000 mark in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday — with 5,000 of these cases being reported in last 22 days. The first 5,000 cases in the state were reported over 158 days, from March 19 to August 24. With a record high 419 new cases and eight deaths during the day, the hill state’s tally reached 10,335 cases and 88 fatalities. At the moment, 3,801 cases are active, 6,417 patients have recovered, 88 have died and 27 have migrated out of the state. Also, 250 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. The latest spike in cases has come after the state government allowed the entry of Himachalis stranded in different parts of country. With cases and deaths continuing to rise due to the virus, opposition Congress on Tuesday forced the government to allow a discussion on the issue during the ongoing monsoon session of state assembly here. For the first time in the history of state assembly, adjournment notice was accepted and discussion was allowed under Rule-67. Mandi reported the highest number of new fatalities, three. It was followed by two deaths in Una, and one each in Kangra, Shimla and Solan. In the state assembly in Shimla, Congress alleged that state government failed to deal with the pandemic effectively. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state did not even have a testing facility at the start and samples were being sent to AIIMS, Delhi, and National Institute of Virology, Pune, for testing. “Today, Himachal Pradesh can test over 5,000 samples in a day. Earlier, we had only 60 ventilators in the state, but today we have 640 ventilators, of which 500 ventilators have been provided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he added. He said Himachal Pradesh’s postion was 25th when it came to Covid cases, and this showed that state had handled the pandemic effectively. He also cited the state’s fatality rate. The CM also cited restrictions which had been put in place in March to control the virus’s spread. Following the death of Tenzin Choephel (69), a Tibetan-origin man who lived in Mcleodganj and had returned from US, due to Covid-19 on March 23, the state government had cut short the budget session of assembly and lockdown was imposed in the entire state on same day, the CM added. Himachal Pradesh is the only state that has still continued with the provision of institutional quarantine facility, he said. “People coming from high load cities are being quarantined and are being quarantined only after that are being allowed to go to their homes,” the CM added. Thakur informed the state assembly that state government had installed oxygen gas pipelines at dedicated Covid hospitals on a warfooting and adequate availability of oxygen cylinders was also being ensured. Among the new cases, 16 were from Bilaspur, five from Chamba, eight from Hamirpur, 36 from Kangra, seven from Kullu, 121 from Mandi, 44 from Shimla, 60 from Sirmaur, 87 from Solan, and 35 from Una. Patients who recovered include 26 each from Bilaspur and Chamba, 59 from Hamirpur, 19 from Kangra, two from Kinnaur, 19 from Kullu, 44 from Mandi, 17 from Shimla, 14 from Solan, and 24 from Una. In all, 543 cases have been reported in Bilaspur, 644 in Chamba, 746 in Hamirpur, 1,567 in Kangra, 121 in Kinnaur, 395 in Kullu, 29 in Lahaul-Spiti, 1,030 in Mandi, 676 in Shimla, 1,319 in Sirmaur, 2,359 in Solan, and 906 in Una. The death toll has reached 18 each in Kangra and Solan, 13 in Shimla, 11 in Mandi, 10 in Una, six in Sirmaur, five each in Chamba and Hamirpur, and one each in Bilaspur and Kullu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/last-5000-cases-in-22-days-in-hp-1st-5k-in-158/articleshow/78135304.cms||Anand Bodh
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Over 1,000 shops remain closed voluntarily||Rajkot: At least 1,000 shops in the old market areas of Rajkot voluntarily remained completely or partially closed on Tuesday in wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the city. The wholesale cloth market in Diwanpara housing over 200 shops remained closed for the day. The gold market or Sani Bazar as it is locally known, has shut down since Saturday last. The jewellers in the Soni Bazar 50kg of yellow metal into beautiful jewellery every day. The partial closure of the wholsale grain market of Danapith since last two days has affected the supply of grain and grocery in the district. As the main markets in the city closed down voluntarily, the traffic sought of disappeared from the roads. The narrow congested lanes that clogged the city traffic looked wider and emptier than ever on Tuesday. “The traders on Dhebar road, Para Bazar, Dharmendra road and Lakhajiraj road did not join the self-imposed lockdown collectively, but some traders individually closed the shops early,” said a trader Mahesh Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/over-1000-shops-remain-closed-voluntarily/articleshow/78133935.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur & Jaipur report 35% new Covid infections||JAIPUR: The two worst-affected cities — Jaipur and Jodhpur — collectively reported 608 new Covid-19 cases, accounting for 35% of the total cases reported in the state on Tuesday. In Jaipur, 340 persons, while in Jodhpur 268 persons were found infected with the virus as the state reported 1,760 new infections bringing its overall tally to 1,05,898. Fourteen persons died too, taking the state’s toll to 1,264. For the past seven days, the state is setting new records in single-day spike. The figure of 1,760 new infections is the biggest single-day spike the state has ever reported. In active cases, Kota has surpassed Jodhpur and is now at second place in the list of districts currently with highest number of active cases. Jaipur is at the top of the list with 5,671 active cases, followed by Kota (2,614) and Jodhpur (2,243). A health department official said that the state government has taken a major decision on Tuesday of slashing the price capping on Covid-19 test from Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,200 for the benefit of the people. It will help the patients who are going to take healthcare services from private hospitals and laboratories for test. Udaipur reported its 37th Covid death, Sirohi 19th, Pali 49th, Kota 89th, Ajmer 88th, Bhilwara 17th, Churu 10th, Jaipur 302nd, with two more deaths in Bikaner fatalities rose there to 96, Chittorgarh reported two casualties taking its toll to 96, and with two more deaths, Jodhpur’s toll touched 125-mark. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (340), Jodhpur (268), Kota (139), Udaipur (104), Alwar (94), Sikar (90), Ajmer (85), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-jaipur-report-35-new-covid-infections/articleshow/78135327.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan govt to Centre: Supply 100KL of oxygen for Covid patients||JAIPUR: After exploiting all available options, the state government has now requested the Centre to supply 100 kilolitres (KL) of oxygen daily for treatment of Covid patients. The oxygen is needed for High flow nasal cannula (HFNC), a type of therapy useful for Covid patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Over the last 15 days, the demand for oxygen has shot up significantly. Existing oxygen refilling plants in some government hospitals having capacity of 35 to 90 cylinders per day are proving insufficient. According to health department officials, the demand has doubled now compared to 15 days ago. The overall demand for oxygen in hosptials, which was 4,000 to 4,500 cylinders around 15 days ago , now has increased to 8,000 to 9,000 cylinders. “During a video conferencing two days ago, we told the Centre about increasing demand of oxygen in hospitals for Covid treatment. We have demanded 100KL oxygen, which is equivalent to 8,500 cylinders, daily for patients,” said Naresh Thakral, National Health Mission (mission director), health department. As on September 14), 486 Covid patients in government hospitals and 659 patients in private hospital were underging treatment with oxygen support. Each patient on oxygen support requires at least five cylinders daily, health department officials claimed. Apart from Covid patients on HFNC, there are other patients on ventilators undergoing treatment for other ailments. The state government has asked firms producing oxygen for medical and industrial purposes to provide more oxygen for medical use. In the state, 24 firms are producing 12,000 oxygen cylinders daily. Out of the 12,000, the state government was getting 4,000 to 5,000 cylinders for medical purposes in hospitals and rest 7,000 to 8,000 was used in industries. But, now 6,000 cylinders are being supplied to hospitals and 6,000 cylinders to industries. The state government cannot increase the share of oxygen for medical use further as it will affect industries, which is why, the state government has appealed to the Centre to provide 100KL oxygen daily. Dealing with increasing demand, the state government has directed a firm in Bhiwadi, which was not supplying oxygen for medical use to the state government earlier, to supply two to three tankers of oxygen daily. Each tanker has a capacity of 1,700 cylinders. Besides, private hospitals and nursing homes society (PHNHS) claimed that a patient on high flow oxygen requires at least 11 cylinders of oxygen daily. “Earlier, the cost of one cylinder was Rs 375 but the suppliers increased it to Rs 550 per cylinder, which is almost 40% more than the earlier prices,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary PHNHS. While the demand for oxygen has increased, Jaipur Medical Association (JMA) president Dr Tarun Patni said, “The firms had increased the prices of oxygen by 40%. But, when we raised the voice, the government managed to bring it down slightly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-to-centre-supply-100kl-of-oxygen-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78138844.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan govt to Centre: Supply 100KL of oxygen for Covid patients||JAIPUR: After exploiting all available options, the state government has now requested the Centre to supply 100 kilolitres (KL) of oxygen daily for treatment of Covid patients. The oxygen is needed for High flow nasal cannula (HFNC), a type of therapy useful for Covid patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Over the last 15 days, the demand for oxygen has shot up significantly. Existing oxygen refilling plants in some government hospitals having capacity of 35 to 90 cylinders per day are proving insufficient. According to health department officials, the demand has doubled now compared to 15 days ago. The overall demand for oxygen in hosptials, which was 4,000 to 4,500 cylinders around 15 days ago , now has increased to 8,000 to 9,000 cylinders. “During a video conferencing two days ago, we told the Centre about increasing demand of oxygen in hospitals for Covid treatment. We have demanded 100KL oxygen, which is equivalent to 8,500 cylinders, daily for patients,” said Naresh Thakral, National Health Mission (mission director), health department. As on September 14), 486 Covid patients in government hospitals and 659 patients in private hospital were underging treatment with oxygen support. Each patient on oxygen support requires at least five cylinders daily, health department officials claimed. Apart from Covid patients on HFNC, there are other patients on ventilators undergoing treatment for other ailments. The state government has asked firms producing oxygen for medical and industrial purposes to provide more oxygen for medical use. In the state, 24 firms are producing 12,000 oxygen cylinders daily. Out of the 12,000, the state government was getting 4,000 to 5,000 cylinders for medical purposes in hospitals and rest 7,000 to 8,000 was used in industries. But, now 6,000 cylinders are being supplied to hospitals and 6,000 cylinders to industries. The state government cannot increase the share of oxygen for medical use further as it will affect industries, which is why, the state government has appealed to the Centre to provide 100KL oxygen daily. Dealing with increasing demand, the state government has directed a firm in Bhiwadi, which was not supplying oxygen for medical use to the state government earlier, to supply two to three tankers of oxygen daily. Each tanker has a capacity of 1,700 cylinders. Besides, private hospitals and nursing homes society (PHNHS) claimed that a patient on high flow oxygen requires at least 11 cylinders of oxygen daily. “Earlier, the cost of one cylinder was Rs 375 but the suppliers increased it to Rs 550 per cylinder, which is almost 40% more than the earlier prices,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary PHNHS. While the demand for oxygen has increased, Jaipur Medical Association (JMA) president Dr Tarun Patni said, “The firms had increased the prices of oxygen by 40%. But, when we raised the voice, the government managed to bring it down slightly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-to-centre-supply-100kl-of-oxygen-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78138840.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||SGPC task force thrashes Nihangs protesting against missing saroops||AMRITSAR: The SGPC task force and Nihang Sikh activists, who were among the protesting Sikh organisations who are demanding information about the 328 missing saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and strict action against the culprits, entered into a scuffle on Tuesday morning after the former used force to disperse the protesters trying to enter the SGPC office. SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said a scuffle broke out between the two groups after some Nihangs tried to raise a banner with derogatory remarks against SGPC officials and were prevented from doing so. On Monday night, the SGPC had set up barricades on the road leading to Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib to prevent the protesters from entering the SGPC complex. However, following a verbal duel, the SGPC task force thrashed the protesters with batons, leading to complete chaos for around 20 minutes in the SGPC complex, in which turbans of Nihang Sikh activists were flung around and many brandished swords. A few media persons were also manhandled and their equipment damaged. A number of devotees paying obeisance at the Golden Temple also joined the protesters. “We are getting reports of a few Sikhs having sustained injuries,” said Balbir Singh Muchal of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee. He said they would not lift the dharna till police cases are registered against those held guilty in Ishar Singh’s investigation report into the 328 missing saroops. Muchal, who had joined the sit-in at the SGPC’s office complex, claimed that a senior SGPC official had sought an apology for the lathicharge on agitating Sikh activists. Professor Baljinder Singh of the Hawara Panel, one of the seven-member committee formed for ‘morcha’ over the missing saroops, said a delegation met SGPC officials and demanded an emergency meeting of the executive body to pass a resolution for registration of police cases against the guilty persons as per the report of Ishar Singh. He denied that an apology had been sought for cane-charging Sikh activists and media persons. Ramdas said senior officials of the SGPC as well as Panthic leaders were in constant touch with agitating Sikh groups and hopeful of resolving the issue in the near future. Regarding missing saroops, he said the SGPC has already taken strict action against those found guilty. “They have not only been suspended from jobs but we will also recover the bheta (offering) of Guru Granth Sahib from their service funds,” he said. Some people were unnecessarily creating confusion through false social media posts, he alleged. Later in the day, it was learnt that the protesters had shifted the morcha from outside the SGPC office gate to another place nearby. The Sikh activists had started an indefinite protest on Monday at the main gate of the Teja Singh Samundri Hall, the headquarters of the apex gurdwara body that is facing flak from the community over the missing saroops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-task-force-thrashes-nihangs-protesting-against-missing-saroops/articleshow/78135329.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Thief steals Rs1.66L from ATM using new techniques in Nagpur||NAGPUR: An unidentified thief decamped with Rs1.66 lakh cash from an SBI ATM at Ashirwad Nagar last Saturday. He laid his hands on the cash with a unique technique causing minimum damage to the machine. The thief took out the amount in the early hours of the day when there was no security guard. As per the CCTV footage procured from the ATM centre, the thief repeatedly removed some cash between 6am and 7.45am until machine stopped functioning. Police said the thief is likely to be an expert well-acquainted with the system. Wearing a mask and cap, the thief would use an ATM card and its pin to give a command of withdrawal. As the noise of counting of the cash would start, the man would insert a screw driver-like tool inside the cash shutter to stop the process and manually take the currency notes out resulting into a ‘failed transaction’ message. He repeatedly used the modus operandi to pocket the cash. The theft came to notice after the technicians were alerted by a customer about the malfunctioning of the ATM. It’s learnt that the thief had used an ATM card of an account holder of Bank of India from Bihar. The man had a balance of around Rs10,000. The cops said the thief must have been using a stolen or a cloned card. Sakkardara police have registered a case of theft and are further investigation the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thief-steals-rs1-66l-from-atm-using-new-techniques/articleshow/78135363.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Multani case: Supreme Court grants Sumedh Singh Saini interim protection from arrest||MOHALI: The Supreme Court of India has granted interim protection from arrest to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the alleged disappearance and murder of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991. The case came up for hearing on Tuesday after Saini had challenged the September 7 order of the Punjab and Haryana high court refusing to grant him anticipatory bail. The bench questioned senior advocate Siddharth Luthra, appearing for the Punjab government, over the haste to arrest Saini after 29 years of the case. The interim protection has been given by a division bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah. Luthra told the court that the former DGP having “Z” plus security is absconding. SC also directed Saini to cooperate with Punjab Police in the investigation. The apex court has also asked Punjab to file a reply within three weeks and told Saini to file a rejoinder within one week after this. The case now is listed for regular hearing after four weeks. SC order reads, “In the meantime, petitioner shall not be arrested in connection with FIR No.0077 of Police Station Mataur for offences under Sections 364, 201, 344, 330, 219, 120-B and 302 of the IPC subject to him cooperating with the investigation.’’ The petitioner’s legal team comprised senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and APS Deol supported by four other advocates and the state’s counsels were senior advocates Sidharth Luthra, Harin P Rawal, Sartej Singh Narula and 8 other advocates. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who was representing Saini, submitted that Saini was a decorated police officer being hounded politically. He prayed before the three-judge bench that it is a very serious matter as Saini is a decorated police officer, a dedicated and hard working officer who also suffered bullet injuries while performing his duties fearlessly. He further stated that Saini was then SSP and was attacked by a bomb by terrorists and Multani was a proclaimed offender in a case. Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that killed three policemen and left Saini injured. Trouble started for Saini when the two of his co-accused cops turned approvers and recorded statements against him, corroborating the series of incidents which proved that Multani was brutally tortured, made to disappear and finally eliminated at the behest of Saini. Thereafter, one independent witness, a resident of Sector 33 and an advocate, G K Mann also deposed against Saini, becoming approver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/multani-case-sc-grants-saini-interim-protection-from-arrest/articleshow/78135362.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry extends validity of pvt security agency licences till Dec||Chandigarh: In a major relief to operators of private security agencies, controlling authority of Haryana has extended the validity till December 31, 2020, of all licences issued under the Haryana Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005, which were expiring between April 1, 2020, and December 31, 2020. Giving this information, additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk, who is also the controlling authority of Haryana private security agencies, said taking into consideration the present circumstances and the hardships faced by general public and private security agency operators, this step had been taken. The state police have already granted licences to over 1,050 private security agencies while more than 140 licences have been renewed after the enactment of the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act in the 2006 in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-extends-validity-of-pvt-security-agency-licences-till-dec/articleshow/78135366.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt to Centre: Supply 100KL of oxygen for Covid patients||JAIPUR: After exploiting all available options, the state government has now requested the Centre to supply 100 kilolitres (KL) of oxygen daily for treatment of Covid patients. The oxygen is needed for High flow nasal cannula (HFNC), a type of therapy useful for Covid patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Over the last 15 days, the demand for oxygen has shot up significantly. Existing oxygen refilling plants in some government hospitals having capacity of 35 to 90 cylinders per day are proving insufficient. According to health department officials, the demand has doubled now compared to 15 days ago. The overall demand for oxygen in hosptials, which was 4,000 to 4,500 cylinders around 15 days ago , now has increased to 8,000 to 9,000 cylinders. “During a video conferencing two days ago, we told the Centre about increasing demand of oxygen in hospitals for Covid treatment. We have demanded 100KL oxygen, which is equivalent to 8,500 cylinders, daily for patients,” said Naresh Thakral, National Health Mission (mission director), health department. As on September 14), 486 Covid patients in government hospitals and 659 patients in private hospital were underging treatment with oxygen support. Each patient on oxygen support requires at least five cylinders daily, health department officials claimed. Apart from Covid patients on HFNC, there are other patients on ventilators undergoing treatment for other ailments. The state government has asked firms producing oxygen for medical and industrial purposes to provide more oxygen for medical use. In the state, 24 firms are producing 12,000 oxygen cylinders daily. Out of the 12,000, the state government was getting 4,000 to 5,000 cylinders for medical purposes in hospitals and rest 7,000 to 8,000 was used in industries. But, now 6,000 cylinders are being supplied to hospitals and 6,000 cylinders to industries. The state government cannot increase the share of oxygen for medical use further as it will affect industries, which is why, the state government has appealed to the Centre to provide 100KL oxygen daily. Dealing with increasing demand, the state government has directed a firm in Bhiwadi, which was not supplying oxygen for medical use to the state government earlier, to supply two to three tankers of oxygen daily. Each tanker has a capacity of 1,700 cylinders. Besides, private hospitals and nursing homes society (PHNHS) claimed that a patient on high flow oxygen requires at least 11 cylinders of oxygen daily. “Earlier, the cost of one cylinder was Rs 375 but the suppliers increased it to Rs 550 per cylinder, which is almost 40% more than the earlier prices,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary PHNHS. While the demand for oxygen has increased, Jaipur Medical Association (JMA) president Dr Tarun Patni said, “The firms had increased the prices of oxygen by 40%. But, when we raised the voice, the government managed to bring it down slightly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-to-centre-supply-100kl-of-oxygen-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78138842.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Amritsar||SGPC task force thrashes Nihangs protesting against missing saroops||AMRITSAR: The SGPC task force and Nihang Sikh activists, who were among the protesting Sikh organisations who are demanding information about the 328 missing saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and strict action against the culprits, entered into a scuffle on Tuesday morning after the former used force to disperse the protesters trying to enter the SGPC office. SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said a scuffle broke out between the two groups after some Nihangs tried to raise a banner with derogatory remarks against SGPC officials and were prevented from doing so. On Monday night, the SGPC had set up barricades on the road leading to Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib to prevent the protesters from entering the SGPC complex. However, following a verbal duel, the SGPC task force thrashed the protesters with batons, leading to complete chaos for around 20 minutes in the SGPC complex, in which turbans of Nihang Sikh activists were flung around and many brandished swords. A few media persons were also manhandled and their equipment damaged. A number of devotees paying obeisance at the Golden Temple also joined the protesters. “We are getting reports of a few Sikhs having sustained injuries,” said Balbir Singh Muchal of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee. He said they would not lift the dharna till police cases are registered against those held guilty in Ishar Singh’s investigation report into the 328 missing saroops. Muchal, who had joined the sit-in at the SGPC’s office complex, claimed that a senior SGPC official had sought an apology for the lathicharge on agitating Sikh activists. Professor Baljinder Singh of the Hawara Panel, one of the seven-member committee formed for ‘morcha’ over the missing saroops, said a delegation met SGPC officials and demanded an emergency meeting of the executive body to pass a resolution for registration of police cases against the guilty persons as per the report of Ishar Singh. He denied that an apology had been sought for cane-charging Sikh activists and media persons. Ramdas said senior officials of the SGPC as well as Panthic leaders were in constant touch with agitating Sikh groups and hopeful of resolving the issue in the near future. Regarding missing saroops, he said the SGPC has already taken strict action against those found guilty. “They have not only been suspended from jobs but we will also recover the bheta (offering) of Guru Granth Sahib from their service funds,” he said. Some people were unnecessarily creating confusion through false social media posts, he alleged. Later in the day, it was learnt that the protesters had shifted the morcha from outside the SGPC office gate to another place nearby. The Sikh activists had started an indefinite protest on Monday at the main gate of the Teja Singh Samundri Hall, the headquarters of the apex gurdwara body that is facing flak from the community over the missing saroops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sgpc-task-force-thrashes-nihangs-protesting-against-missing-saroops/articleshow/78142347.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Worker from Bihar gets life for raping & killing minor||Hyderabad: A 21-year-old labourer from Bihar was given life imprisonment for raping and killing the six-year-old daughter of a daily wage earner in Alwal in 2019. The accused, a native of West Champaran of Bihar, was staying in Alwal. The incident happened in March 2019 while the girl was celebrating Holi and playing with her brother. The accused lured the girl, who used to stay in the same locality, by offering her snack. He took the girl close to the railway track, selected an uneven place with bushes and raped her. When the victim started shouting in pain, the accused allegedly got irritated and slit her throat with an iron wire. He left the body near the bushes and fled. The victim bled to death. The family had lodged a missing complaint when the victim, an kindergarten student, was nowhere to be found. One of the locals found her body near the railway track during a search operation with the police. Police then tracked the accused. He was convicted for rape and murder of the minor girl on Tuesday and was sentenced to undergo life imprisonment till death and pay Rs 5,000 as fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worker-from-bihar-gets-life-for-raping-killing-minor/articleshow/78135365.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Online non-Covid OPD for Haryana patients||Chandigarh: To ensure uninterrupted health services during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, an online health facility ‘Stay Home OPD’ has been started in Haryana, health minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday. This facility has been started under ‘e-Sanjeevani OPD’ in which people suffering from various ailments can get themselves registered on the ‘e-Sanjeevani OPD’ app to get free online medical consultation. The facility will be available from 10am to 1am and 3pm to 5pm from Monday to Saturday. A qualified team of physicians and psychologists have been deputed for the job. Vij said due to the difficult circumstances arising due to Covid-19 pandemic, people suffering from other medical ailments faced a lot of problems. So, the Union government launched ‘e-Sanjeevani OPD’. This service has been started in Haryana too, under which more than 1,000 patients have benefited from it so far. This facility is being provided free of cost to all patients of the state. For this, patients will have to download the ‘e-Sanjeevani OPD’ app in their mobile phone, after which a token number will be generated. The minister said any patient can get online consultation by connecting with the doctor concerned using a laptop, desktop or Android smartphone while staying at home. A patient can upload all his reports and get information about the disease and the required line of treatment from the doctor. After this, the doctor will also give an online prescription to his patient, which will be valid for all other health facilities in Haryana for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-non-covid-opd-for-haryana-patients/articleshow/78135354.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to Centre: Supply 100KL of oxygen for Covid patients||JAIPUR: After exploiting all available options, the state government has now requested the Centre to supply 100 kilolitres (KL) of oxygen daily for treatment of Covid patients. The oxygen is needed for High flow nasal cannula (HFNC), a type of therapy useful for Covid patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Over the last 15 days, the demand for oxygen has shot up significantly. Existing oxygen refilling plants in some government hospitals having capacity of 35 to 90 cylinders per day are proving insufficient. According to health department officials, the demand has doubled now compared to 15 days ago. The overall demand for oxygen in hosptials, which was 4,000 to 4,500 cylinders around 15 days ago , now has increased to 8,000 to 9,000 cylinders. “During a video conferencing two days ago, we told the Centre about increasing demand of oxygen in hospitals for Covid treatment. We have demanded 100KL oxygen, which is equivalent to 8,500 cylinders, daily for patients,” said Naresh Thakral, National Health Mission (mission director), health department. As on September 14), 486 Covid patients in government hospitals and 659 patients in private hospital were underging treatment with oxygen support. Each patient on oxygen support requires at least five cylinders daily, health department officials claimed. Apart from Covid patients on HFNC, there are other patients on ventilators undergoing treatment for other ailments. The state government has asked firms producing oxygen for medical and industrial purposes to provide more oxygen for medical use. In the state, 24 firms are producing 12,000 oxygen cylinders daily. Out of the 12,000, the state government was getting 4,000 to 5,000 cylinders for medical purposes in hospitals and rest 7,000 to 8,000 was used in industries. But, now 6,000 cylinders are being supplied to hospitals and 6,000 cylinders to industries. The state government cannot increase the share of oxygen for medical use further as it will affect industries, which is why, the state government has appealed to the Centre to provide 100KL oxygen daily. Dealing with increasing demand, the state government has directed a firm in Bhiwadi, which was not supplying oxygen for medical use to the state government earlier, to supply two to three tankers of oxygen daily. Each tanker has a capacity of 1,700 cylinders. Besides, private hospitals and nursing homes society (PHNHS) claimed that a patient on high flow oxygen requires at least 11 cylinders of oxygen daily. “Earlier, the cost of one cylinder was Rs 375 but the suppliers increased it to Rs 550 per cylinder, which is almost 40% more than the earlier prices,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary PHNHS. While the demand for oxygen has increased, Jaipur Medical Association (JMA) president Dr Tarun Patni said, “The firms had increased the prices of oxygen by 40%. But, when we raised the voice, the government managed to bring it down slightly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-to-centre-supply-100kl-of-oxygen-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78135364.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Districts say they have enough oxygen cylinders||Jodhpur/Udaipur/Kota/Alwar/Jaisalmer: Demand for oxygen in hospitals for Covid-19 treatment has increased across the state. Claiming there is no crisis of oxygen in districts, government authorities accepted that demand had increased but there’s no short supply. In Udaipur, the Covid ward at the RNT Medical College is reportedly getting uninterrupted supply of oxygen cylinders. Sources claimed that scarcity of cylinders was not leading to deaths of patients but delay in getting the cylinders to patients’ beds is the real culprit. The central system of oxygen supply through the pipeline has some faults and hence in many wards it is not working properly. The staff has to carry the cylinders to patients’ beds and delay in this process is disturbing. “There is ample supply of oxygen cylinders in Udaipur Covid hospital. If ever the stock ran short, its readily supplied on call by the supplier,” Dr Baldev Meena, incharge ESI/COVID hospital, Udaipur, told TOI.In Jodhpur, principal of S N Medical College G L Meena claimed that there was adequate availability of oxygen in both MG Hospital and MDM Hospital. AIIMS is also said to have adequate oxygen available to deal with any exigencies. Deputy medical superintendent of AIIMS Naveen Dutt said the institute has adequate availability of oxygen. In Jaisalmer, there is no shortage of oxygen in the two main hospitals namely Jawahar Hospital in the city and the government hospital in Pokhran. District collector Ashish Modi said as per the demand of oxygen, supply is being done from Jodhpur. Jawahar Hospital principal medical officer Dr V K Varma said every day they are getting oxygen supplied from Jodhpur. In Alwar, the administration sent a report to the National Health Mission mentioning that in the coming days, they may require more oxygen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/districts-say-they-have-enough-oxygen-cylinders/articleshow/78135393.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||India pips China to win seat at prestigious UN body||NEW DELHI: India has won a seat at the prestigious UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) beating China, which failed to garner even half the votes, in the Asia-Pacific States category. It got elected as member of the UN Commission on the Status of Women, the principal global body focussed on gender equality and women empowerment, a functional commission of ECOSOC. The 54-member ECOSOC, holding the first plenary meeting of its 2021 session in the General Assembly Hall on Monday, held elections for two seats in the Asia-Pacific States category with Afghanistan, India and China in the fray. Afghanistan, which is led by Ambassador Adela Raz at the UN, garnered 39 votes and India got 38 votes of the 54 ballots cast. China, despite being a permanent member of the UN Security Council, got only 27 votes and could not even cross the half-way mark and failed to get the required majority of 28 votes. “India wins seat in prestigious #ECOSOC body! India elected Member of Commission on Status of Women #CSW. It's a ringing endorsement of our commitment to promote gender equality and women's empowerment in all our endeavours. We thank member states for their support,” India's Permanent Representative to the UN T S Tirumurti tweeted. India beat China in the hotly-contested election to the prestigious UN body in the year when the 25th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women, that was held in Beijing in 1995, is being commemorated around the world. India and Afghanistan will join Argentina, Austria, Dominican Republic, Israel, Latvia, Nigeria, Turkey and Zambia, which were elected by acclamation, to the Commission on the Status of Women for a four-year term beginning from 2021-2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-pips-china-to-win-seat-at-prestigious-un-body/articleshow/78137752.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Govt slashes test rate from Rs 2,200 to Rs 1,200||Jaipur: The state government on Tuesday put a price cap on Covid test charged by private labs. From now on, private labs cannot charge more than Rs 1,200 for the test, a sharp dip from Rs 2,200 earlier. The state government has regularised the rate to ensure that patients are not overcharged for the test.Before taking the decision of reducing the test cost, the health department consulted with SMS Hospital doctors. The government claimed that prices of kits and other such items useful in Covid testing have been reduced, which is why a new price cap has been fixed. “The prices of RT-PCR testing kits, reagents, VTM kit and other consumables have reduced. So it has been decided to provide testing facility to the general public at lower prices. This decision was taken after consultation with Sawai Man Singh Medical College senior doctors and other subject experts,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. Health department principal secretary Akhil Arora has issued an order in this regard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-slashes-test-rate-from-rs-2200-to-rs-1200/articleshow/78135461.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Privatisation of power department put on fast track||CHANDIGARH: Despite protests by the UT electricity powermen union, the Chandigarh administration, on the directions of the Union government, has put privatisation of the UT electricity department on fast track. The administration has now fixed a new deadline to complete the privatisation plan by December 2020. Moving further, the UT administration has also appointed Pawan Kumar Sharma, executive engineer, UT electricity department, as the nodal officer to take action for all activities relating to privatization, including tendering, coordination with various departments, ministry and transaction advisor. A senior UT official said they had earlier fixed the deadline to complete the project by January 2021, but now they have planned to complete the same by December 2020. Recently, the state-run power finance corporation (PFC) had appointed Deloitte as the consultant to help with the privatisation of the department. Senior UT official further added that the nodal officer would coordinate with the PFC and Deloitte for the privatisation project. In May, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the electricity distribution companies in the Union Territories (UTs) would be privatised. Earlier, the UT had engaged government-owned power finance corporation limited to unbundle the electricity department and transform it into a corporate. Meanwhile, the UT power department employees continued with their protest against the privatisation move. They have even sought help from city residents and various political parties. Last year, a letter was written by the UT special secretary (engineering) to the superintending engineer (SE) which stated that the administration had decided to appoint a consultant for the purpose of corporatisation of the electricity wing of the UT engineering department. The special secretary had also directed the SE to immediately start the process of appointing a consultant through a competitive bidding system. The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), in the past too, had issued directions to the UT administration for restructuring and reformation of the department, which is mandatory as per the Electricity Act, 2003. As Chandigarh does not have its own power generation, the state transmission utility will be responsible for ensuring smooth transmission of power in the city. State load dispatch centre will be the apex body to ensure integrated operation of the power system. It will also be responsible for optimum scheduling and dispatch of electricity, maintaining accounts of the quantity of electricity transmitted and maintaining control over the intra-state transmission system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/privatisation-of-power-dept-put-on-fast-track/articleshow/78135457.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||High flow nasal cannula therapy is fast replacing ventilator treatment||Jaipur: High flow nasal cannula (HFNC), a type of oxygen therapy which is normally given to patients with pneumonia, heart failure and sleep apnea, is proving beneficial for Covid patients who are pouring in at hospitals with complaints of difficulty in breathing. Covid patients who are on HFNC require four to five clyinders daily, which is why hospitals require more oxygen supply Doctors claimed that HFNC is useful in Covid-related acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) patients. Doctors are using HFNC oxygen therapy extensively as it has emerged as an alternative to ventilator support. “HFNC therapy is an oxygen supply system capable of delivering up to 100% humidified and heated oxygen at a flow rate of up to 60 liters per minute. HFNC machines have been found highly useful in treatment of Covid patients,” said Dr Narendra Khippal, senior professor (respiratory diseases), SMS Hospital.Doctors are giving preference to HFNC rather than opting for non-invasive ventilation. “NIV (non-invasive) positive pressure ventilation is commonly used to deliver positive pressure for alveolar recruitment prior to putting the patient on mechanical ventilator. But it requires the mask to be firmly fitted to the patient’s face which hinders clearing of secretions, oral intake and communication; so it is not tolerated well by patients. In these circumstances, HFNC is advantageous as oral suction, clearing of secretion and feeding can be done simultaneously with continuing the high oxygen support,” said Dr KK Sharma, senior consultant (pulmonology), at a private hospital.Doctors have found that Covid patients are more comfortable with HFNC in comparison to non-invasion ventilators. “HFNC is very useful in Covid-related ARDS patients. We are frequently using it. It’s a machine which blows oxygen with high flow rate to patient’s nostril via nasal cannula. This high flow of oxygen creates positive pressure reduces work of lungs and helpful in dealing with hypoxia. Patients find HFNC more comfortable than NIV or ventilator,” said Dr Ashish Jain, director critical care and in-charge of Covid care of a private hospital.HFNC is a boon and prevents Covid patients from going on ventilators, which have poor outcomes, doctors claimed. “The high rate of oxygen flow not only provides oxygen supplementation to oxygen deprived patients but also splints open the alveoli in the lungs. HFNC is different from BIPAP or non invasive ventilator because it provides high flow oxygen alongwith pressure which relieves the air hunger of the patient. It is different from a ventilator as the patient is conscious and there is no tube in the patient’s lungs. Thus, the complications of ventilator are bypassed and patient breathes himself or herself which prevents muscle atrophy,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, associate professor (respiratory diseases), SMS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/high-flow-nasal-cannula-therapy-is-fast-replacing-ventilator-treatment/articleshow/78135411.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Navi-mumbai||PCMC to recruit 45 medical officers||NAVI MUMBAI: As Covid-19 cases continue to rise, short-staffed PCMC has chalked out plans to recruit 45 medical officers (MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BUMS, and BHMS qualifications), besides 94 paramedical staffers like nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians on contract basis after walk-in interviews. The recruitment will be from September 16-25 from 1pm-5pm. Those recruited will be posted at primary health centres and sub-district hospitals to serve Covid patients. In PCMC areas, cases have breached the 15,000 mark and the toll has crossed 350.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/pcmc-to-recruit-45-medical-officers/articleshow/78134788.cms||B B Nayak
September 16, 2020||Bareilly||Three killed in accident in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Three persons, including two women, died in an accident near Mandra Suman crossing on Bisalpur-Bareilly road under Bisalpur Kotwali police station on Monday evening. The victims were on their way from Bisalpur to Bareilly when their motorcycle had a head on collision with a car. Victims were shifted to the district government hospital where the doctors declared them brought dead. The police have sent the bodies for autopsy. According to Bisalpur Kotwali police station SHO Sunil Sharma, the deceased were identified as Kamlesh Kumar (30) of Bhutha village in Bareilly district, Kamlesh Kumari (50) and Archana (25) both residents of Katara locality in Bisalpur city under Bisalpur Kotwali police station. There has been no written complaint in the matter. An FIR would be lodged as soon as a complaint is filed. The car driver fled the spot after the accident leaving his vehicle on the spot. The police have impounded the vehicle, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-killed-in-accident-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78130483.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Assessment survey: Participation improves as 74% students take test||Chandigarh: In the recent Chandigarh assessment survey conducted by the UT education department for classes V, VIII, X and XII, number of students who took the test has improved. Though, there is no 100 per cent participation in any of the classes. Even in the past, average participation of all classes has been around 55 per cent. While this time, the percentage has improved and stands at 74%. According to the details received, 70.4 per cent students appeared for the assessment in class X, while 75.5% to 98.5% students of class XII appeared in different subjects for the tes. The assessment for classes X and XII was conducted through Google forms in multiple choice questions (MCQ) format and for class VIII, it was conducted on WhatsApp. It was the first phase of the assessment and four classes participated in it. In the second phase, students of classes IV, VI, VII and IX will participate in the second phase scheduled on September 26 and 27. Sources said the first phase of the CAS was conducted on September 12 and 13 and the analysis of the result was being compiled. The main purpose of the assessment is to know the learning level of students and their learning outcome through online teaching so that necessary action or improvement in the teaching pattern or learning process may be initiated. In the past few months, the UT education department had conducted tests of students of different classes in different subjects. According to sources, subjects expert team create assessment test on weekly basis, which are further sent to teachers through a proper channel. Teachers give assessment test to students and keep a record of performance. Beside weekly assessment, some online tests have also been conducted on state-level i.e. of all the schools of Chandigarh. The motive behind taking the online test is to break the monotony of daily routine as well as to bring enthusiasm among students. This assessment method is expected to make online teaching learning process effective and successful and enhance interest of students in online teaching and learning and continuous evaluation can be done at the same time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/assessment-survey-participation-improves-as-74-students-take-test/articleshow/78135485.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 16, 2020||Bareilly||12-year-old killed by wild animal near Dudhwa||Bareilly: A 12-year-old boy was said to have been dragged away into Dudhwa forest by a wild animal on Monday evening and his partially eaten body was found later by the villagers. The boy, Brijesh, was playing with his friends after dinner at Chakdata village in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Isanagar area when a wild animal emerged from the cane fields, attacked him and dragged him away, villagers claimed. Villagers immediately began searching for the boy and found his partially eaten body in the forest. While it is not clear which animal attacked the boy, locals suspect it to be a tiger. However, foresters found no tiger pugmarks. They said a leopard had been noticed in the area recently. The body was sent for an autopsy to ascertain if the boy was killed elsewhere and body left in the forest, where it was eaten by wild animals. Dhaurahra’s sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Sunandu Sudhakaran told TOI, “The family is entitled to Rs 5 lakh compensation if the boy was killed by a wild animal. We have conducted a survey at the village and collected the bank details of the father. Once the autopsy report is available, we will process the compensation.” Anil Patel, Deputy director, Dudhwa (buffer), said, “Our team will stay at the village until we identify and trace the animal that killed the boy. It is likely that the boy was killed by a leopard but we will wait for the autopsy report to confirm it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-year-old-killed-by-wild-animal-near-dudhwa/articleshow/78130496.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Graft case: CBI court grants bail to suspended SHO||Chandigarh: The CBI court on Tuesday granted bail to suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in Rs 5-lakh graft case. The court has also asked her to appear before the CBI on alternate Mondays, appear in the trial court daily and submit her passport within 15 days. Accused Jaswinder Kaur had moved the petition for grant of regular bail. She had alleged of being falsely implicated in the case by complainant Gurdeep Singh. Kaur, who surrendered before this court on July 25, said she had fully cooperated with the investigating agency and that the case was based on documentary evidence, which was already in the possession of the prosecution. Mentioning her ‘ill health’, she said the trial would take long time and therefore, she should be granted bail. Public prosecutor of CBI K P Singh opposed the bail stating that allegations were serious in nature. He further argued that even Kaur’s conduct during the investigation was non-cooperative. He said there was every apprehension that she would ‘try to hamper the on-going investigation and hinder smooth trial in the case and influence the material witnesses’. After hearing both the parties, the court of Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge of the CBI, observed that Kaur, who was in the custody for 53 days, deserved concession of a regular bail. She was ordered to be released on bail along with furnishing the bail bond of Rs 1 lakh with one surety in the like amount in the shape of immovable property. The court granted her bail on the condition that Kaur would appear before the trial court on each and every date and shall not leave the country without prior permission of the court and shall not try to influence the prosecution witnesses. Further, it was ordered that she should surrender her passport within 15 days from the date of this order. The court also ordered that Kaur shall make her presence in the office of the CBI, Sector 30, Chandigarh, on alternate Monday at 11am and this condition shall be effective from September 21. In case of non-compliance of any of the imposed conditions, the CBI can move an application for cancellation of bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/graft-case-cbi-court-grants-bail-to-suspended-sho/articleshow/78135467.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bareilly||Excise teams seize over 25,000 litres of illicit liquor in several UP districts||Pilibhit: Taking forward the anti-illicit liquor drive enforced across Uttar Pradesh, excise teams have seized 25,238 litres of illicit liquor from several districts in a week and registered 1,042 cases against the offenders. The excise department also claimed to have seized 11,1874 kilograms of ‘lahan’ (fermented liquid used in the distillation of illicit liquor). Divulging details to TOI, excise commissioner P Guruprasad said 147 people indulged in the distillation of illicit liquor and its unlawful trading were arrested and sent to jail, while nine vehicles being used for the transportation of illicit liquor were impounded. Guruprasad said during the drive, an excise team seized 1,461 quarters of country liquor made in Haryana from a car and a scooty in Gautam Buddha Nagar district and arrested two people who were sent to jail. Similarly, four people were arrested and a huge quantity of empty liquor quarters, lids and fake labels seized from their possession in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Two people were arrested in Deoria district with two cartons of country-made liquor, while another two people were arrested in Agra district with 304.5 litres of illegal spirit and liquor distillation equipment, added Guruprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/excise-teams-seize-over-25000-litres-of-illicit-liquor-in-several-up-districts/articleshow/78131722.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Surat||Migrants returning to Surat greeted with masks, sanitizers||SURAT: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on Tuesday kick-started the four-day long event to welcome the migrant workers arriving in special trains to Surat. It began with the free distribution of sanitizer bottles and face masks under the ‘shramik aavkar suraksha parva’ starting from Tuesday. The first batch of passengers from Muzzafarpur-Ahmedabad Express train were distributed masks and sanitisers in the presence of municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani and SGCCI president Dinesh Navadiya at the Surat Railway Station on Tuesday. “Following the strong representation of the SGCCI to the government, special trains carrying migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Odisha have been made operational. About 1,800 workers are coming in a single train due to the social distancing norms. To welcome our workers, we are distributing masks and sanitisers with the message of their safety and protection,” said SGCCI president, Dinesh Navadiya. “About 10 lakh migrant workforce moved out of the city during lockdown. At present, the textile industry is facing an acute shortage of migrant workers. We need more than 300 trains between Surat and Odisha to bring back the migrant workers. We have urged the central government to start Shramik special trains to bring back the workers,” added Navadiya. Sources said that the distribution of sanitisers and face masks will continue till September 18. Many organisations including Mangrol Taluka Industries Association, Sachin Industrial Co-operative Society, Pandesara Weavers Association, Surat Jewellery Manufacturers Association, True Drug Charitable Trust etc. have given their support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-returning-to-surat-greeted-with-masks-sanitizers/articleshow/78134043.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Submit views on plastic waste management draft by September 25||CHANDIGARH: After approval of the UT administration, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday sought public suggestions and objections on the draft Chandigarh Plastic Waste Management bylaws 2020. Residents can submit their suggestions and objections by September 25. According to the draft notification, the MC has proposed that it would be mandatory for city residents to segregate plastic waste at source. The approved draft bylaws states that waste generators will segregate plastic waste at source and store it separately. The bylaws further specifies that “Individual household and institutional waste generators will take steps to minimise generation of plastic waste and segregate plastic waste at source.” In the bylaws, the civic body mentions that institutional generators of plastic waste will segregate and store generated waste in accordance with the Social Waste Management Rules 2016. The segregated waste will be handed over to authorised waste processing or disposal facilities and deposition centres via authorised waste collection agency or at personal level. The draft also mentions, “Waste generator will not litter or burn plastic waste and no generator will dispose of plastic waste in drains or unauthorised places within the municipal area. Waste generators will be held liable to pay plastic waste management user fee as stipulated by the MC Chandigarh from time-to-time.” The draft rules have been approved by the General House of the municipal corporation (MC). Significantly, the door-to-door segregation started by the MC last year in October came to a grinding halt after the coronavirus pandemic started in March this year. Even before that, the civic body was faltering to achieve waste segregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/submit-views-on-plastic-waste-management-draft-by-sept-25/articleshow/78135489.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
September 16, 2020||Pune||Civic body dumper hits bike, passenger seated pillion dies||Pune: A 24-year-old motorcyclist suffered serious injuries, while his colleague seated pillion was killed after a speeding PMC dumper hit their two-wheeler at Kalubai Temple Chowk on Pune-Solapur Road on Monday afternoon. Police said the motorcyclist, Shubham Khemkar (24) from Bhavani Peth, and the deceased, Niranja Janrao (24) from Wagholi, were not wearing helmets. Both of them worked in a bank, said police. Assistant inspector Vishwajeet Jagtap from the Wanowrie police on Tuesday said, “Khemkar and Janrao, who were riding on a high-end motorcycle, were on their way to the public provident fund office at Golibar Maidan in Camp.” The PMC dumper crossed the traffic signal near Kalubai Temple Chowk and overtook the bike from the right, Jagtap said. “The dumper driver suddenly swerved left without switching on the indicator, hit the right side of the motorcycle and went ahead. The motorcycle then came under the dumper’s rear wheel,” he said. Jagtap said Janrao died on spot due to multiple head injuries and Khemkar fractured his hand and leg. “We have seized the dumper and arrested driver Vikas Gujar (27),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-dumper-hits-bike-passenger-seated-pillion-dies/articleshow/78135528.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Vendors get back to business from Sector 26 sabzi mandi||Chandigarh: After the shifting of the fruits and vegetable market back to its original location in Sector 26, vendors and commission agents have started operating from Sector 26 mandi from Tuesday. In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, the UT administration had temporarily shifted the vegetable and fruit market, which was located close to Bapu Dham Colony, to Sector 17 Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in May. After several pockets in the Bapu Dham Colony were declared containment zone, the market committee had banned wholesale of fruits and vegetables in the Sector 26 market and the administration shifted the same to the bus stand on temporary basis to prevent congestion in Sector 26. The mandi was shifted back to Sector 26 after the UT administration decided to resume inter-state bus service of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) from September 16. MC commissioner K K Yadav along with other officials visited the Sector 26 mandi to review the situation. The UT administration will also deploy police teams in the mandi to maintain law and order situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vendors-get-back-to-business-from-sector-26-sabzi-mandi/articleshow/78135503.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Rocks broken for road widening||Hyderabad: Rocks being broken on the road opposite the Durgam Cheruvu for road widening has raised the eyebrows of the residents. “They are widening the road near the NCC building. The rocks are being destroyed for that,” said GSR Chaitanya, a resident of Madhapur, who was taking a walk in the area. “There is no need for road widening here. It is sad that rocks are being decimated across the city, because that is what makes Hyderabad. We have to find ways to work around them,” he added. Frauke Quader, secretary, Society to Save Rocks, said that the governmental agencies must consider translocating boulders wherever they can. “This should be a priority to protect the city landscape which is changing rapidly,” he said. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials are yet to respond for a comment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rocks-broken-for-road-widening/articleshow/78135541.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||Two minor two-wheeler riders killed in accidents||PUNE: Two underage two-wheeler riders lost their lives in separate accidents in the past one week. A 17-year-old scooterist died in a hit-and-run accident after a speeding tourist car dashed his two-wheeler at Dange Chowk under the Wakad police jurisdiction on Tuesday morning. Times ViewThe death of two minors while riding two-wheelers in the city reveals slack in policing on roads amid the pandemic. True, a large section of the force is busy in implementing the Covid-induced social distance and mask norms. But that should not cost precious lives on roads. The traffic police should strictly enforce the road rules to prevent such accidents. Also, parents should sensitise their children about the risk involved in underage driving and dissuade the minors from riding two-wheelers, which is illegal.Another motorcyclist of the same age succumbed to head injuries he suffered after his bike skidded off the road near Dhayari Phata on September 8. The Sinhagad Road police registered a case on Monday in this connection. Officers from both the police stations stated that they would investigate the matter in relation to underage driving. Based on their investigation, apt sections would be added to the cases as per provisions under the Motor Vehicles Act against the persons responsible for providing the two-wheelers to the victims. Assistant inspector Harish Mane from the Wakad police said, “We are going through the footage of CCTV cameras related to the Dange Chowk accident to trace the whereabouts of the driver of the car, which sped away instead of taking the youth to the hospital.” Mane said, “The youth was riding his scooter towards Tathawade. While crossing a signal at Dange Chowk, a speeding car hit his scooter.” “Local residents took the youth to a nearby hospital for treatment, where he succumbed to injuries. Some pedestrians, who witnessed the accident (at Dange Chowk on Tuesday morning), told the police that the four-wheeler was a tourist car with a yellow registration plate,” he added. In the accident at Dhayari Phata last week, the bike’s handle caused the head injuries to the motorcyclist (17) when he fell off it. He was not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident. Assistant inspector Archana Bodade has lodged an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-minor-two-wheeler-riders-killed-in-accidents/articleshow/78135521.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||Time for some police training to make force people-friendly||By M KarunanithiChennai: In the past few months, incidents of high handedness, negligence of duty and allegations of police excesses in the Sathankulam case have put the spotlight on the poor image of the police force in the eyes of the public. The prevailing situation should be a wake-up call for police to revamp the working pattern into a people-friendly one. In the present lockdown and relaxation period, police personnel are facing a big challenge while handling violators of the government mandated safety precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The strict enforcement often irritates the public. Harsh treatment only has a negative effect. Police need to employ a transparent working methodology, particularly using their discretionary powers and that can minimise confrontation on the field. At the grassroots level, police personnel are not utilised properly, they suffer from a lack of enthusiasm and a sense of belonging. In recent times, postgraduates and BE graduates opt for a constable’s job. Now they are assigned duties like guard duties, beat, patrol and picketing, which does not utilise their skillset. If these personnel are given a job that uses their knowledge it will give them job satisfaction and motivate them to work better. In terms of changes in the system of working, as a police officer with about 37 years of experience, I believe in community policing if implemented properly can help the force bond with the public and make the work of protecting people easier. As part of the concept, the entire jurisdiction of a police station should be divided and entrusted responsibility to each constable and head constable who will act like an SHO of that area. He can visit that area irrespective of his duty time, and collect particulars of people living there and intelligence in police point of view about an individual or and other institutions in that area of course with the help of VAO and officers of the municipal corporation. He needs to develop a rapport with the man on the street, who can be his eyes and ears. There will not be any hesitation among people about informing the constable or head constable concerned when any untoward incident occurs. This helps keep the entire jurisdiction under constant watch. The gap between the public and the local police is bridged and it also ensures faster investigation into a crime. Similarly, any malpractice by a personnel will be considered as an individual freak incidents also as people develop a faith in the policing system and are not bogged by the illegal activities of an individual. The most important factor in revamping the image of police officers is taking a decision in line with the principle of natural justice. It is now lacking in most of the officers. The arrangement for a refresher course for field officers is a step in the right direction to enhance their sense of belonging and courage of conviction. There are a lot of special units in the police department that handle different types of offences, but in reality these special units do not always work in tandem with the local police. A smooth interdepartmental work culture that remains unaffected by political intervention is the need of the hour. Police and public are interdependent. People need effective policing to check crimes. Police too, cannot perform their duty well without their support and cooperation from the public. (The writer is a retired superintendent of police)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/time-for-some-police-training-to-make-force-people-friendly/articleshow/78135493.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Transfer seekers must apply online||The state government on Tuesday directed the government employees seeking transfer to apply online on their respective department’s web portal. The decision has been taken considering the Covid-19 situation in the state. The government has removed the ban on transfers from September 15 to October 31. The instructions further said that no government employee can visit the office in person for the said purpose and no written applications can be filed for transfers. It also says that in these transfers, the state election commission’s model code of conduct will be followed in full spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transfer-seekers-must-apply-online/articleshow/78135515.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Vendors take to ‘begging’ in Aminabad||Lucknow: The tussle between Aminabaad traders and vendors over the vending zone continued for the sixth straight day on Tuesday. About 100 street vendors took to street 'begging’ for their right to put up their stalls in the market. They held a demonstration near 'Gadbad Jhala' and raised slogans highlighting their plights. The LMC and the town vending committee had recently allocated space to 836 vendors in the area. Traders opposed the move saying that the number has been doubled in comparison to the past. Such a large number of vendors, if allowed, will occupy all space in front of their shops, which will adversely affect their business. Both the parties and town vending committee have been called by the LMC for a meeting later this week to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vendors-take-to-begging-in-aminabad/articleshow/78136650.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Agra||Ex-Jat king’s kin want a piece of land he gave to AMU 90 years ago returned||AGRA: Descendants of the late Jat king, Mahendra Pratap Singh (1886-1979), freedom fighter and social reformer who donated land to various educational institutes, including AMU, have demanded that the varsity’s city school be renamed after him. They have also said that the rest of the land Singh had given to AMU on a 90-year lease, which expired last year, be returned to them. The varsity’s executive council set up a committee on Monday to look into the matter and submit its report. Officials said that Mahendra Pratap Singh, who was an alumnus of the Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College, which later became the AMU, had given 3.04 acres of land to the university on lease for constructing a school in 1929. When contacted, Singh’s great grandson Charat Pratap Singh said that they served a legal notice to the university in 2018 about the expiry of lease. He said, “There were two pieces of land given by my great grandfather to the AMU for promoting education. We are donating the bigger chunk of land on which AMU’s city school is constructed and, in return, the school should be named after him.” The former Jat king’s kin have asked for another small piece of land measuring 1.2 hectare to be returned to them. “Or they can compensate us at the current market price of the land,” Charat said. In 2014, a controversy had erupted, when BJP MP Satish Gautam had asked AMU to celebrate the 128th birth anniversary of the Jat king on December 1 that year. The BJP had organised a small programme at its office in Aligarh and had got an assurance from the then vice-chancellor to hold a seminar on Singh later. Last year, the state cabinet had cleared a proposal to set up a new university in Aligarh, named after the Jat freedom fighter. “He had given land for the purpose (of establishing the university) but his name has not been mentioned on any plaque,” the CM had said during his election campaign when promising to set up a university in Singh’s name. Mahendra Pratap Singh, who set up a provisional government in exile in Afghanistan during World War I, was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1932. He was also elected to the second Lok Sabha (1957-62) as an independent candidate from Mathura defeating Bharatiya Jana Sangh’s Atal Bihari Vajpayee who later became the prime minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-jat-kings-kin-want-a-piece-of-land-he-gave-to-amu-90-yrs-ago-returned/articleshow/78132822.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lockdown tests urban poor as earnings dip, welfare net shrinks||MUMBAI: For days at a stretch, Latika*, a single mother living on a pavement in south Mumbai, would feed her two children only sugar and water. There was no money to buy milk, water had to be fetched all the way from Sion and paying Rs 20 for a bath in public bathrooms was unaffordable. The lockdown hasn't just been about children learning to code online or couples juggling work-from-home alongside chores. On the streets, the lockdown has been about living amid violence, skipping meals frequently, no access to healthcare or education and a halt in earnings. A comprehensive study conducted across 10 municipalities within Mumbai Metropolitan Region by a non-profit, Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA), exposes the ordeal of the urban poor and challenges faced for accessing government's relief measures. Only about 45% of the 14,133 households surveyed by researchers had ration cards registered within the Mumbai metropolitan system and 17% did not have cards at all. "But having a ration card did not directly imply access, availability or adequacy of ration," YUVA's report said. Many couldn’t access state-provided ration because they had no money for long commutes to ration stores. There were also instances of shop owners making arbitrary decisions about how much ration should be given to a family. Some got no ration because their ration cards did not have correct names or their Aadhaar card wasn't linked to the ration card. Most domestic workers told researchers they were not paid salaries as they hadn't been able to go to work. "The Maharashtra Domestic Workers Welfare Board did not take any measures to hold employers accountable for payment of wages," YUVA's report said. A mere 152 of the 2253 domestic workers surveyed said they were registered with the Board, indicating that even if there were a provision for them, a majority of domestic workers wouldn’t be eligible to access any. Eviction was a constant threat for the homeless and for tenants unable to pay rent. "We were beaten up by the police in the initial phase of the lockdown. Local residents too would complain and shoo us away?," Nasreen*, a domestic worker rendered homeless in the lockdown, told researchers. The homeless were anxious about their children's vulnerability to violence. Darpan*, a father of six from Mankhurd, said fights took place everyday and people would hurl stones and bottles. "Sometimes some men come and sleep next to our children," another homeless parent confided. A Dadar-based woman told researchers she would stay up all night to watch the children and slept in the morning. A common issue affecting women and girls during lockdown was inability to access sanitary pads for menstrual hygiene. Children with disabilities, including mental health conditions, couldnt procure medicines. Some children recounted that abusive fathers became more threatening during lockdown. "We heard on the news that all the prisoners would be released and were scared that our father would come back," shared a child sexual abuse survivor. "When my father used to be angry, he would hit us all and this increased in the lockdown," said the daughter of a domestic violence survivor who was rescued during the lockdown. Researchers found that children helped their families with household chores and some even took to working outside. In the absence of water connections at home, fetching water was a task commonly assigned to children. Living in very small houses also severely limited their options for recreation. Construction workers were not better off either. To be eligible to receive the government-facilitated Rs 2,000 cash transfer (later increased to another Rs 3,000), construction workers need to be registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (BOCW–WB). Registration for those who live and work on construction sites is marginally easier as they are able to furnish work certificates from a single employer. Research revealed that 24% of workers out of 3908 found living on construction sites were registered with the Board. This number was even lower for people who depended on 'naka based' (daily-wage) construction work opportunities-- only 3% out of 2624 surveyed were registered. Most people who didn’t work on construction sites therefore couldn’t avail of cash benefit transfers. Waste recyclers faced a complete halt in their earnings as waste picking and recycling completely stopped during the lockdown. In the absence of any social security, some waste pickers had to resort to begging. The government's announcement of a monthly cash transfer of Rs 500 for women with Jan Dhan accounts did not help 76% of 14750 households surveyed as these did not have a bank account in a woman's name. Among women who had bank accounts, a majority did not have Jan Dhan accounts. (names changed to protect identities)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lockdown-tests-homeless-as-earnings-dip-welfare-net-shrinks/articleshow/78134789.cms||Nitasha Natu
September 16, 2020||Chandigarh||No PU syndicate meet for second day||Chandigarh: The Syndicate meeting in Panjab University was not conducted for the second consecutive day, as no one turned up. Some of the members had been demanding a physical meeting instead of an online one while others were not in favour of the agenda itself. Sources in Panjab University said, “The Syndicate meeting could not be held because of lack of quorum.” The vice-chancellors, along with other authorities, were present but only two members joined the meeting, after which it was called off as minimum five members are needed to complete the quorum.” The meeting was being called to discuss online exams. However, the members who did not attend it said it should have been held while planning was underway for the examinations. They alleged that the methods of Panjab University administration are not transparent. “The University should have involved college heads, students and other stakeholders while planning the exams. We are not happy with the agenda, so we did not join the Syndicate and we fail to understand the purpose of having exams as agenda for Syndicate when exams are already overhead,” said Rajinder Bhandari, a Syndicate member. Many of the other members did not join as they wanted a physical meeting. Sources said they have been at loggerheads with the vice-chancellor ever since he postponed the senate elections and they have been demanding an emergent meeting of the Syndicate. Now, they are not attending because the VC is holding it online and not physically. As reported by TOI on Tuesday, a notice was circulated among 19 Syndicate members for the meeting on Sunday night, leading 11 members to send a message to the VC on Monday morning demanding a physical meeting instead of an online one. Some of the members referred to the Parliament session which started from Monday. Some said it was not possible for them to discuss serious issues online, while many complained there was no provision for a virtual meeting in the PU calendar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-pu-syndicate-meet-for-second-day/articleshow/78135520.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: HC warns government of staying order on regulating private hospitals prices||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday granted last chance to the Maharashtra government to inform on its competency to prescribe rates for non-Covid patients admitted in private hospitals as specified in its May 21 notification. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala warned the government that if it failed to reply within two days, it will stay its notification for regulating prices for non-Covid patients in private hospitals. The directives came while hearing petitions by Dr Pradeep Arora, a paediatrician who runs a nursing home, and Hospital Association. Earlier, AGP Anand Deshpande sought time to file a reply for a week but after Dr Arora objected to it strongly, the judges told him to complete formalities within two days. Jemini Kasat pleaded for the corporation. The May 21 notification has fixed rates for treating Covid and non-Covid patients in hospital/nursing homes/clinics across the state. Through it, the government had warned these establishments against over charging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-warns-govt-of-staying-order-on-regulating-pvt-hosp-prices/articleshow/78135513.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man charged with outraging girl’s modesty||PUNE: The Pimpri police arrested a 49-year-old man on Monday night after his minor daughter lodged an FIR accusing him of outraging her modesty. The 16-year-old stated in her complaint that she had demanded money from her father for continuing her education. Instead, her father picked up a quarrel, slapped and outraged her modesty. The man has been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. An officer from the Pimpri police said, “The man scolded his daughter on Monday afternoon when she asked him to arrange funds for her education. He twisted her hand, slapped her and outraged her modesty,” the officer said. “While leaving the house, he also threatened his wife of creating a ruckus at her workplace if she disclosed the incident to anyone. The girl came to us and lodged a complaint,” the officer added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-charged-with-outraging-girls-modesty/articleshow/78135554.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 derails admissions to govt primary, upper primary schools in Agra||Agra: The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the admissions to the state-run primary and upper primary schools in the district this year with most of them registering only a handful of enrolments even as late as September. The admissions to both primary and upper primary schools started in April amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. However, the deadline has been extended from time to time keeping in mind the surge of infections across the country. Sources in the teachers’ unions said that most schools have enrolled only upto five or six students in Class I this year as compared to 50-60 in the previous years. They added that some schools have not admitted any student at all. The trend is similar in upper primary schools too. Uttar Pradeshiya Prathmik Shikshak Sangh (UPPSS), Agra, district general secretary Brajesh Dixit said, “There is over 90% decrease in the number of admissions in primary and upper primary schools. This is mainly due to the Covid-induced crisis. Also, parents are concerned about the safety of their children and are not interested in sending them to school immediately. The situation is not likely to improve anytime soon.” A farmer from Bichpuri, Mahendra Singh, who is also the father of a six-year-old, said, “Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Agra. Me and my wife have decided not to send our son to school this year. We can’t risk his health. We will try to teach him at home. The state government should not reopen schools till the Covid surge dips.” According to the basic education department officials, there are 2086 primary schools (Class I to V) and 871 upper primary schools (Class VI to VIII) in Agra district. Over two lakh students were admitted to these institutions in the 2019-20 session. Even though comprehensive figures for this year are yet to be made available, officials said that the admissions have reduced drastically in both primary and upper primary schools this time. Additional director (basic education) Awadh Kishor Singh said, “In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is hardly any enrolment in primary and upper primary schools. We are now compiling the data related to new admissions based on which the state government is likely to introduce measures to increase enrolment to primary schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-derails-admissions-to-govt-primary-upper-primary-schools-in-agra/articleshow/78132829.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Sept worst Covid month in city as virus numbers soar||Lucknow: September is turning out to be worse than the previous six months of pandemic taken together in the city. As many as 904 more infections were recorded in the last 24 hours till Tuesday evening, taking the cases recorded in the first 15 days of September to 13,663. This is one-third (33.2%) of the total cases (41,091) reported since the outbreak. In fact, on an average, 911 infections have surfaced daily this month. Gomtinagar has been the biggest contributor in the daily count of the city for the past over two weeks. On Tuesday too, Gomtinagar recorded the highest number of cases with 59 people testing positive. It was followed by Aashiana 48 cases, Chowk 43, Alambagh 41, Rae Bareli Road 40, Indiranagar 39, Jankipuram 38, Talkatora 37, Aliganj and Hazratganj 35 each, Cantonment 33, Chinhat and Mahanagar 32 each. Experts have already predicted that the numbers will rise in the coming days, at least for a month, before cases peak and the flattening of the curve occurs. “It is crucial for people to strictly adhere to precautions if they want themselves and their families to be safe, while authorities need to ramp up contact tracing,” said a senior SGPGIMS professor. He pointed out though the recovery rate is high, the number of fatalities, too, is high, which can be prevented by following the safety protocols. Statistics show that about 30,841 (75%) persons, including 869 on Tuesday, have recovered, but 9,711 (23.6%) are in hospitals or home quarantine, while 539 (1.3%) died during treatment. Kalyan Singh stable The condition of former UP CM and ex-Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh is stable. He was admitted to SGPGI on Monday after testing Covid-19 positive. The institute said: “He is maintaining 100% oxygen saturation on room air, does not have fever and blood pressure is normal. He has been shifted to a private room and is under observation due to his comorbidities.” Collectorate shut today for sanitization After prosecution officer Vijay Kumar of joint director prosecution office tested Covid-19 positive, the district administration has decided to close collectorate on Tuesday and Wednesday to sanitize the entire premises. ADM (administration) Amar Pal Singh said the collectorate will be out of bounds for all government officers and public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sept-worst-covid-month-in-city-as-virus-numbers-soar/articleshow/78136661.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||Collision of vehicles on eway proves fatal for truck cleaner||Pune: The rural police on Monday registered an offence against a truck driver for dashing against another heavy vehicle and causing the death of its cleaner near Talegaon Dabhade on Pune-Mumbai expressway a day before.The Talegaon Dabhade police have identified the deceased cleaner as Ramdhiraj Maurya (42) of Tulsiwadi, Mumbai. The second truck’s driver, Narendra Singh (52), escaped with minor injuries in the accident and lodged an FIR with the police.The police said the accident occurred in the early hours of Sunday when Singh was on his way to Hinjewadi from Bhandup in Mumbai. “When he was approaching Parandwadi bridge near Talegaon, a speeding truck suddenly changed the lane on the expressway and dashed against Singh’s vehicle,” an officer from Talegaon Dabhade police said.He said Singh’s truck turned on its side. Cleaner Maurya, sleeping at the back of the cabin, died on the spot. “The speeding truck did not stop after the accident. We are checking CCTV footage to identify it,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collision-of-vehicles-on-eway-proves-fatal-for-truck-cleaner/articleshow/78135547.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Three doctors flown in from A’bad to check Bharadwaj’s condition||Rajkot: Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama flew down to Rajkot in a chartered flight bringing along three specialist doctors to check on the condition on BJP Rajya Sabha MP Abhay Bharadwaj.Bharadwaj, 66, who tested positive for Covid-19, is under treatment at the Rajkot Civil Hospital for the last two weeks. He was shifted on ventilator support after he complained of breathing problems. The team of doctors arrived at Rajkot airport at 5:30pm and examined Bharadwaj for two hours. They also had discussions with the civil hospital doctors.Talking to TOI, Chudasama said, “I came Dr Atul Patel, Dr Tushar Patel and Dr Aanand Shukla, who specialize in cardiology, lung and infectious disease. They examined Bharadwaj and opined that he is stable and there was no need to shift him to Ahmedabad.” “Bharadwaj’s all the organs are functioning properly. He had some problem of blood circulation in the lungs, but he is recovering,” Chudasama claimed.According to doctors, Bharadwaj falls in a high-risk zone because of his age and his co-morbidity. Bharadwaj had participated in the BJP president CR Paatil’s rally last month took part in various functions organized by the party workers in Rajkot to celebrate his victory as RS member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-doctors-flown-in-from-abad-to-check-bharadwajs-condition/articleshow/78134058.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Five held with illegal arms during special operation in Jhalawar||KOTA: In a special operation against illegal firearms and weapons, the Jhalawar city police in coordination with the district special team (DST) arrested five arms smugglers from NH-52 (A) on Monday. Police recovered 10 pistols, two country-made revolvers, 35 live cartridges and seized two luxury cars from them. “On inputs of supply of illegal firearms and weapons in Jhalawar city, a police team jointly comprised of Jhalawar city police and district special team (DST) carried out search operation at Khokhanda turn on NH-52(A) late on Monday night. They arrested five persons and recovered 10 pistols, two country-made revolvers, 35 live cartridges from their possession and seized two luxury cars they were travelling in,” Jhalawar SP Kiran Kang Sidhu told mediapersons on Tuesday. Spotting two luxury cars at Khokhanda turn on Monday night, the police team signalled them to stop but they attempted to flee. Following this, the team laid a siege to nab them, she said. On search of the luxury cars, police recovered firearms and live cartridges, she added. “The five accused were identified as Irshad Hussain, Mohammad Nasir alias Shanu, residents of Kota city, Mohammad Danish alias Bhaiya alias Ponga, Abbu alias Shaheed of Suket town of Kota district and Rakesh Meghwal of Machalpur in MP,” the SP said. “The accused are yet to be interrogated about the source of illegal firearms and where they were to be supplied and other cases they have been involved in,” SP Kiran Kang said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-held-with-illegal-arms-during-special-operation-in-jhalawar/articleshow/78135762.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||After PM’s ‘Mann ki Baat’, queries pour in for Tamil Nadu hounds||CHENNAI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s last ‘Mann Ki Baath’ has brought Tamil Nadu’s famed dog breeds -- Chippiparai and Rajapalayam – into the limelight. Ever since Modi mentioned the breeds, queries have been pouring in at the dog breeding unit in Saidapet from veterinarians in northern India. “They wanted to know more about these hounds,” said former government veterinarian Dr Sujatha. Rajapalayam“Vets wanted to know where the native breeds were available and whether these could be trained and what kind of food they eat. They asked about whether the hounds could withstand the cold in north India,” she said. Chippiparai or Rajapalyam prefer non-veg food and are frugal eaters. Feeding them with multi-organs is considered ideal as these will help them overcome health issues. Native canines have been bred at the unit since the 1980s. The unit has sold 5,000-plus puppies till date. A male Chippiparai/Kanni puppy or a Rajapalayam puppy is priced at Rs 1,500 and a female puppy is sold for Rs 1,250. Last year, the department had sent a proposal to the government to revise the prices of these native hound breeds, but that is yet to be cleared, said an official from the animal husbandry department. “In the 1990s, when in-bred puppies of Chippiparai and Kombai flooded the market, the unit stopped the breeding these. After that, in 2016, a new set of Rajapalayam and Chippiparai breeds were bought from private breeders in Madurai and Virudhunagar. These are now breeding here,” said the official. Due to unregulated breeding, Rajapalayams are often born with hearing impairment. They show indications on the 24th day of their birth. “From the 60th day they start responding to the commands of their master. Experienced breeders can easily identify the hearing impairment,” said native dog breeder, V Vincent of Nasareth in Tuticorin district. He sells native hounds in a range of Rs 6,000 to Rs 25,000. The expensive pups are healthy and come from a quality lineage. “These are the two factors that determine the prices of our breeds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-pms-mann-ki-baat-queries-pour-in-for-tn-hounds/articleshow/78135546.cms||P Oppili
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Murder of Suresh Raina’s 2 relatives: Punjab SIT detains 24 from Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The special investigative team (SIT) of Punjab police has detained 24 suspects in connection with the robbery and murder of two relatives of cricketer Suresh Raina. These suspects are nomads and were taken in custody from various places in and around Chanana and Sultana villages under Chirawa police station of Jhunjhunu. On August 19, Raina’s relatives, a family of five, were attacked. His uncle Ashok Kumar (58) and cousin Kaushal Kumar (32) were bludgeoned to death. His paternal aunt Asha Devi is admitted at Chandigarh’s PGI Hospital with critical injuries. Another cousin, Apin (27), who was grievously injured, is also in hospital, while Ashok Kumar’s mother Satya Devi has been discharged but still has severe trauma. SIT of Punjab police, which is camping in Chirawa for past three days, has been facilitated by Jhunjhunu police. “On the request of Pathankot SSP, we have given them three different teams and other resources. So far, they have detained 24 persons for investigation into robbery and murder case. The team is still with us and they are looking for more people to interrogate to solve the murder mystery,” Jagdish Chandra Sharma, SP, Jhunjhunu, said. The SIT along with police teams from Jhunjhunu had raided at least 12 different places under Chirawa police station area on Monday. “They said that some nomads and rag-pickers are part of the gang which is involved in the murder and robbery at the house of Raina’s relatives. SIT said that they have got some strong leads and interrogation of these 24 persons will fetch them good results,” said an officer of Chirawa police station. Jhunjhunu police further added that more detentions were likely in the case. “The SIT got inputs that persons involved in the gang were in Jhunjhunu. Thus, they requested us for help and we have given them full resources,” an officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/murder-of-rainas-2-relatives-punjab-sit-detains-24-from-state/articleshow/78135715.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Tent house owners, caterers take out car rally on day 1 of protest||Ludhiana: The two-day statewide strike called by tent house owners, caterers and other allied service providers started here on Tuesday. Accusing the state government of not paying any attention to their woes, the businessmen related with the industry held car rallies in different parts of the city, along with the drivers of commercial vehicles, workers, staff, etc. The businessmen have stopped accepting any work orders till Wednesday and they will keep their shops shut and will hang posters of their demands on their properties. Giving more information, Raj Aggarwal, president of the Ludhiana Tent Dealers Welfare Association (LTDWA), said “The first day of our strike was very successful as all our members participated in the protest with full enthusiasm and car rallies were conducted in different parts of the city. We got huge support from our staff, workers and all other persons attached with us who also participated in these rallies. The main motive of this entire movement which will continue on Wednesday as well is to wake up the state government and ask it to pay attention towards the huge problems we are facing and the plight of businessmen, workers and their families who are attached with this business.” He further said, “Our major demands include doing away with the capping of number of persons allowed in marriage and other functions as this is killing our business. Until the capping goes, there will be no revival of our businesses and along with loss of thousands of jobs in Ludhiana alone, hundreds of businesses will shut down permanently.” According to Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary of the association, “Along with the restriction on the number of persons, the 9pm deadline to close everything is killing our industry. We want the deadline to be extended to at least till 11pm as this will give push to our business as people will start organising functions with proper budget. Presently, we are incurring huge losses as no functions are allowed beyond 30 persons and the function should end by 9pm as per the lockdown guidelines.” He added, “On Tuesday, we kept our offices and shops completely closed and did not attend even a single query. Our protest will continue on Wednesday as well and we plan to hang banners of our demands on the shutters of our shops and take selfies. Then we will post our pictures on social media by tagging all leaders of ruling and opposition parties, so that they wake up to our problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tent-house-owners-caterers-take-out-car-rally-on-day-1-of-protest/articleshow/78134037.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||Struggling to survive, private schools write to Centre in Goa||PANAJI: Representatives of the All Goa Government Recognised Unaided Schools’ Association (AGGRUSA) have written to the central government stating that private schools in the state are finding it difficult to survive due to the pandemic. The representation seeks immediate financial relief from the Centre. “Due to economic slowdown, loss of jobs and uncertainty of the future, parents have stopped contributing school fees. The repercussion is the collapse of the entire eco-system. Schools are becoming financially unsustainable and closing down,” Deepak Khaitan, founding member of AGGRUSA has stated in his letter to the Prime Minister. Khaitan, who is also a part of the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA), said that the organisation has long been demanding that the education cess collected by the central government should be utilised to issue monthly vouchers to all school students across the country. The association’s contention is that the voucher will empower parents to choose a school they think delivers quality education from across government, aided and unaided segments. In his letter, Khaitan has staed that any closure of private schools will mean massive job losses. “There is an entire eco-system that survives along with the schools such as books, stationeries, uniform, local transportation etc. Schools also happen to be the source of big revenue for regional/local administration due to multiple taxes, fees and charges,” Khaitan stated. In Goa, private schools, especially the smaller ones, have reported upto 20% drop in student enrolment post the pandemic. He has stated that unlike the usual belief, a large number of private schools are charging not charging exorbitant fees. “A large number of private schools are low-cost private schools charging average monthly fee below Rs 2,000 only,” Khaitan stated and added that private institutes have operated until now without seeking any support from the government. “To mitigate the fears of uncertainty during the pandemic, private schools started adopting various kinds of alternative methods to ensure the teaching-learning process continued such as project-based learning, experiential learning, e-learning, online teaching and other online/offline methods,” Khaitan stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/struggling-to-survive-pvt-schools-write-to-centre/articleshow/78136706.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||When games need a reset button||Chennai: Soon after the recent order from the Union government to ban 118 Chinese mobile apps, including popular gaming titles, I got a call from a client about his younger brother. The Class VIII studying in Theni had been playing a gaming app along with his friends for about a year. The 13-year-old had begun showing aggressive behaviour, was underperforming academically, lost appetite and kept to himself. This aggravated during the pandemic.Another parent called to talk about a 14-year-old who had started playing online games since the age of 11. What began as a fun activity had turned into a preoccupation that began affecting the child’s everyday routine. A forced counselling session for the child soured the parent-child relationship further.The question many parents now askis whether the ban on gaming apps will affect their child mentally or worsen his/her condition?Incidentally, the ban has made parents take notice of the changes in behaviour in children, whose routines have been upset in the past five months due to the pandemic. And it is the right time to take stock and understand the psychological impact of internet gaming on the teenagers. In the above two cases, both boys experienced a feeling of euphoria after winning challenges and competitions in the game. It is due to the effect of a hormone called dopamine released by the brain in response to pleasurable experiences such as good food, creating art or playing a game.The impact of gaming has two prime predictors — positive urgency and immersion. Positive urgency is defined operationally as the tendency of an act that recklessly occurs even when an individual is calm because of the euphoria it provides. Whereas, immersion in the realms of virtual reality acts as the ultimate opposite by giving a negative effect on the individual and helps them to avoid real-life problems.Children tend to get hooked on to games easily as they find psychological gratification in it and that becomes an addictive stimulus. Various studies on gaming also found that the most important motive for players are achievement, exploration, challenges, competition and socialisation that alters their motivation and playing styles.Researchers have proved that gaming can help in enhancement of memory, problem-solving skills, mood, multitasking and social skills. However, progressive, prolonged exposure to violent, battle games may act as traps and trigger internet gaming disorder (IGD).As per the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM–5), IGD is recognised and approved as a diagnosable disorder, however more studies concerning sociodemographic, clinical and other risk factors need to be conducted. Experimental results on gamers showed only symptoms of withdrawal such as insomnia, fatigue, headaches, cruelty/aggressive negative emotions and intense cravings to play games again and rules out the addiction criteria.IGD is identified clinically in various levels as mild, moderate, and its severity depends upon one’s symptoms that disrupts usual routines. Compulsive internet gaming proffers many clusters of behavioural, psycho-social, cognitive symptoms. An individual who might have devoted eight or more hours in a day or at least 30 hours a week could be seen as developing a gaming addiction.Many use online games to escape from their negative mood, feeling of helplessness, guilt, and anxiety. However, obsessive gaming further jeopardises education, career opportunities and relationships. Persistent use of games leads to clinical impairment and distress and becomes the dominant activity in one’s daily life. As per DSM-5 guidelines, the co-morbidities associated with IGD include attention deficit disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder.Any kind of addiction has a debilitating effect on the mind and parents of young children need to be patient when trying to wean them off a bad habit like gaming. Sudden, harsh punishments and taking away of gadgets tend to make the child bitter and unable to deal with the withdrawal symptoms. Parents who call to seek counselling online during this pandemic sometimes mention their children being reluctant to get counselled online. The suggestion to parents on this high usage of gaming would be to set strict time limits on their children’s access to gadgets and stress on family bonding activities.Parents and teachers should encourage students to play indoor games, practice yoga, and other relaxation techniques. It is a social responsibility to take measures to create awareness and to regulate all possible preventive measures and treatment strategies for safeguarding future generations.(The writer is a child psychologist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-games-need-a-reset-button/articleshow/78135572.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Mumbai||26-year-old Thane electronics engineer arrested for blackmail, stalking||Mumbai: A 26-year-old electronics engineer who forced a college friend to send her nude videos and then sought sexual favours was arrested by city crime branch on Tuesday. He had hacked into her email, procured personal pictures and befriended her on Instagram under some other identity. Unit XI arrested Akshay Pawar from Kalwa in Thane under IPC sections for outraging the modesty of women, distributing, exhibiting obscene pictures, intentional insult to provoke breach of peace and criminal intimidation, and under the Information Technology Act. He was handed over to Borivli police, who will produce him in court on Wednesday. Police seized his mobile phones and have almost recovered all pictures he had downloaded. “The accused had a crush on the 23-year-old victim and was jealous as she was friendly with others but never gave him importance, so he started stalking her and wanted to teach her a lesson,’’ said senior inspector Sunil Mane. Akshaya said he hacked into her email account to access her personal pictures, opened an Instagram account and befriended her under a different identity. “Earlier, people used to store pictures and other important documents in USBs. Now, youngsters save personal pictures on email accounts. Akshay posted her photographs on Instagram and blackmailed her,’’ said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan. When the victim sent him her nude video and pictures, he demanded sexual favours. The victim then filed a complaint and crime branch started a parallel probe. A technical trail led police to Akshaya’s Kalwa residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/26-year-old-thane-electronics-engineer-arrested-for-blackmail-stalking/articleshow/78134791.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 16, 2020||Agra||114 new cases reported in Agra, 108 in Bareilly||Agra/Bareilly: The total number of people getting infected to the Covid-19 continued to rise in western Uttar Pradesh, with Agra reporting 114 new cases, Bareilly 108 cases and Shahjahanpur witnessing 88 cases on Tuesday. Among those who contracted the disease in Agra include additional municipal commissioner KB Singh and a staffer of DM camp office. Besides, courts in Agra district remained closed after a judicial officer and 11 other staffers of the district court tested Covid-19 positive. The district judge had ordered the courts to remain closed on Wednesday also. With the rise in new cases, the district’s tally has reached 4,267. Meanwhile, one died due to Covid-19 in Agra district on Tuesday. The deceased, a 73-year-old male, was undergoing treatment at SN Medical College Agra. The Bah block resident was suffering from prostate cancer, type 2 diabetes with pneumonia. So far116 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Earlier in the day, 98 patients were discharged. Out of the 4,267 cases reported in the district, 3,321 (77.83%) have been declared cured and discharged. However, in Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts no deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/114-new-cases-reported-in-agra-108-in-bareilly/articleshow/78132845.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-AIIMS Patna dir harassed||Lucknow: Former AIIMS-Patna director and ex-KGMU professor Dr G K Singh has lodged an FIR against two persons and their aides for forcibly stopping construction at his flat, thrashing his guards and taking away the material. Prof Singh, who retired as head of orthopaedic surgery department, said he was getting his clinic constructed at his flat on Mahatma Gandhi Marg. On August 19, two persons and their 50-60 aides stormed in the flat and thrashed the security guards and labourers. They stopped the work and took away the construction material from the site, he stated in his complaint. Singh said the flat where the construction work was going on was gifted to him by his grandfather in 1954. SHO Hazratganj, Anjani Pandey said a case of rioting, criminal intimidation, voluntarily causing hurt, dacoity, trespassing, and intentional insult have been registered against the accused. “We will call the accused to question them about the charges levelled against them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-aiims-patna-dir-harassed/articleshow/78136685.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot collected infected||Rajkot: Rajkot district collector Remya Mohan become one of the 94 people who tested positive in the city on Tuesday. Additional district collector P B Pandya confirmed that Mohan had been infected with the virus and she was under home quarantine. She tested positive in the rapid antigent test after she developed some Covid-19 like symptoms. A total of 4,632 people were tested on Tuesday. As many as 226 people were discharged from various government and private covid hospitals on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-collected-infected/articleshow/78134102.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Unable to tackle pandemic, Cong indulging in vendetta politics’||Ludhiana: While levelling allegations against the Congress government, the state BJP general secretary and Ludhiana incharge Malvinder Singh Kang claimed that Punjab government was indulging in vendetta politics by lodging FIRs against BJP leaders so as to pressurise them. He also tweeted to CM Amarinder Singh for stopping this vendetta politics. He was in the city on Tuesday to conduct meetings with party cadre. While addressing a press conference, Kang said a recent FIR against BJP state president Ashwani Sharma was an example of such politics by the Congress leaders. Earlier, also FIRs were lodged against BJP leaders for protesting outside residences and offices of Congress leaders or in chowks. He pointed out that on the contrary when the Congress cabinet ministers and MLAs gathered people in large number the police was a mere spectator in their case. He said neither police, nor the district administration took any action against them. He said all this was being done to pressurise the opposition because the state government had failed on every front, especially in tackling the spread of coronavirus. “Those who are raising their voice against government failure are now being pressurised with the registration of cases against them. Kang, however, added that the BJP leaders would continue raising the public issues without fearing FIRs or other action against them. Later on, he held a meeting with BJP leaders. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar said all these allegations were baseless and BJP leaders instead of helping the government in controlling the spread of Covid -9 were rather organising protests. He said instead of doing politics at this moment they should support the government and stop organising protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unable-to-tackle-pandemic-cong-indulging-in-vendetta-politics/articleshow/78134079.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Agra||AMC team attacked as it tries to raid illegal dairy; FIR against 7||AGRA: A team of Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC), led by assistant municipal commissioner, that had gone to raid an illegal dairy on Mughal road was attacked on Tuesday afternoon. The owner of the dairy and his supporters allegedly started pelting stones on seeing the team. Two drivers and a clerk were injured. Five vehicles were damaged. The AMC team somehow managed to escape from the spot. Later, an FIR was registered on a complaint of the chief veterinary officer, Dr Yogesh Sharma, at the New Agra police station. Anupam Shukla, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “Following a complaint, we had gone to conduct a raid against an illegal dairy operating on the Mughal road in Kamla Nagar locality. Without any interaction, the dairy owner along with six men attacked us. Two drivers, Bharat and Waris, and a clerk, Aditya Pandey, were injured. They are undergoing treatment. By the time, police could reach the spot, the attackers had fled. We have got an FIR registered against them.” Botre Rohan Pramod, superintendent of police (city), said, "An FIR has been registered against the owner of the illegal dairy, Kalua, along with five other named people and an unidentified person under IPC section 147 (punishment for rioting), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty and other sections." “Medical examination of the three injured staffers of civic body has been conducted. A probe has been initiated in the entire matter. The accused men will be arrested very soon”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-team-attacked-as-it-tries-to-raid-illegal-dairy-fir-against-7/articleshow/78132853.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Roads: Officials say condition has improved, residents counter it||Ludhiana: Every year a large amount from the MC budget is being spent on the construction and repair of city roads but even then roads are giving bumpy rides to the residents. This rainy season has washed away tall claims of the the civic body and residents rued that when the authorities claim to have spent a large amount on roads, then why roads are in such a condition. As of now they are forced to travel on bumpy roads. However, the officials claimed that situation has improved a lot after they had started taking samples from various roads and in the coming days when road work would resume, they would be able to keep a check on the quality. In 2017-18, the authorities spent Rs 64.80 crore on roads. Similarly, in the financial year of 2018-19 the MC had kept Rs 70 crore for the new roads and repair work, but later they claimed to have spent around Rs 80 crore on road works. In this year the budget for road works was fixed at Rs 100 crore. In this year’ budget too the civic body has now increased the budget to Rs 113 crore. The commuters travelling on Gill road, Mall road, through Model Town, Dugri, Cheema Chowk, Industrial Area, Chander Nagar, Civil City, Civil Lines and other adjoining localities still are facing problems. “The traffic crawls on the potholed roads resulting in damage to the vehicles as well as wastage of a lot of time due to traffic jams. The roads are being constructed with substandard material that is why roads break early. There should be action against the erring officials and contractors,” said Mansi Sharma, a student and resident of BRS Nagar. Meanwhile, additional commissioner Rishipal Singh said the situation was no longer the same as now whenever roads were being constructed, they were getting quality of material and thickness of roads checked. He said now when road work would resume the testing of the material being used would start again. He claimed that they would not give even a single penny to the contractors if samples would fail the test. Recently, Akali councillors while handing over a memorandum to the mayor Balkar Sandhu had also demanded that the civic body should take action against the erring officials and contractors. They had asked the mayor to set an example by blacklisting the contractors in case samples fail because the civic body could not afford to waste public money in this manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/roads-officials-say-condition-has-improved-residents-counter-it/articleshow/78134062.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||New trust formed to tap minerals in Raj||Jaipur: The government on Tuesday formed Rajasthan State Mineral Trust to prepare a vision and mission for the planned development of mineral resources and their exploration and prepare master plan for undertaking detailed exploration and assaying of resource. The trust will have nine-member governing body headed by mines and petroleum minister and seven-member executive committee will be headed by ACS mines and petroleum. Mines and petroleum minister Pramod Jain Bhaya said the Trust facilitate geophysical, ground and aerial survey to find potential mineral resources and undertake study for their sustainable development, while adopting advanced scientific and technological practices. “The Trust will undertake research and development in the field of mineral analysis and testing of ores, identification of associated impurities of rocks and mineral samples submitted by the Department, public sector undertakings, private sector mineral industries, research institutions, laboratories etc. so as to assess quality of ores, minerals by chemical, physical testing and instrumental analysis on no profit no loss basis,” a department release said. ACS mines Agarwal said that the Trust will initiate action to strengthen and upgrade the department laboratory and provide impetus to research and development and to provide certificate on the basis of testing and analysis to exporters of mineral based products after obtaining accreditation from National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-trust-formed-to-tap-minerals-in-raj/articleshow/78135586.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Auto driver booked for molesting married woman||Vadodara: An auto-rickshaw driver was booked for allegedly molesting a 32-year-old married woman in Padra on Monday. The woman told police that the accused Manojkumar Panchal followed her from her workplace to her home in his auto-rickshaw on Monday evening. While reaching near her home, Panchal asked her to stop. The woman told him not to follow her, but he said that he likes her and wants to have a relationship with her. The woman said that Panchal threatened to commit suicide if she would not leave her husband and live with him. As the woman was about to leave without paying much attention to Panchal, he allegedly molested her and slapped her a couple of times. The woman got scared and went to her husband. Panchal again followed her for a distance and then went away. After informing her husband, the woman lodged a complaint at Padra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/auto-driver-booked-for-molesting-married-woman/articleshow/78133486.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Cops crack 1-year-old murder mystery of elderly man, nab 2||JAIPUR: Solving the murder mystery of a 73-year-old man, police on Tuesday said that the man was killed for not allowing passage to a marriage procession in Jamwaramgarh village under Jaipur (Rural) district, a year back. Two persons have been arrested for the murder. According to police, victim Devi Lal Meena was sleeping outside his flour mill in the village on October 4, 2019 when he was beaten to death by unknown assailants. The murder also triggered local protest in the area and nearby villages where locals questioned the policing and also alleged that police was saving the actual culprits behind the murder. However, following continuous investigation and follow-ups by the senior officers including inspector general of police, Jaipur Range, S Sengathir and superintendent of police Jaipur (Rural), Shankar Dutt Sharma, the case was finally solved on Monday. “Initially, it was clear that it was not a murder for gain as no valuables were looted from the possession of the deceased Lal. He was brutally injured after the murder and was also been rushed to the hospital where he succumbed. He was unable to record his death statements. So, we started gathering information on if he had any dispute with anyone. But we were unsuccessful initially,” said Sharma. It was found that the deceased had denied access to a baraat procession of the bride Mahendra Meena (19) because of which the people in the gathering had to walk through the farms in the village. “This was the trigger point for the Meena who wanted and planned to eliminate Lal. After collecting incriminating evidences, he was arrested for the murder,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-crack-1-year-old-murder-mystery-of-elderly-man-nab-2/articleshow/78135690.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Opposition protest marches to secretariat turn violent||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Secretariat witnessed violent clashes when protest marches taken out by Youth Congress and Yuva Morcha against ministers KT Jaleel and EP Jayarajan – which reached the spot one after the other – turned violent after police used force to disperse the groups. Several protesters, including women, sustained injuries in the police action on Tuesday. There were four agitations on Tuesday: one each by Yuva Janata Dal, Youth Congress, Yuva Morcha and SDPI to the Secretariat. Police registered four cases against the members of these organizations. Those booked include Congress MLAs Shafi Parambil and KS Sabarinadhan. They also recorded the arrest of six Youth Congress members who managed to barge into the Secretariat annexe premises during the agitation. They were identified as Nabeel, Mathew, Bahul Krishna, Anoop Ittan, Adarsh and Jasheer. The capital witnessed violent agitations on the fourth consecutive day in connection with minister K T Jaleel’s interrogation by enforcement directorate. It was Yuva Janata Dal that took out the first march, followed by the SDPI. As Youth Congress activists, who had assembled in front of the Trivandrum Press Club, started marching towards the Secretariat, the long march of Yuva Morcha from Killippalam too reached neraby. Police had to hold off Yuva Morcha activists at Ayurveda College Junction as Youth Congress activists blocked the road at Statue Junction. The efforts of the police to disperse Youth Congress agitators using force before Yuva Morcha too reached the spot led to the clash. Police used water cannons when Youth Congress members stood their ground and refused to retreat. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran claimed that opposition will not let chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s forceful efforts to suppress peaceful protests succeed. He alleged that while CMO became a source for all kinds of corruption, AKG centre has become the call centre that offered support to smugglers and drug mafia. BJP president K Surendran alleged that the government was trying to suppress protests using both police force and DYFI activists. BJP will intensify its protests until Jaleel resigned from the cabinet, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-protest-marches-to-secretariat-turn-violent/articleshow/78134445.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Hawala gang busted; four held, Rs 3 crore seized||HYDERABAD: An inter-state hawala racket was busted and four persons were nabbed at Banjara Hills on Tuesday. Task Force police seized Rs 3.75 crore cash from them and handed it over to income tax department for further investigation. Acting on specific information, the Task Force team intercepted two four wheelers on Road Number 12, Banjara Hills. Police took four persons Eshwar Dileepji Solanki, 29, Harish Ram Bhai Patel, 35, both drivers, Ajith Singh R Dodiya, 32, and Rathod Kanak Singh Natubha, 44, both office attendants, all four working for P Vijay & Company into custody and seized Rs 3.75 crore cash from their possession. On interrogation, the four men revealed that they were employees of P Vijay & Company with its branch office at Anand Banjara Colony on Road Number 12, Banjara Hills. Company owner Kamlesh Shah, a native of Ahmedabad, had employed Dinesh and Giri as in-charges of Hyderabad branch. “Ajith Singh R Dodiya, Rathod Kanak Singh Natubha and a woman, Thakor Soalben, a cook, are working with Dinesh and Giri at Hyderabad office,” DCP, Task Force, P Radha Kishan Rao said. On September 14, Eshwar Dileepji Solanki and Harish Ram Bhai Patel came to Hyderabad in a four-wheeler from Mumbai to collect cash from Dinesh and Giri. After collecting Rs 3.75 crore cash from the Hyderabad branch staff, when Eshwar, Harish along with Ajith and Kanak Singh were proceeding to Solapur in two four-wheelers, Task Force sleuths intercepted them. “As per the procedure, we will handover the seized cash and the four men to income tax officials for further investigation. They will follow the money trail and investigate the activities of the company,” Hyderabad commissioner Anjani Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hawala-gang-busted-four-held-rs-3cr-seized/articleshow/78135579.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||Many in Chennai may be living with diabetes, undiagnosed||CHENNAI: At a time when people with diabetes are at a high risk of contracting Covid, a study by city diabetologists show many could be living with the disease without being diagnosed for a longer period and end up getting detected late, which could hasten complications. A total of 741 people were studied. The study found 44.6% of 514 people who approached 12 different clinics in southern India for tests on their own had significantly high blood sugar levels compared to around 26.4% of 227 people diagnosed with diabetes in an epidemiological survey of urban population. This suggests a delayed diagnosis of the disease which is largely asymptomatic. The patients had been living with high blood sugar levels for long without knowing. The average age of these patients were 45 years, about a decade younger than those diagnosed in the West. A delayed diagnosis means the patient may require more than one drug for treatment, the disease may progress faster and chances of requirement of insulin injections early could be high. It also increases chance of developing complications like heart disease, kidney ailments or eye damage. Dr A Ramachandran, chairman of Dr A Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospitals and corresponding author of the study, said the team didn’t record presence of symptoms or complications, but an earlier study showed many develop complications like retinopathy even before diagnosis while type-2 diabetics remained asymptomatic for longer. The study comes when people with diabetes are told to follow protective measures. "We increasingly see patients getting diagnosed with diabetes and Covid at the same time, with blood sugar levels 400 or 500," said Dr Arun Raghavan, director and consultant diabetologist, Dr A Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospitals. "A delayed diagnosis of diabetes not only increases risk of contracting Covid but uncontrolled blood sugars typically increase risk of mortality." The study was done by India Diabetes Research Foundation and Dr A Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospitals, Chennai. Finding significantly high blood sugar levels involved testing levels of glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1C) — average blood glucose levels of diabetic patients over 3-4 months. Of the 514 who got tested, either due to symptoms like frequent urination or because their parents had diabetes, 44.6% had HbA1C levels of 9%, while 67.9% had levels of 8%. In the group surveyed, 26.4% had 9% levels while 42.3 had 8% levels. A healthy individual without diabetes should have a level below 6%, one at risk of diabetes below 6% and one with diabetes below 6.5%. Dr Raghavan said studies in the UK showed early diagnosis of type-2 diabetes could prevent complications and early glucose control could minimise chances of complications 15-20 years later. With more patients suffering diabetes in late 20s and early 30s, researchers say those with family history of diabetes, overweight or obese and leading a sedentary lifestyle should get checked in the early 30s. "One reason for delayed diagnosis is the disease is largely asymptomatic at least in the first few years. About a decade or two ago, patients would come with severe complications and then get diagnosed. That’s not the case now. But there still needs to be more awareness at least among the younger population," said Dr Raghavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/many-in-city-may-be-living-with-diabetes-undiagnosed/articleshow/78135605.cms||U Tejonmayam
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Cyber gangs target pensioners not familiar with net banking||Lucknow: Cyber criminals are targeting pensioners in the city not familiar with net banking and having an account with a public sector bank, the Lucknow Cyber Cell has cautioned after receiving 25 complaints in the last one month. In cases reported last week, two retired government review officers were conned of their entire fixed deposit amount and pension. Explaining the modus operandi, assistant commissioner of police, Cyber Cell, Vivek Ranjan Rai said that the scammers, in connivance with bank officials, get a list of pensioners who don’t use Internet banking and have a substantial amount in their account. Later, posing as bank employees, they lure these pensioners with a promise of higher interest rate if they opt for a fixed deposit. “They also tell the pensioners that a loan can be sanctioned on the basis of the deposit amount,” said Rai. The cyber fraudsters activate Internet banking and ask the customer to make a fixed deposit to get a loan sanctioned against their fixed deposit account. In the process, the fraudsters steal the customer’s confidential data and later use it to conduct transactions. The officer said that two retired government review officers in Lucknow, Prabhakar Singh and Shyam Shukla were conned of Rs53 lakh and Rs60 lakh respectively. In August also, the cyber cell had busted a gang of nine from Jamtara, which used to lure pensioners with little knowledge about online banking. The gang used to get the Internet banking activated and used to get funds transferred as fixed deposit and asked for their password for completing the process. The cyber gang members offered loans against fixed deposits to pensioners and then used to transfer the loan amount to their own accounts and withdraw it later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cyber-gangs-target-pensioners-not-familiar-with-net-banking/articleshow/78136714.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Feroze Gandhi market assn seeks relief in property tax||Ludhiana: The Traders and Property Owners Association in Feroze Gandhi market have written a letter to chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday, seeking relaxation in the property tax which they pay for their commercial properties. The association members claimed that for over six months they were unable to run their business properly and by September 30 they had to clear the property tax at the rate of 7.5%, which is very high. The chairman of the association, Col (rRetd) Harjap Singh, said the government of Punjab to hold hand of businesses in the same proactive manner as it is helping farmers of Punjab. He said the state government was doing extremely well on all fronts to help people and fight Covid-19. Singh mentioned that the pandemic had impacted businesses most adversely and there was a sharp drop in rental income and many tenants had vacated the premises or were under the process to vacate the rental property, most of which are lying vacant. Businesses are facing unprecedented losses and are staring at an unpredictable future with mounting liabilities, he said, while adding that the state government should help them while reducing the property tax rate, which was fixed at 7.5%, for this financial year at least and the last date of depositing this tax should be postponed to December 31 or even later. He said usually they had to pay the tax by September end if they had to avail 10% rebate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/feroze-gandhi-market-assn-seeks-relief-in-property-tax/articleshow/78134120.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||More power to consumers: Can seek relief for bill delay||JAIPUR: The next time you don’t receive an electricity bill on time or your bill-related complaint is not addressed in earnest, you can put the discom in the dock and seek compensation. The Union power ministry has unveiled the Draft Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Rules, 2020 that has eased the way electricity is supplied to consumers and also offers them a host of other services. The ministry has put the draft of the rules for comments and stakeholders consultation and intends to implement it as part of consumer charter initiative. As per the draft rules, discoms have been made liable to compensate consumers for no supply of electricity beyond a particular duration, number of interruptions in supply, time taken for getting an electricity connection, disconnection and shifting. The idea was to give rights to the consumer to seek 24x7 electricity supply at their homes and provide them a compensation for any deviation from the stated goal, according to rules. The new consumer rights rules also propose to compensate electricity consumers if discoms delay in updating their personal information or change of load factor in their supply. It would specify a timeline for repair of faulty meters and correct any voltage-related issues. The draft rules, which have also been sent to all discoms and transcos for comments, have specified that the amount of compensation would be determined by the respective electricity commissions It has, however, said if discoms delay in serving electricity bills beyond 60 days, consumers would need to be given a rebate on bills between two and five per cent or an amount decided by the commissions. To make the process easy for consumers, the draft rules provide that all discoms would set up an online facility for registration of complaint and payment of compensation within six months of the notification of the rules by the commissions. Also the compensation will be adjusted against current or future bills of a consumer meaning that compensation would come into the power accounts of consumers with discoms and not into their bank accounts. The new rules also provide that consumers will have to pay through online medium only for electricity bills of more than Rs 1,000. If a consumer gives prior information in writing about his continued absence from the residence, the discom would not send notice or provisional bill to the consumer provided he pays the fixed charges in advance. The consumer would get interest on advance payment. The discoms would also set up consumers grievance redressal forum to facilitate consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-power-to-consumers-can-seek-relief-for-bill-delay/articleshow/78135611.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatpur woman jumps into well with 3 daughters||Alwar: A woman along with her three daughters jumped into a well situated at Surajpur village under Rupwas police station area of Bharatpur on Tuesday. Police fished out the bodies with the help of locals. They are yet to ascertain the reason behind the suicides. According to the police, the deceased woman was identified as Sharada Devi (28), a resident of Surajapur village of Roopwas police station area. “As per the information, Sharada Devi’s husband Pravin is in Chennai where he works as a labourer. The reason behind the suicides is yet to be ascertained,” Hukum Singh, in-charge, Rupwas police station, told TOI. However, police have not ruled out the possibility of murder. “The woman’s parents were informed and the post-mortem would be conducted after their arrival. Post-mortem and other relevant reports will ascertain if there is any foul play in the incident,” said a senior police officer. “Her husband has also been intimated and he would be arriving in next couple of days,” said a senior officer. The woman’s daughters were aged 6 years, 3 years and the youngest was 1-year-old. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bharatpur-woman-jumps-into-well-with-3-daughters/articleshow/78135635.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen hail govt decision on self certification fee waiver||Ludhiana: An important online meeting of prominent city businessmen was held with chief secretary , Punjab, Vini Mahajan on Tuesday. The agenda of the meeting was to discuss the new changes in the labour laws of the state and take feedback of the businessmen. VK Janjua, additional chief secretary (labour), too was present in the video conferencing. In another revolutionary step taken in terms of labour reforms for industry the state government has decided to waive the hefty fee applicable on factories opting to adopt system of self certification, which means that no officials from any labour department will now visit the factories on pretext of checking of compliance of labour laws if the unit has done self certification. Rahul Ahuja, chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry, Punjab, said, “We held a detailed discussion with the chief secretary on the subject of the recent changes in the labour laws in Punjab. During the meeting all changes were discussed and feedback of the business community was also taken. Everyone has termed these changes as revolutionary as these were need of the hour. One of the biggest changes which has come into effect in Punjab is the concept of self certification in compliance with labour laws. Though this provision existed earlier as well but a bank guarantee of Rs 5 lakh was applicable on the factories opting for self certification. In the new changes implemented by the government the fee has been fully waived.” Ahuja added, “Another big step taken towards relaxations of labour laws is that the factories where continuous processes or heat process are involved, can now give their workforce alternate offs and run the work shift on national holidays. Earlier, in case of any national holiday it was mandatory to observe a holiday in the industrial unit and the factories where the continuous process requires even 24 hours to start or end were at receiving end as there was huge losses involved. These units will now be able to operate on national holidays if such a process is going on and they can give the off of this day to their labour on another day. The criminal proceedings under the labour laws too have now been done away with, which means now any offence committed by the factory owner will only be compoundable.” According to Amit Juneja, chairman of CII, Ludhiana, “The biggest change so far has been introducing the fixed term employment system, which means if you want to hire a worker for a week, 15 days or 30 days you can sign a contract and do it, earlier it was impossible to do so. Another great move is the giving flexibility to the micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) to either comply with the model code of conduct as per norms or draft its own code of conduct.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-hail-govt-decision-on-self-certification-fee-waiver/articleshow/78134158.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad best city to live and work, says Survey||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad has been ranked the best city to work and live across the country in a survey conducted by a destination discovery website. The survey, conducted by Holidify.com, ranked 34 best cities to live and work in India. In the survey, Hyderabad bagged the top spot by scoring 4.0 out of 5, beating cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru and Chennai among others on the chart. As per the survey, the best time to visit Hyderabad is between September and March. “A city of contrasts, Hyderabad exudes an old-world charm of its own with the Old City (Charminar side), Hitech City (Cyberabad) and the other areas lying between the old and the new,” read the survey. It further states that Hyderabad is fast turning into the New York city of South India. “The capital and the largest city of Telangana, Hyderabad is home to stately mosques and noisy bazaars lined parallelly alongside swanky new office buildings and malls, and it is these very contrasts these glimpses into the city’s rich past with inherent promises of an even better future that make Hyderabad a city worth visiting. Hyderabad pulsates with a spectacular mix of people and traditions,” read the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-best-city-to-live-work-says-survey/articleshow/78135641.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Ban on supply of oxygen to affect over 2,000 industries||Nashik: Functioning of over 2,000 industries will be affected owing to lack of oxygen supply, Nashik-based industrialists informed on Monday. General manager of District Industries Centre (DIC), Nashik, and incident commandant Satish Bhamre has already issued a notice to the oxygen manufactures and suppliers to stop oxygen supply to the industries with immediate effect in order to cater to the rising demand of oxygen in the district after spike in Covid-19 cases. A delegation of industrialists will soon meet district collector Suraj Mandhare and request not to completely cut the oxygen supply to the industries. There are over 2,000 small and large industrial units in the district, which require oxygen. The industrial operations of these industries are likely to be severely affected if they do not get oxygen supply. Presently, industries are operating with the stock of oxygen available with them. “We have stopped oxygen supply for the industries temporarily in a bid to cater to the demand of medical oxygen for critical Covid-19 patients in the district. Our first priority is providing oxygen to hospitals,” Bharme said. “But we have started assessment of actual production and supply of oxygen. The assessment is expected to be completed in a day or two. Based on that we will take a call on resuming supply of oxygen to the industries,” he added. “No doubt priority should be given to medical oxygen, but we are of the view that the administration should not have stopped the supply of oxygen to industries completely. It should have been reduced by 30-40%,” Tushar Chavan, general secretary of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ban-on-supply-of-oxygen-to-affect-over-2000-industries/articleshow/78112364.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Guv calls for reforms in higher edu institutes||Lucknow: Governor and chancellor of state universities Anandiben Patel on Tuesday said all higher education institutes should introduce reforms in the existing pattern to make education qualitative and accessible to all. Addressing a webinar on ‘National Education Policy (NEP) 2020: Expectations from state higher education institutes’ organised by Lucknow University, the Governor said NEP emphasises on online and digital education, technological innovation, promotion of regional languages and global vision. The webinar was held after an online ceremony in which Patel inaugurated several LU projects, including online learning system SLATE (Strategic Learning Application for Transformative Education), a computer centre in engineering faculty and automation of salary system, among others. “Education should be designed to promote scientific and creative thinking among students. It should motivate students for character building, developing sensitivity and inculcate values,” she said, stressing on the need for all-round development. “We have to ensure that students who graduate feel proud of their country and are fit to be global citizens. Educational institutes should support global campaigns for economic and social development, environment conservation, equality and preservation of cultural heritage,” the Governor said. She said as per the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, NEP should provide technical and entrepreneurial skills to students so that they could undertake research in various fields which could provide them employment and even make them job creators by launching start-ups. “UP is set to become the biggest manufacturing hub of the country, which will impact the entire society. We will have to see that marginalised groups are not left out from development process and ensure quality education to women,” she added. LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai and teachers also spoke on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/guv-calls-for-reforms-in-higher-edu-institutes/articleshow/78136729.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Rajkot||Covid gets more ‘active’ in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Saurashtra’s commercial hub, Rajkot, has pipped the once hotspot Surat and Vadoadara in the number of active Covid-19 cases as the viral infection continues to spike menacingly in the city and district. According to the official figures up to Tuesday morning, there were 1,650 active cases in Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) areas while the same in Surat and Vadodara were 1,545 and 716. Active cases are those positive patients who are still under Covid-19 treatment — be it in home isolation, in hospitals or in the Covid community centres. The Covid situation in Rajkot spiralled out of bounds since early September following which RMC stepped up house-to-house surveillance and testing too. However, RMC data shows light at the end of the tunnel. The positivity rate and mortality is seen reducing over the last few days after which officilas are hopeful things will be under control in the next eight to 10 days. hile that is still to be seen, the present picture shows Rajkot far ahead of Gujarat’s figures in cases per million as on Tuesday. Total 6,848 positive cases have been registered in Rajkot district till Tuesday among a total population of 31 lakh. RMC data shows the compounded daily growth rate (CDGR) shows positive cases have reduced to 2.37 on Tuesday from September 8 when it peaked to 2.76. RMC commissioner Udit Agrawal said “We have deployed more then 50 Dhanvantri Raths for door-to door surveillance and one vehicle covers 250-285 persons per day. The positive cases rate is reducing and we hope that in the next eight to ten days the cases will be in control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-gets-more-active-in-rajkot/articleshow/78134169.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 4,263 new cases, over 62,000 people tested||NEW DELHI: The national capital recorded 4,263 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to over 2.25 lakh, with authorities conducting more than 62,000 coronavirus tests. Thirty-six more fatalities have been recorded, taking the death toll to 4,806, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The active cases tally on Tuesday rose to 29,787 from 28,641 the previous day. In the last 24 hours, 62,269 tests were conducted to detect Covid-19 infection, of which 10,398 tests were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 52,271 were rapid antigen tests. The health authorities have conducted more than six lakh tests in the last two weeks. The number of total tests conducted was 15,83,485 on August 31. It rose to 22, 4,6985 on Tuesday. The case positivity rate during the last 24 hours was 6.8% while the cumulative positivity rate was 10.05%. Since August end, the number of active cases has nearly doubled in the city. It was 14,626 on August 31 and 29,787 on Tuesday. During the same period, the number of occupied beds in hospitals has risen from 4,146 to 6,748. There were 9,999 Covid-19 beds available in the city on August 31, as against 7,752 left on Tuesday. Total 744 out of 1,222 ICU beds which have ventilator support were occupied, shows data shared by the hospital. The occupancy of ICU beds without ventilators is 67%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4263-new-cases-over-62000-people-tested/articleshow/78135703.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||‘Dapot locals’ water woes to end soon’ in Goa||POINGUINIM: The long-pending woes of water scarcity faced by residents of Dapot, Kazalker and Loliem will soon be resolved, said deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes. During an inspection with Loliem-Polem sarpanch Nishant Prabhudesai and panch members Ajay Lolyekar and Sachin Naik, Fernandes said work on the 3 lakh litre overhead tank and 6.5 lakh litre ground reservoir at Dapot is nearing completion. “People living in these areas have been suffering since long for want of proper water supply. After the completion of this Rs 1.3 crore project, they will get enough water,” the Canacona MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dapot-locals-water-woes-to-end-soon/articleshow/78135707.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||Bike-lifting gangs busted, 5 held, 29 vehicles recovered||Kota: Taking action against motorbike lifting gangs, the Jhalawar rural police on Tuesday busted two gangs by arresting five persons and recovering 29 vehicles from their possession. The accused admitted to have lifted the motorbikes from various areas in Kota, Jhalawar and Baran districts, said police. They would be produced before a court on Wednesday. On the basis of CCTV camera footage, being examined during investigation of a theft case lodged three days ago in Jhalrapatan police station, the cops arrested two persons, identified as Kalu Chorasiya and Prakesh, residents of Jhalawar district, SHO at Jhalrapatan police station Jitendra Singh said. Singh said on being interrogated, the two accused admitted to have involved in stealing motorbikes from various areas in Kota, Jhalawar and Baran district and in selling them. The two accused are Smack addict and would make money by selling the stolen bikes. On a tip off by two accused, the police recovered 24 motorbikes that they had stolen from various places and had hidden in Mauhkho village of the district on the boarder of Madhya Pradesh, Singh said. tnn Similarly, on the tip-off of three persons being allegedly engaged in attempting to sell motorbike in Bakani town of Jhalawar district, the police on Tuesday arrested Goverdhan Tanwar, Ramprasad alias Pahadiya and Prakesh Tanwar, all residents of Nardikalan village under Bakani police station, SHO at Bakani police station Shyamaram Vishnoi said. The police recovered five motorbikes from their possession that they admitted to have stolen from Kota, Jhalawar and Baran districts, he said. The three accused would be produced before court on Wednesday, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bike-lifting-gangs-busted-5-held-29-vehicles-recovered/articleshow/78135727.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Calicut University’s booklet on parenting goes global||KOZHIKODE: A booklet published by Calicut University’s community-based Disability Management and Rehabilitation Programme (CDMRP) on parenting children with disabilities during the pandemic has been translated into several foreign languages by Unesco. The 10-page guidelines, titled ‘Life in the times of Covid-19 - a guide for parents of children with disabilities’ published by CDMRP along with Unesco, New Delhi, has been translated to Spanish, Russian, Nepali and Spanish sign language. Translation of the guide to Arabic and Portuguese is also underway. Versions of the guide have been made available in the digital library of Unesco as well. The short and simple guide has 11 sections, explaining aspects that a parent/ caregiver must take into account while taking care of children with special needs during the pandemic. It includes guidelines on children’s cleanliness, exercise routine, food habits, emotional and psychological wellbeing, entertainment, helping children take up responsibilities at home, training and behavioural issues. The guide also has a section on the importance of psychological wellbeing of parent/caregiver. CDMRP, which is a joint project of department of psychology at Calicut University and social justice department of Kerala government, was recognized in May as a Unesco chair. “We had initially prepared the guidelines in Malayalam. In April, we along with Unesco, New Delhi, published it in English and after that there have been demands from Unesco offices in foreign countries to get it translated to their native languages,” said Raheemudheen P K, joint director, CDMRP. He added that apart from translations to foreign languages, the booklet has also been translated to Indian languages, including Hindi, Tamil and Telugu. Eric Falt, director and Unesco representative to India, has said in the foreword of the booklet that the guidelines are action-oriented and would help serve all families with special needs in dealing with the extreme crisis of Covid-19. The CDMRP has been running 10 Community Disability Management Clinics in Kozhikode, Malappuram and Kannur districts. It has also been running an Advanced Disability Management Clinic for four years. There are around 82,000 beneficiaries under the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cus-booklet-on-parenting-goes-global/articleshow/78134194.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||LU students get online SLATE to attend lectures||Lucknow: All Lucknow University students will attend online classes on SLATE — Strategic Learning Application for Transformative Education — LU’s state-of-the-art digital platform which extends the classroom beyond the confines of the four walls and gives students a wider range of resources. Like an offline class, the head of the respective department, faculty dean or vice-chancellor can check whether classes are being conducted timely or not. SLATE was launched on Tuesday and will be used for conducting classes by all faculties. The system will not only help in conducting online classes but will also maintain attendance of students, flash time-table and name of the teacher whose class is scheduled. It comes with an advantage of running parallel classes of all the departments at the same time in an online mode. Classes presently being conducted via video-conferencing apps do not have this advantage. “It is a self-created video-conferencing and virtual class system to avoid any hindrance, hacking, and a secured online class system. SLATE has been made by the computer experts of the university and it has its copyright,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. He said the portal will have three logins — student, teacher and administrative. A student can enter his credential and will land in his or her scheduled class. Similarly, teachers will log into their scheduled class with a whiteboard and marker to give students a feel of a real classroom. “Even if Covid cases decline, it will be a challenge to maintain social distancing in a class of 100 students. Hence, this option will be of great help as students who want to attend online class can log in from anywhere. Those who prefer offline mode can come to the campus,” said dean, student welfare, Prof Poonam Tandon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-students-get-online-slate-to-attend-lectures/articleshow/78136742.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||Sonsoddo plant to get 7 bio-digesters in Goa||MARGAO: The Margao Municipal Council (MMC), at a special meeting held on Tuesday, decided to give its approval to the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) to set up seven bio-digester plants at Sonsoddo to treat waste generated in the town. Sanjeev Joglekar of the department of science and technology gave a presentation to the councillors about the project. The GWMC has proposed to upgrade the waste management system in two phases. While the first phase entails the setting up of three bio-digester plants, each having a capacity to treat five to seven tonnes of waste per day, in the second phase, four bio-digester plants of a similar capacity will be set up. Each plant is estimated to cost nearly Rs 4.5 crore. Heated discussions took place at the meeting, with councillors raising questions over the mode of financing the project and other issues. MMC chief officer Ajit Panchwadkar questioned Joglekar about the rationale behind having all the seven bio-digesters installed at Sonsoddo when a decentralised mode was a favoured option for Panaji. Joglekar reasoned that while both modes have their own advantages and disadvantages, a centralised facility will ensure efficiency in operations and reduce infrastructural costs of the project. Questions were also raised by councillors over the need to spend nearly Rs 35 crore for the seven bio-digesters when two state-of-the-art solid waste management plants — one at Verna and the other at Cacora — are likely to come up soon. Also in the works is the MMC’s project of setting up bio-digesters at three different locations at an estimated cost of Rs 2.5 crore each. Of the nearly 60 tonne of waste generated in Margao, 18-22 tonne is dry waste, 14-18 tonne is wet waste while mixed waste constitutes 26-28 tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sonsoddo-plant-to-get-7-bio-digesters/articleshow/78135725.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Surat||Teacher turns into MR after losing job||Surat: For 24-year-old, Sandeep Thummar, a primary school teacher in a private school at Puna Gaam in the city, it came as a rude shock when he was asked by his school authorities that they no longer require his services post-lockdown. In the first week of June, school authorities called him to inform that his service has been terminated. But, Thummar did not lose hope and now he is selling medicines for a reputed healthcare company.“It was my dream to become a teacher and impart knowledge to students. In just two years, my dream came crashing down due to the coronavirus pandemic. From teaching students, now I am selling medicines,” says Thummar, a BSc, MEd, who is now working as a medical representative (MR) with a reputed healthcare company.Thummar had joined in the primary school in 2018 and his job was to teach science and maths to seventh and eighth standards students. He was paid a meagre Rs 7,000 per month.According to Thummar, the state government must intervene and save the jobs of tens of thousands of teachers who have been rendered jobless.Thummar is living with his parents and brother at Simada in Puna. He still has a desire to become a teacher, provided he gets an opportunity to teach higher secondary students.“I know many teachers in the private schools who have been rendered jobless post-lockdown. Since I had a science background, I applied in the healthcare company for MR’s post and within one month I got the job offer.Teaching students is easy, but selling medicines is still a tough job for me,” says Thummar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teacher-turns-into-mr-after-losing-job/articleshow/78134189.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||2 hundis stolen from temple||Hyderabad: Burglars broke the lock of a temple in Chandrayangutta and stole two hundis on Monday night. When the priest of Sai Baba temple in Rajiv Gandhi Nagar came early morning at 5 am for prayer, hes found the main lock broken and two donation collection boxes consisting Rs 90,000 missing. There are no CCTV camera in the temple. The police are checking near by camera footages to identify the offender. The police suspect at least two to three offenders were involved with a vehicle to carry the boxes. A case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-hundis-stolen-from-temple/articleshow/78135737.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Every second Indian hit by Coronanxiety||NEW DELHI: The Covid pandemic has taken anxiety among Indians to record levels with a recent survey showing one in every four persons is so stressed that he or she actually requires medical intervention. Every second Indian shows some signs of anxiety, reveals the survey conducted on a web-based platform between April and May by the department of mental health and behavioural sciences at Max Healthcare, Saket. It involved 1,069 individuals, mostly from Delhi, UP, Haryana and Maharashtra. TimesViewIn recent weeks, several studies and surveys have shown that Covid-19 has severely impacted mental health of millions across the world. This could be a silent epidemic of its own. The question is: how do we address the issue? A beginning can be made if every institution, private or public, offers free counseling services to its employees. And governments should also set up mechanisms to help the general populace, since most people are not employees.Dr Sameer Malhotra, director and head of the department who led the project, said 55% of the people who participated in the survey had met the criteria for significant anxiety symptoms and more than one-fourth of them were experiencing significant depressive symptoms. “Nearly 27% of the people reported that idea of self-harm or death had crossed their mind at least once while 3% reported having such thoughts repeatedly,” he added. The senior psychiatrist also said post-Covid lockdown, they were continuing to receive distress calls from families of persons suffering from anxiety, depression and thoughts of self-harm. TOI had recently reported how the incidence of people being rushed to hospitals with self-inflicted injuries had gone up in the recent past. AIIMS received 23 cases of self-inflicted injury between April and July, Dr Rajesh Malhotra, chief of trauma services, had said. At Max Patparganj and Max Vaishali, the doctors said, 40 cases of self-inflicted injury were reported from May to July. “Normally, we get seven to eight such cases annually,” Dr Manoj Johar, director and head of the department of plastic surgery at both hospitals, said. The doctors say incidence of self-inflicted injuries are arising out of frustration over reduced income, loss of job or domestic arguments. People who have lost jobs or whose incomes have reduced drastically are worst affected. The doctors say they receive calls from many patients who are anxious about getting Covid-19 and spreading the disease to family members. “I have come across a few people who get themselves tested every other week to rule out the disease,” said Dr Malhotra. He stressed the need for occupational and financial support mechanisms to prevent this crisis. “Companies should take measures to make employees feel secure about their jobs and offer some relaxation during working hours. Also, the government needs to think about relaxation in taxation and EMI schedules to help ease the burden perceived during this testing time.” Early identification of persons with known or underlying mental illnesses is also important. “For the generation in existence, this is the first such experience of a global pandemic. But it’s important to take it well. Those who are able-bodied or able-minded have a responsibility to support the vulnerable ones,” said a senior psychiatrist. Physical activities, meditation and healthy communication among people are important for better mental health, he added. Watch Corona-anxiety: Its real and every second Indian might be affected||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/every-2nd-indian-hit-by-coronanxiety/articleshow/78135741.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 16, 2020||Jaipur||HC stays construction at Udaipur Khelgaon||UDAIPUR: A division bench of the Rajasthan high court at its principal seat in Jodhpur has stayed construction at the Khelgaon premises in Chitrakoot Nagar here. The division bench in its order dated September 10 has issued notices to the chief secretary, Udaipur collector, UIT, chairman Raj State Sports Board, CBSE Ajmer, Maharana Pratap Khelgaon Society and Ms S P Enterprise. A public interest litigation (PIL) in the matter has alleged illegal use of the public property, i.e., the convention centre, for commercial purposes and further sublet of the centre to run a private school there. On behalf of petitioner Manoj Agarwal, a resident of Udaipur, advocate Sajjan Singh Rathore told the court that the convention centre at Udaipur was developed on the land belonging to the sports board and the same was allotted by the UIT. Therefore, at the first instance, any development on it becomes the property of the sports board. That it being a public land was allotted for sports activities only but if at all a convention centre was developed, then the same should be used for public and not for commercial activities for giving profit to any individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-construction-at-udaipur-khelgaon/articleshow/78135746.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik constable succumbs to Covid-19||NASHIK: A head constable attached to the Nashik Road police station succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday at 3am.  This is the fourth death of a policeman from the Nashik police commissionerate. The deceased identified as Rajendra Nivrutti Dhikle (50), was a resident of Konark Nagar, Adgaon. Suraj Bijli, a senior police inspector of Nashik Road police station, said Dhikle was fast recuperating, however, he had a spell of convulsion in which he died. Dhikle’s brother had tested positive last month, following which he had fever. After testing positive he was admitted to NDMVPS Medical College in Adgaon on August 27. Apart from a head injury he recieved in a road accident in 2007, he had no medical conditions, the senior police officials said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/78112400.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||35-yr-old goes missing||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old woman who went to work, did not return home. After making several attempts to trace her, the family members approached the police and lodged a missing person’s complaint in Chandanagar on Tuesday. Ch Jyothi, from New Shankar Nagar in Chandanagar went for work on September 11 but did not return home. Her mobile phone remained switched off. Worried, family on Tuesday approached the cops to file a missing complaint. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/35-yr-old-goes-missing/articleshow/78135768.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Five-member gang nabbed for cheating bizman of Rs 1.7 crore||Coimbatore: The rural police have arrested a five-member gang for cheating a businessman of Rs 1.7 crore at Kilavanpudur Pirivu near Anaimalai in Pollachi.The arrested people were identified as M Sathish, 30, of Alathur, A Shimjith, 24, of Malappuram, X Manoj, 30, of Ernakulam, S Bilal, 26, of Ernakulam and T Sasikanth, 25, of Kasaragod. Police seized Rs 5 lakh, a car, four knives, an air pistol and 19 pellets from them. They were booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code and 25 (1) (A) of the Arms Act, 1959. Police detained gang leader Anoopkumar of Palakkad and seized a pistol from him.The complainant, M Muthu, 67, of Kilavanpudur Pirivu near Anaimalai, had lodged a complaint with the Anaimalai police on September 4. “Anoopkumar and his family had stayed in Muthu’s resort at Kilavanpudur Pirivu last year. He visited the resort alone several times and befriended Muthu,” a police officer said.Muthu sold the resort to Shajahan of Dindigul for Rs 1.35 crore and deposited the amount in his Canara Bank account on July 24. He already had Rs 37.50 lakh in the account.On September 2, Muthu reached the bank to withdraw Rs 1,72,50,000. “He was accompanied by Anoopkumar and his friend Sathish. While returning home with the cash, Muthu requested Anoopkumar to keep the amount with him as he was afraid of burglars. He asked Anoop to return the money on September 3. However, Anoop never returned,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-member-gang-nabbed-for-cheating-bizman-of-rs-1-7-crore/articleshow/78135734.cms||A Subburaj
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Vigilance probe begins against 2 suspended IPS||Lucknow: Two officers of the rank of superintendent of police in the vigilance establishment were deputed to begin investigation in the corruption case against suspended IPS officers Abhishek Dixit and Mani Lal Patidar. While Dixit was suspended as SSP Prayagraj, Patidar was suspended as SP Mahoba on Tuesday. The probe by the vigilance team has begun on the directions of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. On September 10, the CM had directed for a probe into properties of the two suspended IPS officers. The government had suspended Dixit on September 8, for failing to control crime and also after multiple complaints of corruption. Dixit was also charged with not following the instructions of the government/headquarters properly. The next day, the government suspended SP Mahoba Patidar, who was accused of taking money from stone crushers and transporters for allowing them transportation of the material. On Tuesday, a six-member team under an SP from Kanpur unit of vigilance establishment reached Mahoba to find evidence of corruption against Patidar and other cops. Meanwhile, another six-member team headed by another SP of vigilance reached Prayagraj to probe charges against Dixit. A senior official said the teams will collect the documents which will be analysed to check for criminal deeds. Later, a report will be sent to the government. Patidar was suspended hours after stone crusher Indrakant Tripathi was shot at in Mahoba and later succumbed to injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vigilance-probe-begins-against-2-suspended-ips/articleshow/78136766.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||Vendors in Sakhali fined for using plastic carry bags||BICHOLIM: Taking cognizance of complaints lodged by citizens regarding illegal use of plastic carry bags by some shopkeepers and vendors in the jurisdiction of the Sakhali Municipal Council (SMC), officials have commenced a drive against such offenders from Monday and imposed fines on those violating the rule. Speaking to TOI, SMC’s chief officer Pravinjay Pandit said, “Depite instructing shopkeepers not to make use of plastic carry bags since it is detrimental to the environment, most of them are still using them. The municipality has decided to go all out and stop the use of plastic carry bags by vendors in its jurisdiction. We have made it very clear to the market inspectors that offenders should not be spared.” It may be recalled that SMC authorities had instructed the vendors from Sakhali market not to sell or use plastic carry bags to the people and had also conducted an awareness drive under the guidance of the chief officer. The Sakhali civic body had also passed a resolution and had set October 2, 2019, as the deadline for vendors to stop using plastic bags. However, it had been found that despite this some vendors were still clandestinely selling or using plastic bags. The municipality then decided to take strict action. Accordingly, the market inspectors raided some shops and imposed hefty fines. The municipality started this drive from January 17 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vendors-in-sakhali-fined-for-using-plastic-carry-bags/articleshow/78135756.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||Goa police detained man wanted for Gujarat murder||PANAJI: Goa police on Tuesday detained one person from Anjuna who is allegedly involved in various crime in Gujarat. They have asked Gujarat police to take custody. North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon said they received information from Gujarat police that the accused identified as Ramiz was hiding out Goa. Gujarat police also shared his mobile number. Police said they kept a watch on his movements for a month and finally on Tuesday, they nabbed him in a villa at Assagao. Prasoon said the accused is wanted by Gujarat police for a recent murder. Ramiz was taken into custody and brought to Porvorim police station. Action has been initiated as per provisions of Sec 41 of CrPC to hand him over to Gujarat. police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-nab-man-wanted-for-guj-murder/articleshow/78135735.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Actors, politicians should not play with students’ lives: BJP leader||Coimbatore: Actors and politicians should not make statements that would affect the students’ future for personal gains, state BJP vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan said on Tuesday while responding to a question on actor Suriya’s statement against the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET).The suicide of medical aspirants was unfortunate, Vanathi said and expressed condolences to their families. “But Suriya’s statement sounds as if there should be no competitive exams for students at all. There has to be some scale to measure the abilities of students. Surya should first clarify his statement.”The BJP leader said they had earlier responded to Suriya’s criticism of the National Education Policy.Referring to the actor’s statement that courts were dispensing justice through video conferencing because of the pandemic while students were asked to appear for exams, the BJP leader said courts were institutions that had to function every day. “But exams are held just for a day and if they are held with proper safety measures, an academic year would not be wasted.”She also urged Suriya to refrain from making statements like movie dialogues and not to play with students’ future. “Let your movies run well. But don’t push students into darkness.”The BJP leader also took a dig at the DMK. Pointing out that NEET was brought in by the Congress government in which the DMK was a part, she said the Dravidian party, which was silent then, was opposing the exam now. “Earlier, the DMK opposed Hindi, depriving students of opportunities. And now it is doing the same with NEET. We are creating awareness on NEET among students.”Meanwhile, K Ramakrishnan, general secretary of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, said, if Suriya’s statement on courts, which the actor made considering students’ welfare, was construed as a mistake, then they ‘would also do the same mistake’ by repeating the statement. “How is this a crime? How is this contempt of court?”It is to be noted that Madras high court judge justice S M Subramaniam had written to the HC chief justice, seeking contempt proceedings against the actor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/actors-politicians-should-not-play-with-students-lives-bjp-leader/articleshow/78135761.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Thirumoorthy dam to be opened today||Coimbatore: Water will be released from Thirumoorthy dam near Udumalpet from today. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has directed officials to release 39.8 million cubic feet of water for irrigation in areas coming under the cultivation of Poosarinayakanpalayam lake in Udumalpet. It will benefit 88.56 acres of agricultural lands, he said.Meanwhile, water level in Krishnagiri Reservoir Project (KRP) has begun increasing steadily following copious rain in the district for the last two weeks. As a result, the water flow in Thenpennai river has seen a steady increase. “The KRP dam’s water level stood at 28 ft against its total capacity of 52 ft on September 1,” said a PWD official. “The water level rose nearly 11 ft and was 39 ft on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/thirumoorthy-dam-to-be-opened-today/articleshow/78135743.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Udaipur||HC stays construction at Udaipur Khelgaon||UDAIPUR: A division bench of the Rajasthan high court at its principal seat in Jodhpur has stayed construction at the Khelgaon premises in Chitrakoot Nagar here. The division bench in its order dated September 10 has issued notices to the chief secretary, Udaipur collector, UIT, chairman Raj State Sports Board, CBSE Ajmer, Maharana Pratap Khelgaon Society and Ms S P Enterprise. A public interest litigation (PIL) in the matter has alleged illegal use of the public property, i.e., the convention centre, for commercial purposes and further sublet of the centre to run a private school there. On behalf of petitioner Manoj Agarwal, a resident of Udaipur, advocate Sajjan Singh Rathore told the court that the convention centre at Udaipur was developed on the land belonging to the sports board and the same was allotted by the UIT. Therefore, at the first instance, any development on it becomes the property of the sports board. That it being a public land was allotted for sports activities only but if at all a convention centre was developed, then the same should be used for public and not for commercial activities for giving profit to any individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hc-stays-construction-at-udaipur-khelgaon/articleshow/78139034.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Civic protest: Meet fails to end deadlock||NEW DELHI: A joint meeting called by the deliberative and executive wings of North Delhi Municipal Corporation to discuss the issue of agitating employees on Tuesday evening ended inconclusively. Representatives of protesting workers refused to end the daily two-hour protest unless a deadline for payment of salaries was given. The north corporation has not paid the salaries of staff for four months and pensions for five months. In the south corporation, salaries for one month are pending and in the east corporation, no money has been disbursed among staff for the past two months. Their pensions are pending for three months. TimesViewThe issue of unpaid salaries is reaching alarming proportions across the spectrum. Working without salary is really being jobless by another designation. The agitation is an indicator of desperation. Authorities should recognise the signs and quickly alleviate the problem of the employees.“We explained to the workers’ representatives that the MCD has no role in delay in payment of salaries and it is entirely due to non-payment of their grants by Delhi government. We asked them to postpone the strike considering our plans to meet the lieutenant governor in a day or two. We are also pursuing the Centre on this issue. But no results were drawn in the meeting,” said Chhail Bihari Goswami, the standing committee chairman. The agitating unions, meanwhile, claimed to have protested outside the meeting halls on two consecutive days. “On Monday, we held dharna outside the halls meant for meeting of rural and law committees and on Tuesday, we expressed our resentment outside the venue meant for meeting of promotion and appointment committee. We even gheroed the leader of House and the leader of opposition because this is all we can do. We have not been paid for five months and officials, councillors are only passing the buck,” said AP Khan, convener of Confederation of Municipal Employee Unions. Leader of opposition and AAP councillor Vikas Goel said that the party stands with the demands of employees. “But I just want to ask the ruling BJP why they are not asking for the Rs 1,815 crore pending against the south corporation for years. Also, why not the commissioner presents details of expenditure, earnings and funds from Delhi government in House? Delhi government is only responsible for paying 75% of teachers’ and doctors’ salaries to MCD,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-protest-meet-fails-to-end-deadlock/articleshow/78135773.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 16, 2020||Goa||Shristhal biodiversity panel opposes NH 66 expansion in Goa||POINGUINIM: The Shristhal biodiversity management committee (BMC) has registered its objections to the expansion of NH 66 at Karmal Ghat as it claims that part of the area falls under the purview of the local panchayat. In a letter to the PWD assistant engineer at Fatorda, BMC chairman Vinay Tubki requested the authorities to avoid large-scale felling of trees and destruction of biodiversity for expansion of the highway. The Shristhal BMC, at a recently held meeting, had decided to object to the project on the grounds that 4km of the 7-km stretch where at least 15,000 trees would have to be felled, was under the purview of the Shristhal village panchayat. “We don’t deny that a good highway is the need of the hour and that destruction arises wherever development takes place. However, such destruction is tolerable only up to a certain level,” Tubki said. “Following opposition from several sections, we sincerely feel that the authority has to come up with an alternative arrangement to save the heritage and identity of Canacona from being destroyed.” As an alternative, the BMC has proposed construction of a tunnel parallel to the existing railway tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shristhal-biodiversity-panel-opposes-nh-66-expansion/articleshow/78135778.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||2 brothers killed as bus hits two-wheeler||Coimbatore: A 45-year-old man and his 43-year-old brother were killed when a private garment factory bus rammed their two-wheeler at Pongalur in Tirupur district on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.The Avinashipalayam police identified the deceased as K Arumugam and his elder brother K Narayanan, of Ganapathipalayam at Palladam in Tirupur.Police said the incident took place when they were returning home from Avinashipalayam, where they had come on Monday night, on the two-wheeler. “Narayanan was riding the vehicle. When they neared Karunaipalayam Pirivu area on Trichy-Coimbatore Road, the bus, which was ferrying garment factory workers, rammed their two-wheeler,” a police officer said.Arumugam, who sustained severe injuries, died on the spot. Passers-by rescued Narayanan, who was battling for life, and took him to the Palladam government hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.The Avinashipalayam police have registered a case and investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-brothers-killed-as-bus-hits-two-wheeler/articleshow/78135766.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Vadodara||Sardar Sarovar Dam inches away from peak level||BHARUCH/VADODARA: Sardar Sarovar dam is just a few inches away from reaching its full reservoir level of 138.68 metres. On Tuesday, water level in the dam reached 137.99 metres that is just 10 inches away from the maximum permitted storage level of 138 metres. This is the second time in the last one year that the dam’s water has reached the peak level. On September 15 last year, waters in the dam had reached the peak height just two days before PM Narendra Modi’s birthday that falls on September 17. Sources in the Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd (SSNL) said that inflow of water from the upstream was recorded at 55,213 cusecs and outflow in downstream is 54,701 cusecs. Six units The inflow of water from upstream on Tuesday evening is recorded 55,213 Cusec and outflow discharge in downstream of river is 54701 cusec and 13500 for power bed for electricity generation. The dam’s active storage capacity reached around 5,935 million cubic meter, said a SSNL official. Six units of river bed power houses of 200 megawatt each are currently operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sardar-sarovar-dam-inches-away-from-peak-level/articleshow/78133499.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||2 gangs involved in 27 burglaries busted, Rs 19L property recovered||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police busted two separate gangs and solved a total of 27 burglary and theft cases. Property worth Rs 19 lakh, including 31 tola gold, was recovered from their possession. A couple — Katti Ravi Kumar (25) and Mekala Geetanjali (21) — from Konda Mallepally in Nalgonda’s Deverakonda were caught at Khanapur gate in Ibrahimpatnam on Tuesday. In 2017 and 2019, Ravi was arrested by Dundigal and Guntur police respectively in house burglary cases. After he was released from the jail, Ravi along with his wife shifted to Anantapur in AP and ran a tea stall. With meagre earnings, he started committing offences again in surrounding villages of Kurnool and Anantapur districts. When the local police kept a close surveillance on Ravi, the couple moved to Nalgonda district and committed burglaries in the limits of Rachakonda police commissionerate. The couple confessed to having committed 17 burglaries and thefts in Telangana and AP since last year by targeting locked houses in the night. According to police, the couple decided to settle down and purchased a 100 square yards plot at Kondamallepally village to construct a house with the stolen property. The CCS LB Nagar team seized 26 tola of gold ornaments and 40 tola of silver items worth Rs 16 lakh along with land documents and booked them. The same team also nabbed a gang of four members at Balapur Shivaji Chowk and seized five tola gold ornaments and 10 tola silver ornaments from their possession. The accused were identified as Kommani Srinivas (30), Dontula Mahesh (20), R Karthik (25) and Bandigolla Vijay Kumar (25). Srinivas’s wife Kommani Kasthuri is still at large. The gang committed 10 burglaries this year, while they were involved in three similar offences in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-gangs-involved-in-27-burglaries-busted-rs-19l-property-recovered/articleshow/78135810.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Asymptomatic patient dies in Covid care centre||Coimbatore: A 60-year-old asymptomatic Covid-19 patient died of heart attack at the Covid care centre at Codissia trade fair complex at noon on Tuesday. A resident of Ganesh Nagar at Vadavalli, he breathed his last while asleep after breakfast.The death sent 300-odd patients at the Covid care centre’s B hall, where the elderly man was put up, panicking.The health department, however, said the cause of the patient’s death wasn’t Covid-19. He was a diabetic.According to a source, other patients tried to wake him up for mid-day snacks at noon, but there was no response from him. Nurses, who were deployed at the hall, also did their best to revive him, but in vain.Prasanth, a patient, said, “One of the patients informed the nurses, who tried to revive the elderly man by pressing his chest. But there was no response. Pulse oximeter reading showed oxygen saturation was almost nil. His body temperature was 103 deg C.”While health department officials said the patient was monitored on Monday night and his vital parameters were stable, fellow patients said doctors and nurses were neither monitoring their vital parameters nor interacting with them. “Vital parameters are checked only during the admission that too by some patients who volunteer. After that nurses or doctors don’t monitor us to find how our symptoms are,” said another patient, Naveen, who was admitted on Saturday with fever after he tested positive for the virus.The patients said they were hardly getting the daily dose of two vitamin C and zinc tablets. N Shiva, a patient at the E hall of the centre, said, “The nurses don’t ask us if we have medicines. They just give us a paracetamol whenever we approach them with any complaints. Though medicines and masks are available, they don’t give them to us.”He said officials were also not monitoring the vital parameters of patients with comorbidities like the one who died on the day. “Whatever they fill in their charts is made-up. The only reason we are here is to ensure we don’t infect others at home.”Two weeks ago, when there were growing complaints on unhygienic toilets and surroundings, the city corporation and health department had moved the patients who raised them to home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/asymptomatic-patient-dies-in-covid-care-centre/articleshow/78135776.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Meerut||45-yr-old property dealer, who recently joined Azad’s party, found murdered in Kairana||Meerut: A 45-year-old property dealer was found dead in the back seat of an abandoned car in a forest area within the Kairana police station limits in Shamli on Tuesday morning. According to his family, the deceased, Mursaleen, had joined Chandrashekhar Azad's Samaj Party last month and was planning to contest from Kairana constituency in assembly elections due 2022. Police said the deceased’s body bore strangulation marks on the neck and claimed that it might be a case of murder.Broken bangles were also recovered from the back seat of the car suggesting a struggle between the victim and assailants. Police have begun investigation in the case and are recording the statement of the family members to ascertain the motive of the murder. “Teams have been trying to scrub all possible angles which could be linked to his murder. We have landed on some clues and are trying to solve the case,” Vineet Jaiswal, Shamli, superintendent of police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/45-yr-old-property-dealer-who-recently-joined-azads-party-found-murdered-in-kairana/articleshow/78132931.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Fill vacant posts: Govt pharmacists||Coimbatore: Pharmacists in government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) have launched a protest by sending letters to the principal secretary to the department of health and family welfare, seeking to fill vacant posts.While there are around 40 vacant posts in Coimbatore, there are around 750 vacant posts across the state, district representative of the Tamil Nadu Government All Pharmacists Association C Krishnamurthy said. “Because of this, during this Covid-19 crisis, pharmacists are experiencing work pressure,” he said. The state government should create more pharmacist posts, Krishnamurthy said. “Ten posts should be created in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The post of chief pharmacists should be created at government hospitals. There are several pharmacists in urban PHCs, who, even after being recruited and having worked for more than eight years, are getting only consolidated pay.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fill-vacant-posts-govt-pharmacists/articleshow/78135770.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Good response to 5-day janata curfew in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: Despite the refusal from district administration, the five-day janata curfew called by the Yavatmal district chamber of commerce and industries and the affiliated traders associations received a good response from the members on the first day on Tuesday. According to the spokesperson of the chamber, the shops in the main market area and key places in the city's vicinity remained closed and the bandh was a success. It will continue till September 19, he added. Essential service providers functioned as usual. Medical shops were open, while the agriculture centres worked till 2pm. Some tehsils have observed janata curfew earlier while others would join the bandh from September 17 onwards, TOI was told. The bandh was peaceful and there was no untoward incident reported from anywhere, informed the SP M Rajkumar. The vice-president of district chamber of commerce Arun Pobaru said they had the support of the MLA Madan Yerawar and district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod, and added that he had no idea why the district collector had disapproved of the voluntary bandh called by them for public benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/good-response-to-5-day-janata-curfew-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78129491.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Poojappura prison Covid-free now||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After more than a month, the Poojapura Central Prison has finally become free of Covid-19. The final group of 42 inmates, who remained Covid-19 positive, turned negative in the tests conducted on Tuesday. The first case of Covid-19 in the central prison was reported on August 10. Two persons who were taken to the hospital with symptoms of fever turned out to be Covid-19 positive. The prison department authorities conducted Covid screening tests among the inmates and staff immediately. When the first round of tests concluded, as many as 470 inmates and around 10 staff had turned positive. A death was also reported due to Covid-19, when a septuagenarian inmate died on August 16. However, in the second round of screening tests, majority of them turned negative. With all inmates declared negative, the works at manufacturing units that had been stalled owing to the virus outbreak have also been resumed. “We commenced operations of various manufacturing units, including the tailoring unit and cafeteria, from Monday onwards. The farming activities and the functioning of fuel refilling station under the prison too have been resumed,” said central prison superintendent Nirmalanandan Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/poojappura-prison-covid-free-now/articleshow/78134216.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Arecanut ryots stare at 30% crop loss due to fungal attack||PANAJI: Arecanut farmers in Sangeum stand to lose nearly 30% of their crop owing to heavy rain since last week. A few farmers who had sprayed their crop with a special concoction of fungicide may be spared the trouble of fungus infection, but most others are worried about premature falling of arecanuts. TOI had earlier reported that incessant rain, followed by cloudy weather, had caused a fungal infection, koliroga, in the arecanut crop in Rivona. Farmers who have sprayed their crops twice may face slight crops loss as compared to those who did not, while farmers who have sprayed three times may be able to salvage about 10-20% of their produce. “We encourage farmers to take preventive measures since the rainfall has been very heavy from the past week. The fungal attack is therefore very likely. Three applications of fungicide are therefore necessary,” director of agriculture Nevil Alphonso said. To add to their woes, farmers will be unable to claim compensation for this crop loss under the agriculture department’s schemes. “Currently, the scheme covers compensation for arecanut trees that are uprooted by storms or cyclonic weather, not loss incurred due to fall of the fruit. Farmers are therefore unable to claim the subsidy,” Pandurang Patil, a farmer from Rivona said. Under the Shetkari Adhar Nidhi, a state sector scheme implemented by the directorate of agriculture, only natural calamities are identified. The claims under ‘epidemic of pest and disease’ are considered only if particular pests or diseases occur in regions declared by the government as an epidemic. The damage of crops due to sporadic pests and diseases, which occur in certain pockets, do not fall under this cause. Loss of infrastructure, accidental fire and animal attacks are some of the reasons considered under this scheme. “Although pest attacks that are endemic in nature are not considered under this scheme, farmers are given a 50% subsidy on pesticides,” Alphonso said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arecanut-ryots-stare-at-30-crop-loss-due-to-fungal-attack/articleshow/78135774.cms||Nida Sayed
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Airport expansion project: Land owners demand compensation||Coimbatore: More than 20 people from Irugur and surrounding areas met district collector K Rajamani on Tuesday, requesting him to compensate them immediately for their land that was earmarked for the city airport expansion project.The project entails acquisition of 627.89 acres. While some land owners have already been compensated, there are others who have been waiting for more than 10 years for the district administration to pay for their land.S Anbarasu, 48, a lathe workshop employee, is one among them. He had bought three cents of land in Irugur town panchayat in 1990 to construct a house. The district administration, however, issued a notice to acquire the land for the airport expansion. Today, he, along with his family, is staying at his mother-in-law’s house at Pattanam near Sulur. He said, “The state government decided to acquire our land and fixed a price of Rs 1,500 per sqft. But I am yet to receive the payment. I am also not allowed to sell the land to others. If I could at least sell the land, I could buy a house in a rural area.” Anbarasu urged the district administration to provide him compensation immediately.K Ravi, 57, a private security guard from GN Mills, has a similar story to tell. The three cents land that he bought in Irugur town panchayat in 1996 to build a house was also earmarked for the airport expansion project. “I have been fighting for the compensation amount for the past 10 years. But the state government has been delaying the payment.”On his part, the collector promised them to take necessary action immediately.The 627.89 acres that is earmarked for acquisition falls under 24 blocks. The district administration has fixed Rs 1,500 per sqft for housing land and Rs 900 per sqft for agriculture land. The authorities have to raze down 634 houses for the project. The government has compensated land owners in block number 7.It has been more than 10 years since the Airport Authority of India (AAI) floated the idea to expand the city airport. AAI is waiting for the district administration to complete land acquisition and hand over the land to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/airport-expansion-project-land-owners-demand-compensation/articleshow/78135804.cms||A Subburaj
September 16, 2020||Meerut||Nursemaid, 30, gang-raped in a car in Meerut, 2 arrested||MEERUT: A 30-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by three men, one of them known to her, inside a car in UP's Meerut district on Monday night. The survivor, a nursemaid at a private hospital, was later dumped at a deserted spot from where she reached a nearby hospital with the help of a passerby. Seeing the nature of injuries, the hospital staff alerted police, which registered a case and launched the probe. On the basis of information provided by the survivor, police went to the stretch on which the alleged crime was committed. “After scanning the CCTV footage, we found out the registration number of the car and soon tracked its owner,” a police officer said. Two of three accused have been arrested so far and the car used in the crime was also impounded. “An FIR under section 376-D (gang-rape) of IPC has been registered at Medical police station. Two accused, Rajat Tyagi and Vasu have been arrested. Raids are being conducted to nab the third,” the police officer said. According to police, the woman knew one of the accused and had agreed to meet him on Monday night after work. They had met a few days ago and were in constant touch over the phone. In one of the footages, she was seen leaving with Rajat in a car. But, after a little while, Rajat’s two friends also entered the parked car. “Then the accused drove the car to a forested area and allegedly gang-raped the woman,” said superintendent of police Akhilesh Narayan Singh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nursemaid-30-gang-raped-in-a-car-in-meerut-2-arrested/articleshow/78132935.cms||Piyush Rai
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Railway unions protest privatisation||Coimbatore: Around 50 members from railway unions here on Tuesday protested at the loco shed on Goodshed Road against privatization of the railways. Sporting black coloured masks, members Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU) and All India Railwaymen's Federation (AIRF) decided to create public awareness on how privatization will affect them through social media. Union members requested the public to switch off all their lights for 10 minutes from 8pm on September 19 in support of their demands.The SRMU and AIRF are protesting, primarily, multiple decisions taken by the railways such as surrendering or abolishing vacancies, privatization of 150 trains across 109 routes, abolishing dearness allowance and implementation of any of Bibek Debroy committee’s recommendations. “We are against privatization of the 150 trains, because this is just the beginning. They will increase the number of trains every year, covering all 22,000 trains eventually,” said M Govindan, divisional secretary, Salem, SRMU. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/railway-unions-protest-privatisation/articleshow/78135820.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||485 cases take tally past 23K-mark||Coimbatore: Covid-19 tally zoomed past the 23,000-mark in the district on Tuesday, when it recorded 485 new cases, even as 437 patients were discharged from treatment facilities. The district has seen a total of 23,147 Covid-19 cases so far and of them 3,593 are active cases.At least 19,193 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district, where the recovery rate stands at 82.9%.The toll, meanwhile, touched 361 with the state including four deaths that occurred in the district on Monday in the bulletin. The deceased were all women, who had hypertension and diabetes. Two of the deceased were in their 60s and the remaining in their 50s.The new cases were spread across the district. At least 12 people were tested positive for the virus from Chinnavedampatti, eight from Vasanth Nagar at Singanallur, 18 from Ramanathapuram, seven from Vadavalli, eight from a car showroom at PN Palayam, 14 from Vellakinar, 13 from Mettupalayam, seven from Selvapuram and 14 from Ganapathy.District collector K Rajamani, meanwhile, convened a meeting with private laboratories on the day, requesting them to start testing government samples again. When the Covid-19 testing labs at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and the ESI Hospital began getting overloaded, the government had roped in private labs to test the samples. However, when they did not receive reimbursements, the private labs had threatened to stop testing government samples.An official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “However, they have been reassured that payments will be released in a day or two. The collector and city corporation commissioner have asked the labs to mention their capacity and it seems to come around 8,000 samples a day.”The private laboratories have also been asked to communicate negative results to patients via SMS or email immediately as that would reduce their anxiety levels. Positive results have to be communicated to the government and the patients as well.Also, pulse oximeters have been made compulsory in all labs, which have been asked to check all people, and if a person’s oxygen saturation is low, that person would be directly admitted in hospitals without waiting for their real-time reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction test result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/485-cases-take-tally-past-23k-mark/articleshow/78135787.cms||---
September 16, 2020||India||Hunt news, not women: Activists, celebs to media||MUMBAI: In a strongly-worded open online letter, around 60 human rights advocacy groups and more than 2,500 individuals from diverse fields have castigated “News Media of India” for allegedly conducting a misogynistic media trial of actor Rhea Chakraborty. “We write to ask you to do the right and responsible thing. Your jobs. Hunt news, not women,” the letter said. Prominent among those who have signed the letter are organisations like Akshara Centre, Saheli, Center for Women, Forum Against Oppression of Women. Individual signatories include actors and filmmakers such as Zoya and Farhan Akhtar, Sonam Kapoor Ahuja, Anurag Kashyap; academics Swagato Ray, professor at the Indian Statistical Institute and Shohini Ghosh, professor at Jamia Milia Islamia and Dalit activist Deepti Sukumar. Published on Medium, a popular blogging platform on Monday under the blogger name Feminist Voices, the letter questioned the media’s alleged obsession with “creating only one narrative” and their abandonment of “professional ethic of journalism” and “tenet of human decency” to “endlessly violate her privacy” and make “false accusations and moralistic innuendo” for what they feel was an attempt to spin a “Rhea ko phasao” drama. Rhea was the girlfriend of fellow actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who allegedly died by suicide on June 14 this year. The letter stressed on the skewed nature of Rhea’s media trial, the scrutiny often based on her being a particular kind — “a young woman who makes her own decisions, who lives with her boyfriend without marriage and who speaks up for herself instead of acting like a damsel in distress” — that egged on an online mob that “demonised” her and her family relentlessly and called her arrest a “victory”. Highlighting the pandemic which has seen a “disturbing rise in domestic violence, and India’s alarming mental health crisis intensify”, the letter described the coverage as “pulp fiction” and that it had managed to promote “damaging stereotypes of vishkanyas and dayans, which have endangered women for decades.” The letter also alluded to the “kindness and respect” that the news media had shown in the past to “the Salman Khans and Sanjay Dutts of this world” while its misogyny was unmissable when it came to a young woman’s “concerns, ambitions, and clothes choices,” all of which the letter rued was “trivialised, dismissed, persecuted.” The collective urged Indian news media to “stop fuelling moral polarities of good women to be deified and bad women to be crucified” since they believe it "endangers" all women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hunt-news-not-women-activists-celebs-to-media/articleshow/78137792.cms||Mohua Das
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Electricity meters installed at residences of most of our employees: UPCL tells HC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) has informed the Uttarakhand high court (HC) – through a compliance affidavit that it has installed and ledgerised meters at the residences of most of its employees. The counsel appearing for the UPCL also informed the court that the corporation has started charging money from the employees and placed several bills on the record as well. This comes after the bench of Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe while hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) had directed the UPCL to furnish the electricity bills of the meters installed. The PIL had alleged that around 12,000 employees of the UPCL and their relatives have been using an unlimited amount of electricity virtually free of cost. Speaking to TOI, senior advocate BP Nautiyal, who is representing the petitioner “RTI Club Uttarakhand”, said that he has now asked the court for a weeks’ time to respond to the affidavit and peruse the bills brought on record after which the court listed the case for further hearing on Tuesday. “I sought a week’s time to study the bills produced by the UPCL and to respond. The court will now hear the case on next Tuesday,” Nautiyal said. As reported by TOI earlier, the electricity bills of several high ranking officials of the UPCL ran into lakhs. These officials had not paid these dues for years after which the court directed the UPCL in March to file an affidavit furnishing details of the number of residences where they have installed the electricity and to specify the time frame by when the rest of the homes will have functional meters. The division bench headed by the then Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan had also set limits on the amount of electricity which the employees of each grade can use at subsidised rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/electricity-meters-installed-at-residences-of-most-of-our-employees-upcl-tells-hc/articleshow/78132967.cms||Prashant Jha
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure daily monitoring of Covid-19 in districts: Govt||Lucknow: Chief secretary RK Tiwari has said that a system should be developed under which details of district level contact tracing, surveillance and testing can be reviewed each day. During a review of Covid-19 management in the state on Tuesday, Tiwari said that district level command centres should update the state command centre with this information each day and on the basis of data submitted by each command centre, people will be contacted randomly to verify details and take their feedback. “Information received by the state command centre will be reviewed each day so that steps can be taken to improve health facilities at the district level. Covid-19 patients with no or less symptoms in home isolation should be tracked regularly and when necessary, an ambulance should be arranged immediately to take them to hospital,” the chief seretary said. Tiwari said that in districts where a large number of cases were being reported, testing, contact tracing and surveillance should be increased and if necessary, additional teams should be deployed. He also said that beds should be increased in all Covid hospitals. He said that officials must review the requirement for medicines, manpower, oxygen, etc, for the next four weeks and ensure that they are made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-daily-monitoring-of-covid-19-in-districts-govt/articleshow/78136791.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Ferozguda residents suspect poisoning after stray found dead||Hyderabad: A stray dog was allegedly poisoned as he died after consuming food at Goutham Nagar in Ferozguda on Sunday. The incident came to light after a video was shared with TOI on Tuesday, in which the dog named Dolly, was seen convulsing and vomiting blood. “On Sunday, my mother found one of the dogs in critical condition when she went to feed her in the afternoon. It looked like a poisoning case and we suspect involvement of the family who used to beat the dogs,” said Gargi Singh, the caretaker of the dogs from the locality. “We tried to get medical help for almost an hour when we saw the dog struggling but there no veterinary clinic open near our area as it was a Sunday,” said Gargi Singh, the caretaker of the dogs from the locality. The residents who found the dog have sent the body for postmortem and registered a case under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. “The dogs are all sterilised and regularly inoculated. We have never seen them attack or bite anyone. The dog suffered for almost an hour before it died. We are afraid these people might poison the remaining dogs if no action is taken against them,” said Raj Nandan Singh, who filed an FIR with the police. Singh also shared CCTV footage of their neighbours beating the dogs using sticks and driving them away on multiple occasions.  “We have registered an FIR and have started investigation. We will take action if the postmortem report states that it is a case of poisoning,” said Mohammad Waheeduddin, Inspector, Balanagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ferozguda-residents-suspect-poisoning-after-stray-found-dead/articleshow/78135852.cms||Moulika.KV
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||When will Doon’s roads get repaired?||Dehradun: The potholes have turned into craters at several stretches in the state capital, causing major woes to commuters. Two major traffic spots of the state capital — ISBT and Haridwar road near the police outpost in Jogiwala area for instance have become a major danger zone for vehicles. The local shopkeepers and commuters claimed that the stretch near the police outpost in Jogiwala becomes especially precarious during rains, and has resulted in accidents as well. Nitish Ghildyal, a shopkeeper, said, “The potholes cause at least two accidents every day as two-wheelers often skid on this route. The road has been in a dilapidated state since the last one year, but apart from cosmetic touch-ups, nothing has been done to repair it properly.” “This route needs to be remade as repairing will not work,” added Kuldeep Mishra, another resident of the area. The potholes also become a reason for traffic jams whenever police puts up barriers for routine checking. Ram Singh Dhanai, a resident of the area, said, “The road is one of the entry and exit points in the city, and the cops often conduct checking outside the police outpost. The drivers have to literally wait in big potholes for their turn. The two-wheeler riders have to suffer the most as they are hardly left with any space.” A similar state of poor roads can be seen opposite the ISBT where shopkeepers claimed that the potholes become all the more risky during the night in the absence of proper streetlights. Munna Lal, who runs a tea stall near ISBT, said, “Hundreds of passengers board their buses from this bus stand, but the approach road is in shambles. Is this how roads in a big city are maintained and that, too, in a state capital?” The officials of public works department (PWD) when queried, said that both the roads are “maintained by multiple government agencies and will be repaired soon after the monsoon season ends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/when-will-doons-roads-get-repaired/articleshow/78132959.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||One in three Delhiites has Covid antibodies: Latest sero survey||NEW DELHI: Nearly 33% of Delhi’s population has in all likelihood developed Covid antibodies. This was revealed in the initial analysis of the third serological survey in which 17,000 samples were collected from all 11 districts. The outcome of this survey is expected to be officially announced next week. In general terms, it means that 66 lakh of the two crore Delhiites were infected with the novel coronavirus and now carry antibodies after their successful recovery. This would also be the highest seroprevalence since the outbreak of the pandemic. The second survey conducted in the first week of August showed the prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies in 29.1% of the population, up from 23.4% in the first serological study that was conducted from June end to early July. While 15,000 samples were collected for the second survey, over 21,000 samples were gathered in the first one. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageDescribing it as a good sign, an official said, “People who have antibodies are not currently infected. They have recovered from Covid-19. Many of them didn’t even realise that they had been infected and recovered successfully.” The samples are being analysed by Maulana Azad Medical College, which also conducted the first two surveys. A source said that over half the samples had been analysed and the percentage of antibodies prevalence could increase slightly when the final report was released. The latest prevalence of antibodies in people would help the government micro-analyse the Covid situation and take steps for containment of the virus. Samples were collected from three categories — aged below 18, between 18 and 49 years, and above 50 years. The highest percentage of samples was collected from the 18-49 age group. The survey was launched on the first day of the month and samples were collected by front line health workers by September 7. The teams mostly selected residents of identified locations through a randomised sampling technique. Such people were asked to visit the nearest dispensary and give their blood samples. Those covered in the first two surveys were excluded from the third one. Delhi government is likely to sanction another survey from October 1 to assess the prevalence of antibodies next month too. The growth in antibodies indicates that Delhi is inching towards herd immunity against Covid-19. Data of all surveys would be analysed to devise and change strategies to combat the virus. Watch Latest sero survey reveals, one in three Delhiites has Covid antibodies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sero-positive-66l-may-have-antibodies/articleshow/78156224.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Wild elephant tramples elderly woman to death||Coimbatore: A lone tusker trampled a 73-year-old woman to death at Varapalayam Pirivu on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday morning while she was on her way to offer prayers at a nearby temple.She was the eighth person to lose life in wild elephant attack in the Coimbatore forest division so far this year.Forest department officials identified the victim as V Neelavathi, of Pappanaickenpalayam near Pannimadai.A forester said, “She was walking to the temple on Pannimadai-Thadagam road around 5.30am. When she neared a banana plantation, which was a little more than 1km away from the reserve forest, the tusker attacked her, killing her on the spot.”The officer said the tusker was a crop raider and the animal used to roam along the forest fringes as there were banana and maize fields nearby.The dead body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The forest department has handed over an initial solatium of Rs50,000 to the victim’s family.Siva, range officer, Coimbatore forest range, said, “We have a team of frontline staff at Varapalayam. They did not receive any messages about the tusker’s movement in the area. We had earlier itself informed villagers residing along the forest fringes not to venture out of their houses before 6.30am as there is wild elephant movement in the morning hours.”He also requested people not to roam around the reserve forest area during late night and early morning hours. “This will help curb man-animal conflicts and causalities thereof.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wild-elephant-tramples-elderly-woman-to-death/articleshow/78135824.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cyber fraudsters target people looking out for romantic liasons on dating apps||HYDERABAD: After social media and fake e-commerce calls, cyber fraudsters have now started targeting clueless victims on the pretext of a romantic relationship on calls or texts. According to officials of cyber crime department, the crooks impersonating women are approaching people on bulk texts and looting them. At least two instances are recorded in the city every month but most victims shy away from filing an FIR, police officials say. “Many people reply to these texts that are sent by fraudsters offering ‘dating packages’ and charging people for registration and a security fee for virtual chats, nude video calls etc. On the pretext of meeting or talking to women, victims transfer money to these cons,” said S Harinath, ACP of cyber crime Rachakonda. A man recently lost Rs 34,000 while chatting with a woman for dating purposes. The messages sent to him offered a date with a person named Preethi for Rs 30,000. As the man started chatting with the woman, he was asked to pay registration and security fee of Rs 34,000 to see her pictures. After the man sent the money, he was asked for more when he grew suspicious and refused to pay. The fraudsters then started blackmailing and threatening him. He then approached the Cyberabad cyber crime police. “The offenders lure the victims to come on a virtual call and play a pre-recorded video, asking the victim to go for a nude video chat. They later use the video to blackmail the victim for sending more money. If the victim fails to send money, the fraudsters threatens them to upload the video on social media for defaming them,” said Shyam Babu, ACP of cyber crime Cyberabad. The crooks also trap victims on dating applications like Locanto, Mingle, Tinder etc, offering women escort services to extract money. “An engineering student, on the pretext of finding a female escort on dating app, spent close to Rs 1 lakh,” said ACP Harinath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-fraudsters-target-people-looking-out-for-romantic-liasons-on-dating-apps/articleshow/78135911.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh 2021: Kangra Ghat work to be completed by Nov 15||Dehradun: With just a few months left for Kumbh 2021, Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash held a meeting of state officials on Tuesday and directed them to speed up the works related to the Mela. The project of development works at Kangra Ghat at Har-ki-Pauri should be completed by November 15, the CS said. He also fixed December 31 as the last date for the construction of five temporary bridges at Haridwar. Besides, the work for the black-topping of the route made for the Kanwar Yatra should also be completed by November 15, he added. He directed the state officials to ensure that all the required and necessary equipment and material is made available at the site and “there was no delay in the completion of projects”. Prakash said, “Projects need to be executed in a planned manner — be it laying of underground power line, sewer line, or drinking water line, authorities need to conduct physical verification regularly to keep an eye on the developments. He added that the construction of five temporary bridges should be completed by December 31. He directed that the necessary forest clearances should also be taken for speedy completion of the proposed bus stand for Kumbh Mela. The chief secretary directed authorities to ensure special arrangements at Kumbh Mela 2021 in view of Covid-19. He said that the deployment of doctors and other necessary staff should be done well in time and 500 beds should be kept ready in the Kumbh Mela area. He further added that the required arrangements for patient care and Covid-19 testing should also be done and police personnel deployment must be finalised well in advance. It is worth mentioning that though the Kumbh Mela would be held on the stipulated date, its format would be decided after checking the developments in February next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-2021-kangra-ghat-work-to-be-completed-by-nov-15/articleshow/78132999.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 16, 2020||India||95% of migrants sans ration cards got free grains, govt tells RS||The food and consumer affairs ministry told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that nearly 95% of the migrant workers without ration cards received free foodgrain and pulses for May and June. In a written reply, the ministry said : “Since no data on the actual or estimated number of migrants/ stranded migrants was available, an initial estimate of about 80 million (8 crore) migrants was made”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/95-of-migrants-sans-ration-cards-got-free-grains-govt-tells-rs/articleshow/78137804.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Work at Singoli-Bhatwari hydro plant continues without ‘environmental nod’, activists write to environment ministry about impending threat to lives of 200 families||Dehradun: The environmentalists in Uttarakhand are now worried about Rudraprayag district, which has already faced nature’s fury in 2013 with Kedarnath deluge, as work at Singoli-Bhatwari Project continues “without” environmental clearance (EC). The project is going on the Mandakini river. Concerned about the lives of people and the fragile environment of Rudraprayag, Dr Bharat Jhunjhunwala informed the ministry of environment about the illegal construction work sans EC which expired on August 23, 2020. Jhunjhunwala on August 27 requested a fresh “environmental assessment” of the project stating that the previous EC was “fraudulently” procured by the L&T. He wrote the area is getting “adversely impacted” by the construction activities and the illicit work is impacting the water sources, forests, aquatic life of Mandakini, locals and their livelihoods. The rim of the reservoir is witnessing “landslides”, while houses in that area have developed “cracks” due to which lives of around 200 families are in jeopardy. One of the adits has developed “huge leak” due to which a large amount of water from the hill aquifers is being continually discharged leading to “drying up of water sources”, affecting life and livelihoods of the villagers and also leading to loss of forest, vegetation and biodiversity. In support of his communication, the professor has attached the photographs of landslides of the rim of the reservoir. A copy of his letter addressed to the secretary of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) on August 27, 2020 is with the TOI. “The barrage gates were closed for a short time in July. This led to the creation of a reservoir upstream, which has since been released and ceased to exit due to opening of the gates,” it read. The firm was supposed to finish the work by November 2016. “The private firm not only continues to construct the hydroelectric power plant till date without having any environment clearance, but also, it made ‘changes’ in the ‘scope of project’ after 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, and ‘did not’ inform about changes to either the state or central government about it, and, fraudulently obtained environmental clearance, which has expired in August,” said Jhunjhunwala, who is also a former IIM-Bengaluru professor. When TOI contacted L&T Uttaranchal Hydropower Ltd (L&T UHL), the officials refuted the allegations and called them “baseless”. The L&T Singoli-Bhatwari HPE, planning and billing manager, Ron Paul, said, “We have already completed the construction work in May and now the removal of muck is going on. These are all baseless allegations.” Notably, the professor has submitted photographs of work in progress even after August 23 to the ministry. The company had made changes after the Kedarnath tragedy and this came to the fore when the environmentalists got hold of the document — “Minutes of the meeting of presentation held on April 29, 2019 on ‘memorandum of design changes’ proposal in respect of Singoli-Bhatwari HE project in Uttarakhand by L&T UHL.” The copy of minutes is with TOI too, it has 11 points of changes made in the project. The construction company was asked about the reason for non-submission of MoC of proposal for design changes during the planning state or before the actual execution of these project components. The minutes read, “L&T accepted the delay in submission and confirmed that such issues shall be taken due care of in future.” According to the environmentalist, the changes in the “scope of project” ranged from increasing the head race tunnel diameter from earlier 4.65 metre to 4.9 metre. “This has necessitated the making of a larger adit which, in turn, has led to the leakage of hill aquifers,” the communication read. While a drop shaft of 47.5 metre was added, length of pressure shaft increased from 358 metre to 419 metre. “These increases have led to the reported leakage in the head race tunnel,” reads the communication to ministry. “Maximum water level of the pond increased from 809.5 metre to 810 metre. This has led to landslides and development of crack along the rim and upstream of the reservoir,” he wrote. Defining how the change in “scope of project” is dirtying the river, he further added, “The tail race channel has been replaced by a tail pool which has led to ingress of muck and river water in the tail race pool and polluted the river.” On the other hand, the officials of L&T UHL refuted any changes in the scope of the project. “We haven’t made any changes in the project. These are all allegations,” said Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/work-at-singoli-bhatwari-hydro-plant-continues-without-environmental-nod-activists-write-to-environment-ministry-about-impending-threat-to-lives-of-200-families/articleshow/78133020.cms||Shivani Azad
September 16, 2020||Delhi||In a first, Delhi Development Authority to e-auction 25 wedding venues||NEW DELHI: For the first time, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is going to e-auction 25 of its sites at good locations as venues for wedding and other ceremonies. Instead of allowing online booking of the selected sites, these will be auctioned for almost a year and the successful bidding agency will maintain and rent it out. “These sites are not in A category but are located nearby and are in B category. We will provide the sites for 10 months on a licence basis and keep it for two months for Ramlila and other important functions,” said Subu R, commissioner of the land disposal department. “It is a new thing and we will wait and watch. If the response is good, we will continue,” he added. The scheme, which got delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, will cut off the stranglehold of the tent mafia, which books such sites at prime locations at nominal rates and after erecting semi-permanent shamianas, rents it out for huge sums, Subu said. The revenues generated from auctions will be used for constructing community centres or affordable houses. The allotment will be subject to compliances with all green and Swachh Bharat Mission norms, DDA said. It is also planning to e-auction kiosks and other plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-first-dda-to-e-auction-25-wedding-venues/articleshow/78135995.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Cloud burst didn’t cause landslide’||IDUKKI: The debris flow from the forest came down the hill slope from about a height of 2,060 meters and travelled over 1.5km before hitting the worker’s quarters at Pettimudy on the night of August 6, said experts from department of environmental sciences, Kerala University on Tuesday. Debris flow is a moving mass of loose mud, sand, soil, rock, water and air that travels down a slope under the influence of extremely heavy rainfall. The team led by Sabu Joseph ruled out cloud burst as the cause of the landslide. The scientists also questioned the accuracy of the rainfall data registered by KDHP Company. “It is hard to believe the region received a rainfall of over 61.22cm. The GSI report which pointed to a rainfall 24.26cm must be more accurate,” said John Mathai, former scientist, National Centre for Earth Science Studies, who was also part of the team that visited the site. Automatic weather stations should be installed in all parts of the district and if more than 20cm rainfall is recorded, people should be shifted from landslide-prone areas, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cloud-burst-didnt-cause-landslide/articleshow/78134365.cms||Sandeep Thomas
September 16, 2020||Pune||More uncertainty seeps in over state indecision on Maratha quota stay||PUNE: For Shubashree Deshpande, everything was supposed to fall in place on September 10, when she would have finally taken admission in the college she wanted. But a day before the Centralised Admission Process Committee was to declare the merit list, Supreme Court stayed the implementation of Maratha reservation in education and jobs leaving many students and parents in a quandary. It is not only the students belonging to the community who are suffering but also the others, as all the admission processes have been stayed and the government is yet to come out with any decision on restarting it. Savita Purohit, a parent of a student waiting for admission to an engineering diploma degree said, “We were almost about to confirm our admission after a lot of difficulty in a college, and suddenly we were told that we will have to hold our plans. Already, the students are losing patience with the current situation as they had to wait for too long for results, then the process of admissions and when it finally began, there is yet another road block.” Students are now anxious about their future and when the issue will finally be resolved and what the government decides over this issue. Sameer Maulik, another parent, said, “The state government has already played politics over the final year semester exams and now they will surely sit over this too for days together to arrive at a decision while so many students are at stake.” Education activist Matin Mujawar said, “Our office gets calls daily from anxious students and parents to know about what is finally happening to the admissions of FYJC. They want to know if those who have confirmed the admissions still are valid or there will be another turnaround from the government. When we check with officials they fail to give us a promising response.” When contacted, director of education, Dinkar Patil, said, “We are waiting for the state government to take a decision and convey it to us. Once it is decided, we will resume the admission process for FYJC.” Director of the state vocational educational and training, Yogesh Patil, said, “Till the state government made a decision it was not possible for the department to carry out the process of admission which is incomplete. Based on government decision the next merit list would be announced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-uncertainty-seeps-in-over-state-indecision-on-maratha-quota-stay/articleshow/78134362.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Treat docs, health staff with dignity: Govt tells officers||Lucknow: Taking note of rising incidents of spats between doctors and administrative officials, UP government has shot off a letter to all divisional commissioners and district magistrates directing them to ensure that cordial relations are maintained among all staff engaged in Covid-19 duties so that the pandemic containment work does not suffer. The letter, written by chief secretary RK Tewari, comes after the UP Provincial Medical and Health Services raised the issue with the state government last week. According to the association, at least six such incidents took place in the past one month. In a representation to CM Yogi Adityanath, the doctors’ body highlighted that in several districts they were not being treated respectfully which was a cause of concern in the time of coronavirus. The latest incident was reported in Rae Bareli where a senior administrative officer allegedly misbehaved with the district’s chief medical officer in an official meeting. UP Provincial Medical and Health Services president Dr Sachin Vaish said: “We understand the pressure on our administrative colleagues but no one has given them the right to misbehave, ill-treat and use foul words with our doctors. We are happy that our request has been addressed and the government has intervened for the sake of the dignity of doctors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/treat-docs-health-staff-with-dignity-govt-tells-officers/articleshow/78136794.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Pune||83% final year students opt for online mode of exams||PUNE: As many as 2.23 lakh out of the 2.49 lakh filled up the option form uploaded by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) confirming if they want to opt for online or offline mode of examination. An overwhelming majority of 1.85 lakh students opted for online examinations, leaving only 37,841 students for offline examinations. Among physically-disabled students, 468 opted for online exams while remaining 167 chose to attempt the exams offline. Students, who have not participated in the process, would be considered for offline examinations to be conducted using Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheets by default. Mahesh Kakade, director of the Board of Examination and Evaluation at SPPU, said, “It is good to see that the maximum number of students have replied to the option-form and a majority have opted for the online process of examination.” The option-form mentioned that students could appear for the exam from any place of convenience but they need to have a working front camera on the computer that is switched on throughout the duration of the examination. Kakade further said that the varsity recognized the possibility of some students being unable to appear for both online and offline examination during the prescribed time frame. “For such students, we will again provide an opportunity to appear for the exams when class improvement and other such examinations are held at a later stage, maybe around December. Meanwhile, students who have not filled up the option form will be considered for the offline mode of examination by default. Another chance will not be given to fill up the form, as the university also needs time to prepare for the conduct of exam,” said Kakade. The data of about 6,000 students studying at the university departments is yet to be included in these figures. “For university students, the form-filling exercise opened up on September 14 while the last date is September 17. Since the university already has our data and our previous mark sheet, we have just one question to answer — whether we want to choose online or offline mode of examination,” said Kamalakar Shete, a final year student of Commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/83-final-year-students-opt-for-online-mode-of-exams/articleshow/78134360.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Covid still surging, schools to remain shut for now: Edu minister||Dehradun: In view of the rising coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand, state education minister Arvind Pandey on Tuesday announced that the schools in the state will not open from September 21 and remain shut till further orders. “We are testing more people and as a result, cases are also rising. We don’t want to put our students at risk and have therefore decided that schools will not open from September 21. I have directed all officials to ensure that schools remain shut until the situation gets normalised,” he added. Meanwhile, the number of cases continue to rise on Tuesday with 1,391 new cases being recorded, taking the state tally to 34,407. Also, nine more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 438 in the state. The maximum of 421 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 318 from Udham Singh Nagar, 226 from Nainital, and 219 from Haridwar. While Almora and Bageshwar didn't report any new cases, the remaining seven hills districts collectively reported 207 new infections. “Nine deaths were also reported in the state. Along with this, 1,008 patients infected with the virus recovered on Tuesday, taking the recovery case tally of the state to 23,085,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said that based on his analysis, the four plain districts are accountable for around 70% cases in the state, but the testing in these districts was far behind the hill districts. “The state has done over 5 lakh tests in six months. The four plain districts — Dehradun, Haldwani, Haridwar, US Nagar — are doing 3,500-4,000 tests per lakh population but the hill districts are doing 5,500-6,000 tests per lakh population. In view of this, I request the authorities concerned to take steps to lower this gap,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-still-surging-schools-to-remain-shut-for-now-edu-minister/articleshow/78133053.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 16, 2020||Pune||Class IX student turns to sport, enters European tennis circuit||Aman Kothari, a student of Class IX from the city, has made his way into the European circuit and is set to enter international tennis. Having been selected by one of the top tennis academies in Europe, the Mouratoglou Tennis Academy (MTA) in the South of France, Aman will now train and compete with international players and receive professional coaching from the academy. Excerpts from his interview: Your journey in tennisIt started at the age of 10 years, when I started playing at Bombay Gymkhana Club. Later I joined the Mahesh Bhupati Tennis Academy’s (MBTA) after school program. I played club tournaments regularly. From 2017 to 2019, I trained under the head coach of MBTA, Shankar Krishnaswamy, and my technical skills blossomed. I would start my day at 5am with a ﬁtness session, followed by two hours of tennis at the Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex, Kochi. I would head straight to the tennis courts and play for another 2 hours. My efforts paid off with district and state championship wins in U-12, 14 and 16 in 2018-19. Your training in the USDuring the 2019 summer, I travelled to California, USA and played at the prestigious Stanford University, with Paul Goldstein at the Nike summer camp. I was incredibly happy to meet players from all over the world. The camp put a lot of things into perspective as a player. I was determined to be part of this sporting world. Your goals In June 2019, I moved to Pune and took admission at Victorious Kidss Educares school in Kharadi and simultaneously started next phase of my tennis training with Nandan Bal. I trained under him for a year, while playing with some of the best players of Maharashtra. I won U-16 All India Tennis Association tournaments. My next goal is to step into international tennis world and European circuit. I train, compete with European players with help from MTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/class-ix-student-turns-to-sport-enters-european-tennis-circuit/articleshow/78134366.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 16, 2020||Kanpur||Max case positivity in Kanpur, highest testing in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: While Lucknow ranks number one in terms of coronavirus testing, Kanpur accounts for the highest case positivity rate (CPR), according to an assessment of data undertaken by the state health and family welfare department. Sources revealed that over 4.5 lakh tests have been conducted in the state capital which translates into a CPR of about 8.8%. Kanpur ranks fourth among the top 10 in terms of number of tests conducted, but its CPR is over 9%. To note, the case positivity rate refers to the number of persons turning positive among those tested. A crucial tool to measure extent and activity of the pandemic, CPR of UP remains under the prescribed limit of 5%. For the entire month of August it has dwindled around 4%, while the current figure is 4.1%. Also, the current CPR for India is around 8.4%. Accordingly, both Lucknow and Kanpur have a higher turnout of positive cases among those tested. Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad follow next in terms of number of tests, but their CPR is around the state average of 4%. Citing WHO documents, experts pointed out that a CPR of less than 3% and more than 12% spoke about testing inadequacies and called for micro-assessment of the situation. Secretary to CM, Alok Kumar said: “The CM is personally tracking the progress of testing in every district. While he has instructed the state to scale up testing further as it is the most important part of our strategy to contain the pandemic, he has told district officials to use numbers for micro planning purposes to control the situation. In addition, the data is helping the state assess progress of contact tracing in districts – another crucial pillar of Covid-19 containment strategy.” The Union ministry of health and family welfare has said that all states must try and keep their CPR around 5%. In this way, a CPR in the range of 3%-5% was considered as good by health officials. This means that the situation in the two NCR districts is under control. The assessment also revealed that the testing status in Sravasti, Shamli, Badaun, Banda, Auraiya, Farrukhabad and Chitrakoot was not satisfactory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/max-case-positivity-in-kanpur-highest-testing-in-lucknow/articleshow/78148076.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Max case positivity in Kanpur, highest testing in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: While Lucknow ranks number one in terms of coronavirus testing, Kanpur accounts for the highest case positivity rate (CPR), according to an assessment of data undertaken by the state health and family welfare department. Sources revealed that over 4.5 lakh tests have been conducted in the state capital which translates into a CPR of about 8.8%. Kanpur ranks fourth among the top 10 in terms of number of tests conducted, but its CPR is over 9%. To note, the case positivity rate refers to the number of persons turning positive among those tested. A crucial tool to measure extent and activity of the pandemic, CPR of UP remains under the prescribed limit of 5%. For the entire month of August it has dwindled around 4%, while the current figure is 4.1%. Also, the current CPR for India is around 8.4%. Accordingly, both Lucknow and Kanpur have a higher turnout of positive cases among those tested. Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad follow next in terms of number of tests, but their CPR is around the state average of 4%. Citing WHO documents, experts pointed out that a CPR of less than 3% and more than 12% spoke about testing inadequacies and called for micro-assessment of the situation. Secretary to CM, Alok Kumar said: “The CM is personally tracking the progress of testing in every district. While he has instructed the state to scale up testing further as it is the most important part of our strategy to contain the pandemic, he has told district officials to use numbers for micro planning purposes to control the situation. In addition, the data is helping the state assess progress of contact tracing in districts – another crucial pillar of Covid-19 containment strategy.” The Union ministry of health and family welfare has said that all states must try and keep their CPR around 5%. In this way, a CPR in the range of 3%-5% was considered as good by health officials. This means that the situation in the two NCR districts is under control. The assessment also revealed that the testing status in Sravasti, Shamli, Badaun, Banda, Auraiya, Farrukhabad and Chitrakoot was not satisfactory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/max-case-positivity-in-kanpur-highest-testing-in-lucknow/articleshow/78136800.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||‘Metropolitan area’ tag: Bhopal and Indore on track||BHOPAL: The state government on Tuesday approved setting up a Metropolitan Development Body, the first step in declaring Bhopal and Indore as ‘metropolitan areas’. The decision was taken at a virtual cabinet meeting, presided over by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Tuesday. This will pave the way for a Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA), one of the prerequisites under the metro rail policy. It will bring about an integrated approach in planning and management of urban transport in the administrative and commercials capitals of Madhya Pradesh. It will boost development of suburbs of Indore and Bhopal in line with the Metro network. With metro rail projects on in both cities, UMTA will bring all stakeholders under one roof. As per Metro Rail Act, it is necessary to declare a metro construction area as ‘metropolitan area’. Ten years ago, Bhopal was part of 63 cities selected under JNNURM to improve urban transport planning and management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/metropolitan-area-tag-bhopal-and-indore-on-track/articleshow/78135927.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Two persons killed after speeding truck hits bike in Doon||Dehradun: Two persons, hailing from the neighboring state of Uttar Pradesh, were killed after the bike they were riding on was hit by a speeding loaded truck in a head-on-collision near Asarodi check post in Clement Town area of Dehradun on Tuesday morning. The victims, who died on the spot, were later identified as Jatin, 17, resident of Saharanpur district, and Sandeep Kumar, 30, native of Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh. Both were on their way towards Saharanpur while the truck was coming from the opposite side towards Dehradun. “On receiving information, police reached the spot and took both the persons, who were in the state of unconsciousness, to the hospital where they were declared brought dead,” said a police official. While the truck driver fled the spot, the helper in the truck told police that the truck was loaded with marble chips and was coming from Saharanpur. Meanwhile, police have seized the truck and have started making efforts to nab its driver. Police informed the family members of the deceased who reached Dehradun by afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-persons-killed-after-speeding-truck-hits-bike-in-doon/articleshow/78133031.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 16, 2020||Surat||Nashik taxi driver shot at by two passengers near Vansda||Surat: A 30-year-old taxi driver from Nashik was shot at by one of the two passengers who had hired his vehicle on the Waghai-Vansda state highway near Visguliya village in Vansda taluka of Navsari district on Tuesday morning. The armed assailants, who had hired the taxi from Nashik, escaped with the vehicle leaving the driver Jay Somnath Gagde crying for help with bullet wounds. According to Navsari police, Gagde, a resident of Saikheda Canal Road in Tadpada in Nashik, had started with the two passengers in his MUV (multi-utility vehicle) from Nashik for Ahmedabad early on Tuesday morning. Sources said that the passengers wanted to answer nature’s call so the driver pulled up near the Visgulia village near Vansda National Park at about 7am. Gagde went along with the passengers to relieve himself. In the meantime, one of the assailants pulled out a pistol and fired two rounds on Gagde hitting him on the check and neck. Vansda police said that the assailants escaped from with the car, leaving the taxi driver in the pool of blood. Some villagers passing by spotted the driver screaming for help and informed the police about the incident.District superintendent of police (DSP), Navsari, Girish Pandya said, “The assailant seems to have hired the taxi with the motive to kill the driver and escape with the car. The assailant chose a deserted to execute their plan. The accused have escaped with the MUV towards Nashik.”According to Pandya, the taxi driver was rushed to the Valsad civil hospital where his condition is said to be stable.Pandya added, “We have alerted all the police station including those in Maharashtra regarding the incident. We are in constant touch with our counterparts in Nashik. The assailants have also stolen the driver’s mobile phone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/nashik-taxi-driver-shot-at-by-two-passengers-near-vansda/articleshow/78134426.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||42-yr-old farmer goes missing||Hyderabad: A 42-year-old farmer from Kamareddy district went missing on Tuesday. M Bhudaiah from Bibipet had brought his son to Osmania General Hospital 18 days ago for treatment. While the family was staying near the hospital, Bhudaiah went missing from the hospital premises on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/42-yr-old-farmer-goes-missing/articleshow/78135970.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||MAT asks SP, dy SP to pay Rs 5,000 each||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal’s (MAT) bench in Aurangabad has imposed a cost of Rs 5,000 each on Osmanabad superintendent of police (SP) as well as the deputy superintendent of police for failing to remain present before the tribunal. In November 2019, inspectors Sainath Thombre and Suresh Chate of the Osmanabad police had moved the MAT challenging their premature transfer from the police stations they had been heading. A couple of days ago, both Thombre and Chate were suspended after inquiry against their long medical leave revealed that some of the records submitted by them were never issued by the treating doctors or the hospitals. A departmental inquiry against them has been initiated. Representing the inspectors, lawyer Sujit Joshi said, “Taking cognizance of the contradictory affidavits filed by the SP and deputy SP, MAT vice chairman B P Patil on August 17 had issued directives asking Osmanabad SP Raj Tilak Roushan and deputy SP D D Tiparse to personally remain present before the tribunal on September 3 and produce the original record of the procedure followed for transferring the two inspects.” However, the public prosecutor representing the senior officers sought time for producing the original records and the MAT agreed to it. When the matter came up for hearing before the MAT on Monday, both the senior police officers did not turn up for the second time. Taking cognizance of the same, MAT vice chairman observed, “In spite of ample opportunity given to the respondents (both the senior officers), they failed to remain present before this Tribunal. It seems that the SP and the deputy SP have no regards about the Tribunal. They have intentionally and willfully flouted the orders of this Tribunal.” While posting the next date of hearing to October 1, the MAT went on to state, “In view of the above, last chance is granted to the SP and deputy SP to remain present along with the original record subject to payment of costs of Rs 5000 each.” When contacted, Roushan said, “There is no question of showing disregard or disrespect towards the tribunal. On Monday, there was a video conference by chief minister on Covid-19 as well as the law and order situation in the state following the agitation of the Maratha community over the reservation issue. We had communicated the same to the tribunal in writing through the public prosecutor.” When asked about the imposition of the cost by the MAT, Roushan said that the counsel has advised to go for a review appeal. In the same breathe, he said that both inspectors Thombre and Chate have now been suspended for indiscipline and dereliction of duty as they were on sick leave for about 11 months, which was still continuing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mat-asks-sp-dy-sp-to-pay-rs-5000-each/articleshow/78133045.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 16, 2020||Pune||Youth throws chilli powder in 21-year-old’s eyes to steal phone in Pune||PUNE: A youth blinded a 21-year-old final-year management student by throwing chilli powder into his eyes and robbed the latter of his cellphone worth Rs 10,000 at a desolate spot on the Taljai hills on Monday afternoon. The culprit also threatened to assault the victim with a broken glass bottle. The victim had gone to the Taljai hill for a walk with a young woman, who was his friend from Mumbai, around 12.30pm when the incident occurred, police said. Later in the evening, he approached the Sinhagad Road police to lodge an FIR. The police suspect the incident to be the work of some local men, who have been targeting gullible college going students. PB Kanse, assistant inspector of the Sinhagad Road police told TOI, “The complainant, who resides in a housing colony on the foothills of the Taljai hills, stated he and his friend had gone to the hill for a walk and to click photographs of the greenery. His friend, who is pursuing her studies in Mumbai, had come to meet him.” He said, “When the duo walked into a desolate area, a youth, aged around 18 years, stopped them and asked what they were doing on the hillock. Before the student could reply, the youth hurled chilli powder into the victim’s eyes. He then snatched the student’s cellphone, backpack and wallet. The student was not carrying any valuables with him.” Sinhagad Road police inspector Sunil Takawale said, “The victim has given us a description of the suspect. We have launched a search for him.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-throws-chilli-powder-in-21-yr-olds-eyes-to-steal-phone/articleshow/78134369.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Agra||‘Agra museum to showcase Braj culture’||AGRA: The museum originally planned to showcase Agra’s Mughal culture, now renamed after Maratha warrior-king Shivaji, will also undergo a “conceptual change”. Additional chief secretary, UP, Awanish Awasthi told TOI on Tuesday that "the museum will be dedicated to what is Indian, the Braj culture, tradition and heritage”. This comes a day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the original name, Mughal Museum, was a display of “servility” because Mughals “cannot be our heroes.” So, the CM had said, the museum would instead be named after 17th-century Maratha ruler Chhatrapati Shivaji, who had engaged for 27 years in wars against the Mughals. Work on the museum, coming up near the eastern gate of the Taj Mahal, had started in 2016 with a 2017 completion target. “The idea was to introduce tourists to the grand Mughal era of the city. In a creatively crafted space, Mughal history and architecture would be on display … Historians and scholars were to be brought on the committee to ensure accuracy,” Alok Ranjan, former chief secretary who was part of the project when its foundation was laid by then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, told TOI. The decision to change what the museum will showcase has surprised historians. “Mughals were in Hindustan 150 years before Taj was built. All monuments in Agra were built by them. The history of the city is the history of Mughals,” historian and professor emeritus at Aligarh Muslim University Irfan Habib told TOI. “I don’t have an opinion on what the museum should be called but this is wrong.” Other academics said they were shocked. “It’s shocking to learn that a museum in a Mughal city will be named after Shivaji. There is no connection except that he was imprisoned in 1666 in the haveli of Ram Singh, son of Mirza Raja Jai Singh, who had defeated Shivaji and forced him to surrender. Later, he escaped from Agra,” said Prof M Pundhir from AMU’s history department. Former chairperson of the department, Prof Syed Ali Nadeem Rezavi, added, “Braj is a region devoted to the cult of Krishna and Chaitanya, it has no link with Shivaji ... It is general consensus that museums near monuments reflect the culture of the latter. They could build another museum away from Mughal monuments for Braj culture. Tourists come to Agra to see Mughal architecture. When they want to soak in Braj culture, they go to Mathura. A city’s history cannot be kept aside.” For now, though, work on the structure is stalled. “About 75% of the project is complete…the exhibition design plan has been initiated,” a representative of Noida-based architectural firm Studio Archohm said. The firm is collaborating with UK-based architect David Chipperfield’s Berlin office for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/name-and-concept-of-mughal-museum-will-be-changed-to-now-hold-braj-artifacts/articleshow/78133084.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||CM to write to Centre on strategic importance of Char Dham road project||Dehradun: In the wake of the Supreme Court order restraining the widening of Char Dham roads to not more than 5.5 metres, Uttarakhand chief minister TS Rawat is now planning to write a letter to the Union road transport ministry highlighting the strategic importance of the all-weather road project in the Himalayan state. Sources said that the letter would lay thrust on the need to ensure wide roads and that too of better quality to improve connectivity in the border areas, especially in the wake of the recent tensions with neighbouring China and Nepal. It would also mention how such roads would be beneficial for the increasing number of pilgrims visiting the state. Sources in the CM’s office said, “After studying the order copy of the Supreme Court, the CM will write a letter to the Union minister for road transport. At present, the situation is tense at the border and we need broader and high quality roads. It is extremely important for Uttarakhand which has a strategic significance as it shares its borders with China and Nepal. Besides, a high number of pilgrims visit the state for Char Dham Yatra and the project will definitely help lakhs of people.” The Supreme Court had on September 7 given its final seal of approval to the Char Dham national highway project to provide all-weather connectivity to four holy towns of Uttarakhand, but restrained the Centre from widening roads in the hills beyond five-and-a-half metres citing a 2018 circular of the road transport and highways ministry. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had told the bench about the strategic significance in widening hilly roads to pave the way for easy movement of military vehicles towards the borders. However, the bench of Justices RF Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee turned down the Centre’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-to-write-to-centre-on-strategic-importance-of-char-dham-road-project/articleshow/78133061.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 16, 2020||Pune||Four held for robbing auto drivers, train passengers||PUNE: Four persons were arrested on Monday on the charge of robbing multiple autorickshaw drivers of cash and cellphones at isolated places in Yerawada and Dighi in July and August. The suspects were initially taken into custody on charge of planning dacoity at a poultry farm in Yerawada on Monday, but during their questioning, they admitted to their involvement in the other robbery cases. The Pune police crime branch have recovered two sickles, a knife and nylon rope from the foursome. “Their fifth accomplice is on the run,” an officer said. “The suspects would hire autorickshaws as passengers and rob the drivers of cash and cellphones. They would call the drivers relatives to tell them he had met with an accident, and would tell them to rush to a place with money. They would then rob the relatives,” crime branch (unit IV) inspector Anjum Bagwan said, adding the suspects admitted of having robbed passengers at knife point around Pune station. “They have also robbed passengers’ cellphones by hitting them with sticks on their hands while trains were in motion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-held-for-robbing-auto-drivers-train-passengers/articleshow/78134418.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||Congress MLA Govardhan Dangi dies of Covid, first in MP||BHOPAL: Congress MLA from MP’s Biaora seat, Govardhan Dangi, who was being treated for Covid-19 infection, died at a Gurugram hospital on Tuesday. He was 62. Dangi is the first legislator in Madhya Pradesh to die of Coronavirus. Former chief minister Kamal Nath expressed his anguish and alleged negligence in Dangi's treatment in Bhopal. “He had to be shifted to Delhi because of negligence by the hospital here. When he was shifted there, the doctors told me they were amazed by the negligence and wrong treatment given to him here. At Medanta, they tried their best. He was a social worker and a simple person. Such personality is rare in today’s politics. I pay my condolences and express my sadness on his demise,” the PCC chief said, calling Dangi’s passing a big loss for Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-mla-dies-of-covid-first-in-mp/articleshow/78135951.cms||Suchandana Gupta
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Notorious gangster Chinu Pandit’s brother held||Roorkee: The Roorkee Police on Tuesday arrested local gangster Chinu Pandit’s brother and another accused for their alleged involvement in a broad daylight firing near a gas agency godown last week. Some unidentified miscreants on September 9 had fired several rounds in the air to terrorise the staff of a gas agency. Reportedly, Chinu, who is presently lodged in jail, had personal enmity with one member of the gas agency, so he hired his henchmen to eliminate him. The miscreants were identified as Rajiv Sharma alias Monu, 38, and Mukul Tyagi, 20. According to SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh, Mukul is a resident of Behdi village near Jhabrera and has been lodged earlier in Roorkee jail in connection with a crime. Chinu, who was already lodged in the same jail, asked him to terrorise one Ashwini Soni, who is presently working in Ekta Gas Agency, as Soni was a main witness in Akash Tyagi’s murder case. Three years ago, Chinu had killed Akash in a bar. "By terrorising Ashwini through his henchmen on September 9, Chinu wanted to make him a hostile witness in Akash murder case. With Mukul’s help, his brother Rajiv and three others orchestrated the firing incident at the gas godown. Three miscreants are still absconding," said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/notorious-gangster-chinu-pandits-brother-held/articleshow/78133085.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 16, 2020||Pune||10 in the net for charging at cops & PMC workers||Pune: The Khadki police on Monday arrested 10 people on the charge of abusing and charging at some corporation workers and police personnel in protest against the demolition of illegal structures on civic land in Wakdewadi around 1pm. Assistant inspector Purahottam Deokar of the Khadki police said, “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had served notices on the suspects to remove their illegal tin sheds at a PMC colony in Chhatrapati Samabhajinagar, but they failed to do so. When PMC’s anti-encroachment squad reached the spot to demolish the sheds, the suspects picked up a dispute with its members.” Deokar said, “The suspects and others assembled in large numbers to protest against PMC action. When civic officials asked them to not create hindrances, they started abusing and charging at them, and the policemen on bandobast duty.” He said, “The suspects pelted stones at PMC and police personnel but none was injured. We took five men and equal number of women into custody. Afterwards, PMC’s anti-encroachment squad demolished the illegal tin sheds. We have arrested suspects under relevant sections of IPC based on FIR registered by PMC deputy superintendent Rakesh Vitkar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-in-the-net-for-charging-at-cops-pmc-workers/articleshow/78134382.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kanpur||Kin stage protest at pvt hosp after Covid patient dies||Kanpur: The family of a Covid positive patient protested at the private hospital in Mandhana on Tuesday morning as he died in 10 days after getting admitted. The patient was the brother of a village head. The relatives alleged that the hospital management was demanding exorbitant charges, and since the past three days, did not inform them about the well-being of the patient.“We had also tried to approach senior health authorities regarding the poor facilities at the hospital, but in vain,” said the patient’s family. However, the hospital administration claimed that it had been informing the family about the patient’s health, besides cost of the treatment.The family members indulged in an altercation with the staff, following which the situation became tense. However, timely intervention of the police pacified the situation.“The brother of a village head in Chaubeypur block of the district was admitted to the Covid facility on September 4. He died during treatment due to complications on Tuesday morning. When the family was informed about the death and asked to clear dues, they created ruckus,” said Bithoor station house officer, Kaushlendra Pratap Singh.The matter was sorted out after the hospital management waived off the pending bill, added police. Policemen were deployed at the hospital to avoid any untoward situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kin-stage-protest-at-pvt-hosp-after-covid-patient-dies/articleshow/78135948.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||Killing tigers for genitals a new concern for MP: Panna royals wrote to PM for CBI probe||BHOPAL: Will Panna tigers be pushed back to oblivion, again? With five tigers dead in just eight months — including one floating in Ken river, beheaded and with its genitals severed — the forest ministry has set up a central team to probe the deaths. Investigators here are digging out a cold case where a beheaded tiger was found floating in the same river in 2005. The ministry’s team, comprising senior officers from NTCA, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and wildlife Trust of India (WTI), will investigate the “circumstances leading to the disturbing developments inside Panna Tiger Reserve”. It was the death of tiger P123 that put wildlife officials on their toes. Its headless carcass was found floating in Ken near PTR’s Hinauta range on August 9. After it was pulled ashore, foresters realized its paws and genitals had been severed. It reminded investigators of a similar case 15 years earlier, which remains unsolved. Panna royal writes to PM for CBI probe into tiger deathsBizarre fetishes for eating tigers’ vital organs and using claws and whiskers to “rain money from the sky with black magic” have surfaced as major problems in tiger conservation, say officials. While the ministry’s team is yet to arrive in Panna, the state tiger strike force (STSF) has submitted a confidential report to the wildlife headquarters. “We have got STSF’s report. Action will be decided on the basis of its findings,” said chief wildlife warden Alok Kumar. Till autopsy of the eightyear-old P123 found that its sex organs were removed, a section of officials claimed it was killed in a territorial fight. Some of them even delivered a cooked up story that a forest guard had seen P123’s fight with another tiger. They also suggested that crocodiles must have eaten its head. With autopsy revealing the grisly truth, PTR’s monitoring system has come under question. R Sreenivasa Murthy, the IFS officer behind successful reintroduction of Panna tigers, is alarmed by the spate of recent deaths. “This is an extremely serious issue. The culprit seems to me an insider. Unless we nab the culprit and seize missing parts of P123, the future of Panna tigers would be bleak. We lost this reserve once and cannot afford another debacle. If we fail to nail the culprit immediately, I am sure we will be heading towards making Panna a zerotiger again reserve,” he told TOI. The daughter-in-law of the erstwhile Panna royal family, Yuvrani Jiteshwari Devi, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding a CBI probe into the death of five tigers. “Locals and forest guards had approached me to raise the issue, as poaching is way beyond control and the lower staff may get suspended,” Jiteshwari Devi told TOI. This is the second time a CBI probe is being sought. In 2011, Madhya Pradesh high court dismissed a PIL for a central investigation into the disappearance of PTR tigers between 2007 and 2009. Activist Ajay Dubey, who had written to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan in October 2011, for a probe into an alleged nexus between a section of PTR officials and poachers, said: “We still want a CBI inquiry. The MP government should fix accountability of officers posted in Panna and in the wildlife wing of MP forest department.” In 2009, the nation was shocked to know that Panna didn’t have even a single tiger left from 20 three years earlier. From the depths, Panna made a complete turnaround and proved to be a model in tiger reintroduction. Now, the 543 sq km reserve has nearly 50 tigers (including cubs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/central-team-to-probe-tiger-deaths-in-panna/articleshow/78135985.cms||P Naveen
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Consumer forum hears over 300 cases virtually||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala state consumer disputes redressal commission has held online hearing of more than 300 cases since the imposition of the lockdown. The state commission was the first to switch to online hearing in the country, though the national commission has recently mooted the virtual option to circumvent the hurdles posed by Covid-19 related restrictions. According to the commission authorities, it had started hearing cases through videoconferencing on April 14. “The commission hears 10 to 12 cases per day on an average. On certain days the number goes up to 15. The cases taken up for virtual hearing are those which require high priority,” commission authorities said. The commission chaired by Justice K Surendra Mohan has jurisdiction in Kerala as well as Lakshadweep. The commission directly accepts complaints amounting to consumer loss claimed between Rs 1 crore and Rs 10 crore. It also adjudicates appeals filed on orders passed by district commissions all over the state. The virtual hearing schedule is same as the physical schedule as per which the commission works from 11.30 am to 3.30 pm. “During pre-Covid days, the commission used to organize physical hearing of up to 20 cases a day. The number of cases being filed in the commission too has come down following the Covid restrictions, prompting the commission to receive complaints online. “If 100 to 150 complaints, including appeal petitions, used to come up every day during the pre-Covid period, it has now come down to 50-60 per day. That’s why the commission has now started accepting complaints online,” said commission court officer H Sajeer. Complaints can be filed online by sending a scanned copy of the petition to the commission email address cdrckerala@gmail.com. The hard copy of the complaint with mandatory documents have to be sent to the commission. For details about the procedures for submitting complaints online, contact: 7012156758, 9557584730.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/consumer-forum-hears-over-300-cases-virtually/articleshow/78134446.cms||B S Anilkumar
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Minor bureaucratic reshuffle in U’khand, Kurve made secretary excise||Dehradun: In a minor bureaucratic reshuffle, IAS officer Sachin Kurve was made secretary, excise. A 2003-batch IAS officer Kurve was in the waiting list. The charge of principal secretary excise was withdrawn from principal secretary Anand Bardhan. Earlier, the charge of PS mining too was withdrawn from Bardhan, who would continue to look after forest, environment, higher education and interdepartmental coordination for DW, urban development and energy. IAS officer Captain Alok Shekhar Tiwari, who is the additional secretary education, has also been given the charge of additional secretary energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minor-bureaucratic-reshuffle-in-ukhand-kurve-made-secretary-excise/articleshow/78133099.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Bodies swapped at private hospital in Delhi, Christian woman cremated by Hindu family||NEW DELHI: A private hospital in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka committed a grave error by handing over the body of a Christian woman to the family of a Covid-positive Hindu woman. The 69-year-old woman, Garikapati Parisuddam, was not infected with the novel coronavirus and had passed away on Monday morning. On Tuesday, when her kin went to claim the body, they were informed that it had been handed over to the Hindu family, who had even cremated her. The body had been preserved in the hospital mortuary as the family was waiting for her daughter and other relatives to arrive from south India. When Parisuddam fell ill early on Monday, her son, Manohar G, rushed her to Manipal Hospital in Dwarka where she was declared brought dead. Manohar told TOI, “My mother collapsed while trying to go to the bathroom. She was declared brought dead at the hospital. Since our relatives are in south India and wanted to pay their last respects to my mother, I asked the hospital to keep her body in the mortuary. When I went to the hospital on Tuesday afternoon, I was first made to wait and then shown the body of another woman.” An hour later, the hospital authorities told Manohar that his mother’s body had been handed over to another family, who had cremated her. “The most shocking part was that there were only three bodies in the mortuary, two women and a man. Two of them were Covid patients. My mother was the only non-Covid patient. I still can’t understand how the bodies were not tagged properly,” he said. “The hospital told us that the Hindu family had identified the body. But when we met them, they said the hospital did not let them identify and just handed over the body. Though my mother was cremated with full respects, sadly I won’t be able to get closure,” added Manohar. The family was even more disturbed by the callous attitude of the hospital authorities, who first delayed sharing the correct information and, later, did not even sympathise with them. “The hospital authorities need to be held accountable for what they have done. My mother was a priester and there were many sentiments associated with her. Eleven of our relatives flew down to see her, but could not even get a glimpse. I have lodged a police complaint against the hospital,” Manohar said. TOI reached out to the Hindu family, but they refused to comment or reveal their identity. A senior official from Manipal Hospital said, “We have informed the police and are cooperating in the investigation. We are also in touch with both the families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bodies-swapped-at-pvt-hosp-in-dwarka/articleshow/78135977.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Teacher kills self over harassment||Hyderabad: A 39-year-old Anganwadi teacher died by suicide after jumping in the Pragathi Nagar lake in KPHB colony on Monday night. The victim was allegedly being harassed by her husband, whom she had married 16 years ago. A suspicious death case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teacher-kills-self-over-harassment/articleshow/78136031.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Lawyer injures self with his own firearm||Roorkee: A lawyer accidentally got injured from his own pistol at Ramnagar court premises on Tuesday. According to police, 35-year-old Medharti Malik got his leg injured in his chamber by a bullet that was accidentally fired by him. He was immediately rushed to a government hospital by fellow lawyers and was later discharged. "The victim told us that he was checking his firearm (pistol) when a gunshot accidentally injured his leg. However, we are verifying his statement," said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lawyer-injures-self-with-his-own-firearm/articleshow/78133110.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro gets a step closer to ‘Made in India’ signalling||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro is going to mark another first for the country — a “Made in India” signalling system. Arguably the most critical component of the Metro train operations, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and other such entities in the country now depends on foreign manufacturers for sophisticated signalling systems. On Tuesday, DMRC took a major step towards the development of an indigenously built communication-based train control (CBTC)-based signalling technology for the Metro with the launch of i-ATS (indigenous automatic train supervision), an important sub-system of the signalling system. This prototype system and a laboratory for further developing other sub-systems of the indigenous CBTC technology were inaugurated at Shastri Park by Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary of the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. TOI was the first to report in March last year that DMRC is going to develop its own signalling system in collaboration with Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL), Niti Aayog and the ministry to become self-reliant and also help other metro operators in the country. While most components for Metro systems and trains are now made in India, DMRC is heavily dependent on Germany-based Bombardier and Siemens, and France-based Alstom for the signalling system. “ATS is a computer-based system, which manages train operations. It is indispensable for high-density operations such as the Metro, where services are scheduled every few minutes,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communications at DMRC. To take the project forward, DMRC and BEL entered into a MoU for development of the indigenous ATS system. A dedicated team of DMRC and BEL Ghaziabad worked together round the clock to take this important step towards “Atmanirbhar Bharat”, Dayal said. “DMRC has decided to use i-ATS while upgrading the ATS of Red Line, from Rithala to Shaheed Sthal, Ghaziabad and in phase IV,” he said. i-ATS can work with different suppliers and different levels of technologies of train control and signalling systems, and is also suitable for introduction in Indian Railways, which is now introducing centralized train control at a large scale that uses parts of ATS functions, Dayal said. Another MoU was signed with BEL for indigenous development of the rolling stock drivers’ training system for imparting troubleshooting skills to train operators. “We are totally dependent on import for this. It will be a mock-up of a train’s driving cab with a computer-based system at the back end, where different real life scenarios will be created to train the operator,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-gets-a-step-closer-to-made-in-india-signalling/articleshow/78136034.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi minister seeks action plan to fight pollution||NEW DELHI: Environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday directed officials of his department and Delhi Pollution Control Committee to submit an action plan by September 21 to tackle high levels of pollution in winter. He also asked them to specify reasons behind the poor air quality in Delhi. Track the pollution level in your cityThe officials at the meeting highlighted stubble burning, industrial and vehicular emissions, construction activities and waste burning as the major reasons for the poor air quality, following which the minister sought an action plan for each of the issue, said an official. According to a source, Rai was specifically looking into solutions for stubble burning, for which he would soon be visiting Indian Agricultural Research Institute to check the demonstration of bio decomposer. Stubble burning, mostly by farmers in Punjab and Haryana, usually starts in October, while the pollution level rises in November. In 2019, Delhi recorded seven “severe” days in November against five in 2018 during the same period. Similarly, last year, November saw a peak of 494 and 484 AQI levels against 423 and 426 in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minister-seeks-action-plan-to-fight-pollution/articleshow/78136040.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Allegations against my family fabricated: Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan lashed out at the criticisms levelled against him and his family. He said he had always opposed corruption in his public life and now an attempt is being made to drag his family into controversies. “If a person levels corruption allegations against me and my family, do you think that it will become the truth. I have stood against corruption in my public life and that is the reason why I am able to face these allegations with courage,” he said. The CM flayed BJP state president K Surendran for raising baseless allegations. “I feel sympathetic for the party which has made him the state unit president. He is a deranged person,” alleged Vijayan. The LDF government has created an impeccable record over the past four years and the opposition could not even raise a single corruption allegation. This is the reason why allegations are being fabricated now with political interests. Keralites are well aware of what happened during the time of previous UDF regime and what corruption charges were raised against them. The last year of the UDF government was marred by several controversies that people remember even today, he added. CM stands by ministerVijayan also continued to shield minister K T Jaleel by claiming that he had done nothing wrong. “All the present allegations are fabricated and there is a conspiracy behind all this. IUML and BJP are part of it. Merely because someone raises an allegation against Jaleel, he cannot be considered an accused,” he said. IUML’s feud with Jaleel is something that began years ago after he quit and joined LDF. It is strange that now IUML and BJP are conspiring against Jaleel. They have other intentions which the people are aware of, he added. Vijayan said questioning by Enforcement Directorate is not an unusual development. “It will be the first such instance for a minister in LDF government. The questioning by investigating agencies is not a big thing and this has occurred several times earlier too. Only if they find substantial evidence, the issue becomes serious,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/allegations-against-my-family-fabricated-cm/articleshow/78134464.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Kanpur||Improve Covid treatment &surveillance in district: DM||Kanpur: In a bid to bolster treatment and surveillance of Covid-19 patients, district magistrate Alok Tewari has directed Asha workers to contact all the novel coronavirus patients under home isolation in their respective areas and gather details of their health condition regularly. In a review meeting on Monday evening at Integrated Command & Control Centre in Kanpur Municipal Corporation building, the DM said Asha workers must be equipped with pulse oximeters and thermometers when they visit Covid-19 patients under home isolation in their areas. He also asked them to prepare a separate register of symptomatic patients and coordinate in their testing. Tewari also asked officials to depute a field supervisor with each rapid response team. All the symptomatic patients as well as old patients who test positive should be sent to Covid hospitals. Get a Covid hospital allotted for them and ensure availability of ambulances for their transportation, he said. Only young and middle age asymptomatic patients should be permitted home isolation, he added. The DM also urged all doctors to collect each and every information of home isolated patients and ensure those not showing improvement are admitted to hospital. He stressed on making contact tracing more effective and better and said members of the rapid response team should update all details of Covid patients in record. He asked health officials to ensure that sample collection, contact tracing and feeding targets are completed daily. Chief development officer Dr Mahendra Kumar, ADM (finance & revenue) Virendra Pandey, additional DM, civil supplies Basant Agarwal, chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra, city magistrate and other district officials were present in the meeting. On Tuesday, the DM visited Kanshiram hospital and checked the facilities through CCTV cameras and communicated with doctors at ICU by video calling and asked them to ensure quality treatment to all patients. Chief medical superintendent said all doctors were performing their duties as per roster and added that he was himself monitoring patients and special attention was being paid to patients in ICU. Tewari asked him to ensure availability of oxygen so that there is no shortage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/improve-covid-treatment-surveillance-in-district-dm/articleshow/78136015.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||For 6th day in a row, 2000+ cases reported in MP||Bhopal: For the sixth consecutive day, more than 2,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state as the count of positive patients reached 93,053 on Tuesday. Overall, 2,323 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. What was more worrying, however, was the fact that on Tuesday too the positivity rate was above 11%. This was for the fourth consecutive day when positivity rate above 10% was reported in the state. Since the pandemic began, the overall positivity rate in state has increased to 5.4% — it stood at 4.6% till August 31. It is noteworthy that despite higher positivity rate, and targets set by the government for conducting 25,000 daily tests in state, number of tests done per day is still below 25,000. Notably, on Tuesday, when the highest number of positive cases were reported, only 20,259 samples were tested. It clearly indicates that if number of tests are increased the number of cases are likely to increase further, said sources. So far in September, a total of 29,088 fresh cases have been reported in the state. This is 31.2% of the total cases reported in the state so far. Apart from the new cases, 29 deaths were also reported in the state, as per the state health bulletin. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 1,820 in the state. On the brighter side, 1,902 people recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new people recovering, total number of people who have recovered so far reached 69,613. With this, the recovery rate dipped to 74.8%, which stood at 76% till August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/for-6th-day-in-a-row-2000-cases-reported-in-mp/articleshow/78136036.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure oxygen availability to combat coronavirus: CM||Lucknow: Amid reports that the state is facing shortage of medical oxygen, critical for treatment of severe cases of Covid-19, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked health and MSME departments to prepare a plan to acquire sufficient oxygen, even if it is from outside the state. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM emphasised that all hospitals and treatment facilities should have oxygen supply sufficient for 48 hours at all times. “Officials have been asked to maintain availability of oxygen and at the right price. If anyone is caught in black marketing of oxygen, FIR would be filed against such persons," Awasthi said. During a review meeting with ‘Team 11’ on Tuesday, the CM also stressed on maintaining focus on districts from where high number of cases are being reported. “Health services should be improved in these districts and officials should strengthen contact tracing so that those exposed to the virus can be identified at the earliest,” the CM said. He also spoke on the need for a major public awareness campaign on Covid-19 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-oxygen-availability-to-combat-coronavirus-cm/articleshow/78136834.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi hospital gets notice for ‘illegal’ felling of trees||NEW DELHI: The forest department has served a notice to Fortis Escorts Heart Institute for “illegally felling, pruning and heading back trees.” Forest officials said nearly 15 trees situated within the hospital campus were felled, pruned and headed back without taking mandatory permission from the department. It is a violation under Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, 1994. Deputy conservator of forests, South, Amit Anand said a notice was served to the hospital on Monday after a forest officer inspected the spot on Friday. “We have served the notice to the hospital for not seeking permission to fell, prune and head back trees. A hearing in the matter will take place after a fortnight.” The matter came to light after environment activist Verhaen Khanna filed a complaint with the forest department. “Trees, which were felled, heavily pruned and headed back, were situated near the main entrance gate and behind the main building within the hospital campus. The trees, which were damaged, appeared to be around 25 to 30 years old,” claimed Khanna. He added, “Many trees die when they are heavily pruned or headed back.” However, a senior official of the hospital denied the allegations. “No notice from the forest department has been received yet. We would like to emphasise that no illegal felling/pruning of trees has been done at Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Okhla Road. Only some pruning work was undertaken as part of routine maintenance of green belt and driveway area of hospital for safe and clear movement of ambulances in emergent situations,” an official statement from the hospital said. “As a responsible organisation, we will submit all required details to the forest department whenever called upon to do so. Fortis is committed to a green and clean environment and has undertaken various greening initiatives from time to time,” added the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hospital-gets-notice-for-illegal-felling-of-trees/articleshow/78136039.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Two members opt out of meet, ask for Ridge Board reconstitution||NEW DELHI: The Ridge Management Board (RMB) is scheduled to take up on Friday various key issues, including construction of a phase-IV Metro line, development of a bird centre in Rajokri and permission for dumping inert material in the Asola Bhatti mines. But two of its members have opted out of the meeting, asking for the board’s reconstitution and filling up of all vacant slots. According to a source, RMB members Vimlendu Jha and Sunita Narain have written separately to the principal chief conservator of forests, Ishwar Singh, expressing displeasure over a meeting taking place without the official reconstitution of the board. The term for two non-governmental experts expired recently, with no re-appointment. While Jha called the meeting unethical, stating that RMB had not been reconstituted for over a year now, Narain, who is also part of the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, has also expressed concern over holding the meeting, the source said. Narain confirmed that she won’t attend the meeting online and had asked for the reconstitution process to be completed soon. “It will not be right to do it without a proper process in place and without the non-governmental experts,” she told TOI. A government official said the reconstitution file was at an advanced stage and was likely to be cleared soon. The meeting is scheduled to take up 14 issues, which also include construction of Indian Institute of Foreign Trade in Maidan Garhi village, a skill centre in Jaunapur, a new building for School of Planning and Architecture and implementation of the Delhi-Gurgaon-Rewari-Alwar regional rapid transit system corridor that will pass through Aravalli Biodiversity Park. The Aerocity-Tughlaqabad Metro line under phase-IV is likey to be discussed. “The meeting will also look at prohibiting barb wires in the Ridge and how to provide more water to wild animals,” said a source. The board was formed in 1995 to take special care of Delhi Ridge and decide on matters related to its preservation. The board members include government and forest officials, MLAs, DDA personnel and non-governmental experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-members-opt-out-of-meet-ask-for-ridge-board-reconstitution/articleshow/78136051.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 16, 2020||Surat||Bizman’s suicide: Two key accused held near Bharuch||Surat: Two key accused allegedly involved in driving 74-year-old businessman Durlabh Patel to suicide were caught near Bharuch toll plaza on Tuesday.Raju Bharwad, 54, a resident of Laskana and Bhavesh Savani, 40, of Dabholi, were returning to Surat from Vadodara. They will be formally arrested after undergoing Covid-19 tests.Police seized the car in which the duo was travelling, two mobile phones, one revolver worth Rs 1.50 lakh, six cartridges and cash Rs 1,07,200. Police suspect that the seized revolver is the same weapon that was used by Bharwad to threaten Patel in Rander police station. Savani is engaged in land dealings while Bharwad has restaurant in the city.It is suspected that they were returning from Rajasthan where they fled after their names cropped up.In the one-page suicide note written by Durlabh, Savani is named first while Bharwad’s name figures after him. The businessman alleged that he was committing suicide due to constant harassment by the accused in a land dispute.So far, police investigation revealed that Bharwad and Savani were engaged by other accused Kishore Koshiya and Kanaiyalal Narola. Koshiya had entered into an agreement to purchase the land with Durlabh in 2014 and had paid 75% of the money. Later, due to some dispute, Narola was involved as a partner. Since the dispute continued, Koshiya and Narola handed over the entire deal and ownership to Bharwad and Savani. Later, Bharwad and Savani filed applications in Rander police station and sought police intervention accusing Durlabh of fraud. During inquiry of the applications, the then police inspector of Rander police station and one of the main accused, LP Bodana, called Durlabh and his son Dharmesh at police station several times and allegedly issued threats. Rajkumar Pandian, IGP, Surat range, said, “It is also suspected that Durlabh’s younger son Jayant had involved journalist Mukesh Kulkarni and police constable of Udhna, Vijay Shinde to resolve the land dispute. We are also probing if the accused cops called the victim or the he himself went to the police station.” Four policemen including Rander police inspector have been suspended after preliminary inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizmans-suicide-two-key-accused-held-near-bharuch/articleshow/78134500.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||IGP looks for ways to ensure zero casualties among cops||Aurangabad: With close to 1,000 policemen testing positive for Covid-19 in Marathwada region and as many as 10 succumbing to the contagion so far, newly appointed special inspector general of police for Nanded range, Nisar Tamboli, has issued directives to ensure the best of the available medical facilities for policemen and their families. “We are reviewing the situation and priority is to ensure there is no further casualty from the police force,” said Tamboli, who is also holding the additional charge for Aurangabad range. He has asked the unit commanders to ensure close coordination with the hospitals treating policemen.Nanded range comprises Nanded, Parbhani, Hingoli and Latur districts while Aurangabad rural, Jalna, Beed and Osmanabad fall in Aurangabad range. As per the figures obtained from the eight police units, a total of 820 policemen have tested positive for Covid-19 while seven have succumbed. Of this, 165 are in Nanded, 85 in Parbhani, 25 in Hingoli, 140 in Latur, 115 in Aurangabad rural, 65 in Jalna, 105 in Beed and 120 in Osmanabad. Compared to this,155 policemen have tested positive for the contagion in the Aurangabad city police commissionerate, of which three have succumbed during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/igp-looks-for-ways-to-ensure-zero-casualties-among-cops/articleshow/78133108.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Record 113 deaths in 24 hrs, Covid cases go up to 3.2L||LUCKNOW: A record 113 Covid-19 related deaths were reported in Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours. This is the maximum number of deaths reported in a single day so far. With this, the total number of Covid-19 casualties in the state reached 4,604 on Tuesday. As per an official Covid-19 bulletin, Lucknow accounted for maximum 15 deaths, taking the total number of deaths in the capital city to 539. This translates into a death rate of 1.3%. Meerut was next with 11 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking total deaths in the western UP district to 182. However, in terms of total deaths, Kanpur Nagar is moving almost neck and neck with Lucknow. Though three persons died in the past 24 hours, total Covid-19 casualties in the industrial capital were 536. Prayagraj with 223 deaths, including five in the past 24 hours, accounts for the third highest number of coronavirus related casualties. Experts pointed out that comorbid conditions were the main reason for Covid-19 deaths. Meanwhile, 6,895 fresh coronavirus cases were reported across districts in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3.24 lakh. Lucknow (904), Kanpur (409) and Prayagraj (387) continued to record spate in cases, but spikes were reported in Moradabad (279), Muzaffarnagar (140) and Barabanki (124). Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that of the 67,335 active cases, 35,293 were under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/record-113-deaths-in-24-hrs-covid-cases-go-up-to-3-2l/articleshow/78136843.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 16, 2020||Mangaluru||2-fold increase in admission at Kannada-English schools||Mangaluru: The pandemic, which led to the closure of educational institutions in the state, has not stopped some of the Kannada-English medium schools from recording two-fold increase in admissions. Dakshina Kannada has 48 schools with approval to teach English from Class 1. As per the data available with TOI, these schools have collectively registered 1,735 admissions even before the commencement of regular classes. For instance, schools in Vittal and Daddalkad, in Bantwal taluk have 127 and 104 admissions respectively, which is the highest so far. Nearly 50 % schools have received above 30 admissions and about a dozen schools have double the number of children despite the state government capping the number at 30. School managements also said that several children are on the waiting list as they have crossed the permitted numbers. Interestingly, there is a lukewarm response to Kannada-English school situated in South and North BEO limits, which had received single-digit admissions until this year. Prakash Anchan, who heads Sarkari Shaale Ulisi Belesi (Protect and Promote Government School) and adopted Government Higher Primary School in Daddalakadu which has received 104 admission Class 1 English-Kannada medium, explained they have decided to have three batches for the students. “There is no dearth of enquiries. We have stopped admissions for the time being and are awaiting communication from government,” said Anchan. Daddalakadu school has children coming from six villages and one town municipality in Bantwal taluk. The school has classes from LKG to Class 9. While the school had 788 students last academic year, this year 285 students have sought admission. Anchan also pointed that it is an apt time for the government to strengthen state-run schools by recruiting additional teachers. Speaking to TOI, an official at the department of public instructions said, “If the parents were sceptical or had received negative feedback, the school admission wouldn’t have gone up. Parents who send their kids to private schools have personally witnessed how the Vidyagama scheme has been a great step during the pandemic. All these factors have given a boost to the rejuvenation of government schools.” Commenting on the fall in admissions at government schools in city limits, an official said, “ The dip in demand is due to the migrant labours being away. The seats will get filled once they return to the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/2-fold-increase-in-admission-at-kannada-english-schools/articleshow/78133119.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 16, 2020||India||‘63K ICU beds, 33K ventilators available’||As of Tuesday, there are 62,979 ICU beds and 32,862 ventilators available in Covid -19 dedicated government and private health facilities across the country as per data shared by states, the health ministry told Parliament. Maharashtra tops the list with 14,447 ICU beds and 6,866 ventilators, followed by Tamil Nadu which has 8,439 ICU beds and 4256 ventilators. The national capital has 2,213 ICU beds and 1363 ventilators. UP has 4256 ICU beds and 2343 ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/63k-icu-beds-33k-ventilators-available/articleshow/78137810.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||More hospitals installing oxygen tanks||Ahmedabad: To address the manifold rise in demand for medical oxygen in state hospitals, nearly a dozen Covid-19 designated hospitals across Gujarat have created oxygen storage capacities since April this year. State hospitals treating Covid-19 patients were recently hit by a medical oxygen supply crunch. In Ahmedabad, several mid- and small-scale hospitals scurried for the life-giving gas that now forms the backbone of Covid-19 treatment. INOX Air Products Pvt Ltd, the largest producer of medical oxygen in Gujarat, alone has installed 15 bulk vacuum-insulated storage tanks at 10 major Covid-19 hospitals. These hospitals include Civil Hospital, UNMICRC and IKDRC on Civil Hospital campus, SMIMER Hospital in Surat, Civil Hospital in Gandhinagar and SSG Hospital and GMERS in Vadodara. “These installations have total storage capacity of 1.5 lakh litres of liquid oxygen. Our team worked round the clock to install these storage tanks in very short span of time at various government hospitals since the oxygen demand could not be adequately met through only cylinders,” said INOX Air in a statement. The firm is also supplying oxygen directly and through re-fillers to more than 50 hospitals in Gujarat. Compared to the government sector, the prevalence of liquid oxygen tank is low among private hospitals. In Ahmedabad, a few hospitals such as HCG and Sterling Hospital have opted for tanks. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, CEO and medical director of HCG, said that the decision to install the tank was taken much before the epidemic was driven by the fact that they were treating a high number of critical patients requiring uninterrupted oxygen supply. “But the steep requirements – an open space, specific dimensions of the land required, safety norms including an explosives licence – could not be met by all private hospitals,” said Dr Gadhvi, who is also president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-hospitals-installing-oxygen-tanks/articleshow/78134470.cms||Kalpesh Damor
September 16, 2020||Delhi||29,000 flats ready in Delhi, poor still in no-man’s land||NEW DELHI: Over 29,000 ready-to-move flats constructed for the urban poor under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission in Delhi have lain vacant for a long time. One of the main reasons behind these flats not being allotted yet is the lack of coordination among the multiple agencies involved. After the Supreme Court recently ordered the demolition of 48,000 slum houses built on encroached railway land, Delhi government wants to prevent displacement and has asked officials to formulate plans to shift the affected people to these flats. The AAP government started a survey last year to identify slum inhabitants who were to be shifted, but the partnering surveyors, Delhi Development Authority and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, parted ways after a partial assessment of slum clusters. With DDA having identified 23 slum clusters for in situ redevelopment even as its first two projects at Kathputli Colony and Kalkaji are yet to be completed, by 2021 yearend, Delhi will have 45,000 flats, of which 16,600 are under construction, for allocation to slum residents. Over 20 lakh people live in 675 slum clusters in Delhi, a majority of them located on DDA and Northern Railway land. A Delhi government official claimed that one reason why no one has been shifted is the reluctance of land-owning agencies to pay Delhi government for the relocation. Under the Delhi Slum & JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, notified in 2015, a land-owning agency has to pay Rs 7.5-11.3 lakh per flat to DUSIB in advance to meet the cost of construction, land and process of relocating residents of slums. The land-owning agencies benefit by having their plots freed of encroachment. Of the slum clusters, 499, peopled by 1.7 lakh citizens, are located, ironically, on land belonging to DDA. Established in 1957 to promote a balanced development of the capital, the population of which saw a huge spike after 1947, DDA first formulated a Master Plan for Delhi in 1962. As it now prepares a Master Plan visioned for 2041, half the city’s population lives in informal settlements like slums and unauthorised colonies. The Municipal Corporation of Delhi carried out the first slum clearance in 1956, intending to free the encroached land for community facilities. The slum dwellers were to be provided flats on licence fee in rehabilitation colonies. The sluggishness of such projects is reflected in DDA’s unfinished, decade-old, in situ slum redevelopment projects at Kathputli Colony and at Kalkaji. To that DDA has added 23 slum clearances. “Work has begun at six projects with more than 30 clusters. The tendering process is going to start very soon,” a DDA official disclosed. “The in situ slum redevelopment and rehabilitation project of tenable slums situated on DDA land is being done to eventually make Delhi slum-free and achieve the mission of housing for all by 2022.” On its part, DUSIB has shifted families from various slums erected on land owned by NHAI, PWD and other agencies to 2,157 flats constructed under JNNURM. A DUSIB official revealed that the relocation was made after the land owners made payments as prescribed in the rehabilitation policy. At present, slum dwellers pay 1.12 lakh for a flat plus Rs 30,000 as maintenance fee for five years. Many find it beyond them to pay this amount and get trapped by local money lenders. Between 2007 and 20013, the then UPA government sanctioned 16 housing projects for the slum dwellers. “The Centre provided Rs 1,120 crore to build 55,424 flats with a matching sum to be contributed by Delhi government,” said former Union minister Ajay Maken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/29k-flats-ready-poor-still-in-no-mans-land/articleshow/78136055.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Moderate symptoms: 15l per minute’||Ahmedabad: City-based experts said that Covid-19 hospitals had recently been hit by erratic oxygen supply because consumption has increased manyfold. A senior city-based intensivist said the number of active cases is rising. “A patient with moderate symptoms needs 10-15 litres of oxygen per minute. Compared to the general needs of an ICU, Covid-19 needs oxygen supply at almost every bed,” he said. Dr Vineet Mishra, director of IKDRC, said they have got good results with ‘oxygen therapy’. “There are good chances a patient will recover. We try to ensure the patient doesn’t go on to a ventilator. Uninterrupted supply thus is a necessity,” he said. IKDRC installed an 18,000 litre oxygen tank at the end of June. Experts said capital expenditure needed for oxygen tanks is high. One needs supply lines, maintenance and experts to monitor the flow. Many hospitals, which earlier did not need such intricate systems, are now installing central systems or have installed them in the past few months,” said a city-based oxygen supplier. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/moderate-symptoms-15l-per-minute/articleshow/78134485.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Panchayat polls early next year, state poll panel sets ball rolling||LUCKNOW: It’s official now, the three-tier panchayat elections won’t be held this year, but in mid-2021 and administrators would take over rural governance bodies once their term expires in December. State Election Commission on Tuesday set the ball rolling by releasing its voter revision calendar, which schedules the final list for December 29, while the term of panchayats ends on December 25. The voter list verification will be conducted between October 1 and November 12 for polls to 60,000 gram panchayats, considered a semi-final to the mother of all elections in early 2022. After revision of voters’ list, it will take three-four months before the polling schedule is declared, a senior officer with the election commission told TOI.  “The revision programme is the first step towards conducting elections,” he said. And the panel’s exhaustive exercise indicates the polling exercise cannot be conducted within deadline due to the ongoing pandemic.Booth level officers (BLOs) would execute door-to-door electoral roll verification, but voters can also apply online between October 1 and November 5. Online applications would be verified by the poll panel. The commission said, given the Corona crisis, officials associated with the exercise must take preventive steps, including downloading of Aarogya Setu application, use of face masks during field duty, interaction with only one or two members of households and avoiding containment zones. The officials may visit hotspots only after the containment tag is removed by the district administration. The commission would rope in around 1 lakh state government employees as BLOs for 2 lakh voting booths in 80,000 voting centres. The poll panel would also create a mobile application — eBLO — for booth level officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/panchayat-polls-early-next-year-state-poll-panel-sets-ball-rolling/articleshow/78136856.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Seed to tiller ‘scams’, bitter harvest for horticulture departmet||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh’s horticulture department is in the eye of a storm, with allegations of new scams surfacing almost every other day. When the Centre allotted funds to help farmers get power tillers through subsidy under agriculture mechanization scheme, a syndicate of horticulture officers allegedly cheated them with low-quality ‘Chinese’ machines purchased from a vendor in Anand, Gujarat. And when Centre sanctioned funds to help farmers build cold storages, the same syndicate of officers allegedly purchased ‘plastic crates’ from a vendor in Akola, Maharashtra. Similarly, central grants for subsidies to promote protective cultivation among farmers were used to buy ‘marigold seeds’ from a single Bhopal-based vendor — 80% of them didn’t germinate. A massive scam has been alleged in the state government’s ambitious Namami Devi Narmade scheme for plantation of saplings along Narmada River. According to sources, investigation has indicated that some vendors may have been paid crores without supplying saplings for the mega plantation. Collectors from 28 districts have submitted adverse reports on the matter, say sources. The latest in this series of alleged scams is plastic mulches. Funds meant for onion storage houses were diverted to procure plastic mulches from an Indore-based company. Plastic mulch is used to suppress weeds and conserve water in crop production and landscaping. “They procured plastic mulch for Rs 2.7 crore after an order was issued from the headquarters on April 18, 2020, for merger of funds. The scheme had a provision of 50% subsidy. Each farmer was supposed to get plastic mulch of 30 microns per hectare for Rs 32,000 — half of which would be given as subsidy after the farmer put in his equal share. However, farmers were allegedly given low quality mulch of 25 microns, not worth Rs 7,000 in the open market,” said a horticulture officer. There is a similar problem with the ‘plastic crates’ too, say officials. A single vendor from Akola got an order of Rs 10 crore. It is alleged that the then principal secretary, horticulture, was misled by a clique of officials to sign certain documents. Insiders say tribal farmers had been awaiting their subsidies against the onion cold storage when funds were diverted to procure plastic crates. Moreover, the crates were supposed to be of 50kg capacity but could hold only 30kg, say sources. To add to it, the vendor doesn’t have a property at the given address, it’s alleged. In January 2020, a major component of the funds allotted under RKVY for constructing cold houses was diverted to onion storage houses by officers, who convinced bureaucrats that it was not required, say sources, adding that district horticulture officers were asked to buy the crates from the same company for distribution. In almost all these alleged scams, funds were transferred to MP AGRO and then to the vendor instead of allowing farmers to avail subsidies in their bank accounts, say sources. Components for which funds were allotted were allegedly changed without approval. Procurement kickback is emerging as a common factor in every scheme that was allegedly plotted by businessmen and a section of officers. An IAS and an IFS officer are believed to have played key roles. The Lokayukta is likely to summon senior horticulture officers after investigators failed to get the documents they asked for despite repeated notices. Retired IFS officer Azad Singh Dabas, who runs an organization ‘System Parivartan Abhiyan’, has written to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, demanding inquiry by EOW or Lokayukta. Social activist and lawyer Bhuvneshwar Mishra has approached chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bais and principal secretary Kalpana Srivastava with complaints, seeking action against the alleged scams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/seed-to-tiller-scams-bitter-harvest-for-horti-dept/articleshow/78136056.cms||P Naveen
September 16, 2020||Kochi||Life Mission: ED to seek clarification on Swapna Suresh’s link||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) would seek further clarification from officials of Life Mission regarding the involvement of gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh in its housing project at Wadakkancherry. Sources said that the agency is likely to question UV Jose, CEO, Life Mission, but senior ED officials said that they haven’t issued any summons. However, sources said that the agency has already questioned Jose with regard to the case. It was Jose who signed the contract between Life Mission and the UAE-based Red Crescent for the housing project at Wadakkancherry. ED officials had asked him to submit the contract documents and all government files related to the project. As the contract was signed at chief minister’s office, the CM had earlier called for all the files on the project, following allegations that norms were violated in signing the contract. Sources with ED have said that the agency has sent a summons to Jose seeking his presence for interrogation. However, top ED officials refuted the reports. “We have neither issued summons to U V Jose nor questioned him,” said a senior officer. ED had earlier said that Swapna and the top brass of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram received a commission of Rs 3.6 crore from a construction company for the Life Mission project at Wadakkenchery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/life-mission-ed-to-seek-clarification-on-swapnas-link/articleshow/78134538.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation suspends two engineers after woman gets electrocuted||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has suspended two electrical engineers in Thiru-vi-ka Nagar zone (zone 6) after a 35-year-old woman was electrocuted when she stepped in a puddle. The officials suspended are a zonal assistant electrical engineer, Kannan, and an engineer, Venkatraman. The incident happened on Monday morning. Residents said they had complained about water stagnation near a pillar box but it was not attended to. Corporation officials said that after the incident, commissioner G Prakash called for a report. “Prakash ordered that all zones should check pillar boxes and fuse boxes by the road and ensure that no wire protrudes out. He has ordered it to be completed within a day,” a senior official said. On Monday and Tuesday, several high-level inspections were carried out. The superintending engineer (electrical) went to the spot. A senior official from state discom Tangedco visited the spot, sources said. Prakash has called for a meeting on Wednesday evening and will review the status of the work. Corporation sources said a ‘multilevel’ inquiry will be conducted. The corporation will ascertain why there was water stagnation at the spot and whether any other department had dug up the road. “All the electrical lines are placed two feet inside the road and there is no chance of these protruding onto the roadside. These are well concealed. Regular inspections are carried out,” an official said. In a statement, the corporation said on 2.85 lakh streets across 200 wards in the civic body’s limits, there were 7,220 pillar boxes and 700 employees and officials have been deployed to inspect all pillar boxes to avoid a repeat of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-suspends-2-engineers-after-woman-gets-electrocuted/articleshow/78136048.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: High recovery, low mortality rates at district civil hospital||AURANGABAD: The district civil hospital here has recorded a high Covid-19 recovery rate of 85.7%, while the mortality rate at this state-run health facility is just 0.6%, official data has revealed. In comparison, the state's average recovery rate is 70.2% and mortality rate is 2.8%. The hospital, with 205 beds, had admitted 2,245 Covid-19 patients till Monday. Of them, 1,925 patients have been cured. However, 14 others succumbed to the disease. Aurangabad district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni said this hospital has been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic. “This early exposure has developed the desired acumen in doctors and staff to deal with the cases in a highly effective way. They are administering treatment as per protocols that keep evolving from time to time,” he said. The district civil hospital has been identified as a dedicated Covid health centre and is expected to deal with cases having oxygen saturation of upto 90%. However, considering the overall condition, it is dealing with the cases with oxygen saturation of even 74%. “So far, we have referred only 108 cases of Covid-19 to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Aurangabad. As per the death summary, we have had no deaths due to Covid-19 within 72 hours of admission,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/high-recovery-low-mortality-rates-at-dist-civil-hospital/articleshow/78133134.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Rationalist complains against Jan Aushadi staff for flouting mask rule||Mangaluru: Rationalist Narendra Nayak has made a complaint against the staff at the Padhan Mantri Jana Aushadi Kendra’s outlet at the Temple Square in the city for flouting mask regulation. Nayak has complained to the assistant drugs controller against the staff at the PMJAK. “This is to bring to your kind attention that I visited PMJAK at around 3.30pm on September 14 and found two staff members there without masks. When I asked them, they said, ‘As long as you are wearing the mask it is okay and we need not wear it.’ If the chemists and druggists shops cannot follow the rules what is the point in advising people to wear masks, follow personal distancing and use hand sanitizer? None of these protocols were followed there. Action should be taken to make these people follow the rules to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” Nayak wrote in his complaint. “While the Prime Minister preaches to the nation about wearing masks, we have a medical shop owned by the government and named after the post of the PM, but so blatantly ignoring the precautionary measures to be taken to prevent spread of Covid-19,” Nayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rationalist-complains-against-jan-aushadi-staff-for-flouting-mask-rule/articleshow/78133147.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘440MT sent to hospitals every day’||Ahmedabad: State food and drugs control administration (FDCA) officials said that the medical oxygen shortage of the past week was more of a logistics issue than a production one. Dr H G Koshia, FDCA commissioner, said the state is producing about 738 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen a day, of which 440MT is supplied to hospitals in the state. “The complaints from hospitals are more related to logistics than a scarcity of oxygen in the state,” said Koshia, who is the nodal officer for medical oxygen in the state. “Oxygen forms part of the primary therapy for Covid-19 patients. Keeping this in mind, the state government has established storage capacity for medical oxygen at all major designated Covid-19 hospitals,” said Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare). “The government has also experimented with installing oxygen concentration machines at primary health centres – especially in Surat – for treating breathless Covid patients at the village level.” State health department officials said they have asked district collectors to ensure a green corridor for oxygen transporting vehicles. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/440mt-sent-to-hospitals-every-day/articleshow/78134540.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Proof of parking space may become a must if you are buying a new car||NEW DELHI: Planning to buy a car? Make sure you can prove you have parking for the vehicle before going to the dealership. In meetings on the implementation of the new parking policy and its provision for region-wise parking area management, civic officials have said beginning after December, there will be curbs on purchase of additional vehicles without parking space for them. Initially, the plan will be implemented in category A, B, C and D colonies. The Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) has already apprised Delhi government and the municipal corporations about the implementation schedule. “The new provisions mandate production of proof of parking at the time of purchasing a vehicle. Proof of parking can be in the form of a document issued by the civic authority, space ownership or photographs of space at the house,” the official explained, adding that the space could also be in the form of parking lots or multi-level parking within a fixed radius around the house. “If the space allowed to a house is saturated, then the owners will have to wait till a vehicle gets sold or if the current vehicle outlives its 15-year lifetime for a new car,” the official said. A corporation official confided that city-wide implementation of the new rules will likely take around four months. “We have already made local area plans for five regions, including the model projects in Lajpat Nagar, Karol Bagh and Kamla Nagar,” the official said. “The final area plans will demarcate the no-parking zones in colonies. Municipal teams will be empowered to tow away any vehicles parked in such zones.” Sunita Narain, member, EPCA, said that while no deadline has been set, the body has written to Delhi government and the corporations. “We are calling a meeting this week to finalise the rollout schedule,” said Narain. Traffic police will enforce the policy on roads wider than 60ft, while the corporations will be responsible for smaller colony roads, the official disclosed. The ultimate aim is to regulate the number of vehicles on roads with the city having shot past its vehicle density capacity. According to Delhi government’s transport department, the city has more vehicles than the combined vehicular population of Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata. Delhi has 85 private cars per 1,000 population against the national average of 8. The plan will initially be put into operation only in the colonies in the higher A, B, C and D categories. “There is no space for on-road parking in the lower category colonies,” another corporation official pointed out. However, the issue of parking fees being charged in residential areas is a source of controversy, and the file with proposed parking rates is pending with the transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/proof-of-parking-space-may-become-a-must-if-you-are-buying-a-new-car/articleshow/78136101.cms||Paras Singh
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||College principal refuses to step down after mgmt suspends him, to approach univ VC||Haridwar: The managing committee of Chinmaya Degree College in Haridwar has suspended college principal Alok Kumar, after a slew of charges were filed against him, including “mismanagement, embezzlement/misappropriation of funds, lack of integrity, willful neglect of duties, scandalous conduct including moral turpitude and insubordination”. The principal described the charges as “frivolous, fabricated and baseless”, and has refused to hand over charge. He said the managing committee action was “arbitrary and against rules”. “I will meet the university vice-chancellor Annapoorna Nautiyal and put the entire case before her,” he told TOI. The college is affiliated to HNB Garhwal University (HNBGU), Srinagar. As per rules, suspension of a principal is valid only after the university approves it. The managing committee has sent the case for the university’s approval, said sources. Kumar was issued a showcause on June 16, 2020, to which he replied on June 29. On July 25, he was issued a chargesheet, containing charges similar to the showcause notice. He was issued another chargesheet on August 14, to which Kumar replied on August 31. After going through the replies and documents submitted by Kumar, the managing committee concluded his defence was “unsatisfactory”. At a meeting on September 10, they decided to initiate an inquiry into the two chargesheets by an inquiry officer, and to place Kumar under suspension “with immediate effect pending inquiry”, the letter of suspension issued to him on September 12 reads. Kumar filed a petition in Nainital high court against the August 14 chargesheet, contending it was issued “in malice” and there were “no bonafides” in them. He urged that he be allowed “to continue to work peacefully as principal” of the college. The court said the charges “cannot be said to be malafide or issued with an ulterior motive”, and that “there is substantial material to justify the charges”. “For the aforesaid reasons, the petition being devoid of merit is dismissed,” the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/college-principal-refuses-to-step-down-after-mgmt-suspends-him-to-approach-univ-vc/articleshow/78133148.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 16, 2020||Delhi||A coveted vote bank, Delhi slum dwellers continue to face an existential crisis||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s slum dwellings constitute a vote bank that is coveted by all political parties. And yet, despite programmes with catchy names, the lot of the slum dwellers remains miserable. After the Supreme Court ordered the demolishing of 48,000 shanties illegally erected on either side of railway tracks, CM Arvind Kejriwal vowed no slum would be demolished so long as he was alive. For its part, Congress claimed to have paid over Rs 1,100 crore to Delhi government during United Progressive Alliance regime for slum redevelopment and rehabilitation, while BJP promises to shift the slum dwellers to flats built under the earlier plans if the ruling AAP government did not do so. These three national parties so aggressively champion the slum dwellers’ cause, and yet only around 2,100 families have been relocated to flats specially built for them till now. The parties have assured them of pucca houses under various schemes, mostly in-situ redevelopment of the slums. The AAP government also drew up a rehabilitation policy and protocols, but blamed land-owning agencies, such as Delhi Development Authority and Indian Railways for not cooperating on its projects. Delhi’s has nearly 700 slums, all located in urban areas. The contribution of the inhabitants of these squalid colonies lacking civic amenities is well recognised, and at the special session of the Delhi Legislative Assembly on Monday, Kejriwal remarked that a cessation of work by slum dwellers would bring the capital to a halt. The Supreme Court order on railway land encroachments has presented the political parties another opportunity to prove their loyalty to this vote bank. Congress’ former Union minister Ajay Maken petitioned the apex court against the demolition order, claiming he had been forced to do so because “even after two weeks, neither the central government nor Delhi government did nothing but indulge in political statements” about the matter. Maken also said the UPA government had sanctioned the construction of 55,424 flats for the rehabilitation of slum dwellers. After Maken’s petition, the central government assured the apex court there won’t be immediate removal of slum dwellers from the tracks and that the Union housing and urban affairs ministry, the Railways and Delhi government would find a solution within four weeks. The beleaguered residents themselves are pinning their hope on the CM’s vow not to allow any family to be displaced without rehabilitation. “In the last 70 years, different governments either did not plan properly for these people or the agencies entrusted to build houses for the poor did not do their job well,” Kejriwal said, while ordering officials to come up with plans to assist the 48,000 households affected by the Supreme Court order. His party colleague and MLA Raghav Chadha had ripped the evacuation notices put up in JJ clusters by Northern Railway. In turn, BJP MLA and leader of the Opposition in the assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri blamed Delhi government for not implementing Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna in the capital, leading to this sorry state of affairs. In a press conference on Tuesday, BJP leaders claimed “Kejriwal hasn’t done anything for slums other than shed crocodile tears” BJP MLA Vijender Gupta asked, “Why have the slum residents not been shifted to 52,000 flats constructed for them?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-coveted-vote-bank-slum-dwellers-continue-to-face-an-existential-crisis/articleshow/78136128.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad civic body’s stern warning to contractors||AHMEDABAD: A stern warning to the road contractors to ensure durable roadworks was send out by Ahmedabad municipal commissioner after he reviewed all road works and checked for quality this week. This year till September 15, 83.7km, approximately 2.34 lakh square metres of road area had been repaired with patchworks. That’s close to the distance between Ahmedabad and Vadodara on the Expressway. This year too the East Zone of the city invited maximum road patchworks mainly due to heavy traffic movement. This year some 31.7km of road length was repaired. “September has always been a tumultuous month when it comes to road repairs. This year, we had excess rain when compared to last years. Many roads required minor patchworking and repairs,” claims a senior AMC official. The average size of worn-out patches on the city’s roads was 9.9 sq m. The posh North West Zone witnessed the third highest length of road repairs after West Zone which saw over 17km long road repairs. The West Zone consists of areas like Navrangpura, Naranpura, Paldi, Vadaj and Sabarmati. These areas also witnessed the second highest number of patchwork. Sabarmati area has been problematic because of the metro rail corridor. “A portion of the road near Motera stadium diversion has been turned concrete,” adds the AMC official. The data suggests that damage has occurred in North West Zone areas of Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev, and Chandkheda. Though the zone had only 1,577 patches, the size of all these patches put together was 27,713 sq m. When compared to last year, more road patchworks was undertaken this year. “Heavy showers was one of the reasons. Close to 24,000 patchworks has been accomplished till mid-September,” adds the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amcs-stern-warning-to-contractors/articleshow/78136906.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court orders SBI to pay for repossessed tractors||Ahmedabad: The State Bank of India (SBI) has been ordered to pay four farmers from Sabarkantha district because its recovery agent had seized the tractors for loan defaults. The consumer court ordered the bank to compensate them for deficiency in service because tractors were seized from the farmers without prior notice.A consumer court had ordered the bank to return tractors to farmers on payment of remaining amount on part of the farmers, but since SBI had sold tractors and realized money by then, it was ordered to pay certain amounts after deducting depreciation of 20% to 50%. The legal dispute took 12 years and a round of litigation in the Gujarat high court too to come to an end with the Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission upholding a consumer forum’s order to the bank to pay farmers. In this case, four farmers in Meghraj taluka of Sabarkantha district had purchased tractors between 1997 and 2005 by obtaining loans from SBI. As they defaulted in payment, SBI got the tractors seized in 2007 through a recovery agent. The farmers sued the bank the next year with the Sabarkantha District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum alleging deficiency in service for seizing tractors without any prior notice.In 2009, the forum held that it was deficiency in service on part of the bank and ordered it to return the tractors to all four farmers upon payment of remaining loan amounts. However, the bank had already sold the tractors, so the consumer court asked the bank to pay the amount after deducting depreciation, which it fixed 50% in one case and 20% in three other cases.The bank unsuccessfully challenged the order before the commission. The farmers in 2016 moved the forum again and requested it to execute the payment order. The bank challenged the execution order before the commission, which reduced the payment amount with consent from the farmers. But the bank was not satisfied with the payment order and approached the HC in 2019. The high court ordered the commission to take a fresh decision on the issue. The commission has dismissed SBI’s appeal once again and ordered the amounts to be paid to the farmers. The commission, however, struck down the fine of Rs 10,000 imposed on the bank in each of the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-orders-sbi-to-pay-for-repossessed-tractors/articleshow/78136912.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||E P Jayarajan’s wife slaps legal notice on Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: P K Indira, wife of industries minister E P Jayarajan, sent a defamation notice against opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Indira’s lawyer alleged that Chennithala levelled false accusations against her based on a visit she had undertaken to a bank locker in Kannur. Chennithala sought a probe into Indira’s transaction at the locker while addressing a news conference on Tuesday. The notice served by Kannur-based lawyer P U Shylajan demanded Ramesh to withdraw all allegations and tender a public apology within two days of receiving the notice. The lawyer said civil and criminal proceedings will be initiated and his client will seek damages of Rs 50 lakh if Chennithala doesn’t tender a public apology. “I first thought of not responding to the allegations. But the volley of accusations has prompted me to explain the facts of the matter. The allegations levelled against my wife and daughter are without any humanitarian considerations,” Jayarajan had said in a statement on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jayarajans-wife-slaps-legal-notice-on-ramesh/articleshow/78134559.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath orders confiscation of tainted engineer’s property||Lucknow: Cracking the whip on corruption, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed authorities to confiscate the property of an executive engineer who had been found guilty of corruption in a road construction project. During a review of the Basti division on Tuesday, the CM said that the government had a zero tolerance policy against corruption and strict action would be taken against anyone found guilty. Principal secretary, PWD, informed the CM that the concerned executive engineer has already been dismissed from service. Unhappy with the slow progress of tourism projects under the Bharat Swadesh Yojana in Kapilvastu, a key location in the Buddha circuit, the CM has ordered shifting of the project manager of UPRNN, the agency executing the projects. He was also miffed over the delay in the construction of the Basti collectorate building, which had received sanction 11 years back. He said that the construction of community toilets and the village secretariat buildings in Basti division were not up to the mark. While reviewing projects of over Rs 10 crore in the Basti division, comprising Basti, Siddharthnagar and Sant Kabir Nagar districts, the CM said that execution of welfare schemes like PM Awas Yojana, CM Awas Yojana and toilets under Swachh Bharat Mission should be fast-tracked. The CM said that local officers should coordinate with public representatives to make proposals for farm producing organisations and godowns at block level. Currently, there are four mega projects being executed in Basti division of over Rs 50 crore each with a combined cost of about Rs 889.21 crore. These include Maharishi Vashistha Medical College in Basti, District Jail in Sant Kabir Nagar, government medical College, Siddharthnagar and Siddharth University. The divisional commissioner apprised the CM of efforts being taken to commission the district jail in Sant Kabir Nagar by next month. The CM has said that a team of experts should be sent to physically verify the quality of construction of the medical college in Siddharthnagar. The CM stressed on the execution of projects in a time-bound manner, saying that delays escalate the project cost and added that the utilisation certificate should be made available after 75% percent of the work is complete so that the remaining funds may be released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-orders-confiscation-of-tainted-engineers-property/articleshow/78136874.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||This hospital gets its oxygen from the atmosphere||Ahmedabad: As heightened demand due to Covid-19 pandemic has put unprecedented stress on the medical oxygen supply in small to mid-sized hospitals in the city, a local hospital is self-sufficient in generating its own oxygen for patients. Epic Hospital has installed an oxygen concentrator plant, which generates oxygen from the air. The plant also purifies the oxygen and supplies it to the hospital for use in ICUs. The plant has a capacity to generate the equivalent of 90 oxygen cylinders in 24 hours. Epic Hospital is the only hospital in Ahmedabad to have this type of oxygen separator plant. Dr Anil Jain, a leading cardio-thoracic surgeon and founding partner of Epic told TOI that the unit has proved to be a blessing for them during this pandemic when hospitals are struggling with medical oxygen supply. “When we started the hospital a year ago, we did not want to rely on cylinders which needs a lot of manpower and handling. It was not possible to have a liquid oxygen tank as it needs a lot of space, and there are fire safety issues and licences. Then we came across the oxygen concentrator which provides a steady oxygen supply without the issues attached with cylinders and oxygen tanks,” said Dr Jain. The CT surgeon said that all through Covid, even as their peers experienced trouble in procuring oxygen cylinders on time, they were spared the distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/this-hospital-gets-its-oxygen-from-the-atmosphere/articleshow/78134630.cms||Kalpesh Damor
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-R gets DGCA’s nod for regular air operations||Dehradun: All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh, got the permission for regular air operations by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday. AIIMS will now run its air ambulance in both Uttarakhand and in other parts of the country from where patients will be able to land on the newly-built helipad at the institution. Professor Ravi Kant, director of AIIMS, said that apart from the disasters and road accident injuries in the state, AIIMS is committed to fully support the state government for the medical care of seriously-ill patients from remote hilly areas. “AIIMS Rishikesh, is the first government medical institute in the country to have helipad facility of air ambulance. After DGCA’s NOC, a trial landing was given to the hospital in August, which was successful. A few days later, AIIMS helipad was duly inaugurated by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. But, the DGCA was yet to give approval for regular air operations. The permission has now been granted by it,” added Ravi Kant. Dr Madhur Uniyal, in charge of AIIMS Heli Services, said that after getting constitutional permission from the DGCA for regular aerial operations, air ambulance will now be able to operate smoothly. “Serious patients will be benefited as many used to lose their lives due to delay in reaching hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-r-gets-dgcas-nod-for-regular-air-operations/articleshow/78133157.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Real estate sector fumes as govt hikes ready reckoner rates||Aurangabad: The latest hike in ready reckoner (RR) rates for the fiscal 2020-21 across Maharashtra has not gone down well with prospective buyers and promoters in Aurangabad, who have questioned the rationale behind such a move in the midst of the ongoing pandemic. While the state government has offered temporary partial relaxation in the stamp duty with an aim to boost the real estate sector, stakeholders have said that the move to increase the RR rates did not go hand-in-hand with the former decision. As per official notification, Aurangabad district as a whole will have average 1.76% hike in RR rates, which are used to determine the market value of a property. While the hike is 0.51% for properties within the municipal limits, the RR rates have gone up by 1.26% for properties falling under the jurisdiction of the municipal councils. For rural areas, the RR rates have been increased by 3.41% in Aurangabad district. Suhas Patil, an entrepreneur who was planning to buy a home, said the government policies for the real estate-sector amid the current pandemic were contradictory. “It makes no sense to slash stamp duty while, on the other hand, carry out upward revision of RR rates. It will discourage buyers from purchasing new properties,” said Patil.Protesting the increase in RR rates, secretary of Confederation of Real Estate Developer’s Association of India (Credai), Aurangabad chapter, Sunil Bedmutha said the decision would have an adverse impact during the upcoming festive season during Diwali. “We were happy when the government temporarily reduced the stamp duty on housing units by 3% until December 31 and by 2% for further period till the end of March next year. The hike in RR rates, however, has negated the possible positive effect of relaxation in stamp duty and is not in sync with the earlier decision,” said Bedmutha. The RR rates within Aurangabad district vary from location to location with properties located within the municipal limits and those situated in prime areas attracting more rates. For instance, the residential properties in the N-5 area of the city have an RR rate of Rs 48,000 per square meter whereas Rs 32,500 square meter is a the RR rate for a property of a similar category in Padegaon, which is in the outskirts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/real-estate-sector-fumes-as-govt-hikes-ready-reckoner-rates/articleshow/78133154.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation started its 1st Covid Pachpaoli Maternity hospital||NAGPUR: In a major respite to asymptomatic Covid pregnant women, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) started its Pachpaoli Maternity hospital with 25 beds on Tuesday. The hospital is among five civic-run hospitals renovated at a cost of Rs1.63crore for Covid treatment but they were lying idle for last three months. A team of two in-house gynecologists Dr Sangeeta Khandait and Dr Vaishali Mohkar, visiting anaesthetist Dr Anand Kamble, child specialist Dr Vinky Rughwani and assistant gynaecologist Dr Dipti Shende performed a caesarean section on a 30-year-old. She was referred from a private hospital where she had tested Covid positive. Since the pandemic broke out, only IGGMCH and GMCH were handling all types of Covid deliveries as no private hospital admitted positive ante-natal cases (ANCs). The mother and newborn were doing well, doctors said. “This is her second child. The baby was kept in a separate ward and handed over to relatives who are negative. The mother will be discharged after 10 days,” said Dr Khandait, incharge of the hospital. The municipal commissioner has asked the doctors to start 25 beds as per available facilities and staff. The hospitals still needs full time anaesthetist, gynaecology assistant, paediatrician. These specialists would be called from outside and be remunerated under the National Health Mission (NHM). The hospital staff also includes a dentist and resident medical officers. “We will do only stage I and stage II deliveries because we donot have ventilator. When we get full time physician, anaesthetist, intensivist, then we will start in fully fledged manner. It is a 110-bed hospital. As of now we have only 25 functional,” Dr Khandait said. “The first patient was admitted in private for delivery. Someone approached us and we decided to take the patient as we were in the process of starting,” Dr Khandait said. The woman was brought with loss of fetal movement and drop in fluid level. “We had to perform C-section but the estimated date of delivery was due,” she said. ZMOs and assitants commissioners have been told to instruct anganwadi and asha workers to counsel pregnant women. “Those who test positive at NMC centres would be brought here in case they are asymptomatic and not having complicated pregnancy. We are also getting lists from our CCC and testing centres and we are following them up,” Dr Khandait said. Stage I pregnancy refers to the patient without symptoms and mild fever in Stage II. “In case patient has cough, oxygen saturation level is low and needs ventilator, she will have to be referred to tertiary care hospital only,” she added. Morning OPD and induction will be done. Emergency patients reporting late night too will be admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-1st-covid-maternity-home-starts-after-3-month-delay/articleshow/78136170.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 16, 2020||Salem||Gullible Tamil Nadu villagers gave bank and Aadhaar details to ‘scamsters’||SALEM: In March this year, a group of villagers of Pethanaickenpalayam near Attur in Salem district were sitting around in the village square when two men approached them. They told the villagers a new government scheme would give them Rs 2,000 every four months. “We assumed they were government staff. They asked for our Aadhaar and some people’s bank account details,’’ said T Masilamani, a villager. The two men photographed Aadhaar cards using their phones, collected bank account details and left. Six months later, 77 of 163 PM Kisan scheme beneficiaries from Pethanaickenpalayam have come under the scanner of government agencies as ‘ineligible beneficiaries’ of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM – Kisan) scheme. They have been informed by panchayat authorities to return the ₹2,000 they have received under the scheme. Even two villagers who say they don’t have bank accounts have been asked to pay up. Villagers without bank accounts also entangledP Kuppusamy, 53, and S Rajendran, 58, told TOI they had submitted their Aadhaar details, hoping the state would consider their names too on compassionate grounds. “We don’t even have bank accounts. But the panchayat officials are saying ₹2,000 was credited into our accounts and are asking us to return the money,’’ said Kuppusamy. TOI could not independently verify if they had bank accounts. The list of ineligible beneficiaries on the government website had several Kuppusamys and Rajendrans from Pethanaickenpalayam. Collector S ARaman saidthe issue of villagers without bank accounts being added as beneficiaries has come to his notice. “That is exactly the problem we are tackling. The registrations were not verified properly and the Aadhaar details were not checked if they match with the bank accounts,’’ he said. “Thisis notjustthecasewith this village, we are coming across several such cases in other places also.Athoroughscrutinyin underwaytoweedoutsuch names which do not match with the bank account details,’’ he told TOI. People of the village now fear police action in the wake of arrests of several internet centre owners by CBCID sleuths across the state. “Our family members are very scared. We don’t even know the name of the scheme or that there were criteria for becoming a beneficiary,’’ said V Subramani, a villager from neighbouring Yethapur. Out of the 77 ineligible beneficiaries identified in Pethanaickenpalayam, there are nonfarmers. Some are farmers, but the lands are in the names of other family members. In some cases, the families own more than two hectares each, rendering them ineligible to receive benefits under the scheme. Agriculture officials in the region refused to comment citing the CBCID inquiry underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/gullible-tn-villagers-gave-bank-aadhaar-details-to-scamsters/articleshow/78138142.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Quack caught red-handed before performing abortion||Trichy: A woman quack accused of performing abortion on a young woman was caught red-handed by a team of health officials and police at Mannachanallur in Trichy on Tuesday. Acting on a tip, a team of officials including joint director of health services (JDHS) Dr S Lakshmi, deputy director of health services, family welfare, Dr Priyadharshini, national health mission coordinator of Trichy Dr G Muthukumar rounded up Rajalakshmi, 42, of Mannachanallur at her ‘clinic’ around noon on Tuesday. The quackery was busted following information from deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy, Dr A Subramani about the illegal abortion performed by Rajalakshmi on a 19-year-old unmarried woman from Sikkathambur in Trichy. On receiving the information, the team laid a trap to nab the woman. A staff nurse, a driver and a young girl contacted the woman over phone asking for performing abortion. She agreed to the abortion, and reached the centre at the behest of the health team. The woman demanded Rs 3,000 from them for performing the abortion. The woman asked the driver to wait outside saying that she would perform the abortion. The officials who were waiting outside stormed into the ‘clinic’ and caught the woman red-handed. The officials found several modern medicines including tablets and syringes at the centre. Preliminary enquiry revealed that the educational qualification of the woman is Class 10. She had been running the ‘clinic’ for the past three years. All-women police station (AWPS), Jeeyapuram, also joined the team later and arrested her. Police said that they arrested the woman based on a complaint from the young woman’s mother. The mother alleged that she had collected Rs 10,000 for the abortion. Police also booked Jayaraman who impregnated the girl and persuaded her for abortion. However, he was yet to be arrested. Police produced the woman before a court and the court remanded her in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/quack-caught-red-handed-before-performing-abortion/articleshow/78136149.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Simultaneous online, offline exam at varsity||Aurangabad: The Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU), Nanded, has announced that it would be conducting examinations in online and offline methods simultaneously. The standard operating process (SOP) for the examination for final-year students was announced on Tuesday. “The examinations are being held as per directives from the government. While all students are encouraged to appear for the examinations online, those having genuine problems will be allowed to take the examinations in the offline mode in exceptional cases,” university public relations officer Ashok Kadam said. He said the entire pattern of examination has been made student-centric. “We have paid attention to the possible challenges before Divyang students. Besides the option of online or offline examinations, these students can also take ‘open-book’ examination. The students having no access to examination centre in nearby areas have been told to approach us in advance for alternate arrangements,” Kadam said. While the university is expected to declare the time-table of final year examinations in phases, the tests for backlog students are scheduled to take place between October 3 and October 25. In keeping with the pattern of other state universities in Maharashtra, SRTMU will conduct the examinations using 50 multiple-choice questions. Students will have to answer 40 of these questions within one hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/simultaneous-online-offline-exam-at-varsity/articleshow/78133165.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: As schools prepare to call kids, parents get the shivers||BHOPAL: While schools are preparing to reopen and welcome back the teachers and students to clear their doubts before the first quarter exams, parents of the students are not very sure if allowing them to go to school will be a good idea. A few parents also shared their concerns with TOI. They said schools asking for consent form are stating that if the student falls ill, the school will not be deemed responsible for it, which is extremely worrying for the parents. The overwhelming feeling among parents TOI spoke to was that it’s just too risky. Some were willing to brave it, though. “The Covid situation is not under control and it is not wise to put our children at risk, no matter how old they are. Even in doubt clearing sessions, students will sit on chairs and benches already used by other students, will touch tables, handles, railings etc and maintaining such strict sanitization is not possible for schools. This year, I do not really care about studies. All I care about is my child’s safety,” said Charanjeet Kaur, mother of a class 11 student. Deepesh Vijayvargiya, a businessman, said, “I do not think it will be wise to rush into things and send children to school when the cases are increasing to rapidly. I would advise my daughter to take online classes and clear her doubts online itself. When the online system is functioning quite efficiently, why put the children at unnecessary risk?” Doctors of the city are also advising against the reopening of schools, saying that when all the measures taken by the central and state government have not been able to bring down the cases, what is the guarantee that schools will be able to follow the protocol 100%? “There is no point in exposing the children and we should wait for the vaccine. The online classes can't compete with the real thing, but still it is functioning adequately enough. Covid-19 is a disease with a wide range of cases with most of the people spreading the virus being asymptomatic. How will you know if a child in class is asymptomatic when the child itself doesn't know? Even with the older students and school staff, taking this risk is pointless,” said Dr Rashmi Tripathi, assistant professor at LN Medical College. However, some parents have expressed their willingness to allow their children to attend the doubt-clearing sessions as long as the schools do not start holding regular classes with a large number of students. “I am a teacher as well as a parent, so I understand both sides. While I would not want to send my child to school if the school restarts classes with full strength, I will be fine with sending them to school for a short while to understand difficult topics. If the school decides to hold exams with staggering attendance and can utilize the whole school building to take the exams for one class at a time, it will be fine by me,” said Huma Khan, a teacher and parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-schools-prepare-to-call-kids-parents-get-the-shivers/articleshow/78136164.cms||Shuchita Jha
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||MSME facilitation units in all divisions||Lucknow: Due to problems of working capital being faced by MSME units in the state as a result of delay in payments to them, a decision has been taken to set up a facilitation council in each division in the state. Till now, there was a single facilitation centre located in Kanpur which, said additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal, was overburdened. “We have, therefore, decided to set up a centre in each division so that matters can be resolved faster,” he said. Each centre will have a five-member committee headed by the divisional commissioner. Sehgal said the council will also have members nominated by the Indian Industries Association and Laghu Udyog Bharti and another nominated by a lead bank of the division. The joint commissioner of the division will be member secretary of the council. It will have powers in accordance with sub-section 3 of Section 21 of the MSME Development Act, 2006 (Central law-27, 2006). All councils will function as per the central law. Sehgal said that if an appeal is filed against a decision taken by the state or division level council and if a stay is not given on the order, then a recovery certificate can be issued under the Land Revenue Act. A register will be maintained in the office of the joint commissioner, industries. Details of all applications received by a particular council will be registered here. The divisional commissioner will set up a date for the hearing. Once both sides are heard, then a final decision will be taken. Delay in payments to Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), most by government departments, was a long standing complaint being raised by MSMEs, especially in the aftermath of the Covid-19 lockdown when they faced major cash flow problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msme-facilitation-units-in-all-divisions/articleshow/78136879.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, extortion claim against Popular Builders’ kin||Ahmedabad: This may add to the woes of the promoters of Popular Builders. A man from the Satellite area on Monday submitted an application with Satellite police alleging that three nephews of Raman and Dashrath Patel had cheated him of Rs 65 lakh in connection with a land deal in Sanand. Satellite police had not filed an FIR as on Tuesday night. According to the plea filed by Rahul Soni, 35 — a resident of Shrinath Society in Manekbaug — Prathmesh Patel, Vikram Patel and Krinesh Patel had cheated and extorted money from him and then threatened him. Prathmesh and Vikram are the sons of Raman and Dashrath’s deceased elder brother Chhagan; Krinesh is the son of Raman and Dashrath’s brother Natu Patel. Soni states in the plea that he had bought 15,000 sq ft of non-agricultural land in Sanand by paying a token amount of Rs 5 lakh to Prathmesh in January 2018. According to the plea, in April 2018, Prathmesh, Vikram and Krinesh rushed to Soni’s office with other aides and forcibly made him sign a document discarding the land deal.  Soni said at the time he was scared and did not approach police as his opponents belonged to an influential builders’ group. Nearly one year after the alleged incident, the three persons again approached Soni with a request to forget the past and gave him a cheque so that he could get his money back. The cheque bounced in January 2020. After four members of Popular Builders’ family were arrested, Soni moved the plea to lodge a complaint. Last month, Raman Patel and his son Monang Patel were arrested in connection with a complaint of domestic violence and molestation, filed by Monang’s wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-extortion-claim-against-popular-builders-kin/articleshow/78136913.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Chennai||Gullible Tamil Nadu villagers gave bank and Aadhaar details to ‘scamsters’||SALEM: In March this year, a group of villagers of Pethanaickenpalayam near Attur in Salem district were sitting around in the village square when two men approached them. They told the villagers a new government scheme would give them Rs 2,000 every four months. “We assumed they were government staff. They asked for our Aadhaar and some people’s bank account details,’’ said T Masilamani, a villager. The two men photographed Aadhaar cards using their phones, collected bank account details and left. Six months later, 77 of 163 PM Kisan scheme beneficiaries from Pethanaickenpalayam have come under the scanner of government agencies as ‘ineligible beneficiaries’ of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM – Kisan) scheme. They have been informed by panchayat authorities to return the ₹2,000 they have received under the scheme. Even two villagers who say they don’t have bank accounts have been asked to pay up. Villagers without bank accounts also entangledP Kuppusamy, 53, and S Rajendran, 58, told TOI they had submitted their Aadhaar details, hoping the state would consider their names too on compassionate grounds. “We don’t even have bank accounts. But the panchayat officials are saying ₹2,000 was credited into our accounts and are asking us to return the money,’’ said Kuppusamy. TOI could not independently verify if they had bank accounts. The list of ineligible beneficiaries on the government website had several Kuppusamys and Rajendrans from Pethanaickenpalayam. Collector S ARaman saidthe issue of villagers without bank accounts being added as beneficiaries has come to his notice. “That is exactly the problem we are tackling. The registrations were not verified properly and the Aadhaar details were not checked if they match with the bank accounts,’’ he said. “Thisis notjustthecasewith this village, we are coming across several such cases in other places also.Athoroughscrutinyin underwaytoweedoutsuch names which do not match with the bank account details,’’ he told TOI. People of the village now fear police action in the wake of arrests of several internet centre owners by CBCID sleuths across the state. “Our family members are very scared. We don’t even know the name of the scheme or that there were criteria for becoming a beneficiary,’’ said V Subramani, a villager from neighbouring Yethapur. Out of the 77 ineligible beneficiaries identified in Pethanaickenpalayam, there are nonfarmers. Some are farmers, but the lands are in the names of other family members. In some cases, the families own more than two hectares each, rendering them ineligible to receive benefits under the scheme. Agriculture officials in the region refused to comment citing the CBCID inquiry underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gullible-tn-villagers-gave-bank-aadhaar-details-to-scamsters/articleshow/78136167.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Hubballi||Scarcity of doctors at Dist Covid Hosp in Haveri||Haveri: The District Covid Hospital, and Covid care centres (CCC) here are facing a shortage of specialist doctors to tackle Covid-19. As per the Union government’s guidelines, specialist physicians and anaesthetists are mandatory at the Covid ward, but there are no specialists at the District Covid Hospital for the last four days. Due to a lack of specialists, most CCCs and taluk Covid hospitals, including the District Covid Hospital, are being run by ayurvedic doctors and staff nurses. Some government and private eye specialists, ENT specialists, orthopaedics, gynaecologists and other specialists’ are working in the Covid ICU ward, however, the Covid general ward is facing a severe scarcity of doctors. According to sources, a doctor visits the general ward once in two days. Staff nurses and ayurvedic doctors are treating Covid patients across Haveri district. “On September 8, I was admitted at the District Covid Hospital after I tested positive for Covid-19. I was suffering from fever, cough, and had difficulty in breathing. No physician visited me and only ayurvedic doctors and staff nurses were monitoring the patients,” said a 37-year-old patient from Kesaralli village in Haveri taluk. A 42-year-old Covid patient from Havanur village, who was admitted at the District Covid Hospital, said that a 70-year-old woman patient next to his bed, in the same ward, was suffering from severe breathing problems. “The staff tried to treat her to the best of their limitations, but the woman died at 3 am in front of me in the Covid ward due to lack of ventilator, and as she didn’t receive the care of a physician,” he said. DHO Rajendra Doddamani admitted to the problem, and clarified that out of four physicians at the hospital, two have tested positive for Covid-19, and out of four anaesthetists, one of them has contracted Covid-19. “However, the shift is changed every six hours, so we have to manage four shifts with available expert doctors. Moreover, ayurvedic doctors and staff nurses are working effectively in Covid wards,” he said. “The chief minister assured in a recent video conference, that the government will deploy postgraduate medical students to the district. At least 10 doctors will be alloted to our district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/scarcity-of-doctors-at-dist-covid-hosp-in-haveri/articleshow/78133170.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
September 16, 2020||Dehradun||Doon police foil man’s attempt to flee abroad by deserting wife and one-year-old child||Dehradun: Within 24-hours of receiving a complaint from a married woman, Dehradun police managed to stop a man from boarding a plane to flee the country by abandoning his wife and a one-year-old child. The woman met Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi on September 14 and narrated her ordeal saying that she married Haryana-resident Jaswinder in 2018 and since beginning she has been subjected to domestic violence and her husband and in-laws threw her out of home along with her child on September 9. She then came to her maternal house in Dehradun and reached out to police with a complaint against her husband and informed cops that her husband is going to flee to Dubai on September 15. DIG Arun Mohan Joshi immediately directed the woman helpline to take necessary action and contact her husband for counselling. “The mobile phone of the complainant's husband was switched off and her in-laws who were also contacted refused to come for counselling in Dehradun. A case was registered against the husband and in-laws under domestic violence and anti-dowry laws,” said a senior district police officer. To stop Jaswinder from leaving the country, the Local Intelligence Unit (LIU) was pressed into service and on the basis of his passport details, it was found out that he was to board a flight to Dubai from Delhi international airport at 6pm today. However, before he could fly out of the country, Dehradun police issued a look out notice against him and informed the airport authorities. His flight ticket to Dubai was subsequently cancelled on the request of Dehradun police. Meanwhile, a team of Dehradun police has left for Delhi to arrest Jaswinder and bring him to Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-police-foil-mans-attempt-to-flee-abroad-by-deserting-wife-and-one-year-old-child/articleshow/78133167.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police seize gutka worth Rs 34L||Aurangabad: Jalna police on Tuesday chased and intercepted a truck carrying gutka worth Rs 34 lakh. Police have also seized the truck worth Rs 17 lakh, taking the total seizure to Rs 51 lakh. According to the police, the driver was heading towards Aurangabad when the team from Gondi police station started their action. “Preliminary probe indicates involvement of an inter-state racket in the illegal sale and supply of gutka. The truck was carrying 207 bags of gutka and 24 bags of wheat, and was coming from Beed. We are investigating the route opted by the suspects for transporting the banned substance,” a police officer said. Gondi police learnt about the movement of this truck on Tuesday morning, following which a trap was set and the vehicle was intercepted. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya said a probe is underway to unearth the end-to-end connection in the illegal sale and supplying of gutka. An officer privy to the probe said that the earlier probes have revealed that a large amount of gutka is being supplied from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. “To avoid getting caught, the suspects either opt for Expressways or internal roads in remote areas,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-seize-gutka-worth-rs-34l/articleshow/78133172.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 16, 2020||Trichy||Thefts, chain snatchings reported in Trichy||Trichy: Cases of theft and chain-snatching have been reported yet again in the city According to the complaint of M Subramanian, 75, of Bharathi Nagar at Puthur in Trichy city, a couple of men had visited his house around noon on September 10. They had introduced themselves as junior engineers from the Trichy city corporation and asked him about the drainage system as pretended like inspecting it and left the house. A couple of days later, when he opened the bureau in his house, he found 30 sovereign gold ornaments and Rs 2 lakhs missing. Suspecting the duo, Subramanian lodged a complaint with the Government hospital police station on Monday. The police also visited the house and registered a case. In another incident, 79-year-old woman was robbed of her gold chain at South Vandikara Street in Woraiyur on Monday morning. S Pappathiammal was on the way back home from a market in the locality. A man who had followed her snatched her nine sovereign gold chain and fled the scene. The woman lodged a complaint with the Woraiyur police station. The cops who came to the spot found no CCTV footage in the locality. The police registered a case. It may be noted that a 75-year-old woman of Crawford was snatched of her four sovereign gold chain by an unidentified man when she was on her evening walk on September 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thefts-chain-snatchings-reported-in-trichy/articleshow/78136172.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Lucknow||Erring agencies to face FIR: Minister||Lucknow: Stung by repeated complaints of consumers receiving inflated electricity bills, UP power minister Shrikant Sharma on Tuesday ordered getting FIRs registered against erring billing agencies. “Honest consumers should not feel harassed,” Sharma said, while presiding over a review meeting to assess the situation in areas having high line losses. The districts, which were taken up for review, included Rae Bareli, Shahjahanpur, Sravasti, Sitapur, Sultanpur and Unnao. Seeking to improve the power situation in the state, Sharma pitched for engineers getting direct feedback from consumers. He said that the engineers should keep the phone numbers of consumers with them and take regular feedback. Reiterating the energy department's resolve to bring down line losses below 15%, Sharma said that officials need to ensure that consumers get electricity bills on time. Insisting that the state government was committed to provide uninterrupted power supply, the minister said that checking power theft was the key to uninterrupted power supply. “This can be achieved with the help of people,” he said, adding that the honest consumers should be encouraged through better services. The minister said that the department may also take the help of public representatives, including MLAs and MPs, in bringing down the line losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/erring-agencies-to-face-fir-minister/articleshow/78136887.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corona swirl pushes garba out of calendar||Ahmedabad/ Vadodara/ Surat: With major garba organizers and clubs across Gujarat deciding against organizing the nine nights of revelry this year, many allied enterprises are expected to lose a significant chunk of their business. In Ahmedabad, at least six prominent garba organisers have decided to not hold events, not just due to the pandemic but also financial woes.“The sponsorship market had been falling year on year since last year and lack of funds were evident. This year, when companies have done away with marketing budgets, there is no question of getting sponsorships for events. Besides, the risk of too many people gathering is greater and the time to put together an event and market it is limited,” said Himanshu Shah, organiser of SOI Garba.Sources in city clubs also said that once government directives and guidelines are out a call will be taken but even if the clubs organise garba events, limiting participation will be a challenge even if restricted to club members.While the state government was looking to make some relaxations for Navratri, organisers have dropped events with the safety of participants in mind. The world’s biggest garba, the United Way Garba, will also not be held this year. Chairperson of the resource development committee of the United Way of Baroda, Hemant Shah, said that the board of the organization had decided against holding the event. “Physical distancing is not possible as a massive gathering takes place at our venue. Participants can not only infect themselves, but also carry the infection home and infect their families,” he said.The situation is similar in the diamond city as well. Denny Nirban of The Solutions event told TOI, “This is first time in the last 15 years that we are not organising a commercial garba event in the city. Every year, we organise the garba event at the fully airconditioned indoor stadium. We decided not to organise the event during lockdown itself due to fund constraints and the safety of participants.”Retailers say if garba events are not organized, it will mean huge losses to their business, as Navratri is believed to be the official start to the festive season when sales for a range of products picks up. “If garbas are not organised, demand for garments will be hit. It is not just traditional attire but people tend to make purchases for official and commercial events during Navratri which will come to a standstill. This will adversely affect retailers and manufacturers,” said Vijay Purohit, president, Gujarat Garment Manufacturers’ Association (GGMA).The situation for caterers and eateries is similar. “Navratri is one festival of the year when not only restaurants but even small eateries have greater sales as people tend to flock eateries before or after the event or to enjoy soak in the festive atmosphere,” said a city-based restaurateur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-swirl-pushes-garba-out-of-calendar/articleshow/78136927.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Body of missing girl found; mother, paramour suspects||Ahmedabad: A crime of passion took life of a girl child in the Gota area of city. A girl, who went missing two days ago, has been found murdered in bushes in Gota and prime suspects are her mother and her paramour who executed the murder. On Sunday night, a message flashed in all groups of city police in which inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police wrote that a seven-year-old girl had gone missing. The cops continued an intense search operation for around two days but ended up finding the missing girl’s body. A senior police officer said, “The deceased girl’s mother had three daughters and as she and her paramour were planning to live in together, her paramour told her that he could keep only two of them and they hatched a conspiracy to kill the youngest one.” Her mother’s paramour identified as Bhikhu Mistry,45, took the girl to a secluded place in Gota where he strangled her to death and left her body there. To avoid suspicion, the deceased girl’s mother approached Sola police and a complaint of missing person was lodged. A team of city crime branch was also roped in and they traced the accused of the case. Sources in police said that Mistry confessed the crime and further investigation is on. The deceased’s mother was also being questioned and might be arrested on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/body-of-missing-girl-found-mother-paramour-suspects/articleshow/78136917.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Surat||AAI asks SMC to build road outside airport||Surat: The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has requested the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to construct road on the outer side of the perimeter wall of Surat Airport towards the shrimp ponds from Dumas to Udhana-Magdalla to check intrusion of wild animals into the airport.They said that the 4.5 kilometre long road could be used for the inspection and surveillance activity. However, the AAI said that it won’t be able to fund the road construction.Talking with TOI, Airport director, Aman Saini said, “We have requested the SMC for constructing road on the outer side of the perimeter wall near the shrimp pond for the regular inspection of the area. We have given this proposal during the recently held Airport Advisory Committee (AAC) meeting.”Asked if the AAI will spend money on the road construction, Saini said, “It is not our land it is not in our jurisdiction also. It is not our work to construct road, we are constructing airports. We have a road inside the perimeter wall and inspection is being done regularly.”A senior officer of SMC seeking anonymity said, “Constructing 4.5 km road is costly and nowhere in other cities the municipal corporation is constructing roads on the outer side of the perimeter wall of the airport. Majority of the land needs to be acquired for road construction as they are owned by private parties.” In April 2019, four jackals were spotted on the operation side of the airport and that they were rescued by the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aai-asks-smc-to-build-road-outside-airport/articleshow/78134578.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Nagpur||Jain food, q-centres help community beat Covid stigma in Nagpur||NAGPUR: At a time people testing Covid positive are being shunned by society, six Jain organizations have come forward to ensure their community members do not face any such trauma. The group has set up an isolation centre, and also supplies Jain food at the required timings, even for family members of quarantined Jain patients, all free of cost. Initially, most Jain community members were afraid of revealing they were positive, due to their socioeconomic status and various religious abstinence. They preferred to confine themselves in homes, fearing lack of facilities at Covid Care Centers, and became silent victims. The percentage of deaths in Jain community was three times higher due to this reluctance. “When we analysed the first eight deaths in the community, we found they were due to delayed testing, reluctance to go to government hospitals, concerns about religious vows, scarcity of beds in private hospitals, and moreover self-made psychological barriers,” says Sachin Kothari, vice-president, Bharatiya Jain Sangathan (BJS). “To overcome the situation, we planned a six-pronged strategy by launching a call centre giving free doctor consultation from August 5 and informing about testing facilities. This was followed by offering free food facility, with root-free vegetables, at Covid Care Centre, Pachpaoli, and at a Covid hospital at Pardi, where we are facilitating admission of patients,” said Kothari. “From August 15, of the six towers having 28 flats each, Jain patients are using one tower with 128 beds. There are patients from other communities too. Still, two towers with fully furnished facilities are lying vacant,” adds Kothari. Nirmal Shah, one of the coordinators, said, “Food is prepared in our own kitchen for patients. Not only this, if a housewife, on whom an entire family is dependent, turns positive, then we are also taking care of such families by supplying tiffins to any corner of the city. Amarswarup Foundation and like-minded people are pitching in, without seeking money from any members.” Manoj Band, national working president, Pulak Manch Parivar, said, “We have procured at least 60 mini oxygen cylinders for home quarantine patients who may have low oxygen saturation levels.” “From August 15, over 300 community members have benefited from our facility, including 100 at Pachpaoli centre. Over 150 patients were helped get admitted at Dedicated Covid Hospitals. Besides, we are also registering donors with Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) plasma bank,” says Subhash Kotecha and Rajneesh Jain. One of the recovered patients, Sonam Jain (30), said, “The atmosphere at Pachpaoli centre is so good that I will never regret I was Covid positive. Apart from treatment by a dedicated team, we tried to grow strong from within by singing bhajans, offering prayers, doing yoga, and meditation. We also played games like housie by maintaining Covid distancing.” “When I tested positive I was crying constantly, thinking whether I will be safe there, being a girl, but all my fears vanished when I went there. The Jain social workers were so good and provided a homely atmosphere. We were offered milk with turmeric, breakfast, lunch, and dinner all on time. For many patients, food was also supplied before sunset. I returned home beating corona, but I still miss the place,” Sonam adds. “With awareness and counselling we have been successful in removing fear from the mind of our community members in the last one month. This has itself brought the death rate down by 50%,” claimed Kothari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jain-food-q-centres-help-community-beat-covid-stigma/articleshow/78136231.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 16, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Health dept comes out with to-do list for home isolation patients||BHOPAL: In a first, MP health department has set a to-do list for Covid-19 patients under home isolation. Order by directorate of health services commissioner, Sanjay Goel has assigned must haves list for person clinically assigned as a very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic case and recommended for home isolation by treating medical officer. The order of September 14, also states a list of medication and requirement of 20 masks. Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts. A care giver should be available to provide care on 24 x7 basis. Besides a video communication link between control centre and patient is also prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation. Such patients file and an undertaking on self-isolation and follow home quarantine guidelines. The treating doctor should satisfy himself before allowing home isolation. The circular directs that every patient under home isolation be provided with a home isolation kit which will contain medicines and contact details of hospitals. The kits would be arranged and provided by the respective CMHOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-dept-comes-out-with-to-do-list-for-home-isolation-patients/articleshow/78136199.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Meerut||Bring down all public toilets built on government school lands, directs UP’s education department||Meerut: The Uttar Pradesh education department has directed razing of all the public toilets built on government school lands in the state. The department has also warned its district heads, the BSAs, of action if any public toilet comes up in school premises. “All the ongoing construction should also halt,” the order said.The decision comes against the backdrop of complaints that the administration in several districts was increasingly using the government school lands to construct the toilets, which pose security threat to the students and may also spread infection among children as most of them are not cleaned regularly.“On the basis of complaints coming from several districts, all the basic shiksha adhikaris (BSA) have been told to ensure that no public toilet is constructed on the lands of school,” the order read.“And the construction done at any school should be demolished,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, UP director general, school education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bring-down-all-public-toilets-built-on-government-school-lands-directs-ups-education-department/articleshow/78133208.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 16, 2020||Trichy||3 idols stolen 42 years ago from TN temple handed over in London||Trichy: Three antique bronze idols of Rama, Sita and Lakshmana, stolen from the Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple at Anandamangalam in Nagappattinam district in 1978 and were in the possession of an art dealer, were handed over to the High Commission of India (HCI) in London at a function on Tuesday. The online event was attended by Union minister of culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel, Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam, DGP J K Tripathy, ADGP, idol wing CID, Abhay Kumar Singh and Co-Founder of India Pride project S Vijay Kumar. India Pride project played a major role in tracing the three idols, believed to be dating back to the 15th century.“The quest started four years ago when our routine checks on web pages of dealers of Indian art threw up a rather interesting profile of a UK dealer. BADA profile (British Antique Dealers Association) web page showed a rather superlative example of a standing Vijayanagara Bronze,” he said. He said that after three years of search to match the idols with those with the dealer, a tip from a volunteer in London helped them confirm the similarities of the Rama idol after which the group informed the HCI. The matter was taken up with the Art and Antique Unit of the London Metropolitan Police as well as the idol wing of Tamil Nadu police. The idol wing led by ADGP Abhay Kumar Singh sent a comprehensive report confirming that the theft took place in 1978 at the Rajagopalaswamy temple, and provided expert opinion about the match of the idol with records in the French Institute Pondicherry (IFP) archives.As the the art collector was contacted by the Art and Antique unit of London Metropolitan Police, he verified his documents and confirmed the similarities. Going further, he also informed the HCI that he was in possession of Sita and Lakshmana idols along with Rama idol and handed them over to the HCI. The officials said that the person who sold the idols to the dealer was no more now.An official said the case in connection with the theft of the three idols was registered soon after they were stolen in 1978. Some of the accused in the case had also been convicted then but the idols could not be recovered. Vijay Kumar said that the idols will be repatriated to India by the High commission of India in London soon. “The idols may be flown to New Delhi and sent to Tamil Nadu or it may be directly sent to Chennai,” said an official. Vijay Kumar said that their search also led to a Hanuman idol of the same temple at a prominent museum in a South East Asian country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-idols-stolen-42-years-ago-from-tn-temple-handed-over-in-london/articleshow/78136196.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Kanthapuram Sunni faction backs K T Jaleel||KOZHIKODE: The followers of the Sunni faction led by Kanthapuram A P Aboobacker Musaliar have come forward to defend minister K T Jaleel, who is facing widespread agitation for his alleged role in the gold smuggling case. Though the Kanthapuram Sunnis have not officially declared support to the beleaguered minister, they have thrown enough indications to show their solidarity. In an article in Siraj daily on Tuesday, the official mouthpiece of the Sunni group, O M Tharuvana blasted the agitations demanding the minister’s resignation. Tharuvana said that breaking from the tradition of wooing different fronts alternatively, this time LDF was poised for a comeback in Kerala. He said the people would have given 90 out of 100 to the LDF government for handling issues like the flood, Nipah and Covid-19. The continuity of LDF government for another five years is something unimaginable for UDF leaders. The article said that ordinary people may not understand the angst of the UDF leadership, but UDF will not remain intact if LDF comes to power for one more term. Alleging that Congress-Muslim League-BJP alliance is visible in the agitations, the article said all leaders in the forefront of the strike have similar voices. “We are constrained to assume that Congress in Kerala was given to the BJP free of cost when the latter purchased the Congress in Karnataka. Because Congress is beautifully implementing BJP agenda in the state,” Tharuvana said. The political game, with an eye on votes, will put in jeopardy the cordial relationship between India and the UAE and the lives of thousands of Malayalis living there, he said. The insinuation Muslim Youth League leader P K Firos made at the news conference on Monday against Kanthapuram has infuriated the Sunni group. “We don’t think that the reference against Kanthapuram is accidental. Firos was deliberately taking a dig at Kanthapuram,” said a source in the group. “Firos is not in the good books of the rival EK group of Sunnis. He had crossed swords with them on many issues, including the legal age for marriage of girls. Firos is now trying to appease the EK faction of Sunnis,” the source said. The Facebook post of Sulaiman Saqafi Maliyekkal, the leader of the Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS), also throws light on the line of thinking of the Kanthapuram group. The humour-enveloped post said the people are waiting to cast their vote for excellence in governance though the media is trying to make a mountain out of a molehill. Firos’s provocation may prompt the Kanthapuram group to take more aggressive postures on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kanthapuram-sunni-faction-backs-jaleel/articleshow/78134572.cms||Prashanth M P
September 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Flood-like situation in parts of Marathwada, more rains likely||AURANGABAD: Parts of Marathwada were lashed by incessant showers during the 36 hours ending Tuesday evening, leaving farms and lowlying areas inundated. Three revenue circles in Aurangabad and two each in Nanded, Latur and Beed reported heavy rainfall. Borol in Davani taluka of Latur district received 127mm and Shahapur in Deglur taluka of Nanded district got 103mm, official data shows. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rain in Aurangabad district and parts of Marathwada for the next 48 hours at least, which is likely to worsen the flood-like situation in the region. As per local reports, a few houses and farms were submerged and a farm pond constructed under a government scheme was breached in Honwadaj and Hasnal villages in Mukhed taluka of Nanded district. In Beed, a bridge connecting the old city to the new city went completely under water with the Bindusara dam overflowing. Beed resident Rajshekhar Doiphode said it was unusual to see a dam in his droughtprone district overflowing. “We face much hardship due to deficient monsoons. The good rainfall this year will address our drinking water needs till the next monsoon,” the private professional said. Flood-like situation in parts of MarathwadaGanesh Lokhande, divisional disaster management control officer, said an assessment was under way of possible damage caused by the heavy rainfall in parts of Marathwada. “There has been no loss of life or property. The disaster management units from all eight districts have been told to stay alert over the next few days,” he said. Ajay Chaudhari, Aurangabad district disaster management control officer, said close watch was being kept on the water released and received by the Jayakwadi dam. Latur and Nanded districts from the region reported 25mm and 23mm rainfall respectively during the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, which was the highest among the eight districts. The region has reported 656mm rainfall so far since June — 97% of the expected showers — as against 83% during the corresponding period last year. Farmers’ leader Jayaji Suryawanshi said the state government should conduct an assessment of crop damage in Marathwada. “The current rain lashing has damaged the standing kharif crops. The farming community is already facing a crisis due to Covid-19. The government should help the farmers tide over the rain crisis now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/flood-like-situation-in-parts-of-marathwada-more-rains-likely/articleshow/78137818.cms||Prasad Joshi
September 16, 2020||Ranchi||1k protesting ‘cops’ booked under pandemic law||Ranchi: Hundreds of protesting assistant policemen were booked on Monday, the third day of their agitation at the Morhabadi ground from where they tried to march towards the chief minister Hemant Soren’s official residence, demanding a meeting with him for regularisation of their jobs. Police said an FIR against 20 named and 1,000 unknown assistant police personnel was filed at the Lalpur station for public nuisance and violation of the Covid safety rules under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act. While senior district administration officials had appealed to the protesters to withdraw their agitation, BJP, which recruited them purely on a contract basis when it was in power, supported their demand. The assistant policemen, whose contract ended on August 19, are now demanding regularisation of their services. Police said the protesters were stopped on their way towards the CM’s house by Ranchi SSP Surindra Jha and persuaded to return. However, a few of them broke down and blamed the government for not paying heed to their demands. DSP (city) Amit Singh said, “The protesters have gathered at the spot despite our appeals to them, saying CrPC section 144 is effective across the state because of the Covid pandemic. They have violated the Epidemic Act and the lockdown norms.” Speaking on the strike, DIG (Ranchi range) Akhilesh Jha said. “Technically speaking, they should not have worn the uniform. We, however, are not pressing on the issue as the proposal for extension of their service is at a very advanced stage. He informed that the policemen were appointed in ‘two plus three years format’ with the provision for yearly extension after two years.” Senior police officials were camping at the site all day to ensure law and order. Around 500 police personnel were also deployed at the ground and other sensitive places of the city, including the Governor’s and the CM’s residences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1k-protesting-cops-booked-under-pandemic-law/articleshow/78134763.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 16, 2020||Ranchi||TPC rebel sets out to watch football match, lands up in police net||Ranchi: Ramesh Mahto alias Pahadi, a wanted area commander of the banned LWE outfit, Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC), was arrested during a raid on the city outskirts close to Chatra district on Monday afternoon, police said on Tuesday. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said acting on a tip-off that the rebel was coming to watch a football match organised at Bachra village, a team comprising personnel from Ranchi and Chatra police raided the area and arrested him from a hillock near the football ground under Burmu police station limits. Alam said, “Mahto was active in Chatra, Hazaribag, Ramgarh, Ranchi, Latehar and Lohardaga districts. Around one dozen cases related to murder and extortion were registered against him.” He is an accused in the murders of Santosh Mahto in Bachra village, Santosh Lohra in Budmu area and Maoist operative Mohan Yadav. He was also involved in the firing at a coal trader under the Patratu police station area. A motorcycle used by the extremist has been impounded, Alam added. Chatra SP Rishab Jha said if any Covid-19 guidelines were violated by organising the football match in Bachra village, action will be taken for which he will consult the deputy commissioner. A disaster management official said stadia and playgrounds are allowed to hold sporting events without spectators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tpc-rebel-sets-out-to-watch-football-match-lands-up-in-police-net/articleshow/78134748.cms||---
September 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Gumla migrant killed by wife, lover & his aide; all 3 lynched||GUMLA: Two men and a woman were lynched by residents of Dangarhdih village in Gumla late on Monday night after the men allegedly strangulated the woman’s husband to death, police said on Tuesday. No arrests were made till the time this report was filed. Sudeep Dungdung (24) and his associate Prakash Kullu (21) allegedly killed Maryanus Kujur (40) after he voiced his displeasure over Dungdung’s relationship with his wife Lilam (36). Locals later tied Dungdung, Kullu and Lilam to a tree and thrashed the trio with sticks, killing them on the spot. Police said Kujur and Dungdung worked together as masons in Pune and had known each other since 2018. After they returned home during the lockdown, Dungdung, a resident of Tainser-Nongadha village in Simdega district, met Lilam and got into a relationship with her, sources said. Raidih police station in-charge Sanjay Kumar said, “On Monday morning, Dungdung and Kullu informed their families that they are going to buy a motorcycle, but they reached Kujur’s village. The three of them got drunk and an inebriated Kujur raised objected to Dungdung’s affair with his wife. An altercation ensued and Dungdung and Kullu strangulated Kujur to death in connivance with Lilam.” Kujur’s children woke up due to the commotion and ran to seek help from their relatives nearby. “Finding Kujur dead, his brothers raised an alarm and assembled some villagers. They found Dungdung and Kullu hiding in a cowshed. The locals dragged them out tied them to a tree and beat them up with sticks,” Kumar said. The villagers then turned attacked Lilam and tied her up. “She was also beaten with sticks and traditional weapons as locals held her responsible for Kujur’s death. All of them died on the spot,” Kumar added. Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhan, who visited the spot on Tuesday, said, “Prima facie, it appears that Dungdung was called to the village by Lilam. Two separate FIRs will be lodged in the incident,” he said. Ranchi DIG Akhilesh Kumar Jha also visited the village in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-migrant-killed-by-wife-lover-his-aide-all-3-lynched/articleshow/78134785.cms||K A Gupta
September 16, 2020||Ranchi||Bandhu not a Cong man yet, free to protest land bill: Oraon||Ranchi: Amid protests at the 22 circle offices in Ranchi on Tuesday against the proposed Land Mutation Bill organised by Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, state finance minister (also the state Congress chief) Rameshwar Oraon said the former is free to protest as he is yet to formally become a part of the Grand Old Party. Tirkey was ousted from Babulal Marandi-led JVM-P after it was merged with BJP recently. “It is yet to become a law and the Hemant Soren government is always open to constructive opinions for larger interest of the people of Jharkhand,” Oraon said. “I concede land is an important and sensitive issue in Jharkhand and hence any decision related to it will only be through greater consultations,” he added. Besides Tirkey, BJP is also against the bill, whose Section 22 gives protection to land and revenue department officials responsible for registration, mutation and other works from any civil and criminal case, thereby granting immunity even in case of wrongdoings. Oraon said, “Bandhuji is free to protest as he isn’t officially a part of Congress even though he had joined us. The party’s proposal of his joining Congress is still pending in the assembly.” Oraon added, “We have spoken to him to know about his apprehensions and concerns regarding the bill and have asked him to put it formally in the party forum during the legislative party meet before the Monsoon session on September 17. He has informed us that he will come.” On Monday, K K Soan, secretary of the state land and revenue department, which drafted the bill, had defended it stating that it was meant for larger reforms and not to protect tainted officials or those who discharge their duties with wrong intentions. Speaking over phone, Tirkey said, “He (Soan) yesterday (Monday) said the government will be independent in acting against erring officials, but I want to know what are the yardsticks fixed in the bill to decide who is wrong? I have a list of over 2,000 cases of land frauds in Ranchi alone pending for years. What is the need to hurry on such crucial bills at a time when there exists a slew of unsolved cases? The bill needs to go back till it is pro-people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bandhu-not-a-cong-man-yet-free-to-protest-land-bill-oraon/articleshow/78134853.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 16, 2020||Ranchi||10 Covid deaths, Ranchi mayor among 1,702 new cases||Ranchi: Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra was among the 1,702 new Covid cases detected across 24 districts in Jharkhand in 24 hours with the state also recording 10 casualties in the same period. The state’s cumulative caseload stood at 64,439, of which 14,118 are active, 49,750 have recovered (including 1,638 on Tuesday) and 571 have died. Among the casualties, three were in East Singhbhum, two each in Dhanbad and West Singhbhum and one each in Bokaro, Ranchi and Palamu. Ranchi, which has the highest number of cases (13,912) in the state, recorded 457 new infections and 329 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the cured figure past the 10,000 mark to 10,297. After Ranchi, East Singhbhum reported the most infections on Tuesday (191) followed by West Singhbhum (180) and Seraikela-Kharsawan (111). Dhanbad and Giridih reported 94 cases each. As on Tuesday, Jharkhand's recovery rate stood at 77.20%, which is almost at par with the national figure of 77.5%. The state's doubling rate was 32.82 days, lower than the national average of 35.11 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10-covid-deaths-ranchi-mayor-among-1702-new-cases/articleshow/78134954.cms||Dhritiman Ray
