September 17, 2020||World||South Africa says 12 million 'probably' had coronavirus||CAPE TOWN: About 12 million people in South Africa have "probably" been infected with the coronavirus, but that startlingly high number has not caused a similarly high death rate and might indicate a widespread "level of immunity," the country's health minister says. More than 20% of South Africa's population of 58 million have had the virus at some point, Dr. Zweli Mkhize estimated this week. He cited studies that found the presence of coronavirus antibodies in blood samples taken from parts of the population. The findings have prompted the government to launch a national study, he said. "South Africa has seen the surge receding, and thus raises the question of the level of immunity that may already be existing in society," he said. Other studies have indicated that up to 40% of the population might be immune to the virus, Mkhize said. Some South African experts suggest that Africa's most developed economy may be approaching herd immunity, but scientists believe at least 70-80% of a population needs to be immune before there's any effect. And with Covid-19 it's unclear how long that immunity might last. With confirmed virus cases dropping significantly, President Cyril Ramaphosa on Wednesday evening announced that South Africa's borders will reopen as of Oct. 1, with visitors required to show negative coronavirus test results no older than 72 hours before departure. Visitors will not be permitted from countries deemed at high risk, Ramaphosa said, not naming names. Ramaphosa also announced further relaxed restrictions on public gatherings, to a maximum of 250 people indoors and 500 outdoors. The president warned that the second wave of the pandemic in some countries has been worse than the first. "A second wave would be devastating to our country,'' he said. South Africa's number of confirmed virus cases have dropped in recent weeks after a peak in late July that saw the country recording up to 15,000 cases daily, and raised fears that health services in some major cities might collapse. Official figures showed just 772 new cases on Tuesday. South Africa is also seeing declines in hospital admissions, people in intensive care units and deaths attributed to Covid-19, health minister Mkhize said. "Consistency across these indicators reassures us that, indeed, we are in the midst of a trough in the pandemic,'' he said. South Africa has just over 650,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19, according to the government's latest official count, the eighth-highest caseload in the world. At its peak, South Africa was the fifth most affected country, behind the United States, India, Brazil and Russia, which all have much larger populations. Experts have tried for months to figure out why South Africa's official death rate from Covid-19 is low - 15,641 people have died, according to government figures. There were fears at the start of the pandemic that poverty, crowded living conditions, restricted access to clean water and the high prevalence of tuberculosis and HIV would put South Africa, and Africa at large, in danger of millions of deaths. So far, that hasn't happened. South Africa is by far the worst affected country in Africa with nearly half of the continent's 1.3 million confirmed cases. There have been 33,000 deaths from Covid-19 in the 54 countries in Africa, which has a population of 1.3 billion people. That death count is less than the number of people who have died in either the UK or Italy, and far less than the United States' 195,000 confirmed deaths. But Africa's figures, tallied by the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, rely on figures from the individual countries and many have extremely limited testing. The number of South Africa's actual deaths from Covid-19 is expected to be considerably higher. From early May until mid-September, the country has recorded 44,000 more deaths than the historic average. Many of those deaths are believed to be from Covid-19, but the people weren't tested. Other deaths could be people with other diseases who avoided care because of Covid-19 infection fears or couldn't access it because resources were diverted to the pandemic, experts have said. "We think roughly 30,000 rather than 15,000 people have died from Covid-19,'' Shabir Madhi, professor of vaccinology at Johannesburg's University of the Witswatersrand, said in a webinar this week. ''We must appreciate that there had been many deaths outside of hospitals." Even with that higher level of deaths, South Africa's mortality rate from Covid-19 appears relatively low. Some health experts think that millions in South Africa's poor, densely populated townships - which many thought would be terribly affected by the virus- may have generated an immunity to the virus because of the previous and frequent spread of other coronaviruses, including those for the common cold and flu. "They have been exposed, they developed this key cell immunity which helps them to fight the severe effects of Covid-19,'' said Madhi, the lead researcher on a clinical trial in South Africa of the coronavirus vaccine that Oxford University is developing with pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. "They may have achieved an underpinning immunity.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-africa-says-12-million-probably-had-coronavirus/articleshow/78154507.cms||---
September 17, 2020||India||Centre sets up committee to look into Chinese 'spying' revelations||NEW DELHI: The Indian government has set up an inquiry into the revelations that a Chinese company is spying on Indian citizens including the top political class and officials across the board. The issue was raised in the ongoing Parliamentary session by Congress MP KC Venugopal on Wednesday. Foreign minister S Jaishankar, in a letter to Venugopal, said that China had denied any links with the private company while the company Shenzhen Zhenhua had also said that the data collected was from open sources and was no different from what was done by western companies. It had denied accessing private information about the individuals from confidential sources. Jaishankar said the MEA took up the matter with the Chinese ambassador on Wednesday while the Indian embassy in Beijing also broached the subject with the foreign ministry of China. “The Government of India takes very seriously the protection of the privacy and personal data of Indian citizens. It is deeply concerned at any report that suggests that foreign sources are accessing or seeking to access the personal data of our citizens without their consent. The Government has constituted an Expert Committee under the National Cyber Security Coordinator to study these reports, evaluate their implications, assess any violations of law and submit its recommendations within thirty days,” the minister wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-sets-up-committee-to-look-into-chinese-spying-relevations/articleshow/78155447.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Welfare board for us in state encouraging: Transgenders||In a first of its kind initiative, the UP government is going to set up a panel for transgenders. Reportedly, on UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s directive, the Social Welfare department has submitted a proposal for the same to the government. The commission will be headed by the Social Welfare minister and several members of the community will be on the panel. The Additional Chief Secretary or Principal Secretary Social Welfare will be the Vice Chairman of the Commission while members will also include the Lucknow Police Commissioner. The board will identify transgenders across the state, issue them I-cards help them get enrolled in educational institutions and also provide accommodation under schemes of the state govt. It is believed that the idea for having a welfare commission for the community was mooted during the Prayagraj Kumbh in 2019, when the Kinnar Akhara, led by Laxmi Narayan Tripathi found recognition. And now post the announcement of the panel, the whole community is hailing the move. Laxmi Narayan Tripathi (BCCL)Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, Acharya Mahamandaleshwar of the Kinnar Akhara and social activist, welcomed the decision of the state government to set up a welfare board for the transgender community. "Such steps would surely bring the transgender community that is still marginalized, into the mainstream. This would be a beautiful beginning in that direction. I am really thankful to Yogiji for that. The transgender community has preserved its culture, the antiquity of which dates back to thousands of years, but at the same time we need modern education which this welfare board would ensure. We still need such governmental agencies since the transgender got their due only in 2014, when they were recognized as the third gender by the apex court." All praise for the UP CM, Tripathi says, “Breaking the stereotyped, we were given our rightful place during the Kumbh Mela 2019 in Prayagraj. Similarly UP is the only state which through an amendment of a law has given inheritance rights to transgender in ancestral agricultural land. Moreover Noida Metro Railway Corporation (NMRC) has dedicated Sector -50 metro station to transgender community, so all these efforts of the UP government I really appreciate and the constitution of welfare board will add to that.” TIME FOR INCLUSIONDarvesh Singh Yadavendra, the flag bearer of the LGBTQIA movement in Lucknow, who is also the key organizer of the only Pride Parade in the state, too is quite hopeful of a better environment for the community members. "This is another good news after the inclusion of transgender children in the draft of the new education policy. This was the need of the hour as we now need to move beyond just creating awareness about the existence of the community. Now, it is time for inclusion of the community members and safeguarding their rights," he said. Amolak Singh, a transgender right activist from Kanpur agrees with Davesh as he says, “I really thank the state government for thinking in this direction. I strongly believe that setting up a commission for transgenders will certainly protect our rights. Also, once the commission is in place it would also look into the issues like health welfare, employment and social equality. This would surely help us in getting a better place in society.” SUFFERINGS SHOULD BE OVER NOWIshaan Khan another transgender from Kanpur also feels that setting up of the commission would definitely help in making their lives even better. “Our community has always suffered when it comes to our social status, employment or health care facilities. For long we wanted that there should be an exclusive government body, which could safeguard our rights. Things would turn better for our community now,” says Ishaan. ON AN INDEPENDENT NOTEKajal Singh a transgender from Kanpur, says, “Being a transgender I feel that commission will definitely help us in making our community independent. In long term the policies of the commission would help our community in getting us back in the main stream of the society. Mujhe lagta hai jab hum logo ek aam insaan ki tarah haq milega to samaj ka nazariya hum logo ke liye bhi badalega.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/welfare-board-for-us-in-state-encouraging-transgenders/articleshow/78153005.cms||Meera Vohra
September 17, 2020||India||No clear trend in sedition cases in NCRB data: Govt||NEW: The home ministry on Wednesday said statewise data received by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on ‘sedition’ cases filed under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code during the period 2014-18, does not reveal any “clear trend”. This was in reply to a pinpointed query in the Rajya Sabha as to whether there were increasing instances of misuse of sedition law, particularly to muzzle the voices of dissent. On another query as to whether the government was mulling scrapping the “colonial-era” sedition law, minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy only replied that “amendment of laws is an ongoing process”. As per NCRB reports on ‘Crime in India’, 47 'sedition' cases were filed under Section 124A of IPC in 2014, 30 in 2015, 35 in 2016, 51 in 2017 and 70 in 2018. State-wise breakup shows Jharkhand and Assam together reported 50% of the cases in 2018, Assam and Haryana together accounted for around 63% of the cases in 2017, while Bihar and West Bengal reported 36.6% of the cases in 2015. “Sedition has been defined in Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). ‘Public Order’ and ‘Police’ are State subjects as per the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. The responsibility of maintaining law and order, including investigation, registration and prosecution of crimes, protection of life and property, etc., rests primarily with the respective state government,” said Reddy. However, he added that NCRB reports on “Crime in India” relating to the period 2014-18, showed no clear trend in the statewise data on sedition cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-clear-trend-on-misuse-of-sedition-law-govt/articleshow/78156306.cms||Bharti Jain
September 17, 2020||India||Babri demolition verdict on September 30||LUCKNOW: A CBI court on Wednesday said it would pronounce judgment in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case on September 30. Special judge SK Yadav directed all the accused, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, to remain present in the court. Exactly 10 years ago, on September 30, 2010, a three-judge bench of Allahabad high court had pronounced the verdict in Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit. The verdict was later challenged in the Supreme Court. Of the 48 accused named in the original chargesheet filed by the CBI in 1993, 32 of them, including Advani, former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharati, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Ritambhara and Ram Mandir Tirth Kshetra Trust secretary Champat Rai, are facing trial. The remaining 16, including Bal Thackeray and Ashok Singhal, died during the course of trial. The court had heard the final arguments of the defence and prosecution on September 1, 2020, and reserved its judgment, CBI counsel Lalit Singh told TOI. In its April 2017 order, the Supreme Court had ordered that the trial should be completed within two years by holding day-to-day hearings. The hearing at the Lucknow court began on May 21, 2017. However, the SC extended the deadline by three months and again by a month before the completion of the two-year deadline. The criminal case is in connection with two FIRs lodged with Ayodhya police in 1992 after the demolition of the disputed structure on December 6. The first — FIR number 197 was against ‘lakhs of kar sevaks’ for the demolition of the structure and the FIR number 198 against 48 Sangh Parivar functionaries for conspiracy. The trial in the case earlier continued at two courts in Rae Bareli and Lucknow, but the SC, in its April 2017 order, asked for a joint trial at Lucknow. The CBI moved SC in 2012 after the Allahabad high court dropped charges of criminal conspiracy against Advani and 13 others in 2010. The SC reinstated the conspiracy charges and asked for speedy trial. All the accused had to appear before the court for seeking bail when the regular hearing started on May 21, 2017. However, a number of them, like Advani and Joshi, appeared through video-conferencing for the hearing during the lockdown. The SC had stopped the court from putting Kalyan Singh on trial as long he was holding the post of governor in Rajasthan. His trial started in September 2019 after his tenure at Rajasthan Raj Bhavan came to an end. In its arguments, the CBI had insisted that the accused conspired and instigated kar sevaks to demolish the disputed structure whereas the accused had pleaded that there was no evidence against them to prove their guilt. The accused also said that they were falsely implicated in the case by the then Congress-led government at the Centre due to political vendetta. The CBI produced 351 witnesses and about 600 documentary pieces of evidence to prove the guilt of accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/babri-demolition-verdict-on-september-30/articleshow/78156831.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
September 17, 2020||Business||Petrol sales top pre-Covid level, diesel just 6% short||NEW DELHI: India’s fuel consumption made a sharp turnaround in the first fortnight of September after doddering through the last two months, indicating the economy may finally be coming out of lockdown slumber but the rising number of Covid cases weighs on the momentum. Latest government data show people consumed 2% more petrol in the first 15 days of September than they did in the comparative year-ago period, while diesel sales rose to 94% of the pre-Covid level, jumping 19% from August. Diesel is a key indicator of economic activities as it is mainly used by the transport, construction and farm sectors. Sales had risen sharply after the government began lifting curbs in June but faltered in July and August due to widespread monsoon rains, floods and local lockdowns in industrialised states. In August, diesel consumption had slipped 12% from July to fall 21% short of the pre-Covid level. September jet fuel sales grew 15% from August but still remains 60% below the pre-covid level as flight services, especially to overseas destinations, except under air bubbles, are yet to resume. LPG continued to post healthy gains, rising 12% over the year-ago volumes. On a month-on-month basis too, sales grew 13% from August. LPG consumption had been growing through the lockdown as families remained confined to heir homes, leading to more cooking. Petrol sales have been boosted by more people stepping out and prefering to use personal vehicles to get around. This has also led to a 14% increase in August car sales and 3% in two-wheelers, further pushing fuel consumption. Industry executives expect fuel consumption to rise further as the monsoon recedes, construction projects resume and the festival season begins in October. “More people will venture out as the states cut more slack and people get into the festive mood. There will be more air and passengers, which will boost taxi service. The industrial supply chain is also expected to find its rhythm. All these factors will translate into higherdemand for fuels,” a senior marketing executive with a state-run oil company said. Watch Petrol sales reach to pre-Covid level, diesel just 6% short||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/petrol-sales-top-pre-covid-level-diesel-just-6-short/articleshow/78157088.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 17, 2020||India||Opposition slams government over Covid-19, BJP points to Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: A lively debate in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday saw the opposition attacking the government over "mishandling" the migrant situation and an "unplanned" lockdown while the treasury benches countered by pointing to government schemes to assist the poor and targeted some states like Maharashtra for failing to adequately deal with the pandemic. Congress sought compensation for the families of migrant workers who died while walking to their native places with party's deputy leader in the House, Anand Sharma, pointing out that images of deprivation that went out from India cannot be denied even as he said that medical professionals and other frontline workers faced a steep learning curve. The Upper House debate, the first discussion on the Covid situation, proved to be a sharp affair with BJP's Vinay Sahashrabuddhe taking potshots at the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra saying a near-absent leadership — he did not name Uddhav Thackeray — had failed to lead the administrative response. Pro-Congress voices were wondering if a special lift would have to be made to accommodate the leader's car so he could visit his office in Mantralaya, he said, pointing out that the main opposition was an alliance partner in the state government. Trinamool's Derek O'Brien said the Centre should be humble in dealing with the states and pointed to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee drawing social distancing circles in public spaces. Starting the debate, Sharma also sought to know from the government why there was no figure for the number of migrants who died. "There should be a register and those people who live in cities who did not get food security, ration, please find solution for such exigencies," Sharma said. MPs cutting across party lines also insisted during the debate that more time be allowed for discussions on the pandemic. The debate will resume on Thursday when health minister Harsh Vardhan will reply. Accusing the Centre of not consulting experts to draw a strategy to deal with the pandemic, O' Brien said out of every Rs 100 spent on public health, Rs 63 comes from the states and only Rs 37 from the central government. "The problem is when things are going good, you want to take the credit. When things are tough, you start talking about chief ministers," he said, adding that the PM Cares Fund was the most "opaque" fund in the world. RCP Singh of JD(U) said during the pandemic, workers from Bihar, who contributed to the development of other states as migrant labour, were "deserted". There are over 20 lakh migrants workers from Bihar who were sent back without recognising their contribution and now they are being called back by their respective employers, he said. Swapan Dasgupta, a pro-BJP nominated member, said there was an element of confusion over the total number of Covid-19 cases. "We agree that there is a huge number of people that has been infected. The story which goes throughout the world is that somehow our figure is understated," he said. "Now, I do not know whether that is true or false but a lot of mathematical modelling on which they are based on would suggest that actually in India the tally would go up to 70 to 80 crore, which seems an absurd proposition," he added. Tiruchi Siva (DMK) alleged late action by the government in initiating steps to tackle Covid-19 and said this delay has led to the present situation. "The first case was detected in January and the self-imposed curfew started from March 23," he said. He alleged that the government was "under-reporting" cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-slams-government-over-covid-19-bjp-points-to-maharashtra/articleshow/78157249.cms||---
September 17, 2020||India||Asymptomatic Covid+ workers can work: Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Guest workers who are Covid-positive but asymptomatic have been allowed by the Kerala government to work in exclusive areas. The guidelines issued by the general administration department, however, contradict guidelines issued by the health department that restrict asymptomatic positives to strict home care. “Guest workers found positive have to be segregated. If they are asymptomatic positive, then they may work in areas exclusively marked by taking all precautions,’’ say the new guidelines. The new guidelines prohibit such workers from mixing with others. Their stay and food have to be arranged as per first line treatment centre (FLTC) guidelines issued for asymptomatic positives. If one develops symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, diarrhoea, loss of smell or breathlessness, they have to be referred to a Covid hospital in the district, and information has to be passed to DISHA 1056. Experts have raised concerns. “For the viral diseases, treatment is supportive care. How can you ask people to work if they are Covid-positive? It is against ICMR directions. Such guidelines should have been issued after consulting the health department,’’ said Dr G S Vijayakrishnan, general secretary, Kerala Government Medical Officers Association. However, the new guidelines also stipulate that guest workers be quarantined for 14 days upon arrival. As per the new norms, the place of quarantine may be decided by the contractor. It must be ensured that the room is safe and hygienic. The workers who arrive without a testing certificate may be subjected to antigen testing on the fifth day, and the contractor must bear the cost. The technical teams, officers, and consultants who reach the state should also be offered a safe place by the contractor. The technical officer can be advised to take rapid antigen or RT-PCR tests in the last 96 hours and follow the protocol for their period of stay at the project site or in the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/asymptomatic-covid-workers-can-work-kerala/articleshow/78157324.cms||---
September 17, 2020||India||Russia, Dr Reddy’s tie up for Sputnik V trial||NEW DELHI: Russia’s sovereign wealth fund – Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) — has partnered Hyderabad-based drug maker Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to cooperate on clinical trials and distribution of Sputnik V vaccine in India with deliveries for general use potentially beginning late this year. Once regulatory approvals are in place for conducting trials in India, RDIF will supply 100 million doses of the Covid vaccine — developed by Russian researchers — to DRL. The results of the early phases (Phase 1 and 2) of trials with the vaccine were recently published in Lancet, while both India and Russia were in talks to pursue further trials and manufacture of the vaccine in India. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) maintains that Russia has a good track record in development of vaccines. AstraZeneca or Oxford vaccine is also in Phase-3 trials with India’s Serum Institute contracted to produce it and has appeared ahead in the race for public use. There are two other Indian vaccines that are being developed and are in Phase I and II stage trials and have shown no significant side-effects yet. Dr Reddy’s will perform Phase 3 clinical trials — where a vaccine is tested on thousands of human beings to establish efficacy and safety — for Sputnik V in India, as required by Indian regulatory norms. RDIF said deliveries could potentially begin in late 2020, subject to completion of successful trials and registration of the vaccine by regulatory authorities in India. “The Phase I and II clinical trials have shown promising results. We will be conducting Phase-III trials in India to ensure safety and efficacy for the Indian population and to meet the requirements of the Indian regulators. Sputnik V vaccine could provide a credible option in our fight against Covid-19 in India,” DRL co-chairman & managing director G V Prasad said. Sputnik V is an adenovirus vector-based vaccine that was registered by the Russian ministry of health on August 11. It is the world’s first registered Covid-19 vaccine. Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, said, “We are very pleased to partner with Dr Reddy’s in India. Dr Reddy’s has had a very well-established and respected presence in Russia for over 25 years and is one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in India.” “India is among most severely impacted countries from Covid-19 and we believe our human adenovirus dual vector platform will provide a safe and scientifically validated option to India in the battle against Covid-19. RDIF partners will receive an effective and safe drug to fight the coronavirus,” he added. According to Dmitriev, the platform of human adenoviral vectors, which is the core of the Russian vaccine, has been tested in over 250 clinical studies over decades, and it has been found safe with “no potential negative long-term consequences”. “The agreement between RDIF and Dr Reddy’s reflects the growing awareness of countries and organisations to have a diversified anti-Covid vaccine portfolio to protect their populations.” While Russia and the Indian government have been in touch with several pharmaceutical companies in India for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing of the vaccine locally, Dr Reddy’s is the first to sign an official agreement with RDIF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/russia-dr-reddys-tie-up-for-sputnik-v-trial/articleshow/78157446.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 17, 2020||India||RailTel cancels CCTV tender over 'China link'||NEW DELHI: The railway ministry PSU, RailTel has cancelled the tender for procurement of around one lakh CCTV cameras for a record fourth time. The latest cancellation of the bid for this Rs 1,000 crore project happened days after the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) flagged that the railway PSU had not reviewed restrictive conditions. Giving reference to the grievances from four bidders about the restrictive tender conditions, the DIPP in its communication to RailTel on September 4 said, “It is stated that RailTel has neither reviewed restrictive conditions nor modified their tender conditions despite repeated references and meetings. It is stated that the eligibility condition based on excessive turnover is considered to be restrictive.”The DIPP had advised the RailTel to modify or cancel the tender in present form and frame broad based specifications keeping in view “Make in India” order. A RailTel official said the CCTV tender has been discharged and now a fresh one with broad-based specifications would be floated shortly.The railway PSU had floated the tender on October 9 in 2019, for the fourth time after the bid was cancelled thrice before for various reasons. Some domestic players had found it tough to enter the race. Sources said some foreign bidders had tied up with Chinese players to get the cameras. The Rs 1,000 crore project entails installation of nearly one lakh CCTV cameras at more than 6,000 railway stations and 7,000 coaches. These IP cameras will be able to record movements at stations and will be equipped with facial recognition software, motion detectors, quick review, and intrusion detection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railway-psu-cancels-bid-for-1-lakh-cctv-cameras-for-fourth-time/articleshow/78157543.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 17, 2020||India||Tatas set to bag new Parliament building project with lowest Rs 862 crore bid||NEW DELHI: Infrastructure major Tata Projects Ltd has emerged as the lowest bidder for the new Parliament House building project quoting Rs 861.9 crore, which is 8.4% less than the estimated cost. Larsen and Toubro Ltd quoted the second lowest bid amount of Rs 865 crore. The project will be awarded after scrutiny and going by the practice, the lowest bidder would bag the project. Sources said work could start from December or latest by January and the company has to complete the project within 21 months from the day Central Public Works Department (CPWD) allows construction to start. The successful bidder will be allowed to carry out construction round-the-clock in three shifts and considering this provision, the period for completing the project has been squeezed. The CPWD had estimated the cost of the project at Rs 899 crore. Though the government had targeted to complete the new Parliament building by July 2022, the timeline has been pushed by at least six months due to Covid. “Since there will be only one basement, the project can be completed in nearly 24 months though there will be a lot of stone work to sync the new building with the existing Parliament,” said a source. The project has undergone a few changes, including the interiors, and the plan to have a tall spur has been replaced with a big National Emblem, which was suggested by the urban affairs ministry. Sources said the ceiling of the new Parliament building will have fresco paintings like that of Rashtrapati Bhawan and the carpets will have traditional designs instead of the current single colour carpets. To retain some of the characteristics of the existing Parliament, the interior walls of the new one will have shlokas inscribed on them. Sources said Dholpur stone will be largely used like that of the existing Parliament and in some interior portions, red granite may be used in place of the red sandstone. “This will be a building with most modern facilities but displaying our culture and tradition,” said an official. This is the first construction project of the government’s mega plan of redevelopment of Central Vista. TOI on November 3 had first published the full design of the Central Vista redevelopment plan, which included a new PM’s residence and Vice-President House on two sides of the President’s House. As per the bid document, the construction work of the new Parliament won’t have any impact on holding of sessions in existing Parliament. Sources said the preparation for getting necessary approvals for the other components of the overall project, including construction of new office complexes along Rajpath, would start after December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tatas-set-to-bag-new-parliament-building-project-with-lowest-862-crore-bid/articleshow/78157565.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 17, 2020||Business||Tatas set to bag new Parliament building project with lowest Rs 862 crore bid||NEW DELHI: Infrastructure major Tata Projects Ltd has emerged as the lowest bidder for the new Parliament House building project quoting Rs 861.9 crore, which is 8.4% less than the estimated cost. Larsen and Toubro Ltd quoted the second lowest bid amount of Rs 865 crore. The project will be awarded after scrutiny and going by the practice, the lowest bidder would bag the project. Sources said work could start from December or latest by January and the company has to complete the project within 21 months from the day Central Public Works Department (CPWD) allows construction to start. The successful bidder will be allowed to carry out construction round-the-clock in three shifts and considering this provision, the period for completing the project has been squeezed. The CPWD had estimated the cost of the project at Rs 899 crore. Though the government had targeted to complete the new Parliament building by July 2022, the timeline has been pushed by at least six months due to Covid. “Since there will be only one basement, the project can be completed in nearly 24 months though there will be a lot of stone work to sync the new building with the existing Parliament,” said a source. The project has undergone a few changes, including the interiors, and the plan to have a tall spur has been replaced with a big National Emblem, which was suggested by the urban affairs ministry. Sources said the ceiling of the new Parliament building will have fresco paintings like that of Rashtrapati Bhawan and the carpets will have traditional designs instead of the current single colour carpets. To retain some of the characteristics of the existing Parliament, the interior walls of the new one will have shlokas inscribed on them. Sources said Dholpur stone will be largely used like that of the existing Parliament and in some interior portions, red granite may be used in place of the red sandstone. “This will be a building with most modern facilities but displaying our culture and tradition,” said an official. This is the first construction project of the government’s mega plan of redevelopment of Central Vista. TOI on November 3 had first published the full design of the Central Vista redevelopment plan, which included a new PM’s residence and Vice-President House on two sides of the President’s House. As per the bid document, the construction work of the new Parliament won’t have any impact on holding of sessions in existing Parliament. Sources said the preparation for getting necessary approvals for the other components of the overall project, including construction of new office complexes along Rajpath, would start after December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-set-to-bag-new-parliament-building-project-with-lowest-862-crore-bid/articleshow/78158785.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 17, 2020||World||US charges 5 Chinese citizens in global hacking campaign||WASHINGTON: The Justice Department has charged five Chinese citizens with hacks targeting more than 100 companies and institutions in the United States and abroad, including social media and video game companies as well as universities and telecommunications providers, officials said Wednesday. The five defendants remain fugitives, but prosecutors say two Malaysian businessmen charged with conspiring with the alleged hackers to profit off the attacks on the billion-dollar video game industry were arrested in Malaysia this week and now face extradition proceedings. The indictments are part of a broader effort by the Trump administration to call out cybercrimes by China. In July, prosecutors accused hackers of working with the Chinese government to target companies developing vaccines for the coronavirus and of stealing hundreds of millions of dollars worth of intellectual property and trade secrets from companies across the world. Though those allegations were tailored to the pandemic, the charges announced Wednesday - and the range of victims identified - were significantly broader and involved attacks done both for monetary gain but also more conventional espionage purposes. In unsealing three related indictments, officials laid out a wide-ranging hacking scheme targeting a variety of business sectors and academia and carried out by a China-based group known as APT41. That group has been tracked by the cybersecurity firm Mandiant Threat Intelligence, which described the hackers as prolific and successful at blending criminal and espionage operations. The hackers relied on a series of tactics, including attacks in which they managed to compromise the networks of software providers, modify the source code and conduct further attacks on the companies' customers. The Justice Department did not directly link the hackers to the Chinese government. But officials said the hackers were probably serving as proxies for Beijing because some of the targets, including pro-democracy activists and students at a Taiwan university, were in line with government interests and didn't appear to be about scoring a profit. ``A hacker for profit is not going to hack a pro-democracy group,'' said acting US Attorney Michael Sherwin of the District of Columbia, where the cases were filed. Those targets, including some that bear the "hallmark'' of conventional espionage, point to the conclusion that the hackers had at least an indirect connection with the government, Sherwin said. In addition, one of the five defendants told a colleague that he was very close to the Chinese Ministry of State Security and would be protected "unless something very big happens,'' and also agreed not to go after domestic targets in China, said Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen. But some of the conduct was clearly profit driven, officials said. Two of the Chinese defendants, for instance, were charged with breaking into video game companies and obtaining digital currency that was then sold for profit on the black market, officials said. Rosen, the Justice Department's No. 2 official, criticized the Chinese government for what he said was a failure to disrupt hacking crimes and to hold hackers accountable. "Ideally, I would be thanking Chinese law enforcement authorities for their cooperation in the matter and the five Chinese hackers would now be in custody awaiting trial,'' Rosen said. "Unfortunately, the record of recent years tells us that the Chinese Communist Party has a demonstrated history of choosing a different path, that of making China safe for their own cyber criminals, so long as they help with its goals of stealing intellectual property and stifling freedom.'' There was no immediate response Wednesday to an email seeking comment from the Chinese Embassy in Washington. The Justice Department also announced that it had seized hundreds of accounts, servers and domain names used by the defendants and that it had worked with Microsoft and other private sector companies to deny the hackers continued access to tools, accounts and hacking infrastructure. Also Wednesday, the department announced charges against two Iranian nationals accused of stealing hundreds of terabytes of data in a hacking campaign targeting institutions - and perceived enemies of Iran - in the US, Europe and the Middle East.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-charges-5-chinese-citizens-in-global-hacking-campaign/articleshow/78157739.cms||---
September 17, 2020||World||Joe Biden says he trusts vaccines and scientists, not Trump||WILMINGTON: Joe Biden said Wednesday that while he trusts what scientists say about a potential coronavirus vaccine, he doesn't trust President Donald Trump. His comments come as the debate over a vaccine - how it will be evaluated and distributed when it's ready - has taken center stage in the presidential race with seven weeks to go until the November election. Trump and Biden have been trading accusations that the other is undermining public trust in a potential coronavirus vaccine. Biden has expressed concerns that the vaccine approval process could be politicized, while Trump and his allies counter that such comments from Biden and other Democrats are turning off the public to a potentially lifesaving vaccine when it's released. Biden spoke at an event in Wilmington, Delaware, after being briefed by public health experts about a potential vaccine. He cited Trump's "incompetence and dishonesty'' surrounding the distribution of personal protective equipment and coronavirus testing. Trump has dismissed questions about personal protective equipment shortages as "fake news'' while saying publicly that he has told his administration to slow down coronavirus testing in the United States because it shows too many cases. "We can't afford to repeat those fiascos when it comes to a vaccine,'' Biden said. "The stakes are too high. American families have already suffered and sacrificed too much.'' He went on to declare: "I trust vaccines, I trust scientists, but I don't trust Donald Trump, and at this moment, the American people can't, either.'' Biden has said he would take a vaccine "tomorrow'' if it were available but that he would want to "see what the scientists said'' first. His running mate, Kamala Harris, has said she wouldn't trust Trump to be honest about the safety of any potential vaccine and worries that experts and scientists would be "muzzled'' by the president because he's so eager to get a vaccine approved by his stated goal of Election Day. The Trump campaign has accused Biden and Harris of sowing doubt about a potential vaccine by expressing concerns that the approval process could be tainted by politics. Asked whether his comments could undermine public trust in scientists, Biden responded, ``No, because they know he doesn't have any respect for scientists.'' He added that the vaccine approval process should be ``totally transparent'' and evaluated by a ``board of scientists'' that could give the public an unbiased opinion. Biden also discussed a vaccine distribution proposal crafted by public health experts and shared with him during his briefing Wednesday. According to the proposal, first responders and those ``at the greatest risk'' - including those in nursing homes and people with serious preexisting conditions - would get the vaccine first and not necessarily people in minority communities, which have been disproportionately hit by the impacts of the virus. Biden said that "children, ironically, might be the last people to get the vaccine'' because it would take time to safely test the vaccine on them. "It has to be done fairly and well,`` he said of the vaccine distribution."It can't be based on your tax returns, figuratively speaking; it's got to be based on who is most vulnerable.'' Biden also talked about his proposal to instate a national mask mandate, which he says could save tens of thousands of lives. When Biden first proposed it, Trump decried the idea of bringing "the full weight of the federal government on law-abiding Americans'' to enforce mask-wearing. During his event Wednesday, Biden acknowledged that he wasn't sure if he had the legal authority to sign an executive order imposing a federally mandated nationwide mask mandate, but said he had sought legal advice on the issue. "Our legal team thinks I can do that, based upon the degree to which there's a crisis in those states and how bad things are for the country, and if we don't do it what happens,'' Biden said. He added that, regardless, he would invite governors to the White House and ``make the case'' to them on the importance of issuing a mask mandate at the state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/joe-biden-says-he-trusts-vaccines-and-scientists-not-trump/articleshow/78157799.cms||---
September 17, 2020||World||Joe Biden says he trusts vaccines and scientists, not Trump||WILMINGTON: Joe Biden said Wednesday that while he trusts what scientists say about a potential coronavirus vaccine, he doesn't trust President Donald Trump. His comments come as the debate over a vaccine - how it will be evaluated and distributed when it's ready - has taken center stage in the presidential race with seven weeks to go until the November election. Trump and Biden have been trading accusations that the other is undermining public trust in a potential coronavirus vaccine. Biden has expressed concerns that the vaccine approval process could be politicized, while Trump and his allies counter that such comments from Biden and other Democrats are turning off the public to a potentially lifesaving vaccine when it's released. Biden spoke at an event in Wilmington, Delaware, after being briefed by public health experts about a potential vaccine. He cited Trump's "incompetence and dishonesty'' surrounding the distribution of personal protective equipment and coronavirus testing. Trump has dismissed questions about personal protective equipment shortages as "fake news'' while saying publicly that he has told his administration to slow down coronavirus testing in the United States because it shows too many cases. "We can't afford to repeat those fiascos when it comes to a vaccine,'' Biden said. "The stakes are too high. American families have already suffered and sacrificed too much.'' He went on to declare: "I trust vaccines, I trust scientists, but I don't trust Donald Trump, and at this moment, the American people can't, either.'' Biden has said he would take a vaccine "tomorrow'' if it were available but that he would want to "see what the scientists said'' first. His running mate, Kamala Harris, has said she wouldn't trust Trump to be honest about the safety of any potential vaccine and worries that experts and scientists would be "muzzled'' by the president because he's so eager to get a vaccine approved by his stated goal of Election Day. The Trump campaign has accused Biden and Harris of sowing doubt about a potential vaccine by expressing concerns that the approval process could be tainted by politics. Asked whether his comments could undermine public trust in scientists, Biden responded, ``No, because they know he doesn't have any respect for scientists.'' He added that the vaccine approval process should be ``totally transparent'' and evaluated by a ``board of scientists'' that could give the public an unbiased opinion. Biden also discussed a vaccine distribution proposal crafted by public health experts and shared with him during his briefing Wednesday. According to the proposal, first responders and those ``at the greatest risk'' - including those in nursing homes and people with serious preexisting conditions - would get the vaccine first and not necessarily people in minority communities, which have been disproportionately hit by the impacts of the virus. Biden said that "children, ironically, might be the last people to get the vaccine'' because it would take time to safely test the vaccine on them. "It has to be done fairly and well,`` he said of the vaccine distribution."It can't be based on your tax returns, figuratively speaking; it's got to be based on who is most vulnerable.'' Biden also talked about his proposal to instate a national mask mandate, which he says could save tens of thousands of lives. When Biden first proposed it, Trump decried the idea of bringing "the full weight of the federal government on law-abiding Americans'' to enforce mask-wearing. During his event Wednesday, Biden acknowledged that he wasn't sure if he had the legal authority to sign an executive order imposing a federally mandated nationwide mask mandate, but said he had sought legal advice on the issue. "Our legal team thinks I can do that, based upon the degree to which there's a crisis in those states and how bad things are for the country, and if we don't do it what happens,'' Biden said. He added that, regardless, he would invite governors to the White House and ``make the case'' to them on the importance of issuing a mask mandate at the state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-says-he-trusts-vaccines-and-scientists-not-trump/articleshow/78157782.cms||---
September 17, 2020||India||LAC face-off: Disengagement onus on India, says China||NEW DELHI: Despite the recent five-point India-China consensus for defusing the border situation, China on Wednesday put the ball for disengagement in India’s court and said it was imperative for the latter to correct its “mistake”, disengage on the ground and take concrete steps to ease tensions. A week after the consensus arrived in Moscow in the meeting of foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi, the two sides are yet to finalise a date for the next meeting of senior commanders. Meanwhile, there is a ‘standstill’ situation on the ground along the Line of Actual Control with both armies holding their positions. “The responsibility for the recent Sino-Indian border incidents is not on the Chinese side. It is the Indian side’s violation of the agreement and important consensus between the two sides, the first to illegally cross the line to provocation, the unilateral change of the status quo in the border area, and the threat to the security of the Chinese border troops,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. The Chinese statement followed defence minister Rajnath Singh’s detailed remarks in Lok Sabha on Tuesday in which he accused China of violating bilateral agreements with its violent conduct on the LAC. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan reiterated in Parliament that Chinese attempts to transgress the LAC were invariably met with an appropriate response from India. “From April-May this year, there has been an enhanced deployment of troops and armaments by the Chinese side in the border areas and along the LAC in the western sector. Since mid-May, the Chinese side attempted to transgress the LAC in several areas of the western sector of the India-China border area,” he said in reply to a written question. He said it was expected that the two sides would continue to have meetings of military and diplomatic officials to implement the agreements reached between the two foreign ministers and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. According to sources, there has been some talk of having a joint military and diplomatic dialogue but the two sides need to first arrive at a date for the next meeting. The Chinese spokesperson on Wednesday also claimed that China had always strictly abided by the relevant agreements signed by the two countries and was “committed to maintaining peace and stability in the China-India border area, and at the same time, firmly safeguarding national territorial sovereignty and security”. Watch LAC row: Disengagement onus on India, says China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disengagement-onus-on-india-china/articleshow/78157832.cms||---
September 17, 2020||World||AstraZeneca's trial illnesses may not be due to Covid-19 shot: Oxford University||The adverse events that led to a pause in trials evaluating AstraZeneca Plc's Covid-19 vaccine candidate may not have been associated with the vaccine itself, according to a document outlining participant information that was posted online by the Oxford University. Enrollment in the British drugmaker's global trials of the vaccine, which it is developing with researchers at Oxford University, was paused on Sept. 6, after a participant in its UK trial had a serious side effect thought to be a rare spinal inflammatory disorder called transverse myelitis. Safety reviews were conducted when volunteers in the trials for testing the vaccine candidate, called AZD1222 or ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, developed unexplained neurological symptoms including changed sensation or limb weakness, and the study was paused while a safety review took place, according to the document. "After independent review, these illnesses were either considered unlikely to be associated with the vaccine or there was insufficient evidence to say for certain that the illnesses were or were not related to the vaccine," the document said. The vaccine trials have resumed in Britain, Brazil and South Africa, but not yet in the United States.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/astrazenecas-trial-illnesses-may-not-be-due-to-covid-19-shot-oxford-university/articleshow/78157896.cms||---
September 17, 2020||India||No Chinese infiltration in last 6 months: MHA||NEW DELHI: No infiltration has been reported along the Indo-China border in last six months, the home ministry informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The ‘zero’ infiltration relates to the period that saw skirmishes between the Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC. MoS (home) Nityanand Rai, while replying to a question in the Upper House, however said there were 47 infiltration attempts along the Indo-Pakistan border between February and July 2020, of which four were in March, 24 in April, eight in May and 11 in July. Rai’s colleague, MoS G Kishan Reddy, in a reply to a different question said 28 of the 47 attempts were successful. Rai said the government has adopted a multi-pronged approach to contain cross-border infiltration, which includes multi-tiered deployment along the international border/LAC, improved intelligence and operational coordination, border fencing, deploying technological solutions and taking pro-active action against infiltrators. During 2019, there were 219 infiltration attempts along the Indo-Pakistan border in J&K, of which 141 were successful. In 2018, of the 328 attempts, 143 went through. Reddy said 26 civilians and 25 security force personnel were killed in J&K between August 5, 2019 and September 9, 2020 in ceasefire violations. As many as 45 civilians and 49 personnel were killed in terror incidents in J&K during this period. The home ministry also said 168 terrorists were neutralised in J&K till September 9 this year, as compared to 157 in 2019 and 257 in 2018. As many as 78 Army personnel were martyred in J&K since 2018, including 18 till September 9 this year, 21 in 2019 and 37 in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-chinese-infiltration-in-last-6-months-mha/articleshow/78157990.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||​#VishwakarmaPuja: More women, children behind kites dotting Kolkata skies||The pandemic and the ensuing lockdown might have upset many a business, but for kite sellers and makers, it has been a blessing in disguise. Kunal Das, a kite wholesaler at Behala Chowrasta, has been burning the midnight oil to keep up with the soaring demand for kites in a year that has been perhaps the best for the likes of him in a decade. “This Vishwakarma Puja, I will keep my shop open all day. Yes, 24 hours,” he told us on the eve of the festival that is synonymous with the traditional sport of kite flying, which has been fast losing its charm. However, the lockdown seems to have given a new lease of life to the sport, which has once again started thriving in the era of work from homeand online classes. With more time at their disposal, families are bonding over kite flying like never before. Fresh customers rekindle hopes New customers have been pouring in at Swapan Hazra’s kite shop in Bhawanipore and his sales have more than doubled. “The best part is I am seeing lots of fresh faces. People who had never flown a kite in their lives are now enjoying it. If youngsters develop an interest in this hobby, the future of our business is secure,” said Samar Mondal, another kite seller near Patuli. Not just youngsters, Kunal has been getting a lot of elderly customers too. “From 20 to above 50, I am seeing customers from all age groups this year. It seems people who had stopped flying kites for some reason are going back to it now,” he said. Lockdown lessons for children The kite season arrived much earlier this year. Usually, kite flying starts from June and peaks during Vishwakarma Puja. But this year it started from April, which is considered a dead month for business by those in the trade. Biman Chatterjee, who has loved flying kites since childhood, recently accompanied his 13-year-old son Sankha to a kite shop in search of a bagga. “My son was never interested in this sport until two months back when a kite landed on our terrace and I started flying it. Seeing that Sankha got interested and we started spending our evenings flying kites,” said Biman, who would sometimes bunk school to fly kites at the Maidan. The lockdown gave several parents and grandparents an opportunity to pass on the art of kite flying to the younger generation. Indradip Bose, father of 10-year-old Riju, always preserves the kites that fall on his terrace. “During the lockdown, my father started flying the saved kites and I would hold the latai for him. Now, after three months of watching him, I can fly kites too!” said Riju. Rise in women fliers Not just children, the lockdown months have also seen more and more women taking to kite flying, which has traditionally been a male-dominated sport. According to the kite sellers, up to 10% of their customers are women who are buying kites for themselves. “I know at least five women – students as well as homemakers – in our locality who have started flying kites regularly. Apart from them, there has been an increase in the number of women customers at my shop, but I don’t know them personally,” said Kunal. Senjuti Ghosh’s kite flying journey began when the school student found a kite fallen on the terrace of her apartment three months back. “I have always seen others flying kites and listened to stories from my parents’ childhood. On finding a beautiful kite that day, I was tempted to try my hand. So, I requested a neighbour to teach me. After a few weeks of trial and error, I can now fly kites with ease, and it’s a lot of fun!” she said. With increasing demand, many old kite designs are making a comeback. For instance, machiyal and mayurpankhi – which were rare till last year – are quite popular this season. These kites are priced between `10 and `15, depending on its size. Besides, the sellers said that most people are particularly looking for ek tel kites rather than its smaller or larger versions. Why do we fly kites on Vishwakarma Puja? People started linking kites to Vishwakarma Puja from the late 1850s. Being the greatest divine architect and engineer of all time, it was Lord Vishwakarma who made almost all the flying chariots for gods along with their weapons. Kites are flown as a mark of admiration for his skills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vishwakarmapuja-more-women-children-behind-kites-dotting-kolkata-skies/articleshow/78154876.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
September 17, 2020||India||Chinese envoy summoned over ‘surveillance'||NEW DELHI: The foreign ministry on Wednesday summoned Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong and raised the issue of alleged surveillance through social media scraping on prominent Indians by Chinese company Zhenhua Data Information Technology. The government feels the activities of the firm further justify its decision to ban Chinese apps. Official sources said the government had constituted an expert committee under the National Cyber Security Coordinator to study the Zhenhua data leak reports, evaluate their implications, assess any violations of law and submit its recommendations within 30 days. Reports on Zhenhua’s activities were reported in the Indian Express. Foreign minister S Jaishankar communicated the decision to Congress MP K C Venugopal in response to demands from him and other MPs for protecting data of Indian leaders and others from spying by Chinese companies, sources said. China has said Zhenhua is a private company and has stated its position publicly. B Beijing maintained that the company’s clients were research institutions and business groups and that instead of collecting data, it only mobilised data which was open and available online. “Government of India is deeply concerned with any report that suggests that foreign sources are accessing or seeking to access the personal data of our citizens without their consent,” a source said. Government sources highlighted that the concerns raised by the international investigation were something they had been focused on. They formed part of the reasons for the government to move against Chinese apps. The issues about data mining and surveillance were serious and India needed to push back, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-envoy-summoned-over-surveillance/articleshow/78158021.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Dog survey in coastal areas as part of plan to address stray population||PANAJI: The panchayats of coastal villages of the state have been advised to form a monitoring committee to tackle the stray dog menace on the beaches. A dog survey will also be conducted to estimate the number of dogs in these areas. Director of tourism, Menino D’Souza, recently organised a meeting of stakeholders to discuss the issue of stray dogs. Mission Rabies and Worldwide Veterinary Service (WVS) have been roped in to work out an action plan for the panchayats for the awareness, dog feeding and sterilisation of strays. “The stray dog menace is becoming a serious issue for the safety of tourists and locals. Unless we have a proper dog management plan, we will not be able to go ahead. Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules are already in place. The coastal panchayats like Calangute, Colva, Baga and Benaulim must form the committee based on these rules and undertake the dog survey. We will review the findings and form an action plan to be carried out with the help of animal NGOs,” D’Souza said. Director of education at Mission Rabies Dr Murugan Appupillai said that people’s behaviour matters a lot in this issue because dog ecology is linked with human activities. “The beach is home for some dogs so it may not be possible to remove them, but it could be possible to keep them at a limited number by undertaking dog sterilisation and habitat control,” he said. He said throwing away garbage and food waste to feed the dogs needs to be controlled and that people who wish to feed the dogs may contact the local animal welfare organisations and support them. They also suggested to the panchayats to set up a designated feeding place for the dogs for people to feed them. Mission Rabies has completed the dog survey at Calangute and Candolim and will be submitting the action plan to the tourism department soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dog-survey-in-coastal-areas-as-part-of-plan-to-address-stray-population/articleshow/78156385.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Business||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das dashes hopes of V-shaped economic recovery||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Monday squashed expectations of a V-shaped recovery and called for a policy focus on increasing India’s participation in global value chains. “High frequency indicators of agricultural activity, the purchasing manager’s index and certain private estimates on unemployment point to some stabilisation of economic activity in the second quarter of the current year,” said Das, while delivering his address at an event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Read Also7 ways India’s economy could crawl out of the Covid pitWith the pandemic still raging, different countries are facing different types of recessions - the shape of these will decide how quickly or slowly their economies will rebound“The recovery is, however, not yet fully entrenched and moreover, in some sectors, upticks in June and July appear to be levelling off. By all indications, the recovery is likely to be gradual as efforts towards reopening of the economy are confronted with rising infections,” said Das. The governor’s statement comes at a time when Covid infections have crossed the 50-lakh mark following the partial easing of the lockdown. While the governor’s statement is seen as pessimistic, it is also being taken as a positive note for bond markets as this reduces the likelihood of the central bank raising interest rates even though inflation has been much above the RBI’s target range. Das said that while bond yields in August had risen 35 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) on the back of fears of inflation and oversupply of government bonds, the RBI managed to tame yields through open market operations. Later, responding to a query on stricter rules being imposed for NBFCs vis-a-vis banks, Das said that the fragility and vulnerability of the NBFC sector was a concern. “They are still not on a par with banks in the matter of regulation and we don’t want a repeat of a crisis in another NBFC,” Das said. He pointed out that the RBI, which was following a light-touch approach in NBFC regulation, was forced to change its stance after the IL&FS crisis. Calling for policy focus on export strategy, Das said that a view had emerged after the global financial crisis (GFC) that India had missed the bus by not prioritising exports. This was because in the years that followed, there has been rising protectionism and weak global demand. “Notwithstanding these impediments, and also the significant decline in trade intensity of world GDP growth in the post-GFC period, opportunities for expanding exports arise from the vastly altered global landscape for trade where more than two-thirds of world trade occur through global value chains (GVCs),” said Das. “The higher the GVC participation of a country, the greater are the gains from trade as it allows participating countries to benefit from the comparative advantage of others participating in the GVC. Services such as transportation, banking, insurance, IT and legal services, branding, marketing, and after-sale services are integral to GVCs,” said Das. “It is also important to learn from global experience and nurture those trade agreements that go beyond traditional market access issues,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-guv-dashes-hopes-of-v-shaped-eco-recovery/articleshow/78155520.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Patna||East Central Railway to run 22 clone specials from September 21||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) will run altogether 22 clone special trains on different routes in Bihar from September 21 to cope with the rush of passengers during the festive season. Of these, seven will operate daily and the rest will run on a weekly basis. One can start booking tickets from September 19 either through the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation or the computerized passenger reservation system counters. According to sources, other zones will run 12 Bihar-bound clone special trains on the Delhi-Katihar (05485/05486), Secunderabad-Danapur (02787/02788), Bengaluru-Danapur (06509/06510), Ahmedabad-Darbhanga (09465/09466), Surat-Chhapra (09065/09066) and Ahmedabad-Patna (09447/094448) routes. ECR CPRO Rajesh Kumar said, “The Saharsa-New Delhi clone special (02563/02564) will leave at 5.15am every day and reach New Delhi the next day at 5.10pm. It will stop at Barauni, Chhapra, Gorakhpur, Aishbagh and Kanpur. On its return journey, it will leave Delhi at 7.50pm and reach Saharsa the following day at 6.30pm.” He added, “Similarly, the Rajgir-New Delhi clone special (03391/03392), which will also run daily, will leave at 7am and reach its destination at 2.30am. It will stop at the Patna Junction, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction, Varanasi and Lucknow. On its return journey, it will l reach Rajgir the next day at 9am. Besides, the Darbhanga-New Delhi clone special (02569/02570) will leave Darbhanga at 7am every day and reach Delhi the next morning at 4am with stoppages at Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Chhapra, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Moradabad. Later, the train will leave Delhi at 12.15pm and reach Darbhanga the following day at 9.15am.” On the other hand, the Muzaffarpur-Delhi special (02573/02574) will run every Sunday at 9.40am and reach its destination the next day at 5.30am. On its return journey, it will leave Delhi every Monday at 12.50pm and reach Muzaffarpur the next day at 10.30am. The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi clone special (03293/03294), which will run every Sunday at 4.25pm, will reach New Delhi the next day at 5.30am. It will only stop at the Patna Junction, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction and Kanpur. On its return journey, it will leave Delhi every Monday at 1.30pm and reach the Rajendra Nagar Terminal the following day at 4.30am. The clone special trains will run by utilizing Humsafar Express rakes and their fares will be similar. The Railway Board has decided to run them with a view to providing more accommodation to people during the peak festive season. “The Board has taken a decision to run clone specials of those crowded trains, which are likely to have more than 500 wait-listed passengers, during the festive season in Bihar,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-to-run-22-clone-specials-from-sept-21/articleshow/78153771.cms||Kumod Verma
September 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Dog stuck in closed drainage line rescued after two days||VADODARA/ANAND: A dog who remained trapped in a closed drainage system in education town Vallabh Vidyanagar of Anand district for more than 48 hours was rescued late on Tuesday night. The stray dog was trapped inside the drainage since Sunday. According to locals, the civic body in Vidyanagar had started some repair and construction work nearly 100 metres away from the spot from where the dog was rescued. The labourers working on the site had dug a pit from where the dog had entered the drainage system. The labourers, who did not notice the animal, covered the pit leaving the the dog stuck inside the drainage network located near Rabari vaas area. “On Sunday, some locals heard noise from the concrete drainage. Later, from the small gaps of the drainage cover, they saw the dog trapped inside,” said Bhavesh Solanki from the Rescue and Rehabilitation of Stray Animals Foundation. Clueless on how to rescue the trapped animal, locals in the neighbourhood of Rabari vaas kept feeding the animal with biscuits and other food items that could be delivered from the small gaps of the concrete cover. “On Tuesday night too when we reached the spot to rescue the animal, it was a difficult task. First, the concrete drainage cover was not easy to break or dismantle. Later, when we broke open the drainage cover, the dog was terrified because of the movement of people and vehicles on the road,” said Solanki, who entered the drain to calm the four-year-old male dog and later brought it out. The 48 hours inside the drainage had left the dog dehydrated. “We had a veterinary doctor with us who immediately attended him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/stray-rescued-from-drainage-after-two-days/articleshow/78153209.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar gets Rs 4 crore for pre-Puja road repairs||KOLKATA: The state urban development department has approved Rs 4 crore for Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) to take up patchwork repairs of the most damaged roads in all 41 wards across Salt Lake and Rajarhat before Puja. State urban development and municipal affairs department minister Firhad Hakim said a proposal had been submitted by Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose, which was approved. Bose, also the state fire and emergency services minister, said that some of the Puja committees with whom he had recently held a preliminary meeting have urged that some key roads be repaired as soon as possible. “A second detailed project report on thorough repairs has also been submitted,” Bose said. According to Bidhannagar civic authorities, a proposal for Rs 140 crore for road repairs has been placed before the urban development department for financial approval. The condition of several stretches in Salt Lake and Rajarhat has deteriorated in the past few months as the authorities could not take up thorough repairs due to the pandemic. “As of now, patchwork will be done on the most damaged stretches. After Puja, all roads will be repaired,” said a civic official. In Salt Lake, large craters and potholes have appeared in FD, GC, IA, CB Blocks, among others. The stretch from Tank 13 to Anindita bus stand and the road between Tank 13 and Bijon Bhavan have large craters. Motorists, especially bikers, often complain about the dangers of driving or riding along these stretches. “It has become dangerous. There are many potholed and cratered roads in Salt Lake which makes riding difficult,” said Avik Raychaudhuri, a resident of GD Block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-gets-rs-4cr-for-pre-puja-road-repairs/articleshow/78155212.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 17, 2020||Patna||Psychological disorders haunt many cured Covid patients||PATNA: Traumatised by their experience of fighting the Covid-19 virus, there’s a steady inflow of cured patients at the post- Covid care clinics at NMCH, Patna and the PMCH, who are coming with psychological problems. Psychiatrists and counsellors at both centres have noted this trend of discharged patients returning with issues such as fear of isolation, depression and fear of re-infection among other issues. Although the first post- Covid care clinics in the state at the two opened only last week, there’s a steady footfall of patients. “Several cured Covid patients are coming back to the hospital with problems like anxiety, insomnia and fear of re-infection while there are also few cases regarding lung fibrosis (scarring of tissues leading to breathlessness), heart ailments, kidney or liver problem,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent of NMCH-Patna, told this newspaper on Tuesday. Talking about the patients with psychological problems, Dr Singh said some patients are facing difficulty in eating, feeling uneasy, experiencing weakness, sleeplessness and worrying about reinfection. “These are all psychological problems experienced by survivors, especially those who were isolated by their family member due to fear of infection while some have comorbid conditions like diabetes, asthma and hypertension,” he said. He added, “Psychological consultation and moral boosting has become must for patients of post-Covid treatment. For these patients, we have separate counseling centres. The footfall of cured patients at the clinic, however, is low because of lack of awareness about such facilities at the hospital.” Dr Vidyapati Choudhary, principal of PMCH said some patients do not need to get admitted at the hospital, the doctors counsel them. “Due to isolation, patients suffered from psychological disorder and there is fear psychosis in some patients. These psychological symptoms are more in women then men. Some patients are facing problems like fatigue and nervousness,” he said. Dr BP Jaiswal, coordinator of post- Covid care clinic at NMCH said five to six patients have come with complications such as fever, cough while one patient was suffering from hemoptysis (coughing of blood). “Only 15-20% cured patients suffered from the aftermath complications,” he said. At PMCH’s post- Covid care clinic, three patients are getting treatment for post-recovery complication. So far, seven patients have got discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/psychological-disorders-haunt-many-cured-covid-patients/articleshow/78153066.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 17, 2020||Patna||Govt may amend statute again for appointment of asst profs||PATNA: The statute amendment for appointment of assistant professors in the colleges and universities of the state is unlikely to benefit the aspirants due to some ‘anomaly’ in the wordings. Experts say as per the amendment notified on August 29 last, “only candidates who have registered and obtained PhD degrees from the universities of Bihar during the period from July 11, 2009 (the date of implementation of the UGC PhD Regulation, 2009 in the country) till its implementation in the state universities following its notification from the Raj Bhavan in November, 2012, would be exempted from the requirement of NET/SLET/SET for recruitment”. It seems nearly impossible for a candidate to get registered and obtain PhD degree within such a short span of time, they say. Taking cognisance of this ‘fallacy’, the Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) has written a letter to the state education department, requesting it to withdraw the clause “and obtained PhD degrees” from the amendment. Earlier, the BSUSC members, at a meeting held recently, felt that if the advertisement for the posts of assistant professors were issued as per the wordings of the recent amendment, it would lead to unwarranted chaos and confusion among the aspirants. A senior member of the commission, preferring anonymity, said the draft of the amendment was earlier prepared by the BSUSC and sent to the education department. That draft did not contain the clause “having obtained PhD degree”. A member of the three-member statute drafting committee constituted by the chancellor also told the newspaper that they had signed the draft of proposed amendment as it was without checking each and every word when they learnt that it had already been approved by the education department. State education department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar admitted that the department has received a letter from the BSUSC in this regard. “Steps have already been initiated by the department for making necessary corrections in the amended statute,” he said. Kumar further pointed out that the education department has received the subject-wise vacancies of assistant professors from all the universities after getting clearance of roster reservation from the competent authorities. The requisition for appointment against these vacant posts would be sent to the BSUSC within a day or two, he said. When contacted, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi expressed surprise over the development and told this newspaper that he would personally inquire it from the state education department. “If there is any anomaly in the wordings of the amendment which may harm the interest of the state youths, he would request the chancellor to get it amended once again,” he said. As soon as the statute for appointment of assistant professors was notified by the chancellor’s secretariat on August 10, job aspirants from the state started raising their voice against some of its provisions and demanded their withdrawal. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on the Independence Day that the objectionable clauses would be deleted from the statute in the larger interest of the state’s youths. Subsequently, the statute was amended on August 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-may-amend-statute-again-for-appointment-of-asst-profs/articleshow/78153354.cms||B K Mishra
September 17, 2020||Patna||Covid recovery rate in state crosses 91%||PATNA: The recovery rate in state reached 91.16% as 1531 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 official deaths were reported on Wednesday. The state tally reached 1,62,632 and the toll mounted to 848. However, with 1,48,257 recoveries, active cases in state remained 13,525 only. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1725 people had recovered and 1,07,970 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Total 52,02,209 samples have been tested in state so far. As per the health department’s data, four more deaths were reported from Patna, taking the toll in the district to 194. Two deaths each were reported from Aurangabad and Bhojpur, followed by one each from Buxar, East Champaran, Samastipur and Vaishali. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths. The deceased included a 61-year-old man from PC Colony in Kankarbagh and a 48-year-old man from Harlakhi in Madhubani. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 14 people were discharged and 21 new Covid-19 patients were admitted there. The new patients were from different localities of Patna district, including BSEB Colony, Ashiana-Digha Road, Naubatpur and Daulatpur in Masaurhi. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) reported neither any death nor new admission. There were 20 patients in the hospital. Among the new patients, 215 were from Patna, taking its tally to 24,592. However, with 22,537 recoveries and 192 deaths, active cases in the district stand at 1863. Covid-19 cases reported from some other districts included Saharsa (109), Bhagalpur (95), Araria (72), Madhubani (71), Muzaffarpur (69), Nalanda (67), Supaul (63), Saran (57), Begusarai (52) and East Champaran (53).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-recovery-rate-in-state-crosses-91/articleshow/78153010.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 17, 2020||Patna||Agri minister launches Rs 10cr projects in Gaya||GAYA: The agriculture and animal husbandry minister, Prem Kumar, on Wednesday remotely inaugurated water conservation and irrigation schemes worth Rs 10.14 crore through online mode. The schemes are aimed at underground water recharge through rainwater harvesting in 14 districts — Gaya, Aurangabad, Arwal, Nawada, Patna, Jamui, Munger, Shekhpura, Kaimur, Rohtas, Lakhisarai, Nalanda, Banka and Buxar. Under the project being implemented by the directorate of soil conservation, 311 schemes facilitating additional irrigation in around 7,000 acres of farmland would benefit more than 500 farmers. The schemes to be undertaken include, construction of pucca check dams, farm ponds, irrigation wells and renovation of aahar and paiyn (tradition water storage bodies). The inauguration programme was attended by agriculture department secretary N Saravana Kumar, land conservation director Ganesh Kumar, agricultural technology management agency deputy director Baleshwar Prasad Singh, ATMA project deputy director Neeraj Kumar Verma and others. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/agri-minister-launches-rs-10cr-projects-in-gaya/articleshow/78153447.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Rajkot||Ex-BJP MP Liladhar Vaghela dies of old age||Palanpur: Former minister and MP, Liladhar Vaghela died of old age at his home in Banaskantha on Wednesday morning. Family members said that Vaghela’s last rites were conducted in Sidhpur at Patan. An elderly member of the Thakore community, Vaghela originally hailed from Patan but he had settled in Deesa. A six-time MLA, Vaghela was in Congress party earlier and he was even made a minister in former Gujarat CM, Chimanbhai Patel’s government. He later joined the BJP. Vaghela shot into limelight when the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi pitted him against the heavyweight leader, Shankarsinh Vaghela on Kapadvanj seat in 2004 Lok Sabha polls. Liladhar lost the election. He then contested Lok Sabha polls on Patan seat in 2014 and won the election following which he was made minister of state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ex-bjp-mp-liladhar-vaghela-dies-of-old-age/articleshow/78154296.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Rajkot||Rs 1.44cr pistachio loot: Two held, reveal Anjar cops’ hands in case||Rajkot: In the daring robbery of the truck laden with 25 tonne pistachios from Anjar on the night of September 9, police arrested two persons including a minor from Anjar and Mundra of Kutch district on Tuesday. However, while digging details in the great loot worth a whopping Rs 1.44 crore, cops also stumbled upon the involvement of men in uniform in the case.Police said the accused, Rickyrajsinh Sindhav (26) had carried out the loot along with his 17-year-old accomplice and six more unidentified accomplices. “We had already received a tip-off about the involvement of the minor, following which we rounded him up in Anjar. During interrogation, the minor revealed the name of Sindhav as one of the key-accused. Acting on this information, we arrested Sindhav from Mundra,” said M S Rana, sub-inspector with Gandhidham local crime branch. Sindhav worked at Mundra Port and so, knew about the supply of pistachio. He along with Jadeja hatched the loot conspiracy. According to the case details, driver Luvkush Nishad (32) had left Mundra Port with his truck load of pistachios meant for delivery in Vashi of Navi Mumbai. While passing through Meghpar Borichi village of Anjar taluka on September 9 night, a white car suddenly waylaid the truck. When Nishad stopped the truck, a robber came out of the car and climbed onto the driver’s cabin of the truck and aimed a pistol on Nishad’s head, asking him to step down. Nishad was forced to sit in the car. Nishad told the cops that the accused kept driving him in the car the entire night and released him the next morning on September 10 near Anjar. He soon contacted the branch manager of his transport company, and the search for the truck started but could not be located at the spot. The truck was later found emptied of its precious goods at Mithi Rohar village.COPS’ INVOLVEMENT COMES TO LIGHT While the supply of pistachio was being shifted from one truck to the other, Anjar police station officials received a tip-off that a liquor supply was being divided among bootleggers. Anjar head constable Jayubha Jadeja along with three constables — Anil Chaudhary, Dilip Chaudhary and Vanrajsinh Devel — rushed to the spot. The minor accused then contacted another constable with Anjar police station, Vishwajitsinh Jadeja, and called him to the spot. “The accused along with the cop convinced the four cops that they were transferring the goods to the other truck owing to technical fault in the first truck. They also told the cops that they were not carrying any liquor. The accused also paid bribes to the cops who left the spot thereafter,” said sub-inspector, MS Rana. He said the errant cops will be booked and their involvement in the loot will be probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-1-44cr-pistachio-loot-two-held-reveal-anjar-cops-hands-in-case/articleshow/78154397.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Business||Need 1 more year to settle Sterling dues, says SP Group||MUMBAI: Exactly 10 days after Tata Sons moved the Supreme Court to stop estranged minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group from pledging its shares, the construction giant has expressed its inability to settle its dues to associate company Sterling and Wilson Solar. SP has also sought more time till September next year to clear its outstanding Rs 767-crore loan. Simultaneously, it has offered as security assets including immovable properties, which are worth more than the pending amount. SP, along with minority partner Khurshed Daruvala, were to settle their entire dues of Rs 1,150 crore to Sterling and Wilson by this month end. But due to “reasons beyond their control”, their fund-raising process has been “considerably affected”. Hence, they have requested the board of Sterling to grant them “further extension” till September 30, 2021 to clear their pending loans, the company said in a regulatory filing on Wednesday. SP has been looking to raise Rs 11,000 crore ($1.5 billion) through structured debt deals by pledging part of its 18.4% interest in Tata Sons. But this effort has hit a hurdle after Tata Sons moved the country’s apex court to restrain SP from offering its shares as security. SP, whose main business is construction and real estate, has been facing a liquidity crisis precipitated by the pandemic that had stalled projects across the world early this fiscal. Sterling added that its promoters, while assuring repayment of their pending dues over the course of the period till September 30, 2021, have offered security “on various assets aggregating to Rs 1,200 crore, which is slightly higher than their outstanding loans”. The board of Sterling granted their request and levied an additional interest of 3% over the current applicable rate of interest, on their outstanding amount. SP owns 51% of Sterling, but 72% of its holding is pledged. Daruvala holds about 26% of the company, which had a market cap of Rs 3,785 crore as on Wednesday. The promoters owed Rs 2,563 crore to Sterling at the time of its listing in August 2019. The loans were to be repaid by November 18, 2019. But because of the credit crunch triggered by the NBFC loans crisis, the promoters had sought extra time to settle their dues. They have so far repaid Rs 1,413 crore including interest, and plan to clear the remaining Rs 1,150 crore before September 30, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/need-1-more-year-to-settle-sterling-dues-says-sp-group/articleshow/78155541.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 17, 2020||Business||Tencent puts $63 million into Flipkart amid China row||BENGALURU: Amid heightened tensions at the border between China and India, Chinese technology conglomerate Tencent has invested nearly $63 million in Flipkart, according to regulatory filings of the holding company in Singapore. The filing, which was sourced from business intelligence platform Paper.vc, shows Tencent holds 4-5% stake in Flipkart, where US-based Walmart is the largest shareholder with over 80% stake. According to Paper.vc, the funding is possibly part of the broader Walmart-led investment of $1.2 billion announced in July. On Wednesday, Flipkart declined to comment on TOI’s query on Tencent investing in the firm and if it has sought the government’s approval. This comes at a time when India, following the developments at the border, has been taking multiple steps to limit China’s influence on the economy, including changing foreign direct investment (FDI) rules, especially when it results in strategic influence. On August 26, TOI reported that Alibaba’s Ant Group had said it was re-considering its follow-on investment in Zomato because of the recent changes by the Indian government. Zomato recently raised $100 million from Tiger Global as part of its broader $600-million funding round. Among the total 224 Chinese apps banned in India so far, the government has banned other products of Tencent such as PUBG Mobile Lite, WeChat Reading,WeChat Work, Tencent Weiyun. Soon after this, the popular game’s South Korean parent PUBG Corporation cancelled Tencent’s franchise rights for the game in India hoping for a comeback. Currently, the ban continues on PUBG Mobile. In 2019, Chinese investment in Indian startups jumped to almost $4 billion, compared to around $2 billion a year ago. Apart from Tencent, Alibaba Group is the other large strategic Chinese investor in India and its portfolio includes Paytm, Bigbasket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tencent-puts-63mn-into-flipkart-amid-china-row/articleshow/78155427.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 17, 2020||Business||Fantasy gamers’ e-spends may hit $1 billion||BENGALURU: The online fantasy gaming market is set to explode with the upcoming season of the Indian Premier League (IPL), with industry players and analysts expecting fans to spend $1-1.5 billion (Rs 7,000-10,000 crore) to predict the performance of various players. Platforms like Dream11, My11Circle and HalaPlay — besides more recent entrants like Paytm and Mobile Premier League (MPL) — are competing to attract users as cricket makes a comeback after over six months. What is expected to drive growth in the industry is the pent-up demand among consumers locked up at home and deprived of entertainment like movies and live sports ever since the Covid-19 pandemic started in March. This, along with hundreds of crores in marketing expenditure by fantasy gaming platforms, including market leader Dream11 winning the title sponsorship of IPL for Rs 222 crore last month, is expected to further increase interest in the market. The number of consumers on fantasy sports platforms, where cricket accounts for over 80% of the action, is projected to grow from 90 million to 120-150 million, according to industry players. Dream11 expects its total user base to increase from about 82 million to at least 100 million. “Sitting at home, consumers don’t have a lot do. We can see what is happening in the stock markets in India with increasing retail trading on platforms like Zerodha. That is the same manifestation expected in fantasy sports,” said Manish Agarwal, CEO of Nazara Games, which has backed fantasy platform HalaPlay. The fantasy gaming market saw 167% growth in the contest entry amount (CEA) to Rs 16,500 crore in FY20, according to a report by industry body FIFS with KPMG, on the back of World Cup and IPL last year. Companies typically make 10-20% of the CEA amount as revenues when a player withdraws the winnings from the platform. With the onset of Covid-19, most of the April-June quarter has been a washout for the industry. Last year, fans spent Rs 4,000-5,000 crore ($550-700 million) contesting on fantasy gaming platforms during IPL, according to industry estimates. “IPL for fantasy gaming platforms is like Diwali for retail. It is 40-50% of the industry and revenues for any players as well. Last year, 50-60 million customers played IPL on fantasy gaming platforms and there is a match every day continuously,” said Sudhanshu Gupta, COO of Paytm First Games. Paytm First recently got Sachin Tendulkar as a brand ambassador. Dream11 has Mahendra Singh Dhoni, MPL has Virat Kohli and My11Circle has Saurav Ganguly. “We are expecting to grow 100% (in terms of users) during this IPL... Given that 2019 was our first year in the industry, a comparison between last year and this year isn’t appropriate in our view. But, if I were to give you an idea, I would say a 9X increase in contest entry amount,” said Bhavin Pandya, co-founder & CEO of Games24x7, which owns My11Circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fantasy-gamers-e-spends-may-hit-1bn/articleshow/78155495.cms||Madhav Chanchani
September 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic gives thrust to river swimming||Mangaluru: In an attempt to promote sports that can also play a role in saving lives, especially in the wake of increasing floods the world over, Partha Varanashi, an international swimmer and swimming coach, has launched a river swimming training programme in the Seere river bordering Karnataka and Kerala. About 20 swimmers from across the state have been introduced to this training programme recently, and are expected to train throughout this month, depending on the flow of the river, said Partha Varanashi, director Surf Lifesaving, India, which is affiliated to Rashtriya Life Saving Society. “I have been doing river swimming for nearly a decade, and with swimming pools closed due to the pandemic, it allowed us to explore the river. In 2013, eight surfers had attempted a kayak expedition on this river, and with adventure activities resuming after the lockdown was lifted, we felt it is a good opportunity to teach swimmers how to deal with the river current,” he said. The team of experts includes Niroop G R, who has completed a course from Surf Life Saving, Australia, Rohith Prakash who was the team India manager for international lifesaving sports championship, and aquatic safety experts Lokesh and Deepak. Swimmers are being taught on how to deal with rip currents, tides, flow rate and other aspects. “Flow rate and zones are demarcated. Three checkpoints are in place with lifeguards at every point. It is a structured course,” Partha said. According to an estimate, about 1,900 people lost their lives and another 46 were reported missing during the monsoon that caused floods and affected more than 25 lakh people in 22 states, last year. This year too, several states have been affected by floods and the world over, several cities are recording floods. “We are in an Anthropocene, an age of a significant climatic change. It is a wise idea that we encourage aquatic education not only in swimming pools, but in rivers and oceans and train people to face real-life situations. It is an opportunity for our civilisation to last longer and stronger. Also with life-saving sports gaining popularity across the world, we want to encourage this sport in India. Flow pool, an artificial pool, is getting popular among professional swimmers, but river swimming is a natural flow pool. It is an excellent natural way to train as long as there are lifeguards around to take care of the safety,” Partha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-gives-thrust-to-river-swimming/articleshow/78154472.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 17, 2020||Allahabad||4 addl HC judges take oath||Prayagraj: Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court Govind Mathur on Wednesday administered oath of office to four newly appointed additional judges of the high court in his courtroom. Those who were administered oath as additional judges are Justice Sanjay Kumar Pachori, Justice Subhash Chandra Sharma, Justice Subhash Chand and Justice Smt. Saroj Yadav. The norms of social distancing, wearing of masks, etc., were strictly followed during oath-taking ceremony. Earlier, the President of India by a notification dated September 11, 2020, had appointed them as additional judges of Allahabad High Court. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/4-addl-hc-judges-take-oath/articleshow/78153173.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Business||NRI remittances into Kerala grew by 30%||Chennai: For the 35-year-old PM Shankar from Malappuram, sending money back home from Dubai is a routine. But what changed this year was that he had to send more money to ensure his 59-year-old father, who lost his job due to Covid pandemic, did not suffer. “The last few months have been challenging on both financial and emotional fronts. My father who worked as a supervisor at a construction site lost his job during the lockdown. With no income, I had to increase the money sent from Rs 30,000 per month to Rs 45,000 per month, to support them,” he said. NRI remittances into Kerala grew 30% during lockdown as Indians returning from the Gulf region rushed to remit their settlement after many lost their jobs to the pandemic. This coupled with Kerala’s biggest festival Onam falling during the lockdown aided enhanced inflows. They poured in almost $2 billion in April in rupee deposits as they chased higher returns even as interest rates plunged to near zero in all developed nations. This is the highest single month flow in 26 months. India was the largest recipient, with a share of 11.3% in global remittances in 2019. Data for the remaining lockdown months is yet to be released, but bankers in Kerala said that the increase in inbound investments is between 20% to 40%. Take CSB Bank for example. This Thrissur-headquartered bank has seen a 40% growth in remittances by NRIs. “We have seen a 40% growth in NRI remittance in the April-June quarter, 2020. We also see a growing interest among NRIs to purchase stressed real estate assets in Kerala due to falling real estate prices,” said the bank’s MD & CEO, C VR Rajendran. While at the Aluva headquartered Federal Bank inbound remittances grew by 20%. Its country head for retail banking Nilufer Mullanfiroze said, “We have seen this increase in the inward NRI remittances in June. We saw NRI remittance transactions growth from both Gulf region countries and other regions like the US and Europe, New Zealand and Australia this year.” The slip in US dollar value helped the exchange rate (value) of Indian rupee, from the levels of Rs 75 to a $ to Rs 72 to a $, has encouraged positive sentiment among NRIs to purchase real estate assets during the same period. “Many expect the real estate prices to fall further and a purchase in next few months. Opportunistic buying has seen significant growth this year among NRIs, as the pandemic outbreak led to fall in real estate prices in Kerala. On the seasonality point of view, the volume and value of NRI remittances went up significantly by 30% during the Onam festive season in Kerala,” Mullanfiroze added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nri-remittances-into-kerala-grew-by-30/articleshow/78155025.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||MBBS student hangs self in hostel room||Kolkata: A 24-year-old final-year MBBS student at CNMC allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday morning. Police said Dibyendu Sardar was found hanging in his top-floor room at the Beniapukur boys’ hostel attached to the hospital. Hostel residents said Sardar’s roommate had left in the morning. Around 8.55am, when there was no response from the room, they broke in and found him hanging. “We are still ascertaining the reason for his death, though prima facie it appears to be suicide,” said an officer. “He may have been depressed due to a break up or due to his brother’s suicide a few months ago.But Sardar was a bright student,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mbbs-student-hangs-self-in-hostel-room/articleshow/78155241.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: DNA sample from cigarette butt lands duo in jail for life||KOLKATA: The DNA sampling method used to identify the accused in a murder case had made the charge sheet in a Ultadanga murder case a unique one in 2011. It was for the first time in Asia that a cigarette butt was used for DNA testing. Exactly nine years and three months later, the Sealdah court has punished both the accused — Mili Pal alias Kajol and Ajay Sen alias Bapi — to life imprisonment. The duo — then aged 19 and 21 respectively — have also been found guilty of voluntarily causing hurt while committing the robbery. Sen has been found guilty under section 25 (1b) (a) of the Arms Act as well and sentenced to five years of rigorous imprisonment. All the sentences will run concurrently. Businessman Md Salauddin from Bowbazar was shot thrice near tank 13 in Salt lake on July 20, 2011, by the two accused, who then looted him as well. Salauddin had managed to drive to Ultadanga police station and climbed up to the first floor despite three bullet wounds before collapsing. He died while on his way to RG Kar Hospital. The cops found burnt cigarette inside the car and kept it as crucial evidence. The homicide wing of Lalbazar took up the probe and arrested the duo four days later from a village at Murarai in Birbhum. The cops recovered the 9mm weapon from the residence of Sen and matched it with the bullets found inside the car. Pal broke down saying she had murdered Salauddin because he was trying to end a relationship with her and ditching her. The vital clues came from a bar located on VIP Road. “We could establish by the DNA test that the cigarette was smoked by Sen. Once we could place the accused in the car, we also got Pal to accept her role in the crime in a confidential statement before the magistrate. The DNA testing, coupled with this ballistic report of the weapon and the statement of Pal, helped us rack the case,” said a senior detective department officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dna-sample-from-cigarette-butt-lands-duo-in-jail-for-life/articleshow/78155215.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘LJP ready to contest 143 seats’||PATNA: At a meeting of LJP parliamentarians and ex-MPs headed by Chirag Paswan in New Delhi on Wednesday, the party chief repeated his claim that LJP is prepared to contest 143 seats in the coming assembly elections in Bihar. This comes amid a growing rift between ruling NDA allies LJP and Nitish Kumar-led JD(U). At the meeting, Chirag is said to have told MPs that the state parliamentary board will soon submit a list of candidates for 143 assembly segments to the central parliamentary board. Chirag also met BJP chief J P Nadda late on Tuesday evening and held talks on Bihar elections. Earlier this week, Chirag had written a letter to PM Narendra Modi to apprise him of the political situation in Bihar. Senior LJP functionaries told TOI on condition of anonymity that Chirag wrote in his letter that people in Bihar are not happy with the Nitish Kumar government, owing to various reasons, including the “ground reality” of Covid-19 pandemic and lack of proper arrangements during recent floods in north Bihar. “The MPs also talked about ‘rampant babudom’ or bureaucratic supremacy being rampant in governance in Bihar, allowing minimum political involvement. The officers hardly take feedback from elected representatives in the matters of people’s welfare,” LJP’s national secretary-general Abdul Khalik told TOI on Wednesday evening. He added that Chirag also told the party functionaries present in the meeting about the letter he wrote to the PM and his meeting with BJP chief Nadda. “All MPs present in the meeting authorized Chirag to decide concerning alliance and all issues about the party’s future,” Khalik said. Following a meeting between BJP chief Nadda and JD (U) chief Nitish Kumar at Patna last Saturday, Chirag was also slated to meet senior BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah this week. However, the meeting could not be held as Shah has been admitted at AIIMS- Delhi for post-Covid treatment, following which Chirag met Nadda in the national capital late on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-ready-to-contest-143-seats/articleshow/78153707.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 17, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Home isolation is preferred choice for Covid-19 patients||PRAYAGRAJ: It has been about eight weeks since the state health authorities allowed the home isolation facility for asymptomatic coronavirus disease patients and 66 percent of patients, who were permitted for home isolation, have recovered till now. Surprisingly, the recovery percentage of discharged patients from covid hospital is around 34 percent reflecting that home isolation facility has come out as the preferred choice for residents of Sangam City. Ironically, Prayagraj’s Covid-19 caseload has crossed the 15,000-mark. First 15 days of September accounted for 35 % (5,416) cases recorded in the district. Till Tuesday, 15,084 Covid-19 cases had been recorded in the district since the beginning of the pandemic. Statistics, however, revealed by district health authorities revealed that 11,171 out of 15,084 patients have cured and recovered till September 15 in Sangam City Out of 11,171 recovered people, 7,375 patients ( 66 %) have completed their home isolation while 3,796 patients (34 %) were discharged from Covid hospitals. Data also showed that a total of 3,750 patients have completed their home isolation between September 1 and 15 while 775 others have been discharged from hospitals in same period. Additional chief medical Officer and Nodal officer, Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The recovery percentage of the Sangam City has crossed 74 percent mark and 66 percent of them have completed their home isolation. Till September 15, as many as 7,375 patients completed home isolation while rest were discharged from the hospitals,” claimed Dr Sahai adding that more patients are preferring home isolation in the city. Under the home isolation facility, asymptomatic patients are allowed to remain in isolation at home as against the previous norms when every positive patient in the state was required to get admitted to a Covid facility. Permission for home isolation was allowed in city since July 24. “Patients in home isolation are monitored regularly by teams stationed at the integrated command and control centre and initial visits are made by our rapid response teams (RRT),” said a senior health official adding since patients prefer to stay in the comfort of their home, they are opting for it. With this, efforts of the health department for their regular monitoring have also intensified. The recovery rate is also high in such cases. Interestingly, after seeing 66 percent recovery rate in home isolation, this has prompted the district health authorities to promote home isolation as an effective measure for those with mild symptoms of the novel coronavirus. Pointedly, testing of over 2 lakh people had been conducted in the city till now and district health authorities are performing around 3000 testing per day. Apart from community\ primary health centres, there are around 15 covid testing centres \ facilities in urban pockets as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/home-isolation-is-preferred-choice-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78153155.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Business||Flipkart allows PhonePe rival Paytm at checkout||BENGALURU: In a surprising move, Flipkart has started integrating Paytm’s e-wallet on its platform even as it continues to compete with its unit PhonePe for the high stakes online payments market. Paytm’s e-wallet and Unified Payments Interface (UPI) integration on Flipkart is already being rolled out to users gradually and it would be available to everyone eventually. Paytm, one of the leading mobile wallets competes against Flipkart’s payment unit PhonePe in both e-wallets and fast-growing UPI payments. Both platforms have had their share of taking digs at each other in public, with the most recent one being the Yes Bank moratorium scare in March when PhonePe was unavailable for nearly 24 hours. “They (Flipkart) will complete the roll-out before Diwali sales. One of the reasons Flipkart is on-boarding Paytm is to reduce cash-on-delivery orders in non-metro markets, where they feel Paytm e-wallet is popular,” a person aware of the matter said. While large e-tailers allow multiple online payment methods for consumers, they only integrate their own e-wallets — for example Amazon Pay on Amazon India. The introduction of digital wallets by e-tailers initially was to facilitate faster payments and refunds for transactions on their platforms through a closed-loop e-wallet. Both Flipkart and Paytm confirmed the development. “As a homegrown e-commerce marketplace, it is our continuous endeavour to work with ecosystem partners to provide customers with digital transaction possibilities. Even with digital payments, we continually focus on developing inclusive solutions and forging partnerships where necessary to enable secure, convenient and new ways of transacting online, keeping customers at the centre of everything,” a Flipkart spokesperson said, without commenting on the impact on PhonePe. “Paytm is a pioneer of the digital payment ecosystem and our efforts have started reflecting in the strong adoption among small cities and towns, thereby replacing cash,” a Paytm spokesperson told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-allows-phonepe-rival-paytm-at-checkout/articleshow/78155448.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 17, 2020||Patna||Governor reviews arrangements for BEd entrance test on Sept 22||Patna: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Wednesday asked the officials of all the universities and the district headquarters to ensure fair conduct of combined BEd entrance test on September 22. While interacting with the officials via videoconferencing from the Raj Bhavan, the chancellor directed them to take all necessary precautions to protect the examinees from Covid-19 and maintain social distancing at the properly sanitized centres. More than 1.22 lakh candidates will write the test at 278 centres in 10 cities from 11am to 1pm. Chauhan also asked the officials to deploy adequate number of police personnel and magistrates at all the centres to avoid use of unfair means in the exam. The chancellor’s principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad said the results of the entrance test would be announced on September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/governor-reviews-arrangements-for-bed-entrance-test-on-sept-22/articleshow/78153098.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hubballi||Corruption in local administration hampers fight against child marriage||Yadgir: All the districts comprising Kalyana Karnataka are gearing up for the ‘Liberation Day’ celebrations on Thursday, but the jubilation is accompanied by the sobering acknowledgement of the prevalence of child marriage, the persistence of which is largely attributed by those in the know to the apathetic attitude of both the elected representatives and the officials concerned. Activists who have been trying to check the menace said that failure to follow up on underage unions that were stopped was one of the reasons why the social evil remained as big a problem in the region as it is. In many cases, girls saved from an underage marriage by officials in the nick of time, often end up in such a marriage at a later date. There are allegations of corruption in the ranks of the local administration, resulting in officials turning a blind’s eye to such instances. In May 2019, a 16-year-old girl of Naikal in Shahpur taluk in Yadgir district was saved from an underage marriage. Subsequently, she was forced into a marriage later, and she is now with child. Yadgir district National Child Labour Project (NCLP) director Raghuveer Singh P lamented the turn of events that followed the prevention of the child marriage in question. A rueful Singh said that the system had failed the girl. Since the NCLP is not vested with powers to initiate legal proceedings such as filing an FIR, and the girl, after being rescued, was entrusted to the child protection unit (CPU) and the case was handed over to the child welfare committee (CWC). Singh hinted at the possibility of some of the officials in the local administration being hand-in-glove with the parents of the girl, which he said might explain the ensuing events. Deputy director of women and child welfare department, Yadgir Prabhakar Kavital, however, stoutly defended the officials in the district. “None would stoop to such lows as taking money to allow child marriage. The girl who was rescued was sent home from the district rehabilitation centre when the pandemic struck. If these allegations of corruption are proven, a case will be registered,” Kavital told TOI. Raichur-based activist Syed Hafizullah said that failure of the welfare committee officials to follow up on cases wherein child marriage has been prevented was the biggest problem. “Committees must be constituted in every gram panchayat if this evil is to be rooted out in the region. Liberation Day is an opportune occasion for the government to take such a revolutionary step,” Hafizullah said. E Premdas Pinto, advocate and social activist, has been following the case of the 16-year-old Naikal girl, and said that he had enough evidence to prove that the girl was pregnant. Alleging that the rescued girl had not been housed at the rehabilitation centre in Yadgir at all, Pinto said, “The family is keeping the girl hidden. And the informant is being harassed. The fight against child marriage is getting hampered owing to the involvement of influential locals and officials in the administration. When locals bring instances of child marriage to the attention of the officials, they do not take proactive measures to stop them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/corruption-in-local-administration-hampers-fight-against-child-marriage/articleshow/78155119.cms||Shreyas HS
September 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Woman who went missing in Kuwait found at deportation centre||Mangaluru: A 63-year-old resident of Sooda in Udupi district, who went incommunicado after she reached Kuwait Airport, was traced at a deportation centre in the country. According the Embassy of India in Kuwait, the woman was arrested by the CID while flying back to India on Sunday, but the reason for her detention is not known. Dr Arathi Krishna, former deputy chairperson, NRI Forum of Karnataka, who is helping the woman to come back to India safely, told TOI that she was returning home for good after working in the Gulf country as a domestic help for 28 years. “There is no clarity as to why she was arrested. She had maintained a cordial relationship with her employer. We are trying to solve the issue as soon as possible.” Arathi is coordinating with Lateef of KKMA, Karnataka chapter, and expatriate M Mohandas Kamath on the issue. Kavitha, the daughter of the woman, told TOI that her mother was suffering from leg related ailments and decided to return to India for good. She had booked tickets after informing her employee, and was scheduled to fly from Kuwait to Bengaluru on Sunday. “The last time I have spoken to her was before the immigration process, where she mentioned that she was facing some difficulty. After that there has been no communication from her. I want my mother to return home safely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woman-who-went-missing-in-kuwait-found-at-deportation-centre/articleshow/78154789.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Business||CAMS IPO price band fixed at Rs 1,229-Rs 1,230 per equity share||Chennai: Warburg Pincus-backed Computer Age Management Services (CAMS), has announced to open its initial public offering on Monday, (i.e) September 21, 2020 and will close on September 23, with a price band of Rs 1,229-Rs 1,230 per equity share. IPO will be an offer of sale of 18,246,600 equity shares of face value of Rs 10 each of the company by NSE Investment. The anchor allotment will be announced on Friday. As the Offer is an offer for sale of Equity Shares, CAMS will not receive any proceeds from the Offer. This offer also includes a reservation of up to 1,82,500 equity shares for purchase by its eligible employees. CAMS is a technology-driven financial infrastructure and services provider to mutual funds and other financial institutions. It has capital sponsorship from marquee investors such as Great Terrain (an affiliate of Warburg Pincus), HDFC Limited, HDFC Bank Limited and NSE Investments Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cams-ipo-price-band-fixed-at-rs-1229-rs-1230-per-equity-share/articleshow/78154996.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Neurosurgeon passes away||Kolkata: Renowned neurosurgeon Ranendra Nath Roy passed away at a Kolkata nursing home on Wednesday. He was 91 and is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Considered to be a leading architect of the development neurosurgery in Kolkata, Roy played an important role in the growth of SSKM Hospital’s department of neurology from the day it was set up till it metamorphosed into the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences (BIN). During an illustrious career that spanned more than four decades, he treated numerous eminent personalities, including actors Suchitra Sen, Pahari Sanyal and music composer Jyotirindra Maitra. A former head of the department of neurosurgery at SSKM Hospital, Roy also served as a surgeon at NRS Medical College Hospital and Calcutta Medical College between 1958 and 1962. He retired as the director of IPGMER and BIN but continued to serve the institutes as a honorary professor and consultant till 1990. It was largely due to his efforts, along with some of his assistants, contemporaries and students that helped BIN achieve a place of eminence in neuroscience in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neurosurgeon-passes-away/articleshow/78155223.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||‘Student special’ tram next week||Kolkata: One of the most popular tram routes (No. 5), better known as ‘student special’ for its link to the city’s academic district around College Street, will resume early next week after the trial run. WBTC engineers said overhead wires between College Street and Wellington have been repaired, but it may take five to six days to start ops. “If all goes well, we may resume Shymbazar-Esplanade services within 7-10 days,” said a WBTC officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/student-special-tram-next-week/articleshow/78155262.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Retired cop’s son shoots self after killing wife, daughters||RAJKOT: In a gruesome incident that took place on Wednesday evening in Vijayraj Nagar locality in Bhavnagar, a man shot dead his wife and two minor daughters at their residence, before he took his own life too. Cops are trying to find clues as to why the entire family was wiped out in such a dubious manner. Police said Prithvirajsinh Jadeja (42), son of a retired deputy superintendent of police shot his wife Bina Jadeja (38) and daughters — Nandini Jadeja (15) and Yashasvi Jadeja (11) dead before killing himself with the same revolver. “Prior to pulling the trigger on his wife and daughters, Jadeja sent 15 to 20 messages to his friends and relatives, informing them all about his decision to kill his wife and daughters and himself. However, the message did not mention what triggered him to take the extreme step,” said Jaipalsinh Rathod, Bhavnagar SP. Interestingly, Jadeja even did not spare his pet dog, who too was shot dead in a similar manner. Prithvirajsinh worked as a government contractor and also was a business partner of his brother-in-law, Yashwantsinh Rana. His wife Bina was the president of the women’s cell of Bhavnagar Karani Sena, while elder daughter Nandini was a gold medallist in rifle shooting. Prithvirajsinh’s father Narendrasinh Jadeja lives in Kalmeghada village of Kalawad taluka in Jamnagar district. “The reason for the crime remains shrouded in mystery. We have called a team of forensic science experts to carry out detailed investigation of the crime spot. We will also be calling the friends and relatives of the deceased to record their statements and try to exctricate vital clues about what prompted the gory crime,” Rathod added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/retd-cops-son-shoots-self-after-killing-wife-daughters/articleshow/78154348.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa can’t be corridor for big states’ benefits: Alina||PANAJI: Stating that Goa cannot be used as a corridor for the benefit of other states, Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said that the existing railway track which is presently underutilised is more than adequate for the needs of the state as people of Goa hardly travel by rail on this route. She also demanded that the government explain the benefits of doubling of the SWR track to Goans. “If coal transportation is the main reason for doubling, which it is, then it is clear that the government of Goa does not care for the very same people who have elected it to power as this pollution will eventually lead to destruction of people’s health,” she stated. Reacting to news of Union minister of state for railways, Suresh Angadi listing the benefits which will accrue to Karnataka with doubling of SWR tracks in Goa, she stated that Karnataka’s interests always prevail over the interest of the tiny state of Goa. “Whether it is the issue of diversion of the Mhadei river water despite the fact that Karnataka has seven fresh water rivers, or the widening of the National Highway 4A wherein Karnataka has objected and prevented broadening in its sector. The Goa government has given the go-ahead irrespective of the massive destruction of trees, endemic species of flora and fauna and the livelihoods of the people living within the wildlife sanctuary and the national park,” she stated. “It is time the Goa’s legislators take a leaf from Angadi’s book and enumerate the benefits of doubling the SWR track right from Mollem to Vasco. The people of Goa need to know what are the advantages of doubling the SWR track to Goas, besides the destruction of the environment, coal dust pollution that will further lead to pulmonary disorders, destruction of people’s houses and Goa’s heritage,” she stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-cant-be-corridor-for-big-states-benefits-alina/articleshow/78156381.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Red-purple dragon fruit to get a saffron hue and a new name||RAJKOT: The red-purple dragon fruit, which has helped Kutch farmers make a killing, may soon get a new name - kamalam (lotus)! The Gujarat forest department has sent a proposal to the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) for change in nomenclature of the dragon fruit to kamalam. Officials and farmers say the shape and appearance of the fruit has a striking resemblance to lotus, which is also the BJP’s party symbol. The headquarters of state BJP in Gandhinagar is also christened ‘Kamalam.’ “It (lotus) is also held in high esteem among various religions due to its purity in muddy conditions. This name (kamalam) would have the advantage of instant connect with the common farmers and thus it is expected to gain wide acceptance,” states a letter written by Ram Kumar, additional principal chief conservator of forests, social forestry division. The letter written last month is addressed to the deputy director-general of ICAR. The letter further states, “To boost awareness and expansion, the common name of dragon fruit should be renamed as ‘kamalam fruit’. The fruit though comes in various colours, the most popularly cultivated variant is the one with pink skin and white flesh inside. The shape and external appearance of the fruit bears resemblance to the lotus.” In his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address on July 26, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made a special mention about the success of dragon fruit cultivation in Kutch. Apart from Gujarat, this fruit is cultivated in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Orissa, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Andaman & Nicobar Island. Kutch farmers, who are leading in the cultivation of this foreign fruit known for its medicinal and properties, have already started branding the fruit as ‘kamalam’ in the local markets. Haresh Thakkar, a trader in Bhuj said, “We have started selling this fruit as kamalam and printing this name on the boxes.” Kutch BJP MP Vinod Chavda said, “The proposal was made on the demand of Kutch farmers. The decision is expected soon.” Nearly 150 farmers in Kutch are engaged in dragon fruit cultivation in over 1,000 acres. This fruit is also grown in parts of Saurashtra including Rajkot and Amreli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dragon-fruit-set-to-be-renamed-kamalam/articleshow/78154625.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 17, 2020||Goa||‘Come clear on sugar factory’s fate by Sept 25’||Ponda: Disappointed by the government’s procrastination over the future of Sanjivani Cooperative Sugar Factoryat Dharbandora, sugarcane farmers have threatened to stage a sit-in agitation in front of the factory on September 29 if the government fails to take a decision by September 25. The Sugarcane Growers’ Association of Goa took the decision at a meeting held at the factory’s board room on Tuesday. The 47-year-old factory has been in a dilapidated state and in need of urgent overhauling of vital machines. The annual maintenance work used to begin immediately after Ganesh Chaturthi. However, since no work has been started to overhaul the machinery, the farmers are confused whether the factory would start or not during the upcoming crushing season, which usually commences by November. During the last season, the government did not run the factory, but procured canes from local farmers and sent it to two factories in Karnataka and Maharashtra. “The government has even been speaking about paying compensation to farmers to change the crop, but hasn’t yet taken a concrete decision,” a farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/come-clear-on-sugar-factorys-fate-by-sept-25/articleshow/78156408.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||City hospital performs TAVI in aortic stenosis with heart failure patient||Nagpur: A senior citizen woman having severe heart complications was saved with the effective use of minimally invasive transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in city’s Wockhardt Hospitals recently. This interventional procedure is just like angioplasty, in which a crimped valve is put in the aortic position through a small puncture in the groin without major surgery or incisions on the chest. TAVI surgeries are is proving to be life savers for many in Central India. Doctors informed that a 62 years old woman from Satna, MP came to Dr Nitin Tiwari, interventional cardiologist at Wockhardt Hospitals with history of shortness of breath, difficulty in lying down, palpitations and chest discomfort. The patient had severe aortic stenosis with decreased pumping of heart and heart failure. She had recurrent breathlessness for which non-invasive ventilator was put and had recurrent irregular heartbeats for which injections were started. She had episodes of low blood pressure which were treated. The patient had closely survived death at least 5 times.On August 29, myval TAVI valve was deployed on the woman whose parameters improved immediately and her pumping of heart improved from 25 % to 42 % in two days.Aortic stenosis (AS) is the most common degenerative valvular heart disease in the developed world. It affects about 2% of people who are over 65 years of age. In those who have symptoms, without repair the chance of death at five years is about 50 % and at 10 years is about 90 %.The survival decreases drastically in a patient with AS after onset of heart failure. The average life expectancy is about 2 years after onset of heart failure. Apart from Rheumatic heart disease and bicuspid valve, the risk factors for developing AS are similar to those of coronary artery disease and include smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes and being male.Dr Tiwari is the first cardiologist from the city to be formally trained to do TAVI at Klinikum Oldenburg, Germany. Dr Tiwari thanked his team including K Sujatha, (centre head, Wockhardt), Dr Maulik, Dr Awantika Jaiswal, Dr Jayaprasanna, Dr Atul Somani, Dr Kunal Balpande, H Munde, Raut, Dr Devendra, Amit Mukherjee, Mohit and all others who contributed in the success of the procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-hospital-performs-tavi-in-aortic-stenosis-with-heart-failure-patient/articleshow/78147122.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||94 addicts ended life in 2019; more than Mumbai, Pune||Nagpur: The city reported 94 suicides under the influence of drugs or alcohol in 2019, which is more than similar cases reported from Mumbai (88) and Pune (70), reveals study on suicides by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Even though the city witnessed nearly two suicides daily in 2019, the study recorded 6.5% decline in 2019 compared to 2018. In 2018, the city had recorded 680 suicides. Nagpur (636) stands third in overall suicide cases reported across the state after Mumbai (1,229), Pune (719) and Nashik (366). As per the study, family problems (other than marriage-related issues) were behind 58% of suicides in the city. Of 636 suicides reported in the city in 2019, according to NCRB data, 371 persons, including 302 males and 69 females, ended life due to family problems. It was followed by suicides committed due to various illnesses. As many as 119 persons, including 25 women, had ended life due to cancer (27), paralysis (17), mental illness (44) and prolonged illness (31). Indebtedness, unemployment and poverty are also leading people to end life. Five persons ended life due to the above reasons. Six students (three girls and boys each) too committed suicide after failing in examinations, said the NCRB report adding nine, including seven career-oriented males, had ended their life in separate incidents in 2019. Five suicides were reported due to marital discord in the city in the last calendar year and all were men who ended their life. Three men also ended their life due to extra marital affairs, the study reveals. One man each ended life due to divorce, dowry related issues and non-settlement of marriage, the study revealed. Failure in love life claimed 22 lives. As per the study, ideological causes or hero worshipping also claimed life of a female in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/94-addicts-ended-life-in-2019-more-than-mumbai-pune/articleshow/78155115.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 17, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Truck owner set afire by financier’s agents, 2 held||VARANASI: A truck owner and driver Satyaprakash Rai (51) of Azamgarh district was allegedly set on fire by the collection agents of a financier in Ghanshyampur area under the limits of Badlapur police station in Jaunpur district on Wednesday afternoon. Local natives caught two of the agents and handed them over to police while two others managed to escape in their car. SO Badlapur Srijesh Yadav said that the two of the agents caught were under police custody while Rai has been admitted to the district hospital. Further investigation in this case is in progress, he added. Rai’s son Shyamanand, accompanying his father on truck, said that they were returning after loading concrete in Reeva in Madhya Pradesh. He alleged that their truck was passing through Badlapur when some persons in a car intercepted them. Introducing themselves as agents of financier they sought reason for not paying the monthly instalment of the loan taken by Rai to buy the truck for past five months. Shyamanand said that after they mentioned the provision of relaxations given by the government in repayment of instalments during Covid-19 epidemic period and also their worsened financial condition, the agents allowed them to go. However, he alleged, the agents again intercepted their truck when it was passing through Ghanshyampur area. He said that he was inside the cabin while his father was talking to them behind the vehicle when he heard his father’s cries. When he reached there he saw his father on fire, said Shyamanand. I brought a blanket from the truck’s cabin to save my father while local natives chased the agents as they tried to board their car to escape. Two of them were caught and handed over to the police while the other two managed to escape, he said. Rai was initially rushed to a local hospital but following deterioration in his health doctors referred him to the district hospital. SO Badlapur said that both agents caught by local natives were taken under custody and further investigation has been launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/truck-owner-set-afire-by-financiers-agents-2-held/articleshow/78156331.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Mangaluru||City police to pool in resources to tackle drugs issue in Mangaluru: Vikash Kumar||Mangaluru: The drive against drugs will be a concerted year-round effort that will focus on breaking the supply chain involving suppliers, peddlers and users, said city police chief Vikash Kumar. The 15 law and order police stations under the city police commissionerate limits will act in tandem with Cybercrime, Economic Offenses and Narcotics (CEN) police stations to get to the roots of the issue, Vikash said. Mooting this resolve at Drugs Muktha Mangaluru, a phone-in programme organised by the Vijaya Karnataka on Wednesday, Vikash said that the CEN and the law and order police stations will pool in their resources to tackle the issue. The police inspectors and beat staff of the law and order police stations will be in touch with their counterparts at the CEN police station, which in turn will carry out investigations, run its own informant network and also take inputs from the stakeholders, he noted. Agreeing to concerns flagged by social activist Shashidhar Shetty on the inability of regular law and order police stations to fully focus on the drugs issue given their preoccupation with other routine duties, Vikash said this is where CEN comes into focus. To this end, steps have been taken to augment personnel strength in these specialised PS, he said, adding they are also getting trained in the latest aspects of drugs and cybercrime enforcement. “We have kept watch on every aspect of drug trade and police action will be swift at the slightest hint of transgression,” the city police chief said, hinting at a crackdown on food app delivery personnel peddling drugs. On the seeming reluctance on part of callers to give details of people involved in drugs trade in their backyard fearing retribution, Vikash advised them to call the city control room on 100. “Call to 100 is recorded and acted upon and the identity of callers is kept confidential,” he said, adding that people may also pass on information directly to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/city-police-to-pool-in-resources-to-tackle-drugs-issue-in-mangaluru-vikash-kumar/articleshow/78153791.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Lokayukta orders FIR, probe into Covid-relief labour scam in Goa||PANAJI: A day ahead of his retirement as Goa Lokayukta, Justice (retd) P K Misra directed the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) to investigate the Covid relief scheme for Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW), and to file an FIR against those who siphoned off funds meant for labourers. In an order that is bound to embarrass the state government, Misra also said that if the role of politicians and high-ranking officials was found, the investigation should be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Minister for labour and employment Jennifer Monserrate said that she would read the Lokayukta’s order to understand its implications. “I haven’t read it yet. I shall go through it first,” she said. “An FIR shall be filed by the ACB against unknown persons for conspiracy to siphon out money from the Goa BOCW welfare fund..., with a view to distributing largesse by stuffing the beneficiary register of the fund with beneficiaries who are not BOCWs,” said Misra in the order. Misra has also recommended that the CAG looks into the functioning of the labour welfare fund, specifically the payments made to beneficiaries under Covid-19 schemes. The case follows a complaint filed by Goa Forward Party (GFP), which alleged that the state government had misused the scheme to channel the funds to BJP functionaries, including some village sarpanchas and panchas. While Misra also called for an inquiry into the role of labour inspectors and the private firm that was tasked with registering BOCWs, he alluded to the role of politicians too. “Cases may be registered against fake applicants who have fraudulently represented themselves as BOCW. If the investigations directed above point to the possible involvement of (senior) officials and politicians, subsequent investigations can be entrusted to the CBI,” he said. Reacting to the order, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. “I will go through the file, study it, and take a decision”. The order says that investigating agencies should conduct random sample checks of all beneficiaries of the scheme to determine how many of them are genuine, their real occupation, and what motivated them to register as labourers. “Labour inspectors may be queried on a similar basis on incomplete forms, how and why they had verified them, whether they were coerced to do so, and their involvement in checking training programmes...,” the order said. Misra has also recommended that in order to get a complete picture, the ACB should speak to current and former bureaucrats of the labour and employment department, to see if they had any doubts about the beneficiaries, and why 3,500 persons who registered between 2012 and 2019 were left out. BJP spokesman and former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar said that the Lokayukta’s order is a warning for the BJP to mend its ways. “Scam-gates turned out to be the nemesis of Congress in Goa and in India,” he said. “Hope BJP and CM Sawant take necessary steps to discipline the neo-entrants from repeating history, which may lead us to a debacle in 2022.” Meanwhile, GFP said that the order has vindicated its stand that the BJP government is corrupt. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat demanded that the ACB should immediately act upon the Lokayukta’s order. “If the fodder scam of Bihar was about non-existent livestock, the labourgate in Goa is about non-existent labourers,” said GFP president Vijai Sardesai. “If a government can stoop to such lows as to cheat and steal from the poorest of the poor, every act, every step, every decision of this government is suspect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-orders-fir-probe-into-covid-relief-labour-scam/articleshow/78156415.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 17, 2020||Goa||Congress pins hopes on new in-charge to revive party in Goa||PANAJI: While welcoming the appointment of former Karnataka Congress president Dinesh Gundu Rao as the desk in-charge for Goa, the state Congress said that concrete steps have to be taken to stem the party’s slide. “He will take stock of the situation,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. “I spoke to him on Saturday and he said that he will come and interact with the workers and then see how to go about.” Rao replaces Dr A Chellakumar who has been given charge of Odisha as a part of the organisational reshuffle initiated by Congress. Rao is the son of former Karnataka chief minister R Gundu Rao and is known to be close to Congress scion Rahul Gandhi. He was picked as the Karnataka state chief by Gandhi along with Girish Chodankar. “Goa Congress welcomes our new in-charge and wishes him a successful tenure. We also acknowledge the commitment and dedication of Dr Chellakumar in Goa since 2013,” said state party president Girish Chodankar. As part of the party’s organisational restructuring, Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro has been dropped as the AICC general secretary. A senior Congressman said that with the 2022 state assembly elections just over a year away, a change at the party’s helm in Goa could also be on the anvil. “Good decisions need to be taken in good time,” said a party official. Kamat said that as part of the party’s preparations, Rao will need to identify dedicated Congress workers who are willing to work for the party and who have worked for the party. Party office bearers, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that Congress has had several setbacks in the last four years after it failed to form a government post-2017 assembly polls. “It will be a big challenge for Rao to put the party the right track in preparation for the 2022 polls,” said a political observer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-pins-hopes-on-new-in-charge-to-revive-party/articleshow/78156402.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Mysuru||Allow casinos in K’taka as the rich are wasting money abroad: MLA||Mandya: JD(S) MLA Suresh Gowda on Wednesday urged the state government to give permit to operate casinos in Karnataka to “bring back the state’s money that the rich are wasting in foreign countries”. “Why is Zameer Khan being targeted? Several people go casinos in Sri Lanka and other countries. If the passports were scrutinised, where and why they visited these countries would be known. If the government opens casinos in Karnataka, it will save our money,” Gowda said. “The rich are wasting their money in casinos in foreign countries and we have decided to advise the government to open casinos in our state as it may stop our money from going abroad,” the MLA said. He charged the government with adopting divertive tactics to cover up its failures on all fronts. “BJP leaders are fooling people as they are raking up emotive issues one after another. First it was DJ Halli and KG Halli violence, now it’s the drug issue. All these issues appear to be government-sponsored,” he alleged. “Drugs, its illegal sales and peddlers existed at all times. The government is using this issue to divert the attention of people. We suspect the government is orchestrating these issues to divert people’s attention (from main issues bothering the state),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/allow-casinos-in-ktaka-as-the-rich-are-wasting-money-abroad-mla/articleshow/78153811.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||VNIT announces bamboo curriculum for BArch students||Nagpur: Just as Rome was not built in a day, the bamboo sector is coming to age steadily, and has become lively now with experts, institutions, individuals coming out with innovative ideas to boost the bamboo sector in the state. In a first, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), Nagpur, will come up with a curriculum on bamboo technology in the current session. Even as the world celebrates World Bamboo Day (WBD) on September 18, the bamboo sector is delighted by VNIT’s decision. Dr Pramod M Padole, director, VNIT, told TOI, “Though admissions have been delayed, our department of architecture and planning will introduce the curriculum in this session.” “Of the 6 units in the BArch course, one will be dedicated to bamboo right from the first year. In the third year, it will be an elective subject. This will be the first time bamboo will be added in engineering degree course in the country. The course has been designed after discussions with entrepreneurs and experts in the field,” said Padole. “The course will consist of bamboo species, properties, characterization, technological aspects and how it can be used more in infrastructure development. Earlier, we have helped the forest department develop machines for agarbatti projects,” said Padole. Presently, Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) conducts a diploma course at Bamboo Research Training Centre (BRTC) in Chichpalli (Chandrapur). This diploma is certified by Maharashtra State Technical Education Board (MSTEB). Sunil Joshi, chairman, Bamboo Society of India (BSI), Maharashtra Chapter, hailed VNIT’s move. This WBD in a way is a bit special as bamboo sector in Maharashtra has now come of an age for its onward journey. “Once criticized for being inactive, MBDB and BRTC need to be admired for the positive approach with which it led the bamboo sector, and deserves all appreciation. It has not only helped connect the dots but has also come up with a real replicable module of development for other states to follow and build their bamboo sector,” Joshi says. “This is just a beginning as the bamboo sector will also take time and many more steps on account of policy, approach, hand-holding, marketing, ventures will have to be taken in future to prove bamboo an alternative for socially and ecologically sustainable industrial economy,” adds Joshi. TSK Reddy, managing director of MBDB, said, “It’s true that bamboo sector in state has come a long way. There is always scope for development. Maharashtra was the first state to remove transit pass (TP) restrictions on bamboo. Later, Centre followed suit by declaring it a grass.” “Our first focus is to encourage bamboo plantations on farmlands and create a market for the produce. In Maharashtra, farmers have grown bamboo on 3,315 hectare land with 3,532 beneficiaries. We have also signed MoU with Ballarpur Paper Mills for supply at Rs5,000 tonne ex-factory. Besides, 18 common facilitation centres have been set up to promote bamboo products,” Reddy said. Wood technologist Sanjay Singh too welcomed the VNIT move. “Experimenting with processes and delivering it with technology should be and is our way to approach any work with passion. Natural products like wood and bamboo products are and should be our key areas of work and practical research field.” Bamboo Utilization Technology (BUT) is one such process that carries technology and innovation hand-in-hand producing beautiful and wonderful products out of grass. Bamboo converted to bamboo timber, a green substitute to precious hardwood has strengthened the bamboo technology in India, Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vnit-announces-bamboo-curriculum-for-barch-students/articleshow/78156425.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 17, 2020||Varanasi||Arms smuggler arrested, two revolvers recovered||Varanasi: Azamgarh police on Wednesday unearthed an illegal arms manufacturing unit after arresting a smuggler from forest area of Roshanganj under the limits of Raunapar police station. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said that the cops of Raunapar police station were carrying out a search drive in the forests near Roshanganj area after receiving a tip-off. On noticing three suspicious looking youths, the cops asked them to stop. However, they entered the sugarcane field. The police gave them a chase but could arrest only one while two managed to escape. Police recovered two country-made revolvers and live cartridge from his possession. During initial interrogation, the arrested miscreant divulged that they were running an illegal arms manufacturing unit in the same field. Cops recovered a gunny bag full of partially manufactured country- made revolvers, instruments and furnace were found in the field. The miscreant said that his gang members sold country-made revolvers for Rs 2,500-Rs 3,000 each after manufacturing. He had also gone to jail in past in a case registered under sections of Arms Act, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/arms-smuggler-arrested-two-revolvers-recovered/articleshow/78156371.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Save Cunchelim ground’ gains steam||SALIGAO: Sports enthusiasts gathered in front of the Bardez deputy collector’s office in Mapusa on Tuesday to protest against the local comunidade’s decision to undertake redevelopment of the Cunchelim sports ground. A delegation met deputy collector Akshay Potekar who assured them to hold an inspection of the ground within a week’s time. The sports enthusiasts said that they will also seek an appointment with the governor and chief minister over the issue. Last month, sports enthusiasts along with some activists had gathered on the ground to condemn the Cunchelim comunidade’s decision to convert the open ground into plots. They have threatened to approach the high court. Among those supporting the sports enthusiasts included the president of the North Goa block of the Congress Vijai Bhike, NCP’s general secretary Sanjay Barde, Congress Saligao block secretary Bolanath Ghadi and Mapusa municipality’s councillor Sudhir Kandolkar. Bhike said that if needed they would even approach the Supreme Court “to stop the illegal redevelopment of the ground into plots”. “We will continue to intensify our agitation and try our best to preserve the ground for future generations,” he added. Kandolkar said that, “This is an age-old ground that was used by sports enthusiasts to play cricket and football, which is also shown as a recreation zone in the ODP. I feel the Sports Aauthority of Goa should step in and preserve it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/save-cunchelim-ground-gains-steam/articleshow/78156410.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong workers flout coronavirus curbs during Surjewala’s Haryana welcome||Chandigarh: Amid Covid-19 restrictions, Congress communication wing in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday put up his show of strength. Surjewala, who visited Haryana for the first time after being selected to the core committee of Congress, was given a rousing welcome at the Kundi border in Sonipat district en route to Kaithal via Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Pehowa. Though Surjewala wore a mask, most of his supporters not only breached the norms of social distancing, but also did not wear masks. Buoyed by the huge turnout of supporters, especially in Deswali belt (bastion of former CM Bhupinder Hooda), Surjewala obliged all the supporters by receiving their bouquets and shaking hands. “Certainly, the norms were flouted due to the turnout. It was totally a workers’ programme. The people were cautioned in advance and Surjewala himself had been requesting all to ensure safe distance and safety,” a senior Congress leader and supporter in Kurukshetra said. Meanwhile, during his interaction with scribes en route Kurukshetra and other districts, Surjewala reiterated that his appointment is like selection of a Congress worker and its entire credit goes to party workers working at the grassroots. “It is the worker as well Congress which gave identity to Randeep Surjewala. Now we all have to work together to ensure Congress forms government in the Centre and state while weeding out BJP in the country and BJP-JJP in the state,” said Surjewala. Referring to Baroda byelection, Surjewala reiterated that Congress would retain the seat, that too with a good margin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-workers-flout-coronavirus-curbs-during-surjewalas-haryana-welcome/articleshow/78156419.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kanpur||MLA takes up sanitation work, praises PM Modi in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: As part of BJP’s Seva Saptah initiative, and just one day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, Gorakhpur Sadar MLA Dr Radha Mohan Das Agarwal undertook sanitation work at Manbela area in the city. Many officials, employees and locals joined him in cleaning the area. District health officer Dr Mukesh Rastogi also did cleaning with MLA. The MLA came to limelight recently after his social media posts on the system led to the arrest of a criminal in Lakhimpur. “This is a matter of pride that our PM is a great democratic leader. Since 2014 whatever he did was never seen in the country. I am an MLA from the last 20 years and I could say that the support of people for PM Modi is exemplary,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mla-takes-up-sanitation-work-praises-pm-modi-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/78156358.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mapusa ryots agitate over anomalies in land use plan||SALIGAO: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) on Wednesday assured support to the farmers of the town and said they would be taken into confidence while the outline development plan (ODP) for Mapusa was being re-drafted. Earlier in the day, farmers belonging to different associations agitated outside the municipality’s office over their names being excluded from the town’s land use map. President of the Bodgeshwar Farmers’ Association Sanjay Barde, alleged that the MMC, along with all seven elected representatives of Bardez taluka, were responsible for excluding the farmers’ names from the map. After hearing the farmers out, MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza said municipality officials would accompany them to the member secretary of the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) to convince him to include the names of the farmers in the ODP. When the farmers raised the issue of land ownership, Braganza said it was under the purview of the revenue department, even as he reiterated that no one had the right to take away ownership from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-ryots-agitate-over-anomalies-in-land-use-plan/articleshow/78156421.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Applications for ration cards pile up in Goa||POINGUINIM: Applications for new ration cards and renewals of existing ones have been piling up in Canacona as the post of civil supplies sub-inspector has been lying vacant for over three-and-a-half months. Civil supplies inspector Jeevan Manzrekar, who holds additional charge at the office in Sanguem besides tending to his regular duties at Canacona, said the sub-inspector post has not been filled ever since the earlier officer was transferred to Panaji in the last week of May. When contacted, Canacona mamlatdar Vimod Dalal said he has already requested the director of civil supplies to look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/applications-for-ration-cards-pile-up/articleshow/78156417.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kochi||Ramees gets statutory bail in customs case||Kochi: KT Ramees, the mastermind in the gold smuggling case, received statutory bail in the customs case as the investigating agency failed to file a final report within 60 days of his arrest. Though the accused will receive bail in this case, he would remain in prison as he was booked under UAPA by NIA. He is now in judicial custody in the case registered to probe the terror angle behind the smuggling operation. Counsel for Ramees, Nireesh Mathew, claimed that the bail indicated that the agency didn’t have enough evidence in the case registered on July 5. Mathew moved court for bail on Tuesday. “Offence in this case under Customs Act 131 (1) (1), only dictates a punishment of up to 7 years and hence my client has the right to seek statutory bail if the investigation team has not filed a final report within 60 days. Hence, the court permitted our plea and granted bail,” he said. Bail was granted under certain conditions, including the surrendering of passport. The court ordered that the accused shall execute a bond of Rs 2,00,000 with two solvent sureties each for the sum and the sureties shall produce their original title deeds for verification. The court also directed him to appear before the investigating officer on all Mondays between 10am and 11am for three months or till the final report is filed and cooperate with the investigation. Mathew later added that it was odd that the agency did not file a report on time. “Customs claimed in court that their probe is going on and they need to collect several facts. But that doesn’t prevent my client from executing his right. This could have been avoided if they had filed a primary final report and sought extension to investigate further. They didn’t do that,” he said. But, a top customs official claimed that the development was expected and it won’t affect the investigation. “Even if we filed a temporary report, the accused would become eligible for regular bail sooner or later. He is behind bars in NIA case and hence influencing the probe is out of the question,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ramees-gets-statutory-bail-in-customs-case/articleshow/78155128.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Simplify process for auto drivers: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court (HC) on Wednesday asked the state government to simplify the administrative procedure for disbursing loan under Atmanirbhar Yojana so that auto rickshaw drivers can avail the benefit of the scheme. The HC insisted on making the process easy by revising conditions so that common people can get the benefit of the scheme, in which a loan up to Rs 1 lakh is extended to revive the business that is severely affected by the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic. The state government assured the HC that it would consider the request on part of the auto rickshaw drivers’ associations for the financial assistance due to strained financial condition during this Covid-19 pandemic. This happened in response to a PIL filed by two auto drivers’ associations seeking the HC directions to the government for the financial support as they were reeling under a tremendous financial crisis because their livelihood had been hit hard due to the lockdown and pandemic. On behalf of the associations, advocate K R Koshti assured a full assistance to the authorities in furnishing details of the auto drivers. The PIL claimed that while states like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi had extended a financial assistance to the auto and taxi drivers, the state of Gujarat was silent about its plans, and requests made earlier by auto drivers were pending without any response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/simplify-process-for-auto-drivers-hc/articleshow/78155125.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: CM blaming people to hide government lapses||SALIGAO: Condemning statements made by chief minister Pramod Sawant about Covid-19 patients reaching hospitals late, AAP on Wednesday alleged that the chief minister sought to cover up his government’s failure in handling the pandemic by shifting the blame on to innocent citizens. “If ambulance services to ferry patients don’t exist, thus delaying their admission to hospitals, is it their fault? Also, are people intentionally not getting tested on time or is there a lack of testing facilities?” AAP spokesperson Rahul Mhambre said at a press conference in Mapusa. He further claimed that Goa’s testing capacity has remained the same as it was two months ago. “Even worse, it goes down by 50% on the weekends,” Mhambre said, while adding that primary health centres are still telling people not to get tested even if a family member is Covid-positive and the rest are asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-blaming-people-to-hide-govt-lapses-in-covid-management-aap/articleshow/78156444.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC allows Bhatt’s plea for adjournment||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday allowed ex-IPS Sanjiv Bhatt’s application and directed the trial court in Palanpur to adjourn proceedings on various applications in the 1996 drug planting case till physical hearing resumes in courts. At present due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the court is hearing different applications through video conference. Bhatt had insisted that since the record is voluminous and the lawyer is required to argue his cases for hours together, it was not convenient on his part to proceed in virtual court. He had requested the trial court to delay hearings till the court physically reopens. But his application was rejected. Bhatt had challenged the rejection order in the high court. Justice Vipul Pancholi allowed Bhatt’s application and the hearing on miscellaneous applications will not take place until the courtroom physically reopens. Meanwhile, the high court obtained an undertaking from Bhatt that he will not claim bail on the ground of delay during this period of adjournment. The applications include Bhatt’s request to implicate certain witnesses as accused. Bhatt has been serving life sentence in a custodial death case of Jamnagar district. He was arrested in the drug planting case by CID (crime) in September 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-allows-bhatts-plea-for-adjournment/articleshow/78155130.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||700 Covid patients in Bhopal are in home isolation, yet 75% ICU beds occupied||BHOPAL: More than 40% of active patients in the city or 700 positive patients are kept under home isolation. As per the state health bulletin, till September 15, there were a total 1,738 active patients in the city. Chief medical and health officer, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, confirmed that around 700 of these patients are kept under home isolation. But despite this huge number of patients being in home isolation, more than 75% ICU beds of the city are presently occupied, said sources. Things could be worse if more and more patients are tested positive and the number of active cases increase in the city, added sources. However, it is to be noted that a majority of the patients who have been kept under home isolation in the district are those who are asymptomatic and most of them had requested for home isolation on their own, sources said. Moreover, despite the high number of cases, recoveries have also been high in the city. The overall recovery rate in the city so far is around 84.8%, which is one of the highest in the state so far. This means that out of 100 patients who have tested positive so far, 84.8 have recovered from the disease. Due to this, the number of active cases is still below 2,000 despite the fact that close to 14,000 people have tested positive so far, said sources. The current spurt in the number of cases has, however, raised concerns. Since September 1, a total 3,395 people have tested positive. This averages to 212 people testing positive per day, but since recovery has also kept pace with the new people testing positive, there has been a slight increase in number of active patients in the city during these 16 days. On August 31, there were 1,570 active patients in the city, and now on September 15, it only increased by 168 to 1,738. Apart from the new cases, 51 deaths have also been reported in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/700-covid-patients-in-bhopal-are-in-home-isolation-yet-75-icu-beds-occupied/articleshow/78155138.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||4 NCR dists see best and worst of coronavirus||Chandigarh: Four neighbouring NCR districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh have seen the best and worst of Covid-19 pandemic in terms of infection rate, recoveries and fatalities. Currently, Faridabad and Gurgaon top the chart with highest number of cases, recoveries and deaths, while Palwal and Nuh are among the districts with lowest infections and low death count. Once the hotspot districts of the state, which saw a high number of Covid cases in April and May, the count has lowered in Palwal and Nuh with fewer cases being registered there on a daily basis. According to information, Charkhi Dadri was the last in the tally of cases on Tuesday with total 416 cases, while Nuh was at 21st position with 987 cases with 18 deaths, followed by Palwal with 2,033 cases, including 14 deaths. Notably, these two districts had hit the headlines after Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) members sneaked there after fleeing Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Some pockets in Gurgaon and Faridabad had also seen TJ movements. Government officials give credit for this improvement to effective planning of district health authorities, social organisations and religious places for strict adherence to guidelines. “Even during the days when we were on the peak, it was an advance planning and execution of plans by the health teams headed by the then CMO really worked. Moreover, the representatives of religious institutions and civil society extended full cooperation and this still continues,’’ said former Mewat DC Pankaj Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-ncr-dists-see-best-and-worst-of-coronavirus/articleshow/78156426.cms||Manvir Saini
September 17, 2020||Chennai||19 bills passed, one to split Anna univ||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu assembly on Wednesday passed 19 bills, including splitting of Anna University to establish a new affiliation-university, ‘Anna University’. The existing university will be reconstituted as ‘Anna Technological and Research University.” “Managing the affairs of the engineering colleges affiliated to the university situated across the state consumes time and energy of eminent professors,” higher education minister K P Anbalagan, said, justifying the bifurcation of the varsity. DMK MLA K Ponmudy wondered why the Jayalalithaa government took a policy decision to merge the five regional Anna universities created by the previous DMK government in Coimbatore, Trichy, Tirunelveli and Madurai, for the same reasons. The assembly also passed a bill to convert Jayalalithaa’s residence into a memorial with modifications to the ordinance promulgated earlier, including chief secretary as member of the foundation for better coordination of all the departments, besides six members of the AIADMK to ensure that her memory is perpetuated in a befitting manner. The House also passed a bill reconstituting the Chennai Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (CUMTA) to have CM Edappadi K Palaniswami as chairman and his deputy O Panneerselvam as vice-chairman, and the transport minister, chief secretary and vice-chairman of CUMTA as members. A bill was passed to recognise Madras School of Economics as an institution of special importance and enable it to award its own degrees and diplomas, in the midst of objections from the DMK at the introductory stage itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/19-bills-passed-one-to-split-anna-univ/articleshow/78155141.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa wants Centre to borrow funds to meet GST shortfall||PANAJI: Goa has informed the Centre that it is in favour of the Centre borrowing funds through a RBI-facilitated special window to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) shortfall for the current financial year. Chief minister Pramod Sawant wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman regarding the state’s preference for option 1, joining at least 12 other BJP-ruled states who made a similar choice. Speaking to TOI, panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho, Goa’s representative of the GST council, said this option has a two-fold benefit as it would allow Goa to obtain crucial funds without additional repayment stress. Godinho said interest on the borrowing under the special window will be paid from the GST cess as and when it arises until the end of the transition period, that is the next two years. After the transition period, principal and interest will also be paid from proceeds of the cess, by extending the cess beyond the transition period till the debt is repaid. Goa will not be required to service the debt or to repay it from any other source. “The silver lining is that the protection of the compensation cess will continue. The transition period is for five years but it will now continue beyond,” said Godinho. “If we took option 2, the interest is higher and we would be in a debt trap.” Borrowing by state governments typically incurs a higher interest cost than borrowing by the Centre and the Centre has assured states that the interest will be close to the yield of government securities. The NDA-ruled states that have picked the first option are Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Manipur has opted for option 2. The GST council will meet on October 5 to take stock of the decisions taken by all the states. The Centre owes Goa Rs 1,018 crore as compensation for the GST shortfall. While the total shortfall in GST collection is pegged at Rs 2.36 lakh crore, approximately Rs 97,000 crore has been estimated to be the shortfall due to GST implementation while the remaining is because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Goa’s GST revenues remain sharply down, with a 34% shortfall recorded in August. The state collected Rs 213 crore GST in August against the Rs 325 crore earned in a year ago. Of the amount, SGST accounted for Rs 60.5 crore and IGST accounted for Rs 45.9 crore. Goa’s monthly SGST and IGST target is Rs 350 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-wants-centre-to-borrow-funds-to-meet-gst-shortfall/articleshow/78156435.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Discuss Covid impact at gram sabhas: NGO Goacan||PANAJI: The state government must encourage locals and officials of all government departments to participate and discuss the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact during the gram sabhas that are likely to be held on October 2, December 19 and January 26 in the 191 villages, NGO Goacan has written to director of panchayats Narayan Gad. “Goacan is of the view that the next six months are crucial as they confront the socio-economic reality of job losses, pay cuts, drop in revenue, closure of educational institutions and rise in crime,” the NGO’s coordinator Roland Martins stated. He stated that different departments should show a presentation to the gram sabhas about the schemes, skill-training opportunities and funds sanctioned to respond to the crisis created by the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/discuss-covid-impact-at-gram-sabhas-ngo/articleshow/78156430.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Verdict in Babri demolition case on September 30||LUCKNOW: A CBI court on Wednesday said that it would pronounce judgment in 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case on September 30. Issuing the order on Wednesday, special judge SK Yadav has directed all the accused to remain present in the court on the day of judgment. There were 48 accused named in the original charge sheet filed by the CBI in 1993 -- 32 of them, including former deputy prime minister LK Advani, former chief minister Kalyan Singh, BJP leader MM Joshi, Uma Bharati, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Ritambhara and Ram Mandir Tirth Kshetra Trust's secretary Champat Rai, are facing trial. The remaining 16 died during the course of hearing. The court had heard the final arguments of defence and prosecution on September 1, 2020 and reserved its judgment, CBI counsel Lalit Singh told TOI. In its April 2017 order, the Supreme Court had ordered to finish the trial in the case within two years by holding day-to-day hearing. The hearing at the Lucknow court started on May 21, 2017. Before the completion of two years, the apex court extended the deadline by three month and again by a month and set the September 30 deadline. The criminal case is in pursuant to two FIRs lodged with Ayodhya police in 1992 after the demolition of the disputed structure on December 6. The first — FIR No 197 — against lakhs of kar sevaks for the actual demolition of the structure and the second -- FIR No 198 — against 48 Sangh Parivar functionary for conspiracy. The trial in the case earlier continued at two courts in Rae Bareli and Lucknow, but the apex court, in its April 2017 order, asked for a joint trial at Lucknow. The CBI moved SC in 2012 after the Allahabad high court dropped charges of criminal conspiracy against Advani and 13 other saffron leaders in 2010. The SC reinstated the conspiracy charges and asked for a speedy trial. All the accused had to appear before the court for seeking bail when the regular hearing started on May 21, 2017. However, a number of them, like Advani and Joshi, appeared through video-conferencing for the hearing during the Covid-induced lockdown. Supreme Court had refrained the court to put Kalyan Singh on trial as long he was holding the post Rajasthan governor. His trial started in September 2019 after his tenure at Rajasthan Raj Bhawan came to an end. In its arguments, the CBI had insisted that the accused conspired and and instigated kar sevaks to demolish the disputed structure wheress the accused pleaded that there was no evidence against them to prove their guilt. The accused also said that they were falsely implicated in the case by the then Congress-led Central Government due to political vendetta. The CBI produced 351 witnesses and about 600 documentary pieces of evidence to prove the guilt of accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-court-to-pronounce-verdict-in-babri-demolition-case-on-sept-30/articleshow/78156744.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand resumes search for skeletons of 2013 flood victims||DEHRADUN: Continuing a quest that has now run into its seventh year, Uttarakhand resumed a search for skeletons of those who died in the 2013 Kedarnath flash floods. The floods had claimed about 4,000 lives, a report by the National Institute of Disaster Management had said. And 3,000 still remain missing. “Fresh operations have been launched after rain subsided. Ten teams have been sent on different trek routes around the Himalayan shrine,” DG (law and order) Ashok Kumar said. Each team has a police sub-inspector, two constables, two SDRF personnel and a pharmacist, senior police officers said. The four-day search operation is being conducted by Rudraprayag Police and the State Disaster Response Force. The search operations, taken up every year, follow an Uttarakhand high court order in response to a PIL filed in 2014 seeking retrieval of the bodies of those who died in the floods. In July 2018, the high court had asked the state government to collect DNA samples of all remains and skeletons. The retrieval, both the state government and the petitioner had said, should not disturb the fragile ecology of the upper Himalayan region, a plan for which the Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology has been asked to form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-resumes-search-for-skeletons-of-2013-flood-victims/articleshow/78153823.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Welfare drives on PM birthday||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat government and the state unit of the BJP will celebrate the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday by organizing a number of activities and events across the state. Chief minister Vijay Rupani will launch several welfare schemes for farmers and women. The ‘Seva Saptah’ (service week) of the state BJP to mark PM Modi’s birthday began on Monday. Party leaders said each day of the service week will feature social initiatives such as the distribution of help to 70 ‘divyangjan’ in 70 talukas, spectacles to 70 people in each block, fruits in Covid-19 facilities; and the organization of plasma donation drives and blood donation camps. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/welfare-drives-on-pm-birthday/articleshow/78155142.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kochi||NIA, ED discuss Jaleel’s statements||Kochi: Sleuths of National Investigation Agency (NIA) met with their counterparts in Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday as part of the multi-agency probe in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. ED sources said that a senior official from New Delhi also arrived in Kochi late on Wednesday. Sources said that ED discussed with NIA details about the probe, including the statements taken from minister KT Jaleel. “Our case was registered based on the original crime registered by NIA. Hence, it is only normal to conduct information sharing discussions. Information collected by NIA was also discussed at the meeting,” said an ED source. According to the source, a senior official from New Delhi visited the Kochi office on Wednesday night and he was in the city as part of reviewing the investigation. The official was likely to hold meetings with the special prosecutor and the assistant solicitor general as well, sources said. ED sources said that key persons relating to the offence would be questioned in the coming days. After ED, NIA too is likely to question Jaleel soon, sources said. Customs, in the meantime, are probing the involvement of Jaleel. However, sources said that they would take action, including questioning of Jaleel, only after more investigation. On Wednesday morning, superintendent of Viyyur jail submitted a report before NIA special court stating that key accused Swapna Suresh was not produced in court on Tuesday as she was admitted to a hospital. Muhammad Anwar, a middleman who connected the racket with buyers, was produced in court and was remanded in NIA custody on Wednesday for two days. NIA had, on Monday, sought custody of Swapna, Sandeep Nair, Muhammad Shafi, Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Muhammad Anwar TM. Apart from Anwar and Swapna, the rest were produced in court on Tuesday and remanded in NIA custody till Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-ed-discuss-jaleels-statements/articleshow/78155144.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Covid robs life’s spirit, two women try bootlegging caught with liquor worth Rs 31,000 near Valsad||SURAT: Lockdown and Covid-induced lockdown have forced jobless people to resort to myriad ways of making a living. But two Ahmedabad women — a photographer and another small-time actress — did something that left even the policemen surprised. The women tried to tide over the financial crunch by taking to bootlegging, but the bid failed as they were arrested in Valsad early on Tuesday. The women were arrested in Valsad for allegedly trafficking liquor worth Rs 31,200 in their car. The women told police that they planned to earn money by selling liquor as all their sources of income had dried up over the past six months. They had purchased liquor from Palghar in Maharashtra and planned to sell it in Ahmedabad. Police seized the Suzuki Baleno car in which they were travelling and found 24 bottles of whisky in two boxes and eight boxes containing 192 beer tins. Following specific information, a team of Valsad local crime branch (LCB) kept watch on the national highway 48 near Atul, and stopped the car for checking. Noticing women in the car, the cops were cautious in dealing with them and feared that their information could be wrong. However, on searching, they were surprised to find the contraband stashed inside. Police arrested Hetal Bhatt, 43, a resident of Naranpura in Ahmedabad and her friend Aarti Goswami, 29, a native of Jamnagar who currently lives in Ahmedabad. They were formally arrested after both tested negative for Covid-19. The investigation has been handed over to Dharampur police station. “It is unusual and this is the first time we have caught only women ferrying liquor in large quantities in a car. They confessed that they were taking the liquor to sell in Ahmedabad,” said an official. Besides photography, Bhatt also does photo editing work while Goswami works as an actress in short films and videos. “They informed me that they had no source of income for the last six months and planned to make quick money through bootlegging. Since they went to Mumbai for some work, they planned to buy liquor on return to Gujarat,” the officer said. Both women are unmarried and have no one in their family to support them financially. They told police that they went to get some photo editing work done and also upgrade their computer system. However, they could not explain why they were carrying over Rs 35,000 from which they bought the liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ncov-robs-lifes-spirit-two-women-try-bootlegging/articleshow/78153846.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Two elephants from Nepal enter into no-jumbo landscape||DEHRADUN: The frontline teams of western circle of Uttarakhand forest department have been on the search for two wild elephants who have believed to have entered the Surai forest range adjoining Khatima in US Nagar since Tuesday night. Surai is not an elephant landscape and therefore, the officials are on an alert mode trying to intensively comb the area to find out the pachyderms before any mishap. The teams are also telling people “not to confront” the wild animals or panic if they see them. Last year in July, two elephants from Nepal forests had drifted away from their usual pathway into Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh forests. They had killed five people at different locations. After an intensive operation, they were tranquilised and left in Pilibhit forests. The forest officials are saying that this year too, in a similar fashion, two jumbos have strayed into India. “There is also the concern that the two wild elephants from Nepal who were left in the wilds of Pilibhit last year in July and who we thought probably went back to Nepal may be back. However, we cannot confirm that they are the same rogue jumbos as we are yet to see them,” said Nitishmani Tripathi, DFO, Terai East, Western Circle. He added that the pugmarks of the elephants were first spotted in a farmhouse and its owners subsequently informed the forest officials about the pachyderms. “Most of the time wild animals cross through Sharda Sagar canal between India and Nepal comfortably, especially during monsoon. They flow in the water current and reach the other side,” added Tripathi. The villagers in and around Udham Singh Nagar are being counselled by the patrolling team to avoid elephant-human conflict by not going out or trying to chase the elephants away as they are huge. “Their pugmarks indicate they are huge elephants. The best we can do is alert the locals,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-elephants-from-nepal-enter-into-no-jumbo-landscape-ukhand-forest-officials-on-high-alert/articleshow/78153838.cms||Shivani Azad
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Borders open, empty Manali hotels wait on||Manali: A large number of hotels, who resumed operations in August or early September, are still waiting for the first booking as tourists are not showing interest in visiting the hill state amid pandemic. Many hotel owners, who expected a good footfall but failed to get booking even for a single room, are now planning to close business one more time. What is adding to their worries is that operation charges have increased due to the need for frequent sanitisation, while they are being compelled to offer heavy discounts. Many attractive offers, including discounts on tariff, have failed to attract tourists. “I’m open since September 1 and received a booking for a room for just one night last week. Now, I am confused about my decision to open the hotel. A large number of enquiries are pouring in, but very few are visiting actually,” hotelier Arun Kumar said. He added maximum hoteliers had been disheartened by the trend. The Himachal Pradesh government’s move to open borders to other states without the need of an e-pass has brought cheer among hoteliers and expecting an increase in tourist inflow in few days. However, they say, they are aware there was a strong possibility that tourist inflow would not be sufficient to meet expenses. Manali Hoteliers’ Association president Anup Thakur said most hotels in Manali would open from October 1. “We had fixed this date in advance, so that hoteliers get adequate time for preparation. Hopefully, tourist footfall will increase manifold from October. Hoteliers have spent lakhs on sanitisation. We have already attended workshops for smooth operation amid Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/borders-open-empty-manali-hotels-wait-on/articleshow/78156442.cms||Suresh Sharma
September 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Cyclists on pan-India journey spread corona awareness||KANPUR: A 60-year-old cyclist hailing from Kolkata, Thakur Das Sasmal alias Dasu Da, who is on a pan-India mission spreading awareness about Covid-19 along with his 40-year-old companion Manoj Manna, reached Naubasta area of the city on Tuesday night. Appealing to people to wear face mask and sensitising them about the importance of social distancing and wearing face masks, the veteran cyclist has been pedalling from Kolkata since August 24 and will end his journey after covering 6,000 km in all. “We cover approximately 50 to 60 km of distance every day. During night hours, we rest by putting tents and again start our journey for the next halt in the morning. We reached Kanpur on Tuesday and will now go to Delhi, then to Mumbai and then Chennai. In all, we will cover 6,000 km to reach back our home state,” said Thakur Das Sasmal. “I have been cycling for more than 22 days. We are on mission to tell people about social distancing and wearing masks in order to help them prevent themselves from coronavirus,” said Sasmal and added, “We should be very careful in the coming days as the deadly virus is still active. All should take precautions under Covid protocol.” His companion Manoj Manna said Covid-19 is a deadly virus and one cannot take it lightly. “The only way we can fight and win against corona is to create awareness and take all precautions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cyclists-on-pan-india-journey-spread-corona-awareness/articleshow/78156649.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kanpur||Man hacks teen daughter in public for visiting beau in Kanpur||KANPUR: In a suspected case of honour killing, a man hacked his teenage daughter to death in Kanpur Dehat on Wednesday morning in full public view after she fled home and went to her lover’s house. The man was arrested and the axe used in the crime was recovered. “The 18-year-old daughter of the accused was allegedly in love with a 20-year-old youth who runs a grocery shop in village Khanpana village under Gajner police station. On Tuesday late night, she escaped from her home and went to his house,” said police officials. The boy and his father informed the girl’s father that she is insisting on staying with them. Her father picked up an axe and went to the youth’s house with family. He asked her to return home, but she refused and started arguing. The man lost his temper and attacked his daughter repeatedly with the axe till she lay lifeless. The youth tried to save her but was attacked and suffered injuries. Locals informed police after which senior officials and forensic experts reached. ASP Kanpur Dehat Anup Kumar said, “It’s a case of honour killing. The statements of villagers were recorded and the man booked. The injured youth is undergoing treatment and district hospital doctors said he is stable. Police has been deployed in the village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-hacks-teen-daughter-to-death-for-fleeing-home/articleshow/78156669.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||SC/ST scholarship scam: No need for CBI as 77% probe already done, Uttarakhand govt informs HC||NAINITAL: The state government on Wednesday informed the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that the two special investigation teams (SITs) probing the multi-crore Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) scholarship scam have completed 77% of the investigation and that it will take six more months for them to complete the entire investigation. The government further said that there is no need to transfer the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The disclosure was made before the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe through the affidavit filed by additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Atar Singh. The court, in its last hearing on September 1, had sought the state’s opinion as to whether the probe into the scholarship scam should be handed over to the CBI since many of the accused as well as the institution which allegedly siphoned off the money meant for poor students of the SC/ST community are based in states other than Uttarakhand. “The government informed the court that both the SITs have been vehemently conducting the investigation into the scam and has till now completed over 75% of it. The government said that it was because of the lockdown that the pace of the investigation suffered. However the affidavit adds that both the SITs will finish the investigation in six month,” said a counsel who was part of the hearing. Meanwhile, the court has now asked the counsels representing the two SITs to inform what subjects of investigation are completed and whether it is wholesome. “The court asked the counsels to inform the court if the investigation by the two SITs covers each and every aspect of the scam. The counsel then sought time till Monday to obtain instructions in the matter after which the case has been listed for further hearing on Monday,” said another counsel present in the hearing. As reported by TOI in August this year, an HC-monitored investigation has revealed how hundreds of private and government-aided colleges went to great lengths — forging Aadhaar cards and passing off minors, labourers and rickshaw pullers as students — to siphon off crores meant as scholarship funds for students from the SC/ST community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc/st-scholarship-scam-no-need-for-cbi-as-77-probe-already-done-state-govt-informs-hc/articleshow/78153836.cms||Prashant Jha
September 17, 2020||Allahabad||Women showing an impressive show in PCS exams||Prayagraj: Last week, the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) declared the final result of Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services Exam (2018), commonly known as PCS. The results showed that besides being the first time that all the three toppers were female candidates, over one fourth of the total posts were bagged by candidates of the fair sex. Considering the final result since 2013, the success story of the female fraternity in this coveted exam has been showing a consistent upward trend. Looking at the records of the recently declared results, out of the 976 individuals, who were declared selected, 258 are female candidates of which 234 are the natives of the state of UP. As many as two dozen women candidates who made the final cut are residents of states other than UP including the two toppers who hail from Haryana. In totality, 26.43 % successful candidates were female. Of the two important posts, offered in the exam i.e sub divisional magistrate (SDM) and Dy SP, 41 women candidates have tasted success for the post of SDM against just 119 posts which comes out to be over 34%. Likewise, against 94 posts of DySP, 18 female candidates have been selected. Records also testify that the impressive performance of women in PCS selections is no flash in the pan either. In PCS-2017 also 281 women had tasted success against 676 posts on offer amounting to 26.77 %, the best in at least four PCS recruitment exams held earlier. In PCS-2013, 122 women had been selected against 654 posts on offer amounting to 18.65% while in PCS-2014 also 114 women had tasted success against 579 posts available amounting to 19.68%. Likewise, in PCS-2015, 100 women had got selected against a total of 530 posts on offer, again amounting to 18.86% while in PCS-2016, results of which were declared on February 22, 2020, 138 women had bagged selection against 630 posts on offer amounting to around 21.90%. If one checks the archive records of UPPSC, it was in PCS-2005 that Indu Prabha Singh had emerged as the topper and it was after a gap of a decade that in 2016 Jaijeet Kaur Hora of Kanpur bagged the top rank in PCS recruitment exam. In PCS (Judiciary) exam conducted by UPPSC for recruitment of Civil Judge (Junior Division) also women have been making impressive strides. In PCS (J)-2018, out of the 610 posts on offer, women had bagged 315. PCS (J)-2018 also saw Akansha Tiwari emerging as the topper and members of the fair sex had bagged five places in the top 10. = = == Suggested Box Women selections in recent UP PCS recruitment exams: Year Total Selections Women Candidates Percentage (in %) 2013 654 122 18.65 2014 579 114 19.68 2015 530 100 18.86 2016 630 138 21.90 2017 676 181 26.77 2018 976 258 26.43 = = ===||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/women-showing-an-impressive-show-in-pcs-exams/articleshow/78153188.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Kapil Jhaverri gets court nod for medical trip to Mumbai||PANAJI: The sessions court in Panaji has granted permission to actor Kapil Jhaverri, who is on bail in connection with a drugs case in Goa, to travel to Mumbai for a limited period for a consultation with a doctor. Last month, the court had granted him bail with a condition not to leave the state after he was arrested in an alleged rave party case involving foreign nationals. The court on Wednesday modified its bail order and allowed him to travel to Mumbai on September 18 and return by the first week of October. “Upon returning back, the applicant shall submit a detailed report of his appointment with the doctor and prescription if any, within a period of three days,” sessions judge Irshad Agha said. Jhaverri filed an application to go to Mumbai for a limited period and placed on record a doctor’s email appointment. While grating bail to the actor last month, the court reprimanded the government for granting ‘permission’ to him to organise parties and suggested that permission not be given in the future. The court had granted him bail as the drugs found in his possession were of a small quantity. The crime branch had stated that bulk quantity was found with him and alleged that he was hosting such parties and boosting the illegal drug trade in the coastal belt of Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jhaverri-gets-court-nod-for-medical-trip-to-mumbai/articleshow/78156439.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||2462 Covid cases in a day take state tally close to 1L mark, positivity rate above 16%||Bhopal: Positivity rate crossed 16.1% as for the seventh consecutive day more than 2,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state as the count of positive patients reached 95,515 on Wednesday. Overall, 2462 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Positivity rate was recorded above 16%. Of the total tested, 16.1% were found positive on Wednesday. On Tuesday too, 11.4% people had tested positive and on Monday 11.9% had tested positive. And this was for the fifth consecutive day when positivity rate above 10% was reported in state. On Sunday the positivity rate was 10.4% and on Saturday also the positivity rate was above 10%. This means that out of every 100 samples that were tested the total number of people found positive was 16.1 on Wednesday. The overall positivity rate in state since the first case was reported till September 16 has increased to 5.5% it was only 4.6% till August 31. Despite higher positivity rate and despite the fact that as per the targets set by the government assuming positivity rate above 5%, more than 25,000 tests should be done in the state, number of tests done per day is still below 25000. On Wednesday also when highest ever positive cases were reported only 15,286 samples were tested. It clearly indicates that if number of tests are increased the number of cases are likely to increase further, said sources. So far in September only a total of 31,550 fresh cases have been reported in the state. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 1844 in the state. On the brighter side, 1,922 people recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these, total number of people who have recovered so far reached 71535.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2462-covid-cases-in-a-day-take-state-tally-close-to-1l-mark-positivity-rate-above-16/articleshow/78155145.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kanpur||With 130 fresh cases, Jhansi tally surpasses 6k-mark||Jhansi: Three more persons died while 130 new cases of Covid-19 surfaced here on Wednesday surpassing the six thousand mark of positive cases in the district. As per Jhansi DM, Andra Vamsi, 6076 people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district, of which 4384 have been discharged till now including 96 on Wednesday itself. Presently active positive cases in the district are 1064. Of these 203 are symptomatic. These include 31 severe, 82 moderate and 90 mild in nature while rest are asymptomatic. The total number of Covid related deaths in the district is 120 having a CFR rate of 1.9 while recovery rate is 80.51%. Presently 508 patients are in home isolation here in the district. The deceased include a 43-year-old woman from Mauranipur who was admitted to Jhansi Medical College with Covid like symptoms along with chronic renal disease. Apart from her, two men aged 65 and 35 years also succumbed to the disease. They were also undergoing treatment at the medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/with-130-fresh-cases-jhansi-tally-surpasses-6k-mark/articleshow/78156698.cms||Arindam Ghosh
September 17, 2020||Kanpur||Woman ‘murdered’ 12 years ago, found alive in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: In a bizarre incident, a woman hailing from Kalpi town of Jalaun district, whose alleged murder led to jailing of six village persons, was found alive and married, living with her family in Aligarh. According to police, the woman, who was 14-year-old then went missing in 2008. A missing complaint was lodged at Kotwali police station. Few days later, body of an unidentified girl was found in Ghatampur area of Kanpur district. The girl’s mother then identified the body as of her missing daughter and registered a complaint at Kotwali police station accusing six persons of kidnapping and murdering her. She also accused local police of biased attitude following which the probe was transferred probe to the CBCID. The case took an interesting turn when the missing girl, now a 26-year-old married woman, was found by Jalaun police in Aligarh following a complaint by a local politician. The police brought the woman to Kalpi and subsequently launched an investigation in this regard. The woman would soon be presented in court, said police sources. “During investigation by CBCID, a chargesheet was filed and subsequently, six persons were arrested and sent to jail. One of the accused died during trial in 2012, while five others were released after procuring bail,” a police official told TOI. Senior officers further told TOI that murder charges against the five accused will now be dropped and they will soon be given clean chit. “We have apprised CBCID that had filed a chargesheet in this connection. The woman, who is married now, will be produced before a court where her statement will be recorded,” SP Jalaun Yashveer Singh told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-murdered-12-years-ago-found-alive/articleshow/78156730.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Jewellery employees allege assault by IUML leader||Kozhikode: Two employees of Fashion Gold, the firm of which Manjeshwaram MLA M C Kamaraudeen was the chairman, have filed a police complaint saying that they were beaten up at the house of Kallatra Mahin Haji, the IUML leader entrusted by the party for mediation. Sainul Abid, who was the manager of the Fashion Gold, said he was summoned to Mahin Haji’s house. “I realized that it was an attempt to make me a scapegoat and save leaders like Karamudeen,” he said. Abid told TOI that there were many people at the house when he arrived. “I was taken to a room and three persons started hitting me. Their allegation was that I robbed gold from the firm and therefore I should repay it. They wanted me to sign some documents,” he said. Later Abid’s brother Musthafa, also a staff at the jewellery, arrived at Haji’s house. Abid said Musthafa was beaten by the gang. “He collapsed and was taken to hospital,” he said. Abid said he had warned the owners of Fashion Gold that the company was going to collapse, but no one was willing to listen. He also demanded police protection as he feared a threat to his life. He said it will not be possible for Haji to submit a report to the IUML leadership before September 30 as directed by them. Haji, however, denied the allegation. “Abid was summoned because as manager he would know as to how the firm incurred losses,” he said. Mustafa is a diabetic patient and he collapsed as he did not have food in the afternoon, Haji said. “No one was beaten up as alleged,” he added. Haji said he is in the process of preparing the assets and liabilities of Fashion Gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/jewellery-employees-allege-assault-by-iuml-leader/articleshow/78155200.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara crosses 10,000 mark||Vadodara: The total number of Covid-19 cases reported in Vadodara city and district crossed the five-figure mark and reached 10,038 with 120 new cases being reported in the 24 hours since Tuesday evening. While the total number of cases may raise a concern, a major relief was that like Tuesday, the fresh cases detected in the city in 24 hours went down even on Wednesday despite a higher number of samples being tested. In the 24 hours since Tuesday evening, 3,926 tests were conducted out of which the 120 positive cases were detected. The new cases included 23 from the south zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), followed by 22 from the north zone of the city, 20 from the west and 14 from the east. The rural areas of the district outside VMC limits reported 41 cases including those from Dabhoi, Padra, Sokhda, Bhayli, Bajwa, Untiya and Kalali. Against the 120 fresh cases, 134 persons were discharged from various hospitals as well as home quarantine. This left 1,369 persons under treatment including 60 on ventilators or BiPAP machines and 152 breathing with the help of oxygen support. VMC also confirmed two more deaths taking the total number of deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause to 166. These figures do not include deaths of those Covid-19 patients who may have died due to comorbidities or other ailments being the primary cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-crosses-10000-mark/articleshow/78153231.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi University starts practical exams, theory soon||Patiala: The Punjabi University on Wednesday kicked off practical examinations, which will be conducted by principals or heads at their college or department level through online mode till September 19. The theory examinations of final semester or classes will start from September 25. The university is yet to declare the results of examinations of a number of classes/courses held in December 2019. A senior professor in the university revealed that results of the students of around 50% classes/courses who appeared in December last year examination are yet to be declared despite the fact that there are 4,500 faculty members, including around 1,400 teaching faculty with the university. He said the exams of over 750 courses of the university were held in December last year. Jaswinder Singh Khattar, controller examination, Punjabi University, said, “Results for December 2019 examination of some of the classes/courses are awaited, but our staff is working on this and these results will be declared before the results of the terminal examination that will be held from September 25 onwards. The date sheet will be announced in a few days.” The authorities had even failed to declare any parameter or formula on the basis of which the promotion of intermediate students has been announced around two months ago. On July 21, the university had announced to promote all its intermediate students who are registered with Punjabi University to the next semester or class provided that they have submitted duly filled examination form for May 2020 examination. The university authorities had then claimed that the students who will have average grades/marks/CGPA less than the minimum pass marks/grades/CGPA will have to fulfil the university requirements or conditions of clearing examinations of that semester as and when they are held to become eligible for the award of the degree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabi-university-starts-practical-exams-theory-soon/articleshow/78156445.cms||Bharat Khanna
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Body fished out of canal: Man booked for abetment to suicide||Ludhiana: Police booked a man for abetment to suicide after the body of his wife’s alleged paramour was recovered from a canal. The accused was identified as Baljit Singh of HIG Flats, Moti Nagar.Subash Chandar, father of deceased Nitin Soni, 32, of New Shastri Nagar told cops that his son was into the business of decoration at marriages and was upset for the past many days. He said on September 5, his son left home on his motorcycle and called them up to say that he was going out for four days.The complainant told the police that his son then called up his mother to say that the accused suspected that he had illicit relations with his wife and was threatening to get him booked. He said while talking to his mother, Nitin brought accused Baljit Singh on a conference call and he threatened him.Subash Chandar told police that on September 8, they filed a missing report with the Tibba police.Police said on September 14, a body was recovered from the Issewal grid on Sidhwan Canal and cops from Bundri police post reached the spot. Cops found an identity card in the purse of the deceased and informed the Tibba police. Tibba police shifted the body for post-mortem and informed the family and booked the accused under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC. Investigation officer ASI Jora Singh said the accused was yet to be arrested and raids were being conducted to nab him. He said the deceased has not left any suicide note. Police officials said the accused and the deceased used to work together at one point of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/body-fished-out-of-canal-man-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide/articleshow/78153851.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Missing birs: Standoff still on||Amritsar: More Nihang organisations have joined the ‘morcha’ initiated by various Sikh bodies seeking answers from the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on the 378 missing saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib (SGGS) and non-filing of police cases against the guilty persons, even as the SGPC did not lift the barricades put up on the road leading to Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, Balbir Singh Muchhal of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee said they would continue with the morcha unless police cases are registered against the SGPC employees indicted in the Ishar Singh’s investigation report. Activists of Tarna Dal, Damdami Taksal, Sangrawan and others joined the agitating Sikh groups and staged a sit-in in front of the SGPC office. The agitating Sikh groups also wrote a letter to the Amritsar police commissioner, demanding filing of an FIR and starting investigations into the May 19, 2016 fire incident in Sri Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan, Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, in which as many as 15 saroops were burnt. Sources informed that attempts to strike a truce between the agitating Sikh bodies and the SGPC have failed. However, it was learnt that the SGPC could remove the barricades by Wednesday night. One of the former ‘panj pyaras’ (five beloved ones) Satnam Singh Jhanjhia said the SGPC has always been raising its voice against anyone showing disrespect to the turban of a Sikh, but its task force itself threw the turbans of Nihang Singhs, which is condemnable. He further said by blocking the road to Gurdwara Atal Rai Sahib, the SGPC has hurt the religious sentiments of Sikhs, who aspire to pay obeisance at the gurdwara. Another former panj pyara Tarlok Singh has appealed that sangat should do the political barricading of the people, who were behind the decision to barricade a religious place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/missing-birs-standoff-still-on/articleshow/78156450.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 17, 2020||Chennai||CAG: Revenue arrears Rs 34,512 crore till March 2018||CHENNAI: A report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on Tamil Nadu revenue sector has highlighted pending arrears of Rs 34,512 crore due from various sources as on March 31, 2018. While nearly Rs 13,509 crore was outstanding for more than five years, the amount of uncollected revenue as on March 31, 2018, was about one-third of the total revenue raised by the government during the year 2017-18. According to the report, the revenue, raised by the state government for the year 2017-18, at Rs 1.04 lakh crore was 71% of the total revenue receipts, as against 68% at Rs 0.95 lakh crore in 2016-17. The remaining 29% (Rs 41,779.15 crore) during 2017-18 was from the Centre, as against 32% (Rs 44,375.97 crore) in 2016-17. While the Centre implemented GST across the country from July 1, 2017, the total receipts under GST from July 2017 to March 2018 were about Rs 24,589 crore, including iGST advance of Rs 1,304 crore. Receipts under pre-GST including non-subsumed taxes were about Rs 46,356.15 crore. The overall increase in revenue was mainly due to the huge increase (27.06%) by way of stamp duty and registration fee at Rs 9,194.63 crore in 2017-18. The huge jump was due to increasing the registration fee to 4% from 1% and a 33% cut in guideline value that led to increase in registrations that year, the CAG report said. The CAG report also highlighted the fact that TN is yet to formulate a state mineral policy, besides pointing out the delay in formulating a granite policy. The loss due to excess granite mining alone was estimated at Rs 328.62 crore, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cag-revenue-arrears-rs-34512cr-till-march-18/articleshow/78155151.cms||D Govardan
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Tribal dept stalls relocation of 5 Melghat villages||Nagpur: The state tribal development department (TDD) has stalled voluntary relocation of five villages in Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) on the ground that their community forest rights (CFRs) and individual forest rights (IFRs) have been not settled under Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006. In the matter by Vanshakti Trust & others, the Bombay high court on December 18, 2019, had directed that pending claims under FRA be dealt with in accordance with law and decided in three months. The deadline for settling claims ended in March but claims were not settled. Instead, the fresh move by tribal department would delay the entire process. Pournima Upadhyay of NGO Khoj had complained on September 3 alleging CFR/IFR claims of villagers, who were finally being resettled from Pastalai and Dolar, were not settled as per mandatory provisions under the Forest Right Act (FRA), 2006. Similar process should be applied for Malur, Rora, Mangia and Chopan that are being resettled, the complaint had said. While government departments are slack in addressing people’s complaints, TDD was quick to issue directions the next day asking Amravati district collector, who is also chairman of district level committee (DLC), to stall relocation of the above villages. Surprisingly, all these villages have opted for voluntary relocation and gram panchayat has also given consent to move out. “The complainant has said that first pending CFR/IFR claims should be settled. Hence, we have asked Amravati collector to put relocation on hold. If claims of people are rejected then they should appeal to the newly set up divisional level committee headed by divisional commissioner,” said TDD deputy secretary L G Dhoke, who issued the directions. Wildlife and environment lawyer Manish Jeswani has challenged tribal department’s letter. In his representation to the government, Jeswani said, “This is an attempt to derail declaration of critical wildlife habitats (CWHs) mandatory under law. The Bombay high court has already set deadline of three months but DLC failed to settle claims violating court directives.” Jeswani said the directions by TDD deputy secretary has no legal status. TDD is asking collector-led DLC to review decision of CFR/IFR of Pastalai and Dolar village claimed under Section 3 (1) (c) & (d) of FRA and has also directed not to carry out relocation of five other villages already in process. There are no provisions in FRA to review decisions already taken. TDD is in contempt of court, he said. “TDD is creating confusion by issuing such letters and is also preventing tribals from joining the mainstream of the society and be part of development. The decision to move out of tiger reserve has been taken by the gram sabha which is supreme under the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act (PESA) Act 1996,” said Jeswani. He added the Amravati district collector’s office has also certified there are no claims pending with DLC and relocation process therefore can be proceeded without any hindrance of provisions of FRA 2006. Stalling Voluntary Relocation * Voluntarily relocation is a win-win situation where both people and wildlife have benefitted in Melghat * On September 3, NGO Khoj demanded relocation be stopped pending CFR/IFRs settlement * Tribal development department wrote to collector to stall relocation of five villages * TDD decision illegal as gram sabhas have themselves volunteered to move out of reserve||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tribal-dept-stalls-relocation-of-5-melghat-villages/articleshow/78156483.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Riverfront foot overbridge gets a leg-up||Ahmedabad: Work on the ambitious Sabarmati Riverfront foot overbridge has accelerated over the past month after a five-month slump caused by the Covid pandemic. The project was approved by the Sabarmati Riverfront Development Corporation Limited (SRFDCL) board on March 21, 2018, and a budget of Rs 74 crore was estimated back then. The steel bridge draws its inspiration from the kite festival held in the city. From early August, the earth-filling work had begun on the riverfront. The iconic bridge between Ellis Bridge and Sardar Bridge will be 300 metres long and its width will vary between 10 metres and 14 metres. The foot overbridge will be connected to both sides of the riverfront at two levels of the walkway. That means that the bridge will be accessible from both the upper and lower promenades. “The kite is the inspiration behind the tubular steel superstructure with three spans. The design is complex and challenging,” said a senior AMC official. The official added that the design was selected after a competition. STUP Consultants of Mumbai had won the design competition. “Since the design is complex, P&R was chosen as the contractor,” the official said. “The contractor specializes in steel superstructures, including steel bridges in the Himalayas and in the tough terrains of the Northeast.” The project is slated to be completed in 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/riverfront-foot-overbridge-gets-a-leg-up/articleshow/78155233.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||LU to start offering BSc (Hons) in next academic session||Lucknow: With Lucknow University (LU) deciding to offer BSc (Honours) from its next academic session, students wanting to pursue an undergraduate honours course in science wouldn’t have to move out of the city or state for higher studies. The varsity decided to start the course after getting a good response for both BA (Hons) and BCom (Hons). LU received 10,574 applications for 380 seats in BA (Hons) this year. For BCom (Hons), it received 10,889 applications for the 180 seats in BCom (Hons). Meanwhile, it received 4,029 applications for 280 seats in BSc (biology) and 6,481 applications for 470 seats in BSc (mathematics). “Given the interest shown by students while applying for BA (Hons) and BCom (Hons) and the large number of applications we receive for BSc every year, we have decided to introduce BSc (Hons) from the next session. The number of seats and other modalities of the course will be decided later after a meeting with the admissions team,” said LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. Students prefer honours courses as they are more intensive and job-oriented, he added. LU also plans to offer an undergraduate course in pharmacy as it is an emerging field and has a lot of job potential. LU will shortly write to the Pharmacy Council of India for the required approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-start-offering-bsc-hons-in-next-academic-session/articleshow/78156785.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Faulty transformers to be replaced before festive season: Min||Lucknow: To ensure uninterrupted power supply during the upcoming festive season, energy minister Srikant Sharma on Wednesday pressed for balance of power load on distribution transformers before Diwali. Presiding over a review meeting, Sharma said the department was receiving complaints of transformers not being replaced when they develop snag. He said the complaints of snags in transformers should be addressed at the earliest and accountability be fixed on officials. The minister was reviewing power supply situation in Jalaun, Jhansi, Kannauj, Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur, Kasganj, Lalitpur, Mahoba and Mainpuri. Stressing on the need to bring down line losses below 15%, Sharma said the consumers should get correct electricity bill on time. The minister asked UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar to regularly take stock of the targets achieved. He asked the officials to crack down on agencies generating faulty bills. Sharma said the consumer problems be attended properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/faulty-transformers-to-be-replaced-before-festive-season-min/articleshow/78156917.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||In ‘U-turn’, government says no curb on Covid patients visiting twin cities for treatment||BHUBANESWAR: Day after the state health department asked district administrations to ‘dissuade’ patients from coming to Cuttack and Bhubaneswar for Covid treatment, the government on Wednesday clarified that there would be no restriction on the movement of patients to the twin cities. “The government is not banning movement of patients to Cuttack-Bhubaneswar. It’s regulating to ensure that they travel safe and with proper medical advice and logistics,” chief secretary Asit Tripathy tweeted. “Covid patients travelling on the advice of health authorities must do so under proper medical management and equipment/oxygen support. Carelessness in the past has led to serious consequences. The government has created advanced Covid facilities in the twin cities for the entire state,” he said. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, who had issued the order on Tuesday, said, “There has been certain complaints regarding the order on critical care patients. Our chief secretary has already clarified on the issue. There is no restriction on patients from other parts of the state from seeking care in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar.” Mohapatra said the government focus is on strengthening of critical care, ensuring that patients do not suffer in transit. In routine matters, districts should not blindly refer patients without proper preparation. There are examples of patients dying on the way. The guidelines are meant to address that. Stating that Cuttack and Bhubaneswar have the best facilities and people from across the state have right to avail care in the two cities, Mohapatra said, “I would like to once again clarify that there is no ban or restriction on patients from other districts coming here. The district administrations must ensure enough care is taken while sending patients.” He added, “As there is risk to the patient during transportation, it has been advised that only cases that require referral and are stable enough to undertake the journey safely should be transferred.” As reported earlier, the health department’s Tuesday order had said, “The Covid patients requiring critical care should be first managed in the ICU/HDU (high dependency unit) of all districts instead of being referred to Bhubaneswar or Cuttack in a routine manner. Patients insisting on being referred to Bhubaneswar or Cuttack should be counselled and dissuaded.” The government move invited sharp criticism from various quarters. Reacting to the health department’s order and subsequent ‘U turn’, leader of opposition Pradipta Naik said such an order should have been avoided. “Why was such confusion created? Where will patients from other districts go if they are not allowed to come to Cuttack and Bhubaneswar?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/in-u-turn-govt-says-no-curb-on-covid-patients-visiting-twin-cities-for-treatment/articleshow/78155206.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Amidst ongoing stand-off with China, fresh incursion by Chinese soldiers in Barahoti area of Uttarakhand?||NAINITAL: Amidst the ongoing stand-off between India and China in Ladakh, locals in the Barahoti area of Chamoli district of Uttarakhand have alleged that Chinese soldiers were spotted in the area on September 12. District administration officials though have denied any such incursion. A source who is based in Chamoli, told TOI that a day ago, a few locals had alleged they spotted Chinese soldiers, accompanied by yaks, in Barahoti on September 12. “The soldiers were spotted around 9.30 in the morning and returned to their side on the afternoon of the same day,” said the source. However, an official of the district administration when queried about the matter, told TOI, “A few locals did say that the Chinese had come into the area but no incursion has so far been detected in Barahoti by us.” While police officials refused to comment, officials of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which mans the border in the area, could not be contacted despite attempts. The strategically-important Barahoti, essentially a pasture land surrounded by snowy mountain peaks, has been claimed by the Chinese as part of their territory since the 1950s. Though meetings were held between the Indian and Chinese side in 1954 to sort the issue, a consensus could not be reached and the territory has remained in dispute ever since. Soldiers of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China have been alleged to have crossed several times into the Barahoti sector in the recent past. In September 2018, PLA soldiers were reported to have entered almost four kilometre inside Barahoti. In July of the same year, Chinese soldiers were alleged to have had a face-off with local Garhwali shepherds. And in the previous year, that is 2017, two helicopters suspected to have originated from China were spotted flying in Indian airspace at Barahoti. In 2014, too, Chinese Army choppers had been reported to have entered into Indian airspace at Barahoti. Meanwhile, news agency IANS on Wednesday quoted sources as saying that Chinese construction activities had been observed near the India-Nepal border at Uttarakhand. "Hut-like structures on the Chinese side, very close to Tinkar-Lipu pass of Nepal, were observed. It was also found that China is engaged in construction activities in Chinese side of the general area of Jojo village, Champa Maidan. The Jojo village is approximately seven to eight kilometres from Tinkar-Lipu pass of Nepal," the IANS report, quoting sources, said. “Indian security agencies are now keeping close watch on movements of Chinese People's Liberation Army troops near Uttarakhand borders touching Nepal,” the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amidst-ongoing-stand-off-with-china-fresh-incursion-by-chinese-soldiers-in-barahoti-area-of-ukhand/articleshow/78152650.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Surat||Veteran textile honcho dies of Covid||Surat: Mahendra Chaudhary, 62, chairman of the Pratibha Group, a leading textile company in Surat, succumbed after battling against Covid-19 at the Mahavir Hospital on Wednesday morning. He breathed his last at about 10 am. Chaudhary, who is survived by his three daughters and a son, was at the forefront of the textile business at the Pratibha group, along with his younger brother Pramod Chaudhary. A fortnight ago, Chaudhary tested positive for Covid-19 after he complained of breathlessness and fever. Chaudhary was living with his son and daughters at the Rudraraj Apartment in Parle Point. His wife had passed away a few years ago. Sources said that Chaudhary was suffering from acute pneumonia. “We have lost a torch-bearer of our family and business. My elder brother had a wide experience in the textile business and whatever we are is due to his efforts. The doctors at Mahavir Hospital did everything in their control to save his life,” said Pramod Chaudhary, managing director of Pratibha Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/veteran-textile-honcho-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78153876.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Twitter notice to Canada-based Sikh body on Khalra post||Jalandhar: Twitter has notified Canada-based advocacy group World Sikh Organization (WSO) after an Indian law enforcement agency flagged its tweet mentioning extra-judicial killing of Sikhs in Punjab and “evidence of genocide” unearthed by human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra as violation of Indian law, WSO has claimed. WSO has said that it is “a perfect example of India criminalizing dissent, including for stating well-accepted facts”. WSO on Tuesday tweeted, “Today, we received a notice from Twitter notifying us that our tweet remembering the Sikh genocide & the sacrifice of Khalra allegedly violates Indian law(s). A perfect example of India criminalizing dissent, including for stating well accepted facts. #NeverForget1984 #KhalraWeek.” The tweet in question reads, “This included abduction, torture and extra-judicial killings of Sikhs. Evidence of this genocide was unearthed by human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra and presented to Canadians at the WSO’s annual parliamentary dinner in 1995. #neverfotget1984.” It was tweeted on June 1 and was third part of a series of four tweets on the anniversary of army action on Darbar Sahib. Twitter sent a communique on September 14, saying, “In the interest of transparency, we are writing to inform you that Twitter has received a request from Indian Law Enforcement regarding your Twitter account, @WorldSikhOrg, that claims the following content violates the law(s) of India,” while attaching the tweet, and adding, “We have not taken any action on the reported content at this time as a result of this request.” The other three tweets of the series were: “On June 1, 1984, the Indian Army launched a military assault on the Darbar Sahib killing thousands of innocent Sikhs gathered to commemorate the martyrdom anniversary of Guru Arjan Sahib.” “June is a time for Sikhs to remember, reflect and remain resilient to seek justice for these atrocities. The invasion of Darbar Sahib was followed by a decade of state-sponsored violence against Sikhs.” “36 years later, Sikhs live with the intergenerational trauma of June 1984, support the survivors and remember all those who lost their lives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/twitter-notice-to-canada-based-sikh-body-on-khalra-post/articleshow/78156467.cms||IP Singh
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University to fill up 180 teaching posts vacant for three years||LUCKNOW: Finally, Lucknow University will conduct recruitment for 180 teaching posts lying vacant in various departments for the past three years. The appointment process will start from Thursday with the university advertising the posts. At present, there are 17,054 students but there are only 336 teachers though 516 posts are sanctioned, making the student-teacher ratio 1:50. In the evaluation carried out by National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC), both permanent and contractual employees are counted to calculate student-teacher ratio. Even after adding 100 contractual employees to 336 permanent teachers, there were only 436 teachers for 17,054 students, making student-teacher ratio 1:39, while 1:20 is prescribed by the University Grants Commission. Once the 180 posts are filled, LU will attain student-teacher ratio of 1:27, with total 616 contractual and permanent teachers for 17054 students. “The ideal student-teacher ratio is 1:20, but in NAAC assessment 1:30 is also considered good,” said an official. The filling up of the vacant posts will hence also help the university score well in National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC) evaluation. In 2014, LU had lost maximum marks in teaching, learning, and evaluation parameters of NAAC and was awarded a ‘B’ grade as more than half of the teaching posts were vacant. Former vice-chancellors Prof. S B Nimse and Prof. S P Singh filled up over 100 posts, but still the vacant posts kept increasing due to retirements in the last three years. The appointments will be for 80 vacant posts of assistant professor, 62 posts of associate professor and 38 posts of professor. “On the occasion of the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we are opening up job opportunities in the university. The finest and best teachers will be selected through a transparent system,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. “We are soon going for NAAC re-accreditation and filling up posts will help us score better. We will first recruit assistant professors, then associate professors and then professors,” he added. NAAC grades universities on seven parameters carrying 1,000 marks. It includes curricular aspects, teaching, learning and evaluation, research, innovations and extension, infrastructure and learning resources, student support and progression, governance, leadership and management, and institutional values and best practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-fill-up-180-teaching-posts-vacant-for-three-yrs/articleshow/78156765.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow to Kanpur trip in 50 minutes via expressway||LUCKNOW: Vexed by the endless snarls on Lucknow-Kanpur Road? It could be a thing of the past soon. The travel time between the twin cities, which, at present, is two hours, will come down to 50 minutes once the Lucknow-Kanpur Expressway gets operational three years from now. The mega project conceived by Lucknow MP and defence minister Rajnath Singh has got the Centre’s nod and the work is expected to begin in April next year. The 63-km expressway will start from Lucknow airport — elevated and totally access-controlled. It will intercept the Outer Ring Road junction with the Kanpur Road near Scooter India. The eight-lane and 104-km Outer Ring Road is already under construction and it will connect around eight outgoing four-lane highways and will pass over Lucknow-Agra Expressways, which connects the city to Noida. Thus, the combination of Outer Ring Road and Lucknow-Kanpur Expressway will boost the future prospects of economic growth of Lucknow in a big way.  Sharing details of the project, Diwakar Tripathi, former IAS officer and representative of Rajnath Singh in Lucknow, said the 13km-long section of the six-lane expressway from Amausi airport till Bunni near Unnao will be elevated. Tripathi, who has launched several development and housing projects as the vice-chairman of LDA and municipal commissioner, said the linkway will pass through 11 villages of Lucknow and 30 of Unnao. The route survey has been completed and the land acquisition for the project is in progress, he added. Besides facilitating traffic movement, the expressway will also bolster commercial ties between the two cities. A dream project of Rajnath Singh, the Outer Ring Road will take a full circle around the city, starting from Sitapur Road and connecting all four outgoing roads towards Sultanpur, Rae Bareli, Kanpur and Hardoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-to-kanpur-trip-in-50-minutes-via-expressway/articleshow/78156838.cms||Vijay Chopra
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Bajwa raises issue of Pbi language in J&K in Parl||Amritsar: Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Wednesday raised the issue of exclusion of Punjabi from the J&K Official Languages Bill, 2020 during the zero hour in Parliament. He said he also pointed out that Schedule 6 of the Constitution of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir recognised eight languages as regional languages of the state, including Punjabi. The Centre had on September 2 announced its approval of the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, which would recognise Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi as official languages of the Union Territory of J&K. Najwa said there are a significant number of speakers of the Punjabi language in J&K. He said he has also sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the Bill. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bajwa-raises-issue-of-pbi-language-in-jk-in-parl/articleshow/78156511.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Aarogya app in govt offices: HC seeks reply||Panaji: The high court has sought a reply from the government over a petition challenging the mandatory use of the Aarogya Setu app for the public to enter government offices. Advocate Devidas Pangam told the court that the deputy collector’s communication dated July 20 directing that only persons who have downloaded the app are to be permitted entry, was later clarified. However, he clarified that an affidavit would be filed by the next date to indicate that it is no longer mandatory to have the app for access to public offices. Advocate Shriniwas Khalap, representing petitioner Sudeep Dalvi, submitted to the court that the app doesn’t detect/diagnose Covid, and is presumable an app for intensive surveillance and data collection. He stated that the app, which was launched by the government of India on April 2 purporting to be a Covid-19 tracking app, actually seeks personal information ranging from basic contact details to profession, to full blown access to Bluetooth and GPS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aarogya-app-in-govt-offices-hc-seeks-reply/articleshow/78285382.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath deputes senior officials to monitor Covid in Lucknow, Kanpur||LUCKNOW: As Lucknow and Kanpur continue to report the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has assigned senior officials to review the condition in both districts. The CM has also directed for a public information system announcing precautions against the virus. Additional chief secretary (ACS) health and ACS panchayati raj have been deputed to monitor the condition in Lucknow, where there were 9,577 active cases till Wednesday evening. Principal secretary (health) has been directed to visit Kanpur to review the situation there. Kanpur had 4,652 active cases till Wednesday evening. The CM has also directed ACS health to inspect district-level hospitals and ACS medical education to review medical colleges and health institutes to ensure that they have adequate manpower, medical supplies, oxygen, etc. He has also said that the treatment process of successfully recovered patients must be studied so that doctors know what course of treatment is working successfully. During a meeting of Team 11 on Wednesday, the CM said that all hospitals and medical colleges should ensure that there is a sufficient back-up of essential medicines being used for treatment of Covid-19, oxygen and testing kits. He said that the number of beds should be increased across all Covid hospitals. Contact tracing must be strengthened while oxygen should be available at the right price. He said action would be taken against anyone indulging in black marketing. The CM has said that a robust public address system needs to be put in place to make people aware about the precautions they need to take. In fact, he said, the norm for social distancing and wearing of masks should be played continuously so that it is engrained in people’s minds. ACS (home) Awanish Awasthi said that he had held a meeting with officials of the transport, revenue and police departments to chalk out a plan for this. Messages will now be played out over a public address system at all crossings, markets, bus stops, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-deputes-senior-officials-to-monitor-covid-in-lucknow-kanpur/articleshow/78156889.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Mysuru||Minister holds meeting with school representatives on curbing drug use||Shivamogga: Rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa chaired a meeting with the principals of educational institutions in the district and sought their suggestions to curb use of drugs by students. The minister also instructed the police and excise department to crack the whip on ganja peddlers operating near schools and colleges. “I am tired of seeing drug cases in Shivamogga every day. District police should take stringent action to curb ganja within the next three months. If we neglect it, we have to see ourselves as victims of drugs and ganja. I have seen plenty of such cases where people have ended their life over drug abuse,” the minister said. SP KM Shantharaju said the police department has carried out hundreds of raids and arrested 137 people with 120kg ganja plants in the last eight months. “The raids will be intensified in the next three months during the harvest. The public can inform us about any leads by dialling 9480803301,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-holds-meeting-with-school-representatives-on-curbing-drug-use/articleshow/78153885.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Kalyan Singh discharged from SGPGI||Former UP CM Kalyan Singh was discharged from Rajdhani Covid-19 hospital of SGPGIMS on Wednesday. Though stable, Singh has reportedly not yet tested negative for coronavirus. He was admitted after he tested positive on Monday. SGPGI director Prof RK Dhiman said Singh was stable. He has been shifted to a private hospital in Ghaziabad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kalyan-singh-discharged-from-sgpgi/articleshow/78156858.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Special immunisation drive for migrants’ kids soon||LUCKNOW: The UP government has decided to launch a special drive to reach out to children who have missed their routine vaccine shots on account of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “Vaccines are a life-saving measure that lays a direct impact on the quality of life of an individual. In times of novel coronavirus pandemic, a large number of children missed their routine vaccines. Accordingly, the state government has decided to launch a three-month-long special drive for routineimmunization (RI),” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Wednesday. According to sources in the state family welfare department, RI services were hit during the lockdown. Though senior officials claim that a large number ofpre-listed children were covered, a new list is being prepared to reach out to children of migrants who could have missed the shots. Claiming that the drive will begin in November, Prasad added: “The groundwork for the RI campaign will begin in October when the state launches the communicable diseases prevention campaign. One of the elements of this drive is to line list the children who have missed their shots. ASHAs, ANMs andAnganwadi workers have been given relevant instructions for this.” It may be noted that the three categories of field workers have been asked to conduct house to house visits between October 1 and 15 as a part of the communicable diseases prevention campaign. In every village, the three women are also responsible for promoting routine immunization. The additional task of collecting data on names and number of children who missed their shots will come handy when the special RI campaign is launched. Health officials also noted that even when the services were offered, some kids could have been missed even when services were offered. “A number of people are either unable to access them because of reluctance to leave home, transport interruptions, economic hardships, restrictions on movement or fear of being exposed to people infected with Covid-19. Also, many health workers are also unavailable due to restrictions on travel or redeployment to Covid response duties as well as lack of protective gear,” sources said. World health Organisation, UNICEF and other health sector agencies have also expressed concern over the alarming decline in the number of children receiving life-saving vaccines around the world due to disruptions in delivery and uptake of immunization services. “The likelihood that children born in the present day will be fully vaccinated with all globally recommended vaccines by the time they reach the age of five, is less than 20%,” according to a recent report brought out by WHO and UNICEF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spl-immunisation-drive-for-migrants-kids-soon/articleshow/78156912.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Cut down waiting period for DL tests: RTOs told||Nagpur: The state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne has asked all RTOs and deputy RTOs to increase the slots of both learner’s and permanent driving licence tests. In a letter sent on Wednesday, Dhakne also asked them to conduct the tests on Saturdays and Sundays to end the waiting period for both the tests. Following the new diktat, transport department offices in hotspot cities like Aurangabad, Nagpur, Pune etc have expressed concern given the community spread of coronavirus. Most worrisome will be resuming both the tests at full capacity. TOI tried to contact city RTO Dinkar Manwar, but he was not available for comments. After the lockdown was imposed in March, the department had temporarily shut operations of both LL and PDL tests. It resumed tests in June-end after nearly three months of inactivity. Following then transport commissioner Shekhar Channe’s directives, all the RTO offices across the state had reduced the test capacity to almost 50%. Offices in Aurangabad, Nagpur and Pune too had focused more on learner’s licence test while strictly adhering to Covid safety measures. A senior official from Mumbai explained Dhakne’s instructions given the over a month’s waiting period for both LL and PDL tests. As per Dhakne’s instructions, all the offices have been told to reduce the waiting period to one or two days. “With new order of resuming the old quotas for driving tests will increase rush in the offices. In that scenario, it will be a Herculean task for the department to manage rush,” admitted a senior official requesting anonymity. All the offices had rescheduled the earlier slot bookings by the applicants. The new diktat will not only need the offices to increase computer sets, but also require additional manpower. “Presently, all the three offices have been conducting LL tests with the help of one assistant motor vehicle inspector. If it increases slots, all the offices will need to enhance the present system apart from requirement of one more AMVIs for each office,” said a source. Testing Times Reinstate pre-Covid quotas of both LL and PDL tests Conduct tests on Saturdays, Sundays to reduce waiting period Submit weekly reports with deputy commissioner (computer) office every Monday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cut-down-waiting-period-for-dl-tests-rtos-told/articleshow/78156564.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 17, 2020||Surat||AAI notice to Surat airport to ensure ‘0’ wildlife intrusion||Surat: The Surat airport authorities have been asked by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to ensure ‘zero’ incidence of wildlife intrusion on the airport premises and any security lapses in the future “will entail administrative action”.The notice which was sent after the recovery of two dead foxes on the airport runway in December 2019 also asks the authorities to take appropriate measures for the safety of aircraft and passengers, revealed airport activist, Rajesh Modi, who received a copy of the notice under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.The incident at the Surat airport on December 19, 2019 not only caused three flights to delay, but also has serious repercussion for safe aircraft operations, said the notice sent by AAI’s member (operations), IN Murthy to the airport director. The foreign object debris (FOD) was reported during the landing of the Surat-Udaipur flight at the runway near the taxiway on December 19, 2019. During inspection, operational jeep reported two dead foxes on the runway.After the incident, the arrival of Delhi-Surat flight was hold overhead and was delayed by 20 minutes, Goa-Surat flight had to hold over head and was delayed by 10 minutes and that the departure of Surat-Kolkata flight was delayed by 25 minutes, says a report furnished by the Surat airport authorities under RTI.In the earlier report filed by the airport authorities, it was stated that the deputy general manager (air traffic management) Pradeep Kumar Dobriya was responsible for prevention of wildlife intrusion and bird hit at the Surat airport. Murthy stated in the notice that the officer is accountable for ground flight safety to ensure that appropriate mitigation measures are taken to control wildlife incidents at the airport. He also said that any further lapses in the future, which will adversely affect the safety of aircraft operations, will entail administrative action. Modi told TOI, “Despite AAI notice for maintaining zero wildlife intrusion at the airport, the Surat airport authorities are not willing to take the help of the forest department in mitigating the wildlife issue. After the joint inspection last month, no action has so far been taken by the airport authorities. It is a question of the safety of passengers and aircraft.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aai-notice-to-surat-airport-to-ensure-0-wildlife-intrusion/articleshow/78153919.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Don’t fall into BJP’s trap: EK Sunnis||KOZHIKODE: Giving jitters to IUML, which is in the forefront of agitation demanding minister K T Jaleel’s resignation, the pro-League EK faction of Sunnis has cautioned agitators against falling into BJP’s trap. In a Facebook post, Sathar Panthaloor, state general secretary of Samastha Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF), said attempts to hunt down Islam and religious symbols in the name of agitations cannot be tolerated. SKSSF is the student wing of the Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Uelma, the supreme body of EK faction of Sunni scholars, and Panakkad Syed Hameed Ali Shihab Thangal is its state president. Asserting that the minister should be punished if found guilty, Sathar said, “Efforts are on to denigrate the holy book and misinterpret the relationship between Kerala and the UAE. The campaign by Sangh Parivar that there is jihad in the name of distributing dates and Quran is part of the move.” Sathar said there is talk that E P Jayarajan was forced to resign because he was a Hindu and Jaleel is protected because of his Muslim identity. Certain media has drawn a cartoon, symbolically depicting the Quran, and saying these are fictions, he said. “It is not a good precedent that MPs write to the Prime Minister for a probe into the bringing of Quran from the UAE,” he said, referring to UDF convenor Benny Behanan’s missive to Narendra Modi. Sathar warned that taking discussions to this level would adversely affect ties with the UAE. Sources in Samastha said that UDF, especially IUML, is playing into the hands of BJP which is trying to whip up communal passion using the gold smuggling case. They believe that it would be suicidal for IUML to use this opportunity to settle scores with Jaleel, P K Kunhalikutty’s bete noire. SKSSF’s stand on the gold smuggling issue is likely to be discussed in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/dont-fall-into-bjps-trap-ek-sunnis/articleshow/78155221.cms||Prashanth M P
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 60-year-old pushed off second-floor terrace in tiff, dies||NEW DELHI: A 60-year-old man was allegedly thrown off the second floor of his house in Shahdara’s Vishwas Nagar by his neighbours on Tuesday following an argument over a neighbour’s airconditioner releasing hot air towards the victim’s house. The neighbour has been arrested. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Dharampal, who died during treatment at Hedgewar Hospital after sustaining serious head and back injuries. The neighbour, Dharmendra, who has been arrested, lives right opposite Dharampal’s house. After receiving a call regarding a quarrel in NSA Colony of Vishwas Nagar, a police team reached the spot and found that Dharampal had been taken to the hospital. The team soon got to know that he had died due to his injuries at the hospital. Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said a case of murder was registered based on the statement of Dharampal’s family members. “It came to light that Dharampal had a verbal spat with his neighbour Dharmendra. Police were told that Dharmnedra had installed an airconditioner in his house, which blew hot air directly into the house of the deceased that is right opposite the accused’s place,” Sharma said. The victim objected to this and the two men had an argument during which “Dharmendra reportedly gathered other neighbours in his support”, the DCP added. The 60-year-old man’s family alleged that the victim was cornered on the second-floor terrace, and Dharampal fell during the argument. Investigations have revealed that the families of the accused and the victim also got involved in the fight and Dharampal tried to stop them. Sharma said Dharmpal’s family had alleged that Dharmendra threw him off the terrace. “On their complaint, we have booked Dharmendra for murder, criminal intimidation, abetment and wrongful restraint, among other sections,” the DCP claimed, adding that efforts to identify the other people were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/60-yr-old-pushed-off-second-floor-terrace-in-tiff-dies/articleshow/78156597.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Marginal increase in elderly patients leaves govt worried||LUCKNOW: Marginal increase in the number of elderly suffering with Covid-19 has been recorded in the state. According to the latest data from the state health and family welfare department, the proportion of 60-plus persons getting infected withcoronavirus infection stands at 8.9%. The share of cases in the same category was 8.75% at the end of last week, while it was 8.45% in the last week of August. In wake of the steady rise, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad urged people in the state to tread cautiously. “Elderly persons should not move out of their homes as far as possible. Also, a large number of elderly persons contracted infection from someone else in the family. Therefore, social distancing and use of masks should be followed if there is an unwell elderly at home,” he said. The rise in these cases is being seen as an important contributor of Covid-19 deaths in the state. According to health officials, patients above 60 years account for over 41% of the total Covid-19 deaths in the state. “While age in itself is a risk factor, a good number of elderly people suffer with at least one comorbid condition like diabetes, hypertension or cardiac ailment. Under such a condition, Covid-19 infection creates a kind of double attack on the body which proves fatal for two out of three elderly persons,” stated Dr Abhishek Shukla, geriatric physician, based in the city. Meanwhile, as many as 6,337 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours in the state. With this, the Covid-19 tally for UP reached 3.33lakh. Prasad stated the state’s Covid-19 recovery rate had reached 78.29% as 6,476 persons were discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/marginal-increase-in-elderly-patients-leaves-govt-worried/articleshow/78156904.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese workforce in demand, 500 return to India through Banbasa||PITHORAGARH: With economic activity resuming, Nepalese workers who had gone back to their country following the Covid-induced lockdown, are now gradually returning to India. In the past few days, over 500 workers from Nepal have entered India through the Banbasa checkpost in Champawat district. SN Pandey, district magistrate of Champawat, said that while the border between the countries continues to remain shut, some Nepalese workers who are employed in apple orchards in Himachal Pradesh, were allowed to return. “In August, the Himachal government had requested the central government to give permission to Nepalese workers who work in apple orchards in the state since apple farmers are in need of the workers,” Pandey said, adding that the district administrations of Champawat and Kanchanpur (in Nepal) had held a meeting after which the Nepalese workers were granted permission to come to India. As per estimates, over 36,000 Nepalese workers had returned to their country through the Banbasa checkpoint after the lockdown in India. To recall, the movement between India and Nepal was stopped from March 23 onwards. Meanwhile, Nepalese workers who returned to India, expressed happiness at being back. “We had been without work since April. So when our employer contacted us and asked us to come, we were quite happy to do so,” said Tika Ram, a resident of Kanchanpur district who works in an apple farm in Himachal. Vijay Kumar Jogdande, district magistrate of Pithoragarh, said that some local contractors had also approached the district administration to give permission so that they, too, can call their Nepalese workers to India. ‘We have sent their request to the ministry of home affairs and will act in accordance to the guidelines received,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-workforce-in-demand-500-return-to-india-through-banbasa/articleshow/78152706.cms||Prem Punetha
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Man hacks teen daughter in public for visiting beau||Kanpur: In a suspected case of honour killing, a man hacked his teenage daughter to death in Kanpur Dehat on Wednesday morning in full public view after she fled home and went to her boyfriend’s house. The man was arrested and the axe used in the gruesome killing was recovered. “The 18-year-old daughter of the accused was allegedly in love with a 20-year-old youth who runs a grocery shop in village Khanpana village under Gajner police station. On Tuesday late night, she escaped from her home and went to the youth’s house,” said police officials. The boy and his father informed the girl’s father that she has come to their home and is insisting on staying there only. Her father picked up an axe and went to the youth’s residence with other family members. He asked her to return home, but she refused and started arguing. The man lost his temper and attacked his daughter repeatedly with the axe till she lay lifeless, say cops. The youth tried to save her but was also attacked and suffered grievous injuries, they added. Local residents informed police after which senior officials reached the spot and called a forensic team. Additional superintendent of police, Kanpur Dehat, Anup Kumar said, “It’s a case of honour killing. We have arrested the girl’s father and recovered the axe. The statements of villagers were recorded and the man booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC) . The injured youth is undergoing treatment at district hospital and doctors said his condition is stable. Investigation is on and police have been deployed in the village to stop any untoward incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-hacks-teen-daughter-in-public-for-visiting-beau/articleshow/78156931.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 17, 2020||Hubballi||Seven held, more than 3kg of ganja seized in Vijayapura||Vijayapura/ Madikeri: Against the backdrop of an intensifying crackdown on the drug racket in the state, seven people were arrested in Vijayapura district in two separate incidents on Wednesday for their alleged involvement in sale of ganja. Sindagi police on Wednesday seized 2.3kg of ganja, in addition to a car and a two-wheeler from a gang of six – Suresh Natikar, Madiwalappa Pareet, Babu Lawate, Sharat, Gagan and S Manoj. “The value of the drugs that we have seized is estimated to be around Rs 25,000. They were arrested along the National Highway-50 in Aheri in Sindagi town. Of the six members of the gang, three had come to Vijayapura from Bengaluru to sell the drug,” said Sindagi police. In the other incident involving seizure of drugs, Horti police arrested Revansiddha Rathod in Deginal village. Cops seized 750g of ganja from Rathod, and a case has been registered. Two peddlers arrested by Kodagu cops in B’luru Nearly three weeks after Kodagu police busted a drug racket, and arrested three individuals for their alleged link to peddling MDMA or ecstasy, two others who had evaded capture on August 28 were nabbed in Bengaluru on Wednesday. A team led by Kodagu district crime information bureau in-charge inspector Chandrashekhar arrested Saara also known as Saara Khan of Tarikere and Faisal, a resident of Banaswadi in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/seven-held-more-than-3kg-of-ganja-seized-in-vijayapura/articleshow/78153924.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||SIT reaches Mahoba, starts murder probe||Lucknow: The three-member special investigation team (SIT) formed by UP DGP HC Awasthy on September 14 to probe the murder of crusher dealer Indrakant Tripathi reached Mahoba and began the probe. The team stayed at Kabrai police station for several hours. The SIT is headed by IG, Varanasi range, Vijay Singh Meena while DIG, special enquiries, Shalabh Mathur and SP, human rights, Ashok Tripathi are its members. The team reached Kabrai police station in Mahoba district on Wednesday. The Special Investigation Team has to submit its report in seven days. “The team spent three hours at the police station, went through files and collected documents before leaving for the spot where Indrakant was shot,” said police sources.  The SIT also visited Baghwakhera village as the police believed that Indrakant had passed from the place before he was shot by unidentified persons. The SIT team interacted with villagers, but did not interact with mediapersons. The team is camping in the area. Meanwhile, five days have passed since the murder of Indrakant and police have still not been able to arrest any person so far. The police have also not been able to retrieve the missing mobile phone of the slain trader. “We are still working upon the case,” said Superintendent of police, Mahoba, Arun Srivastava. On September 8, Indrakant was shot at by unidentified persons hours after he made a video which went viral, accusing then SP, Mahoba, Manilal Patidar of indulging in extortion. He had also alleged that if anything untowards happens to him Patidar should be held responsible. Indrakant succumbed to injuries on September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-reaches-mahoba-starts-murder-probe/articleshow/78156922.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Vadodara||32 docs appointed on contractual basis||Vadodara: A total of 32 doctors have been appointed on contractual basis at the state-run SSG Hospital. The doctors who have been appointed are the ones who have finished their postgraduate studies from the Baroda Medical College. According to the district administration, the appointments have been made under the National Health Mission (NHM) to strengthen health infrastructure in view of the Covid-19 at the government hospital. The doctors will be handling Covid-19 duties and have been appointed as Class-1 medical professionals on 11 months contract with fixed salary. The appointments have been made as per provisions and guidelines of the state health and family welfare department with clearance from Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal. SSG like other hospitals is facing shortage of manpower due to Covid-19 induced pandemic. Medical fraternity in the state has been pressing for appointment of trained doctors in government hospitals in the state to handle Covid-19 duties. Agrawal on Wednesday apprised chief secretary Anil Mukim regarding the appointments and other steps taken by the administration to strengthen health infrastructure in the district during a video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/32-docs-appointed-on-contractual-basis/articleshow/78153274.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cong leader George Mercier dead||T’puram: Congress leader and former MLA of Kovalam George Mercier died on Wednesday following a brief illness. He was 66. Mercier – who was an executive member of KPCC had represented Kovalam in the assembly during 2006-11. Mercier began his political career as a KSU worker. He served as district vice-president of Congress and president of district cooperative bank. A noted lawyer in Thiruvananthapuram bar, Mercier was an active voice in trade union field too. He leaves behind wife Prasanna Kumari and sons Arun George and Anoop George. His mortal remains will be brought to DCC office at 10:30am on Thursday. Funeral service will take place at St Thomas Church, Palayam at 11am. CM Pinarayi Vijayan condoled his death. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala remembered him as a tall leader who contributed greatly to trade union and cooperative sectors. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said Mercier’s death created a deep vacuum in the district leadership. MP Shashi Tharoor remembered Mercier as the strong leader who spearheaded his campaign in Kazhakkoottam assembly segment during last year’s Lok Sabha poll. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-leader-george-mercier-dead/articleshow/78155292.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Law students upset with BCI exam norms in Goa||PANAJI: A law student in Karnataka has filed a PIL against the Bar Council of India (BCI) directives permitting physical exams for intermediate semesters of law programmes. In Goa too, law students have expressed their dismay over these norms. The exams for the intermediate semesters are scheduled to begin from October 5. Even though the students had taken up the matter with their institutes in the state, Law colleges are bound by the BCI guidelines. “Recently, the final year exams for LLB and LLM were held online, so why expose these other students to the risk by conducting the physical examination. There is no survey that identifies if any students have already tested positive, were quarantined or in home isolation. The colleges should be allowed to opt for online system of examination the way they were conducted for LLM and BA LLB and LLB final year programmes earlier,” said a law student from Goa. Just as the PIL in Karnataka high court terms the BCI guidelines issued in June outdated now, in view of the rising Covid cases, students in Goa too said that they are worried with the increase in Covid infections. Their contention is also that the exam timetable was released on September 10 and that they did not have sufficient preparation time. “The interest of the student is not taken care of, also the students’ mental state during such a pandemic. We have to attend online lectures of their current semester and study for the exams of the previous semester simultaneously,” said a law student. Officials in the know said that if the exams are not conducted now students will be further burdened with the backlog in the coming months. “Also, it has been clearly mentioned in the notification that only those students who can should answer the exam. Others can attempt the exam later and it will not be counted as a repeat attempt. It is also unlikely that all 300 to 400 law students in Goa share the views that the exams should not be held as planned,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/law-students-upset-with-bci-exam-norms/articleshow/78156666.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||ABAP, VHP divided over seer who said Uddhav Thackeray not welcome in Ayodhya||HARIDWAR: A day after Champat Rai, international vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), strongly condemned Ayodya-based seer Raju Das for saying “Uddhav Thackeray will not be allowed to enter Ayodhya”, Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), said that Rai's strong reaction was "uncalled for and he should avoid making such remarks." Speaking with TOI, Giri said, “We don’t endorse commenta made by seer Raju Das and he should not have said anything like that but we feel that Champat Rai’s strong reaction was also avoidable. We urge Rai to not display such egotistical behaviour and keep respecting seers as he has been doing for a long time.” Das, the mahant of Hanuman Garhi temple in Ayodhya, had made the remark regarding Thackeray while speaking in a TV debate. According to Das, his comment was prompted by a Shiv Sena representative in the debate who was continuously slamming Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Like most other seers, we are hurt by the Maharashtra government’s utter apathy in the Palghar lynching case. Bal Thackeray’s slogan was ‘pehle mandir phir sarkar’ (first Ram Temple then government) but Uddhav’s inaction in the Palghar case has disillusioned the entire seer community,” Das alleged. Reacting to this, Rai, who is also the general secretary of Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, came out in support of the Shiv Sena chief, saying that Das's statement had been misconstrued as VHP’s stand in local Maharashtra news portals and newspapers, and was not the official stand of the VHP. “There can be no ban on entry of any individual to a holy place or a place of worship,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/abap-vhp-divided-over-seer-who-said-uddhav-thackeray-not-welcome-in-ayodhya/articleshow/78152731.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Chakka jam on roads precursor to riots’||NEW DELHI: Giving details about how the alleged conspirators of the riots gave a final shape to their plan, the chargesheet filed by Delhi Police mentions that the rioters moved in a coordinated manner from point to point in northeast Delhi. Police claim to have backed this information with data of locations obtained through call analysis and other electronic means. The movements were also established through the WhatsApp conversations retrieved from mobile devices. Police sources said that the probe found that on February 22 night, the alleged key conspirators, under the guise of women leading the 24x7 sit-in protest near Madina Masjid at Seelampur, occupied the 66 Foota Road at Jafrabad metro station, completely blocking the traffic. The next day, the conspirators from other protest sites in northeast and other parts of Delhi moved to pre-decided points on arterial roads and blocked or attempted to block the traffic. These blockades, police claimed, were chosen as part of a coordinated plan to completely paralyse traffic in a large part of the capital. “The intent was not to create traffic chaos, but to ensure communal skirmish, as is evident from the movement from predominantly minority clusters where 24x7 sit-in dharnas were being held to areas of mixed population for causing the chakka jam. The blockade was to be followed up by pre-engineered riots involving attack on police and non-Muslim population, damage and destruction of government and public property, and by arson, vandalising and other means,” the police investigation claimed. It was also claimed by police that protesters from other sites visited the chakka jam at Jafrabad metro station on the intervening night of February 22 and 23 “to learn the modus operandi and the response and action mechanism of police”. From February 23, the conspirators from other protest sites completely blocked the traffic at pre-designated spots on the main roads, police further claimed. “The investigation shows that protesters from the Chand Bagh protest site occupied the main road and enforced a chakka jam on Wazirabad-Ghaziabad Road. Protesters from the site at Farukhiya Masjid-Brijpuri Pulia blocked traffic at Brijpuri T-Point on Wazirabad-Ghaziabad Road. Subsequently, protesters near Kardampuri Pulia blocked the traffic at T-Point of 66 Foota Road. Those from the Khureji protest site blocked the main Patparganj road,” claimed a source. The source added that later, traffic on 66 Foota Road, Wazirabad-Ghaziabad Road and other important stretches in northeast Delhi, Shahdara and east Delhi was completely blocked by protesters from all other sites in the region. Protesters from Hauz Rani blocked Press Enclave Road, Saket, in south Delhi. Following the chakka jam, the first phase of the riots began with coordinated attacks on police and soon spread to the general public. “Firearms, petrol bombs, acid attacks, sharp-edged weapons, iron rods, sticks, stone-pelting through large prefabricated slingshots and by other means were used for attacking and killing police personnel, government employees and the general public,” police said. “Soon after, a petrol pump was set ablaze in an attempt to cause a large-scale explosion. This could have resulted in deaths on a very large scale and spread terror. The conspiracy was also hatched to paralyse the access to essential supplies and services such as hospitals, medical stores, Delhi Metro and other public transport, schools and colleges,” the probe claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chakka-jam-on-roads-precursor-to-riots/articleshow/78156610.cms||Raj Shekhar
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP transfers Rs 1,311 crore to 87 lakh pension beneficiaries||LUCKNOW: The state government on Wednesday released the second instalment of quarterly pension for nearly 87 lakh beneficiaries on Wednesday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath digitally transferred Rs 1,311 crore into the accounts of the beneficiaries, which included widows, homeless women, differently abled and those afflicted with leprosy. The pension is for the period from July to September. The CM said that if the weakest links in the society are empowered, then society as a whole can move towards financial self-reliance. “This will become the basis of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. The government will do its best to ensure that nobody faces any shortage of food during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. ‘Ensure meals in aanganwadi centres via self-help groups’“It has, therefore, been decided that even if one does not have a ration card, one will be made for them immediately and food distributed accordingly,” he added. Since April 2020, soon after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, ration has been made available to beneficiaries twice a month The CM said that efforts were also made to connect each person with Ayushman Bharat Yojana or the CM Jan Arogya Scheme. If for some reason a person has neither of the cards, then Rs 1,000 will be given for treatment under the gram pradhan fund or local body fund. “I have also directed district magistrates that if a homeless person dies and there is no arrangement for their final rites, then they will allocate Rs 5,000 from gram pradhan fund or local body fund and perform the funeral rites for the person,” the CM said. The CM also said that to make women financially independent, they should be involved in self-help groups. He added that the state government is trying to ensure that meals being distributed in anganwadi centres are given out through self-help groups. During the programme, the CM interacted with beneficiaries of the pension scheme from Prayagraj, Ayodhya, Fatehpur, Lalitput, Deoria, Varanasi and Chitrakoot. Government sources said that in the first quarter from April to June, 86,71,781 beneficiaries were given pension and assistance through the PM Garib Kalyan Package. The government transferred a total of Rs 2,172 crore to the beneficiaries. Beneficiaries under old age pension, homeless women pension and disability pension have been given Rs 1,500 for the quarter. Under leprosy pension, the government is giving Rs 7,500 per beneficiary for the quarter. Under widow pension, 49,87,054 beneficiaries were given Rs 748 crore. Another 26, 06,213 homeless women were given Rs 391 crore. Under disability pension, 10,90,436 beneficiaries were given Rs 164 crore while under leprosy pension, 11,324 beneficiaries were given Rs 8.49 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-transfers-rs-1311-cr-to-87l-pension-beneficiaries/articleshow/78156957.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Accident deaths in rural Ludhiana outnumber urban casualties||Ludhiana: After a fall in road accident-related deaths in both urban and rural areas of Ludhiana for several years, there was again an increase in casualties in the district, with rural areas accounting for more deaths than urban areas, suggests an official data.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report for 2019, the number of deaths in road accidents in urban areas of Ludhiana in 2019 was 176, of whom 151 were males and the remaining females. In 2018, the number of such deaths in urban areas was 173, of whom 142 were males and 31 victims were females.The NCRB data for the last few years suggests that till 2018, there was a decrease in the number of accident deaths in urban areas, down from 189 in 2015 to 186 in 2017.The number of deaths in road accidents in rural areas of Ludhiana in 2019 was 189, of which 158 were males and the remaining females. In 2018, the number of such deaths in rural areas was 155, of whom 134 were males, whereas the rest were females. There was an increase of 34 accident-related deaths in 2019 over the previous year, though the count was still less than 192 in 2016.As for the location of such deaths, the data suggests, the maximum number of casualties were reported from urban residential areas, as 78 persons lost their lives in accidents near such areas in Ludhiana in 2019, followed by near pedestrian crossings where 14 persons perished, followed by areas close to schools/ colleges/ other educational institutions, which saw 12 persons dying in road accidents.The data for deaths in accidents near residential areas in the urban areas of Ludhiana for the last few years shows that in 2015, 85 persons had died, which increased to 99 in 2016 before falling again to 62 in 2018. International road safety expert Kamaljit Soi attributed the rise in accident deaths in both urban and rural areas of Ludhiana to several factors."Speed is the number one reason for such deaths, as most accidents occur due to speeding. The second reason is the bad condition of roads, which cause accidents. Thirdly, strict enforcement of road rules is not there, so there is no fear of being caught among the violators. All these factors contribute to the higher number of deaths on the roads in urban and rural areas of Ludhiana," said Soi.Box 1:Perished on roads in districtYear/Area Total deaths Male Female2019/Rural 189 158 31Urban 176 151 252018/Rural 155 134 21Urban 173 142 312017/Rural 165 143 22Urban 186 156 302016/Rural 192 161 31Urban 192 165 272015/Rural 159 143 16Urban 189 166 23Box 2:Area Deaths (2019) Ludhiana urban area Total M FNear schools/colleges 12 10 2Near residential area 78 67 11Near religious place 8 7 1Near recreation place/ 6 6 0Cinema halls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/accident-deaths-in-rural-ludhiana-outnumber-urban-casualties/articleshow/78153937.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 snuffs out 15 lives, infects record 562||TNNLudhiana: Ludhiana witnessed the highest single-day surge in cases on Wednesday, when 562 of its residents tested positive for Covid-19, as per the state media bulletin. The day also saw 15 Ludhianvis succumbing to the virus. Besides, 11 patients from outside the district died of Covid-19 here and 38 tested positive.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 61-year-old man of Lakshmi Colony, who had diabetes, hypertension and coronary artery disease; a 59-year-old woman of Haibowal Kalan who had diabetes, hypertension; a 52-year-old man of Shivpuri with chronic kidney and liver disease; a 54-year-old man of Thareeke village with diabetes and acute pancreatitis; a 50-year-old man of Moti Bagh Colony with acute kidney injury; a 56-year-old man of Begowal; a man, 65, of Barmalipur with diabetes and hypertension.The others who succumbed included a 57-year-old man of Rahaun in Khanna, who had hypertension; a 63-year-old man of Gujjar Ladowal; a 59-year-old man of Akalgarh, Raikot, who had diabetes, hypertension; a woman, 50, of Dhorkot village; a 51-year-old woman of Green Park, Civil Lines; a 73-year-old man of New Kuldeep Nagar; a 58-year-old diabetic man of Dugri; and a 62-year-old woman of Manki village in Samrala.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally has climbed to 622 and 174 outsiders have succumbed to the virus here to date.So far, 2,07,382 suspects have been tested.Of the 562 Ludhiana positive cases, 175 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 75 positive cases’ contacts, 141 from OPD, two police personnel, 11 health-care workers, eight with severe acute respiratory infection and one pre-operative case.As per the local health bulletin, the district case count now stands at 14,908 and that of outsiders at 1,637.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-snuffs-out-15-lives-infects-record-562/articleshow/78153941.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Industry gasps for oxygen, suppliers say told to focus on medical needs||Ludhiana: In a setback to the local factories, there is a huge shortage of oxygen gas for industrial purposes and it is available only in the black market at exorbitant rates. According to the factory owners, the gas suppliers are claiming that the state government has asked them not to supply gas to factories in the wake of rising coronavirus cases and there was an increase in supply to the hospitals. However, factory owners said there was ample production of oxygen gas for both medical and industrial purposes and artificial shortage was being created. Oxygen gas is needed in the units for cutting, welding, oxygen level control in furnaces, among others. Dev Garg, vice-president of the All India Induction Furnace Association, said, “Manufacturers and suppliers of industrial grade oxygen have stopped supply to the factories, alleging the government directions. But in reality, enough gas is being produced by the plants to meet both the medical as well as the industrial needs. Situation has become so worse that due to unavailability of gas, some of the units have suspended production. What is worse is that now the gas is being supplied to the factories in the black. Earlier, the rate of refilling of 10 cubic metre gas was Rs 230, which has shot up almost five times to Rs 900.”Asserting that they agree that preference should be given to medical supply, he said they want the government to know that there was no shortage, which is being created. “This will kill the industry,” he added.According to KK Garg, president of Induction Furnace Association of North India (IFANI), “Industrial grade oxygen gas is needed for various purposes in the factories, especially furnace and rolling mills. On an average close to 500-600 cylinders are used per month in each furnace or rolling mill. An estimated 40,000-50,000 are needed in furnaces and rolling mills of Ludhiana alone. But unfortunately only 500-600 cylinders are being supplied, which is hurting the industry, particularly when we started getting some orders after a gap of so many months. We request the government to help the industry and immediately pass an order to fix rates of gas for industrial purposes and take strict action against black-marketeers.”Gas rates go upAccording to businessmen, earlier 10 cubic metres of gas was available for Rs 230, but now some suppliers were charging Rs 800 to Rs 900 for it. As per estimates given by business associations, there was a demand of close to 40,000 to 50,000 oxygen gas cylinders per month for furnaces and rolling mills alone, but they were getting only 600-800, owing to which some units have shut down production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/industry-gasps-for-oxygen-suppliers-say-told-to-focus-on-medical-needs/articleshow/78153946.cms||Mohit Behl
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa University registrar resigns, Radhika Nayak to officiate||PANAJI: With just seven months left for his five-year term to end, Goa University registrar YV Reddy resigned from the post on Wednesday citing health reasons. Until his replacement, Radhika Nayak, currently coordinator of GU’s college development council, has been appointed officiating registrar. Reddy’s decision took academic circles by surprise, given that his term would have ended anyway by mid-April. He served as a key figure at GU as it navigated the uncertainties of the pandemic. He is also recognized in academic circles for his affable and helping manner. An order issued by GU said that Nayak will hold additional charge as registrar. “until further orders or till the post is filled on full-time tenure basis”. The new registrar will now be chosen based on the recommendation of a selection committee. This committee will comprise three members, and will be chaired by the vice-chancellor. The other two members will be nominated by the executive council from among its own members. A senior professor of commerce, Reddy has vast educational experience, having served as dean of GU’s faculty of commerce and management studies, and having almost three decades of teaching experience. He was appointed registrar in lieu, and will now be reporting back to his parent department. Earlier, Reddy served as member of the executive council, university court, planning board, academic council and finance committee of GU. He has also published over 70 research papers in national and international journals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-registrar-resigns-radhika-nayak-to-officiate/articleshow/78156633.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Shortage of garbage vehicles adds to Jaipur’s trash torment||JAIPUR: Garbage disposal continues to be a perennial problem in the city. In Vidhyadhar Nagar, garbage vehicles are coming every two days, which basically means collection of trash on pavements and alsong roadside. Deepa Sharma, a resident of the area, said though the situation has improved compared to what it was a month ago, garbage vehicles are not coming daily. In Nahri ka Nakka area, residents are complaining that vehicles are coming on main roads but inner lanes are being ignored. “Sanitation workers are supposed to clean these lanes, but they do not come regularly. Garbage continues to choke drains in the area and no one bothers,” said Mohmmad Rafiq, another resident. On the outskirts of the city, the situation is even worse. Santosh Bhattacharya, a resident of Amber, said for the last one month, garbage vehicles are not coming. “Vehicles are not on time and in such a vast region, only two vehicles are deployed. In my colony, it’s been more than a month that any garbage vehicle has come and we have to throw trash on street corners or in empty plots,” said Bhattacharya. Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater and Heritage have 550 garbage vehicles instead of 750 that is required. It has been a long-standing demand of Jaipur city that the number of vehicles should be increased. A senior officer at Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater said, “We have ordered the garbage collection contractors to increase the number of vehicles, but they haven’t implemented it yet. We are looking into the matter and will take appropriate steps soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shortage-of-garbage-vehicles-adds-to-citys-trash-torment/articleshow/78155273.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Riots probe: Activists claim sinister plan by Delhi cops||NEW DELHI: Before he was arrested, Umar Khalid had made a video alleging that Delhi Police was trying to frame on false charges those who were protesting against the government. This particular clip was played out at a press conference called by activists on Wednesday in which senior advocate Prashant Bhushan claimed that the investigation into the Delhi riots was a criminal conspiracy and police had been trying to frame innocent people protesting peacefully against CAA and NRC. Several speakers raised doubts over the investigation at the press meet titled “criminalising and silencing dissent”. However, Khalid’s former fellow scholar from JNU, Kanhaiya Kumar, gave the event a miss despite being publicised for it. Later, Kumar issued a statement saying questions were bound to be raised over the investigation as its purpose was not to ensure justice “but to take political revenge.” Khalid’s mother sat in silence as the video played out. “If this video is out, then it means I have been arrested. Police aren’t arresting the rioters. Those who gave provocative statements have not even been called for questioning. However, those protesting against CAA and NRC are being booked on false charges without any proof,” he alleged. “Police are running an edited 17-minute speech where I’m talking about Satyagraha. People are being forced to give false statements. What is my fault? To say India is as much mine as it is yours? There is an attempt at politics of division and anyone speaking against it is being threatened. Do not fear and continue to speak up,” Khalid said. Bhushan said, “The people who led the CAA-NRC protests are being blamed for stoking the riots, but those who gave provocative speeches are not. While police claim that the riots were organised to match with the arrival of US president Donald Trump, even the government had no information about his schedule. An inquiry should be conducted in the police’s investigation.” Former planning commission member Syeda Hamid said that once activist Harsh Mander came to Jamia and told the students that responding to hate with hate was not the right way forward. “But we saw how he was targeted. If anyone speaks up for democracy, then we see drama unfold before our eyes,” Hamid added. Kanhaiya Kumar took to Facebook and said, “Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Saba Dewan, Rahul Roy, professor Apoorvanand and professor Jayati Ghosh were subjected to allegations regarding the riots. Even BJP functionaries who openly incited the riots should be questioned. The conspiracy to divide the society should be thwarted and people should maintain their unity.” Activist Kavita Krishnan said, “The government is scared of the voice of youths. If they arrest one of us, then the others should also be arrested as we are all united against them.” The other activists at the meet issued a joint statement alleging “dereliction of duty” by police. “We want a fair investigation, but Delhi Police has resorted to a sinister plan to brand, target, frame and arrest all those voices who dare to speak up against the unconstitutional and immoral CAA,” they added. “We demand an immediate end to the outrageous investigation being conducted with prejudice and mala fide intent. The activists booked under UAPA should be released immediately. A judicial inquiry commission should be constituted to punish the real culprits and ensure justice for the Delhi violence,” said the activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riots-probe-activists-claim-sinister-plan-by-cops/articleshow/78156638.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Surat||Gandhian Engineering Idea competition to be held on Oct 2||Surat: Surat-based Auro University will organize Gandhian Engineering Idea competition for innovation based on Gandhian principles, on October 2 as part of the 151th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.“We are encouraging student innovation engineering, science, technology and design through affordable and frugal solutions,” said an Auro University officials.The last date of submitting entry is September 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gandhian-engineering-idea-competition-to-be-held-on-oct-2/articleshow/78153977.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||HC calls for vigil on court jurisdictions||Madurai: Members of the Bar should be more vigilant on jurisdictional aspects of the courts and should render correct and proper advice to the litigants, the Madras high court has said. The court also dismissed a plea filed by R Marimuthu, who runs a motor mechanic shop in Trichy district, seeking a direction not to permit an employee of BHEL, Trichy, to retire as he had failed to repay the Rs 6 lakh he had borrowed from him.Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that when the court questioned as to how these kinds of grievances can be redressed, the petitioner’s counsel said that the BHEL employee, K Dhandapandi is due to retire on September 24 and if he is permitted to do so, he would vacate his quarters and it would be difficult to recover the money.The judge observed that if at all the petitioner has got any grievances with regard to the alleged transaction, he could have filed a suit for recovery or he could have filed a complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act or could have preferred a police complaint. When such kinds of enormous legal remedies are available in the eye of law, the petitioner has chosen to approach the court as if he is having service dispute with Dhandapani.“When these kind of personal disputes are brought to the jurisdiction under Article 226 of Constitution seeking remedy by issuance of prerogative writs, I am afraid that the majesty of this court as well as the jurisdictional aspects under which, this court exercise its power under Article 226 of the Constitution, would be at stake and will be questionable,” observed the judge.The judge further observed that some members of the Bar without even verifying the proper legal remedy available to a litigant, straight away approach the high court knowingly or unknowingly by invoking the extraordinary jurisdiction of this court under Article 226. The judge noted that though the court had time and again sensitized the litigants through the counsels, such kinds of practice has not come to an end.Observing that such kinds of situation should not continue forever, the judge requested the members of the Bar to be more vigilant in rendering proper advice to the litigants who approach them for immediate redressal of their grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-calls-for-vigil-on-court-jurisdictions/articleshow/78156636.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 17, 2020||Mangaluru||ABVP demands survey on workload of teaching, non-teaching faculty at MU||Mangaluru: Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarathi Parishat (ABVP) has urged the Syndicate of Mangalore University to take serious note of the recent Facebook post of Govindaraju BM, associate professor in the post-graduate department of sociology at Mangalore University. The university authorities should carry out a survey of both teaching and non-teaching staff who are getting their salaries without adequate workload, ABVP said. Condemning the statement that Govindaraju made in the FB post that read, “I am proud to be a teacher, because drawing good salary without work”, Sandesh Rao, district convener of ABVP said the import and timing of the statement is ill-conceived in that many teachers and lecturers have lost their jobs due to the prevalent pandemic induced economic situation. These teachers are now doing odd jobs to sustain themselves, he said. The university should furnish details of the workload of its teaching staff and obtain guidance from the government on how to utilise the same optimally. Besides, the Syndicate, which is the highest decision-making body of the university too should ensure that there is no repeat of such instances which show the university in poor light. Such statements on the education system by a senior faculty of the university is indeed surprising, Sandesh said. In addition, vice-chancellor PS Yadapadithaya should also probe rumours that heads and coordinators of some of the study chairs under the aegis of the university have claimed remuneration for posts they hold without conducting a single activity worth the name since February/March citing the lockdown on account of the global pandemic, he said. “We expect the VC to go public with his observation on this issue as well,” Sandesh noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/abvp-demands-survey-on-workload-of-teaching-non-teaching-faculty-at-mu/articleshow/78153984.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||2100km rural roads to be renovated under Central govt flagship scheme||Lucknow: The state government’s rural outreach to cement its image in the heartland in the run-up to 2022 polls was taken a notch higher with identification of 748 village roads which have been brought under Centre’s flagship PM Grameen Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). Under the scheme, roads straddling 2100km of the rural heartland would be renovated by Central funds of which Rs 204 crore has already been released. While public works department (PWD) would renovate 420 roads, remaining 328 roads would be refurbished by rural engineering department (RED). Data with rural development department accessed by TOI show the twin departments would be renovating 1100km and 995km of roads respectively and work would be taken up in 56 districts. A September 8 order issued by the UP Rural Roads Development Agency (UPRRDA) stressed on quick disbursement of funds for upkeep of the rural road network. Districts which would benefit from the infrastructure booster funds include Shahjahanpur, where 55 roads would be taken up by PWD, Bahraich (49km), Hardoi (45km), Fatehpur (38km), Sitapur (39km), Gonda (39km), Farukkhabad (28km) and Siddharthnagar (26km).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2100km-rural-roads-to-be-renovated-under-central-govt-flagship-scheme/articleshow/78156969.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Protest at demolition drive, Glada officials injured||tnnLudhiana: Disorder was witnessed during a demolition drive by Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) in Vishwakarma Colony and Khokha Market on Chandigarh Road on Wednesday, when some illegal shanties and a 40-year-old religious structure were razed. The occupants and a few BJP leaders opposed the move and also pelted the officials with stones. Some of the Glada officials received minor injuries.The BJP leaders claimed they would get FIRs registered against the Glada officials for hurting religious sentiments. A Glada team removed shanties in Khokha Market, where demolition drive was conducted a few months ago, but some structures were still left. When the officials reached Vishwakarma Colony, people opposed them and some occupants lay in front of the machine. But when the drive did not stop and the religious structure was also razed, BJP functionaries, including Tirath Taneja, Dharmendra Sharma and Jatinder Goreyan, reached the spot and asked the officials not to dismantle the structures as people would become homeless in the time of pandemic. It was alleged that when dismantling religious structure, they were not given a chance to take out the idols. When the situation became tense and stone pelting started, the police reached the spot and used mild force to stop protesters and three leaders were detained. Other senior BJP functionaries reached the spot on learning about the incident. BJP district general secretary Kantendu Sharma said when he reached the site, the religious structure was already razed and people were protesting against the Glada officials. He said they would get FIRs registered against the Glada officials for hurting religious sentiments. “Glada could have avoided this drive for at least two more months as these people have nowhere to go,” he added. Industrial Area-A ACP Simaranjit Singh said those who tried to interrupt the drive and pelted stones were being identified and action would be taken against them. As far as allegations against Glada officials were concerned, he said they were yet to receive a written complaint. Till the time of filing of the report, the entire BJP district unit functionaries were sitting on a protest at Moti Nagar police station with a demand of an FIR against Glada officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/protest-at-demolition-drive-glada-officials-injured/articleshow/78153990.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Surat||Three diamond units shut for Covid-19 violation||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday ordered shut down of three diamond polishing units in Katargam for violation on Covid-19 guidelines and also collected Rs 5,000 as penalty from these firms.The units that were ordered closure include Niti Export, Shivan Jewellers, Niti Export. Three cases each were reported from the units. Moreover, two units did not have adequate ventilation. A total of 80 workers were working in these three units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-diamond-units-shut-for-covid-19-violation/articleshow/78134767.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||4.8L aspirants write PTET exam, result within 15 days||Jaipur: The state-level PTET exam was conducted by the Government Dungar College of Bikaner on Wednesday.Exam co-ordinator G P Singh said out of the total 1.89 lakh candidates registered for the four-year course, around 1.57 lakh took the test, the total percentage being 82.86%. Similarly, out of 3.67 lakh candidates registered for the two-year course, 3.26 lakh took the examination and the total percentage was 88.85%.Singh said efforts will be made to declare the results in 15 days. He said that 1.42 lakh seats will be filled in a total of 1,400 BEd colleges. The coordinator said that admission will be given to students on the basis of the criteria set by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-8l-aspirants-write-ptet-exam-result-within-15-days/articleshow/78155301.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||FBI seeks SOG help to curb online fraud||JAIPUR: The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has written to Special Operations Group (SOG) through the US embassy to probe into online fraud targeting foreigners. In February, cops had arrested 23 people who were running fake call centres in Jaipur through which they were defrauding people in the US, China and Hong Kong by claiming to get them loans at lower rate of interest. While action has been taken against the accused by cops, SOG arrested one person in the matter. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS told TOI, “Looking into the gravity and complexity of the case, we have formed an SIT headed by a seasoned investigating officer. We have been able to record victims’ statements over video calls. We are probing the money trail.” The accused would gather contact details of Americans using websites like Yellow Page directories. Then, they would either generate voice calls or email their victims saying their loans had been approved or that they could apply for loans. They would explain the American loan process to their unwary targets and once a person bought this, the accused asked them for a security deposit. Police arrested 16 people from the call centre at Shyam Nagar, while seven were held from the hub operating out of Shipra Path. The accused, however, did not accept cash or cheque. “They asked their victims to buy gift cards from various online shopping sites and then ask them to scratch the number printed on the back of the card. Following this, they would sell this number either virtually, or in person, in return for bitcoins. They would then get the bitcoins encashed in places like Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fbi-seeks-sog-help-to-curb-online-fraud/articleshow/78155316.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Footpath encroachment by vendors irk citizens||Jaipur: Encroaching of footpaths by street vendors has become a major issue in the city. Many hawkers are selling various items on footpath and roadside near Birla Temple and Rajasthan University, making it difficult for the commuters.Many idol sellers and snack vendors have made the area adjacent to the Rajasthan University boundary at Shanti Path their permanent spot. In the evening, it becomes difficult to cross the area due to the crowd that gathers around them. With the relaxation in lockdown, people have become negligent, said a person who commutes on the stretch.Kanika Lalwani, a resident of Raja Park, said, “The idol sellers have completely encroached upon the footpath. They are there for the entire year and now various snack stalls have come up.”Mayank Khanna, a resident of the area, said that going to Rajasthan University or taking a turn from Birla Temple has become a problem. “In the evening, all kind of vendors encroach the roads. Although the temple is not opened yet, but when the temple reopens, more vendors will gather,” Mayank said.Enforcement officer at municipal corporation, Jaipur, said due to pandemic they have not been able to remove these vendors. “We were conducting anti-encroachment drives around the city, but with the staff being involved in pandemic duties, it has become difficult to conduct more drives. Now, with the lockdown rules being relaxed, we are chalking out a plan to remove the vendors again,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/footpath-encroachment-by-vendors-irk-citizens/articleshow/78155317.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Salem Tabri house, Tajpur Road unit catch fire||Ludhiana: Two fire incidents were reported in the city in a span of five hours.In the first incident, a fire broke out at a house in Salem Tabri around 10pm on Tuesday. Fireman Pawan Kumar said, “The house owner says a short circuit in an air-conditioner triggered the blaze at the third floor. We pressed into service two fire tenders to control the flames. As the house owner deals in toys, he had stored its raw material at home. Furniture, raw material and toys were gutted.” As blaze spread, people gathered at the spot. The second incident was reported at a blanket manufacturing unit on Tajpur Road around 3am on Wednesday.The flames had engulfed the first floor of Sakshi Weaving Factory opposite central jail, Mahaveer Jain Colony, where raw material was kept.There was nobody inside the factory when the incident took place, as it was closed at the time.Even as the exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, firemen suspected that short circuit might have sparked it.Fire station officer SN Sharma said, “A call was made to the Central Fire Station and fire tenders were rushed to the spot. It took more than three hours to control the blaze. The unit lacked water arrangements. We, therefore, had to arranged water from an adjoining unit and fire stations. Eight fire tenders made 25 rounds to control the situation. We returned at 7.25am.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/salem-tabri-house-tajpur-road-unit-catch-fire/articleshow/78153982.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Surat||History sheeter from Ghaziabad caught in Bharuch||Surat: The Bharuch local crime branch (LCB) on Wednesday arrested a notorious criminal for illegally possessing weapons. Police seized a pistol, two country-made revolvers and 29 live cartridges from Rahul Singh Khandelwal. The LCB arrested Khandelwal from Sevashram Road in Bharuch on Wednesday morning. Khandelwal is from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. He used to live in Jadeshwar locality of Bharuch town. He had parked his car on the roadside near Reliance shopping mall when he was arrested. Police said that Khandelwal was involved in numerous criminal cases in Ghaziabad ranging from murder, extortion to kidnapping. Khandelwal escaped from Ghaziabad. He had been staying in Bharuch for the past eight years. Khandelwal used to live in the house owned by one Hirava Tapiyawala, widow of Sunil Tapiyawala, who was murdered in 2013. In 2013, Khandelwal was lodged in Bharuch sub-jail in a suicide abetment case where he developed an intimate relationship with Hirava Tapiyawala. When he was released from the jail, Khandelwal started living with Hirava at her house in Jhadeshwar. Rajendrasinh Chudasama, Bharuch superintendent of police, said, “Khandelwal has a notorious past in Ghaziabad. The car from which the weapons were recovered is owned by Hirava Tapiyawala. We are yet to find out about the weapons recovered from Khandelwal. Whether he was going to deliver the weapons to someone or he was going to use them in some crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/history-sheeter-from-ghaziabad-caught-in-bharuch/articleshow/78154003.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Covid ploy to divert from key issues: Rohan Khaunte||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant is repeatedly using the Covid-19 pandemic, and its impact on the state, to distract and divert attention from key issues including the environment, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte has alleged. “The pandemic’s limitations are being repeatedly used by the chief minister to circumvent public opinion and opposition on every matter. Covid seems to be the best cover-up for suppression of public opinion and he is seizing the opportunity, time and again, to satisfy his central masters,” Khaunte alleged. Sawant recently informed the Centre that only 30 of the 96 villages around the Mollem national park and Bhagwan Mahaveer Sanctuary are ecologically sensitive. He also questioned Sawant’s claims that the government is working to reduce Covid-19 fatalities and bring down the mortality rate to zero. “Merely making a political announcement about zero mortality will not suffice. Does Sawant have a proper plan for ensuring it? The sparse infrastructure and conflicting decisions like opening of schools, it is, etc do not reflect genuine effort for zero mortality,” Khaunte said. The former minister in the BJP government said he holds Sawant responsible for the over 300 Covid deaths in Goa. “It’s his callousness about the pandemic, and his greedy affliction in finding opportunities for corruption behind the veil of Covid protocols, that’s brought us to this alarming stage where our death rate is higher than the national and world average per million,” he said. The Porvorim MLA also said that Goans must not remain mute spectators to the “blatant violations” committed by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-ploy-to-divert-from-key-issues-khaunte/articleshow/78156718.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Meerut||Pregnant woman, 25, beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A pregnant woman, who was locked in a room for five days without proper food and regularly thrashed allegedly by her husband and parents-in-law, died after suffering a miscarriage in Muzaffarnagar district. Murshida was 25. Her husband Mursaleen and his parents wanted a car and Rs 5lakh in cash, according to a complaint filed by Trabuddin, the Murshida’s father. “She was being harassed since her wedding day seven years ago,” he said. The alleged incident took place in Muzaffarnagar’s Tawali village on Tuesday night and the woman’s family has filed the complaint at Shahpur police station. Local police, meanwhile, said that the body of Murshida has been sent for post-mortem examination. And that a case will be registered once they receive its report, which will tell the exact cause of the death. Station house officer (SHO) of Shahpur police station, Dharmendra Singh, said, “Action will be taken on the basis of the post-mortem report. But the investigation has started on and statements are being taken.” Trabuddin said, “My daughter called and told me about her condition. She was four months pregnant and brutally beaten. I rushed to her in-laws house and took her to a hospital in Meerut. She died there on Tuesday night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pregnant-woman-25-beaten-to-death-by-hubby-in-laws-for-dowry-in-ups-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/78154010.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot term Centre’s new agriculture bill as anti-farmer||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday termed the three recently introduced agriculture sector-related bills as ‘anti-farmer’. CM Gehlot also criticised the bills and tweeted, “The three farm Bills that will replace ordinances brought by NDA are not in interest of farming community. It will affect livelihood of crores of farmers and others who depend on agriculture sector. The Bills will do away with the competitive bidding of agricultural produce in Mandis resulting in non-remunerative prices for farmers.” Pilot demanded that the central government carry out extensive consultations with political parties, farmers’ organisations, traders and agriculture experts and amend them. The government introduced the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill in Parliament on Monday to replace ordinances promulgated earlier. The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion. The farmers and mandi agents have been protesting against the move for some time. Attacking the Centre over the issue, Pilot accused the government of ‘betraying’ the farmers and said the three ordinances, for which bills have been introduced, were ‘anti-farmer’ and ‘anti-agriculture’. He further said, despite the issue being a state subject, neither the states nor the political parties or agricultural organisations were consulted by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-pilot-term-centres-new-agri-bill-as-anti-farmer/articleshow/78155320.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||BJP launches campaign to promote new edu policy||Jaipur: The BJP has launched its campaign for New Education Policy (NEP) in Rajasthan to popularise it across the state on Wednesday.It is part of their nation-wide campaign in non-BJP states. The party has given the charge of creating awareness on the policy to the former education minister Vasudev Devnani and Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari who was made the part of the NEP committee. Considering the importance of the policy, the party has appointed 44 NEP coordinators in the state to spread awareness on NEP.State BJP president Satish Poonia, while taking a virtual meeting, said that NEP is a milestone which will take the country to the next millennia. “It is important to take all important provisions to every citizen explaining them about the changes made by the BJP government,” said Poonia.Targeting the ruling congress for creating myths around the NEP, “The NEP framework introduced by the Congress government 35 years ago has made education a gas chamber for students. The new NEP has released them from the clutches of that pressure,” he said.The NEP improves the learning outcomes, doesn’t cause stress, skill and enhances the scientific temperament of the students. “The message of the NEP needs to be taken via series of webinars and virtual summits to ensure that it is widely understood by masses,” directed Poonia to the campaign in-charges and the coordinators.The ruling Congress has been consistently slamming the NEP has forced the BJP to build a strong counter for the NEP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-launches-campaign-to-promote-new-edu-policy/articleshow/78155321.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot term Centre’s new agriculture bill as anti-farmer||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Wednesday termed the three recently introduced agriculture sector-related bills as ‘anti-farmer’. CM Gehlot also criticised the bills and tweeted, “The three farm Bills that will replace ordinances brought by NDA are not in interest of farming community. It will affect livelihood of crores of farmers and others who depend on agriculture sector. The Bills will do away with the competitive bidding of agricultural produce in Mandis resulting in non-remunerative prices for farmers.” Pilot demanded that the central government carry out extensive consultations with political parties, farmers’ organisations, traders and agriculture experts and amend them. The government introduced the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill in Parliament on Monday to replace ordinances promulgated earlier. The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals, pulses and onion. The farmers and mandi agents have been protesting against the move for some time. Attacking the Centre over the issue, Pilot accused the government of ‘betraying’ the farmers and said the three ordinances, for which bills have been introduced, were ‘anti-farmer’ and ‘anti-agriculture’. He further said, despite the issue being a state subject, neither the states nor the political parties or agricultural organisations were consulted by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gehlot-pilot-term-centres-new-agri-bill-as-anti-farmer/articleshow/78160933.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Plea against e-pass for inter-state travel||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the state government on a plea challenging the GO, which mandates e-pass for inter-state travel. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam ordered notice on the PIL filed by S P Hariharasudhan, an advocate. The petitioner stated that the Union home secretary had issued guidelines on August 29, wherein it was specifically stated that inter-state and intra-state movement of people should not be restricted and no separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required. He said that despite the guidelines, the state had passed a GO on August 31 stating that e-pass was mandatory for people travelling from other states to Tamil Nadu. The main purpose of introducing the e-pass system was to regulate travel during the lockdown, however, withholding the same after allowing the free movement is causing chaos among the public. Since the GO is not in consonance with the guidelines issued by the Union home secretary, the petitioner sought to quash the portion of the GO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-e-pass-for-inter-state-travel/articleshow/78156700.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Monsoon session ends, GHMC poll talk starts||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday said Hyderabad would be developed into a global city. In what could be seen as gearing up the ruling TRS for the GHMC elections, the minister also said efforts would be intensified to transform Greater Hyderabad into a more lovable and liveable city. During a short discussion on civic works and other infrastructure facilities in GHMC and its surrounding areas in the assembly, the minister said a capital expenditure of Rs 67,035 crore had been spent on various infrastructure projects in the city since Telangana state came into being in 2014. Works costing thousands of crores had been executed without increasing property tax or water bill charges in the last six years, he said. Tax for properties paying Rs 1,200 and less tax annually had been reduced to Rs 101. “To ensure protected water through Mission Bhagiratha, tap connection charges have set at Rs 1 for BPL families and Rs 100 for others,” he stressed. Over 350 Basti Dawakhanas are being set up, KTR said in response to AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi’s observation that those who provide health to people are sure to win the elections as people have realised the importance of health after the Covid-19 pandemic struck the state. KTR said citizens are getting daily and alternate drinking water supply in most parts of the city now and 24-hour power supply in the state. Speaking about underground drainage network, he said it would be laid in peripheral areas at a cost of Rs 3,700 crore. The existing old network in core twin cities of Secunderabad and Hyderabad (Old City) would also be modernised. “Shah Technical Consultants Pvt Ltd has studied and submitted master plans for the drainage work. Tenders will be called for soon.” Training his guns on CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka for saying that the government had not set up a single institute of worth in the city, KTR said Amazon, Apple, Google, Facebook and Uber, to name a few, had established their second biggest campuses in and around the city. “I can also list out the investments and jobs created after formation of Telangana,” he said, throwing down the gauntlet to Vikramarka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-sings-greater-liveable-song-for-hyd/articleshow/78156733.cms||Roushan Ali
September 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala was close to Kapila Vatsyayan’s heart||KOCHI: In the late 40s a young dancer and inquisitive scholar travelled to Kerala Kalamandalam in Cheruthuruthy, enamoured by the writings of Swiss artist Alice Boner on Kathakali. The visit to Kalamandalam was the culmination of a journey she undertook from Madurai to Kanyakumari and to Palakkad, on foot and buses as part of her search for identity. The woman was Kapila Vatsyayan, an artist and arts administrator with deep scholarship who worked tirelessly for six decades to promote Indian art forms. She breathed her last on Wednesday in New Delhi at the age of 91. “She used to fondly remember the days she spent in Kalamandalam often sleeping over benches in the kalari,” said Gopal Venu, scholar and Kutiyattam performer who was closely associated with her since 1975. Their bond was so deep that he named his daughter after her. Kapila Venu, a disciple of great guru Ammannur Madhava Chakyar, is now a known Kutiyattam performer. Kapila made several critical interventions as an administrator and was instrumental in bringing national limelight to several artists and art forms from Kerala. “She had an abundance of energy and was in love with Kerala and its arts, which influenced her a lot,” he said. Ammannur Madhava Chakyar was unrecognized in his home state and it was her intervention that resulted in his Kutiyattam performance in Delhi, recalled Venu. When Venu first met her in Delhi, he placed before Kapila his manuscript of Kathakali mudras. She was not in the best of moods. “When she glanced through a couple of pages, her face changed, and so did her mood,” said Venu describing his first encounter with Kapila in the book Kathakali, Kutiyattam and other performing arts. “Her art appreciation was genuine and she never lost time in recognising talent,” he said, adding that her commitments as arts administrator prevented her from putting her scholarship on record. “It wasn’t just Kutiyattam. Whatever art forms from the state we brought to her attention - Tholpavakkoothu or Pava kathakali she was keen to promote it,” said Venu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-was-close-to-kapilas-heart/articleshow/78155327.cms||Binu Karunakaran
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Forensic university to offer master’s degree, PhD||LUCKNOW: The upcoming Forensic Science University at Sarojini Nagar in the city would be the first of its kind in the state. To be run by UP Police, it will have ten departments and offer masters and doctorate degrees in cyber security, ballistics, serology and other similar topics. The university will also offer short-duration online certificate courses, suited mainly for serving cops. The building of the department would be constructed by the Public Works Department (PWD) which has given the details about the specifics of the laboratories, classrooms, auditorium, hostels and residents for faculty. Giving details, ADG, technical services, Sandeep Salunke — who is overseeing the formation of the proposed university, told TOI that its campus is spread over approximately 36 acres in Piprasand area of Sarojininagar in Lucknow||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/forensic-univ-to-offer-masters-degree-phd/articleshow/78156979.cms||---
September 17, 2020||India||U’khand locals claim Chinese intrusion but officials deny it||DEHRADUN: Amidst the ongoing stand-off between India and China in Ladakh, local residents in the Barahoti area of Chamoli district in Uttarakhand have said that Chinese soldiers were spotted in the region on September 12. District administration officials though have denied any such incursion. Sources told TOI on Wednesday that a day ago a few locals had said they spotted Chinese soldiers, accompanied by yaks, in Barahoti on September 12. “The soldiers were spotted around 9.30 in the morning and returned to their side on the afternoon of the same day,” said the source. However, an official of the district administration when queried about the matter, told TOI, “A few locals did say that the Chinese had come into the area but no incursion has so far been detected in Barahoti by us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ukhand-locals-claim-chinese-intrusion-but-officials-deny-it/articleshow/78158121.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Meerut||Poor quality food’ & ‘lack of medicine’ at Bulandshahr Covid hospital||MEERUT: A surprise inspection by the Bulandshahr district magistrate (DM) at a Covid L2 hospital in the district on Wednesday exposed the “casual attitude” of the health staff who were accused of “mistreatment” and providing “sub-standard food” to the patients. The lapse came to the fore when DM Ravinder Kumar spoke with the quarantined patients. “Whenever we complain against the poor quality of food being provided to us, the authorities argue with us and shut us up. The porridge is given to us in polythene and even other food items are of very poor quality,” one of the patients told the DM, while another patient complained of lack of medicines. Irked over such deplorable condition of the patients, the DM ordered deduction in the salaries of the concerned medical staff. “People are dying of the disease, and these facilitators at the hospital don’t seem to care at all. How will they feel if someone dies in their homes. I have ordered to deduct a week’s salary. I have also told the CMS that if a doctor is absent even for a single day his salary will also be deducted,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/poor-quality-food-lack-of-medicine-at-bulandshahr-covid-hospital-draws-dms-ire/articleshow/78154015.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 17, 2020||Mumbai||MLA funds to be used for state health awareness plan||MUMBAI: A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray declared an ambitious plan to reach out to all families in the state to contain the spread of coronavirus, the planning department on Wednesday proposed to use local area funds of legislators for procuring basic material for the campaign. Uddhav proposed that no one gets infected by the disease and volunteers will reach out to all households for creating awareness. In phase I, 2.25 crore families will be targeted from September 15-October 25. Department deputy secretary V F Vasave issued an official order on the funds. Initially, Rs 20 lakh from the fund of each legislator was earmarked for procuring infra-red thermometers, face masks and sanitizers. If the entire fund is not use, the remaining funds should be used for My Family, My Responsibility plan. It was also proposed to make available Rs 20 lakh more for volunteers to procure essential campaign material. The additional Rs 20 lakh will be used only in the legislator’s constituency. District collectors have been directed to approve the proposal submitted by the legislator and material will be procured from agencies approved by public health department. Special health squads have been set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mla-funds-to-be-used-for-state-health-awareness-plan/articleshow/78154864.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ajmer||Missing Bihar boy found in Ajmer||AJMER: A minor boy who went missing from his house from Bhagalpur district in Bihar 7 months ago was found working as a bonded labourer in a guest house at Lakhan Kotri of Ajmer on Wednesday. The 14-year-old boy had several injuries and police took him for medical examination and arrested two accused along with the owner of the guesthouse. Police informed their Bihar counterpart where a missing case was registered at Habibpur thana. Parents of the boy were happy to found their son alive. The boy has been handed over to child helpline so that parents can come and take him home. A video of a mother went viral last week on social media and police here constituted a team to search the boy. In the clip, the mother was displaying a photo of the teen and seeking help to trace her son. Police here in Ajmer started a search and found the missing boy working as a bonded labourer at Ameer guesthouse at Lakhan Kotri. The boy said they forced him to work and give the waste food of the guest house to eat. Police arrested the owner of guest house Tofique Hussein (35) and Maulana Sameer Khan (28) for human trafficking and produced them in court. Police also made a call to the parents and made the boy talk to them. The boy narrated that in February, he left home and came to attend the early Urs of Khawaja Moinuddin Chisty. He was in Ajmer and lockdown was imposed and therefore there was no bus or train to move. The owner of the guesthouse asked him to work there and even when lockdown was lifted, he was not allowed to go back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/missing-bihar-boy-found-in-ajmer/articleshow/78155323.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||After three-month pause, Goa Express chugs out of Vasco station||VASCO: Goa Express, services of which were stopped at Vasco from June 4 onwards, resumed on Wednesday. At least 14 passengers boarded the Delhi-bound special train at Vasco railway station. Officials said the train carried another 245 passengers from the Margao railway station. Another special train simultaneously departed from Delhi on Wednesday and is scheduled to arrive at Vasco on Friday. Services of Goa Express had first resumed on June 1, after the Covid-induced lockdown was lifted. On the same day, however, a family at Vasco’s Mangor Hill had tested positive for Covid-19. A subsequent spike in infections in the area had led to the train’s final stop being temporarily shifted to Margao railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-three-month-pause-goa-express-chugs-out-of-vasco-station/articleshow/78156749.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hubballi||Vijayendra not interfering in running my department, says Sriramulu||Kalaburagi: Dismissing rumours of chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra interfering in the running of his department, health minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday said, “Vijayendra was merely interacting with the doctors. As the son of the CM, he is actively working for the welfare of the people. Vijayendra held discussions with doctors so he could relay their problems to Yediyurappa.” Sriramulu, who interacted with representatives of the media at the Kalaburagi Airport, sought to assure the doctors that their demands would be met. He appealed to the doctors against going ahead with their planned protest. Queried about private hospitals fleecing patients being treated for Covid-19, the health minister said that criminal cases would be filed against institutions, and their licence revoked should they be found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vijayendra-not-interfering-in-running-my-department-says-sriramulu/articleshow/78154014.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Surat||Auto driver helped cop crack Thai woman’s murder||Surat: An alert auto rickshaw driver helped police crack Thai woman Wanida Bousorn’s murder. Initially police believed that the spa and massage therapist died in an accidental fire. But recovery mobile phone from the auto driver provided a crucial lead that led police to the alleged killer, another Thai woman Aaida alias Ananda Wongprome. The auto driver provided regular pick-up and drop services to the accused Wongprome, police informed. However, police refused to reveal the identity of the driver since he was a key witness in the murder case. According to police, after killing Bousorn on September 6, Wongprome took her two mobile phones and kept one in her home and gave another to the auto driver. The accused had asked the driver to throw away the phone with a plan to mislead police investigation. Wongprome had burnt one mobile phone along with Bousorn’s body and looted two mobile phones.After looting valuables from at Bousorn’s home, she hit it in a pillow cover and stitched it. She put it in a black garbage bag and put one more blanket on it and handed it over to the auto driver to throw it away. “The driver checked the bag out of curiosity before throwing it and found the mobile phone. Since the driver was in touch with police he alerted us,” said police. Till recovery of the phone, Wongprome was not confessing her involvement in the murder despite her movement was captured on CCTV cameras. But after recovery of phone and later recovery of another phone, gold chain and a key from her home she confessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/auto-driver-helped-cop-crack-thai-womans-murder/articleshow/78154026.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Cong MLA levels graft charges on minister but doesn’t name him||Jaipur: Congress MLA Bharat Singh Kundanpur has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot seeking the removal of a state minister whom he describes as ‘most corrupt’.In a letter dated September 14, which was circulated on social media, he demanded the removal of the minister without naming him. “This minister is a mafia of corruption. I don’t want to name him,” the minister wrote in Hindi.Talking to TOI over phone on why he had not named the minister nor spelt out specific charges of corruption, he claimed that there is no need for proof as everybody knows about it. “Do you give proof for the sun,” he asked. In the letter, the MLA requested, “It is required that the most corrupt minister of the cabinet should be removed so as to send out a message to the people.” The MLA said he wrote the letter in the context of the recent shuffling of district incharge ministers by the party.When asked that he has been targeting the minister since he was not given a ministerial rank, Singh said, “I don’t care for ministership. I have rose from the ranks of a sarpanch and do not care for posts,” he said. Singh, a former minister from Kota region, was overlooked for a ministership this time around as Gehlot had to accommodate the various factions in the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mla-levels-graft-charges-on-minister-but-doesnt-name-him/articleshow/78155326.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||HC issues notices on plea to undertake archaeological excavation at Ulaipatti||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a plea which sought to carry out archaeological excavation at Ulaipatti village in Madurai district, where ancient iron smelter furnace and burial urns were unearthed.A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam ordered notice on a public interest litigation filed by an advocate G Thirumurugan, a resident of Ramanathapuram district.The petitioner stated that he came across a news report where an ancient burial site was found at Ulaipatti village. Based on the information given by two professors who identified the burial site, a team from the archaeology department carried out a research at the site and found an iron smelter furnace. He stated that the discovery of the furnace had confirmed the existence of industrial sites in the ancient period during the Sangam era. Burial urns, hero stones and stone boards which were erected in memory of the deceased were also found at Ulaipatti village, he said and added that villagers are still following the customary practice of erecting such stones called ‘Oppakal’ at the burial sites. He stated that if planned and systematic excavation is carried out at this site, it would give us better understanding about our history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-issues-notices-on-plea-to-undertake-archaeological-excavation-at-ulaipatti/articleshow/78156742.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Rush for admissions in Madurai corpn schools, Trichy govt HSS||Madurai/Trichy: There has been a significant increase in the number of students who joined schools run by Madurai corporation with enrolment increasing by 148% compared to the average admission in previous years. Similarly, in Trichy, government higher secondary schools have added 3,000 more students instead of roughly 500 every year. Officials in Madurai say the corporation used to get 2000 to 2,500 students every year, but this year 6,206 students have already joined as of August 8. “There would have been easily 200 admissions since Saturday. Schools are seeing more than 50 admissions every day,” an official from the education department said. Schools like Elango corporation higher secondary school have been seeing unusually high number of admission from students who were studying in matriculation schools. Some students have come from CBSE schools as well. Teachers say that the increase was due to financial problems faced by parents. A teacher from Elango School said, “Most parents say they cannot pay fees in matriculation schools. Our school is gaining popularity since safety and infrastructure facility are akin to private schools, thanks to HCL foundation.” Schools like Kakkai Padiniyar Girls Higher Secondary School Madurai said they are already getting a good response despite the fact that a major chunk of the school’s strength is contributed by hostels and girls’ home. P Vijaya, corporation educational officer, said “we are equipped with adequate teacher strength and infrastructure facility to meet the increasing enrolment this year. Even if some schools have run out of capacity, we will admit the students in nearby corporation school,” she said. Sharmila Banu, head of Ponmudiyar corporation HSS said there is a huge demand for class nine admission in particular. In Trichy, district chief education officer S Santhi said there is an overall increase in admission to government schools which will go on till the month-end and was likely to increase. Besides the impact of Covid-19, the revised syllabus on par with other boards like CBSE had instilled confidence in parents to admit their children to government schools, she said. D Thirumavalavan, PG teacher from government HSS S Ayyampalayam, said unlike in lower classes, private schools charged hefty fee for higher secondary. Many could not afford it this year due to the pandemic and were shifting to government schools, he said. Top private CBSE schools in Trichy charge anywhere between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh as the fee for higher secondary classes a year. An average school on the outskirts charge not less than Rs 60,000 and popular matriculation schools Rs 40,000-60000. Though admissions to government schools started late this year, there was good reception from parents. Some popular government primary schools in the city had admitted over 100 students in class I alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rush-for-admissions-in-madurai-corpn-schools-trichy-govt-hss/articleshow/78156750.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||In Covid shadow, assembly adjourned sine die||Hyderabad: The monsoon session of Telangana State Legislative Council and the assembly was adjourned sine die on Wednesday to ensure safety of MLCs, MLAs, legislature staff, and police personnel amid the spread of Covid-19. Though the assembly was scheduled to be held up to September 28, the sessions were cut short after an MLC and an MLA and a number of legislature staff and police personnel tested positive for Covid during session. Fears were expressed about possible spread of Covid-19 due to which both houses were adjourned sine die. “It is my responsibility to ensure the safety of elected members, staff and police, in all 1,200 of them coming to assembly daily,” said assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy. “Despite taking all measures, cases have been reported. As fears are being expressed about spread of Covid-19, it has been decided to cut short number of days of session to eight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-covid-shadow-assembly-adjourned-sine-die/articleshow/78156747.cms||Roushan Ali
September 17, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru cops nip organized gang in the bud||Mysuru: City police have uncovered cases of robbery, dacoity, blackmailing and attempt to murder, by nipping an organized gang in the bud and detaining eight youths who were prowling to rob night commuters. Saraswathipuram police sub-inspector Bhavya N has won high praises from her higher-ups for arresting the notorious gang involved in several heinous crimes and preventing its members from becoming habitual offenders. Bhavya while doing night patrolling recently noticed the gang members suspiciously roaming on the outer ring road. She immediately alerted police control room and senior staff and following their direction a trap was laid. About eight people had ganged up and were waiting to commit an offence. Police team raided and nabbed all of them besides seizing monkey caps, weapons, chilli powder and clubs which they used to threaten people. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda, said the gang members are into different professions and are in 22-26 age group. They have committed several offences in the last one-and-half years. They’re involved in attempt to murder, robbery and dacoity. They team up to commit offences to rob people after dusk. They robbed a man near the DC’s office, brutally severed the hand of a youth and also tried to eliminate another youth over a year-old trivial issue. Prime accused Sharath and his accomplices Sumanth, Dharmesh, Dinesh, Sunil, Shashank, Karthik and Mahadev have been arrested. They hail from Bogadi, Beerihunid, Martikyathanhalli and Sonalli and worked as driver, mechanic, plumber, carpenter, labourers and painter. Occasionally they took to crimes to fulfil their wishes. The arrested are just a part of the bigger gang. About a dozen are still absconding and we have launched a search, said Prakash Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-cops-nip-organized-gang-in-the-bud/articleshow/78153339.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur hoteliers oppose plan to impose tourist tax||Udaipur: The Udaipur Municipal Corporation’s decision to introduce tourist tax has drawn flak from the hoteliers in the city. A delegation met Mayor G S Taunk on Wednesday and urged him to roll back the decision in the interest of hundreds of hoteliers who have been facing difficult times after the hospitality industry was badly hit by the coronavirus.Hoteliers are still unclear on the mechanism as to how the tax would be collected. “We strongly oppose the proposed implementation of the tourist tax, which is detrimental to the hotel and tourism industry,” Rakesh Choudhary, secretary Hotel Sansthan Dakshini Rajasthan, told TOI.He said the hotel business has not been favourable since January and presently hotel occupancy is trending at an average 15% to 20%. Hotels, paying guest houses and homestays, especially around the lakeside area and ghats, are almost vacant as they depend on foreign tourists for business. With very few bookings at hand for the tourist season beginning October, hoteliers do not have much hope of a profitable business in the near future.“The new tax is feared to prove a double whammy. To introduce it without proper engagement with us is absolutely unfair,” Choudhary added. As per the UMC’s decision, a new tax would be imposed on hotels in accordance to the room tariff. An additional Rs 200 will be imposed on a room costing Rs 3,000 to 5,000 per day, Rs 300 for rooms between Rs 5,000 to 10,000 and Rs 500 for room charges above Rs 10,000 a day.“It is still unclear whether the tax would be applied on the overall stay or would be assessed per day. Also, there is no clarity on how they would ensure proper monitoring of the tax collection,” Choudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-hoteliers-oppose-plan-to-impose-tourist-tax/articleshow/78155328.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kozhikode||1.2kg of gold seized at Karipur airport||Kozhikode: Customs officials foiled a bid to smuggle 1.2 kg of gold valued at Rs 62 lakh through Calicut International Airport on Wednesday. Officials of the customs preventive wing nabbed Paloli Ajmal, 24, hailing from Morayur in Malappuram, who arrived in SpiceJet repatriation flight from Jeddah at 1am, while trying to sneak in the contraband. Officials said that the gold was concealed inside the compressor of a hydraulic air pump. The molten gold was poured into the compressor inside the pump. Acting on a tip-off, customs preventive wing officials from Kozhikode reached the airport and intercepted the passenger in coordination with the air intelligence unit of customs at the airport. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/1-2kg-of-gold-seized-at-karipur-airport/articleshow/78155371.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Tiger missing for past 1 month feared dead in Mukundra hills||JAIPUR: MT-1, the last surviving male tiger at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) which disappeared mysteriously in the jungle, is presumed to be dead. Clueless about the whereabouts after a month-long search, the forest administration has now started an extensive operation to find the collar or any other evidence of tiger’s death. If the death fear turns into a reality, the tiger count, which had risen to six in June including the newborns, will be now down to one, jeopardising the country’s third reintroduction programme. A senior MHTR official said, a tiger living in a jungle always make it presence felt. It leaves several evidence including killing, starch marks on trees, pugmarks, scat, etc. “In normal condition, the feline should have been traced. However, despite sincere efforts, the team of experts failed to find any evidence or traces of the tiger in the 82 square-km enclosure even after a month’s search. We have now divided teams to carry out extensive search operations and look for death evidences such as radio collar, smell and bones,” said the senior official. In 2018, before releasing Tiger RT-91 (renamed as MT-1) from Ramgarh sanctuary in Bundi, the forest administration at MHTR covered the forest area after constructing 24km chain-link fencing and 31-km of stone wall, spending approximately Rs 30 crore. However, despite the combing operation, no evidence of MT-1 has disheartened wildlife lovers and forest officials. He added, “It is difficult to pinpoint the exact cause for his sudden disappearance and death can’t be ruled out as other big cats died due to infectious diseases in the reserve.” Environmentalists fear the big cat might have become the victim of any unidentified virus in the reserve. The Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in its report’s interpretation after the death of tiger MT-3 mentioned that there could be infectious virus. The report dated July 27 read, “The animal might have suffered from some infectious (viral?) agent.” As IVRI was not able to ascertain the presence of virus, it had asked forest department to send pieces of lungs, spleen, brain, intestine and lymph node in sterile tubes on ice for the virologicial investigation in future. But as the body was not recovered, the disappearance or the death remains a mystery. Even though the tiger is believed to have died naturally, wildlife lovers claimed that there was major lapse in tiger monitoring at MHTR. Tapeshwar Singh Bhati, a local advisory committee member said, “An expensive radio collar was installed around MT-1’s neck. But it was not functional. Now, the fate of MHTR hangs in balance as the forest administration will be shaky in relocating tigers to MHTR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiger-missing-for-past-1-mth-feared-dead-in-mukundra-hills/articleshow/78155333.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Vadodara||Traffic brigade jawaan hangs self||Vadodara: A traffic brigade personnel ended his life at his home on Ajwa Road in the early hours of Wednesday over unknown reasons. Jignesh Rathwa (22) was found hanging from a ceiling hook when the cops broke open his house. His neighbours had informed police control room when they did not notice any activities outside his home on Wednesday morning and on knocking at his door, they did get any response. Police said that Rathwa, a native of Pavi Jetpur taluka of Chhota Udepur district, was living alone in Vadodara while working with the traffic brigade for the last four years. “We did not receive any suicide note from his house nor anything suspicious on his mobile phone,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/traffic-brigade-jawaan-hangs-self/articleshow/78153308.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||3 held for kidnapping man||Hyderabad: Dundigal cops apprehended three members of PDS rice smuggling gang for kidnapping a 32-year-old man who tried to extort money from them. The kidnapped man, Md Azmat Ali, is from New Shapur Nagar. Police intercepted the kidnappers between Parigi and Tandur on Wednesday. Based on the statement by smugglers, legal action will be initiated against Azmat and his associates,” the Dundigal inspector said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-kidnapping-man/articleshow/78155331.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Short spikes of sulphur dioxide from IDA||HYDERABAD: There have been short spikes of sulphur dioxide (SO2) ranging from 15-30 minutes from the IDA Bollaram industrial belt almost everyday for over a week. At a time, when city residents have been complaining about getting a pungent smell, experts caution that such spikes must be looked into. The spikes happen on most days between 11 am to 11.30 am. On Wednesday, SO2 AQI was measured at 196. The figure was taken from Aqicn.org, which provides real-time data on the world’s air quality index (AQI). A measure of over a 100 AQI is considered ‘unhealthy’. In India, the site takes data from India’s CPCB. It then converts the data from ug/m3 measurement used locally, to AQI which is based on standards by the American Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “I started looking more closely at the data after we faced a huge pollution problem on Thursday and Friday, which has continued into this week,” said Srinivas K, a resident of Bachupally engineer from JNTU. Referring to the spike, he said, “One can see an increased SO2 level at the same time every day. It reaches an unhealthy range within the first half hour, then settles over an hour’s average.” Something, that can be missed looking at archived data. Srinivas, among others, now suspect these are deliberate emissions being let out by industries considering their consistent timing. Bachupally was among the areas that felt the brunt of last week’s foul smell and is a stone’s throw away from Bollaram Industrial area. Said captain J Rama Rao, an environmentalist in the city, “If the spike takes place every day at the same time, it is unlikely to be from vehicular pollutants and is planned emissions by some errant industries.” He added that there could be more spikes going under the radar. “Even a 15-minute spike over a long time could have a major health impact on people,” he said. As per EPA standards, it is recommended that at ‘unhealthy’ level of SO2, “children, asthmatics, and people with heart or lung disease should reduce exertion outdoors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poison-in-the-air-short-spikes-of-so2-from-ida/articleshow/78155330.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Meerut||Form panel to review & demolish dilapidated school buildings: Uttar Pradesh education department to BSAs||MEERUT: The Uttar Pradesh education department has asked BSAs of all the 75 districts of the state to form committees to review and demolish dilapidated school buildings. “Ensure that a committee is formed in your respective districts to decide on the demolition of dilapidated school buildings. The panel should be formed by the district magistrate comprising assistant engineer (public works department) and assistant engineer (minor irrigation department) to decide whether a certain school building should be demolished or not,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director general of the education department. “Once the said building is demolished, its auction will be done by a team headed by block education officer comprising assistant finance and accounts officer, basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) and assistant development officer (panchayat),” the order read. The demolition work has to be completed by October 31. It comes a day after the education department directed the razing of all the public toilets built on government school lands in the state. The department has also warned its district heads, the BSAs, of action if any public toilet comes up in school premises. “All the ongoing construction should also halt,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/form-panel-to-review-demolish-dilapidated-school-buildings-up-education-department-to-bsas/articleshow/78154081.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 17, 2020||Mumbai||Baby death at KEM: Cops seek closure report||Mumbai: The Bhoiwada police have filed a report in the court seeking closure of a case registered after a two month old child, Prince Rajbhar, sustained burn injuries in a public hospital and subsequently died on November 22. On November 7, An ECG cable in the PICU of KEM Hospital, caught fire causing severe burn injuries to the baby and his left arm had to be amputated. The ECG nodes attached to his body malfunctioned leading to a short circuit. On November 22, he reportedly suffered a cardiac arrest. The child had come to Mumbai from Varanasi seeking treatment for a congenital heart condition and pneumonia. The three-month-old was on ventilator since Nov 6 when he was admitted to KEM. Investigating officer Manoj Hirlekar of Bhoiwada police last month filed a closure report before the Dadar Metropolitan Magistrate court classifying the case under` A’ summary which means the case is classified as true but undetected. The magistrate court is yet to pass an order on the closure report. Before accepting or rejecting the report, it will hear arguments of all parties concerned. Reacting to the closure report, Pannelal Rajbhar, father of Prince, said that they have received the notice on Wednesday. “We have just got it. We will study and decide on the next step,” he said. The couple is currently staying in their hometown in UP. The case has caused major outrage in the city with people questioning the quality of health care at public hospitals and the lack of accountability. The doctors had always maintained that his condition was critical from the beginning as the pneumonia patch in his lungs was persistent. The BMC had not held anyone responsible for the fire mishap. The family had received a compensation of Rs 10lakh. The Bhoiwada police had initially registered a negligence case against the unknown persons but later they added IPC section 304A of causing death by negligence after the child died after battling for life for 16 days. Police had even sent the ECG machine and monitor, electric cables etc to the forensic science laboratory but the reports were inconclusive. S Ahmed Ali & Sumitra Deb Roy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/baby-death-at-kem-cops-seek-closure-report/articleshow/78155105.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Forest ranger in ACB net for taking bribe in Baran dist||Kota: ACB Baran on Wednesday arrested a forest ranger posted at Nahargarh forest range in Baran district and his driver for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 20,000 for releasing of 2 tractor trolleys seized a month ago. Search operations are currently underway at the forest official’s residence in Nahargarh town.Ravi Kumar Nama and his driver Rajesh Sharma were arrested for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 20,000 from one Dharmendra Nagar, a resident of Bajranggarh area of the district, circle inspector, ACB, Baran, Gyanchand Meena told.Nagar approached the ACB on Wednesday morning and lodged a complaint against the ranger alleging that the forest officials had demanded bribe of Rs 40,000 for the release of his two tractor trolleys. The Anti-Corruption Bureau officials verified the complaint and laid a trap on the same day in afternoon.On showing inability to pay the full bribe amount of Rs 40,000, the complainant told the official that he could pay Rs 20,000 for one tractor trolley, the ACB official added. On noticing the presence of the an ACB sleuth, Ravi Kumar Nama fled from the spot but was later nabbed from Shahabad road of the city, he said. Further investigations into the case are continuing by the agency officials..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-ranger-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribe-in-baran-dist/articleshow/78155400.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Rajkot||Couple ends life after girl’s parents object to marriage||Palanpur: A couple allegedly committed suicide in Aravalli district early on Wednesday morning. Their bodies were found hanging from a tree in Pipodar taluka of Bayad taluka by the locals. The police said that they were in a relationship for the last few months.Twenty-five-year-old Mahesh Parmar, who was a divorcee, had fallen in love with 18-year-old Bhavtika Parmar of Lehripura village. The duo wanted to get married but the girl’s parents objected to it. So the couple decided to commit suicide,’ the police said.In August last year, a couple had committed suicide in Kankrej taluka while another couple ended its life by jumping in a river in Dhansura taluka in September 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-ends-life-after-girls-parents-object-to-marriage/articleshow/78154080.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fourth list on, cut-offs refuse to go below 91%||KOLKATA: Plus-II scores have been so high this year that even after fourth merit lists were published, admission cut-offs at prominent colleges in the city remained between 91% and 99%. Also, the declaration of WBJEE and JEE (Main) results seem to have failed to expedite the filling up of seats at many institutes. With seats in several subjects remaining vacant, colleges, like Lady Brabourne, Ananda Mohan, North City and Maulana Azad, have opened a “wish list round”, where interested candidates have been invited to express their desire to take up the courses in those colleges. The wish list facility will be available for only departments with unclaimed seats. Explaining the process, the admissions officer at a city college said several more merit lists would still not be able to cover thousands of applicants. “These colleges are sending messages to applicants, asking them to express their wish to take admission in certain subjects that have seats. The dates have been mentioned. Applicants who are yet to get a seat but genuinely want to study those subjects at the particular colleges can express their interest, based on which, a list will be published, according to their scores,” the official said. Calcutta University has set September 28 as the deadline for admissions. “Most colleges have published four or five merit lists but several seats are still not taken. Many applicants may not get through or have to wait for a long time as the cut-offs still hovered between 91% and 99%,” the official said. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said, “We decided to publish a wish list, in which interested candidates will express their desire. There can be various reasons for vacant seats: the JEE (Main) results are out, WBJEE counselling has reached the third round and many high-scorers are finding seats at JU and Presidency. But we do not have time to keep publishing lists and admitting handful of students in each round. If we publish a list for interested candidates only, the seats will be filled up faster,” Sarkar said. Bethune College, which published a wish list last year, is waiting for CU to extend admission deadline. “ A education department official said candidates should take admission in whichever college they were getting through and that no plus-II passout would be left without a seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fourth-list-on-cut-offs-refuse-to-go-below-91/articleshow/78156767.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Akbar urges govt to announce Rs 10k cr package for Old City||Hyderabad: Akbaruddin Owaisi, floor leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the assembly, urged the TRS government to announce a Rs 10,000 crore package for development of the old city. “Please restore the lost glory of Old City as the city of pearls, lakes and gardens and also develop it on par with the modern Hi-Tec City, or at least transform it into an Istanbul-like city, a promise made earlier by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao,” said Akbaruddin Owaisi. He thanked the TRS government for taking up road widening, construction of flyovers in the Old City, but said a lot more needs to be done. “The storm water drain and drainage lines are old, roads and lanes are narrow, heritage is under neglect, Lad Bazar beautification and a multi-level parking project are pending. Protect Osmansagar and Himayatsagar lakes, beautify the Musi river, construct footpaths and sewerage treatment plants. Allot 2-BHK houses to Muslims too and construct infrastructure projects in Old City,” he said. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao assured that metro works in the old city will be taken up during the present term of the government. The minister said that he would convene a meeting with L&T, various government departments and old city MLAs within a week. “A delegation will also visit Golden Temple, based on which Lad Bazar beautification would be taken up,” KTR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akbar-urges-govt-to-announce-rs-10k-cr-package-for-old-city/articleshow/78156798.cms||Roushan Ali
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Canteen owner fined Rs 1 lakh for storing substandard food||JAISALMER: A court in Barmer imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on a person who owns a canteen at MPT Nagana for storing sub-standard food. The complaint was registered in 2018. A food safety officer had found substandard curd at the canteen during an inspection on July 10, 2018. Later, on the complaint registered by the official, the court heard both sides. Additional district magistrate O P Vishnoi imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on the canteen owner and ordered him to deposit the money in the state treasury. The food safety officer submitted complaint under Section 151 of Food Safety and Standards Act 2006 against canteen owner Mathiraj, a resident of Tamil Nadu, Kuntal pal, a resident Badeyapur and Harshvardhan Purkarna, a resident of Rajajipuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/canteen-owner-fined-rs-1-lakh-for-storing-substandard-food/articleshow/78155349.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglars strike at 3 houses, steal 3-tola gold||Hyderabad: Burglars struck at a private employee’s house in Rajendrangar and stole three-tola gold jewellery when the inmates were fast asleep. They also targeted two more houses in the area, but could not find any valuables there.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglars-strike-at-3-houses-steal-3-tola-gold/articleshow/78155367.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 march continues with 628 new cases and four mortalities in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active cases climbed to 5,375 on Wednesday with 628 new cases being detected. The death count rose to 319 with four casualties. The four deaths, including that of a 47-year-old man from Khumbharjua who was brought dead to the hospital, were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC). The man had comorbid conditions, diabetes mellitus and hypertension, the hospital bulletin said. A 77-year-old, Rajanikant Dhond, a former councillor of the Corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP), who was a resident of Bhatlem, also succumbed to the virus. He was taken to hospital with acute respiratory distress syndrome on Friday. Bhatlem, which is a congested locality, has thrown up a lot of cases during the last few days. Other casualties include that of a 76-year-old woman from Sakhali and a 74-year-old man from Vasco. Meanwhile, cases reported from Panaji continued to rise with 36 new ones detected. Cases were reported from Caranzalem, St Inez, Tonca, Navginagar, Dona Paula and Ribandar. Total active cases reported from the Panaji urban health centre rose to 314, while that from the Sakhali community health centre rose to 368 and Valpoi urban health centre to 240. Bicholim community health centre’s caseload increased to 248. Apart from Panaji, Porvorim and Mapusa, Bicholim, Sakhali and Valpoi have witnessed a steep rise in numbers since last month. The active caseload of the Porvorim primary health centre stood at 319. Primary health centres at Siolim and Aldona whose caseload was limited to two digits until last month, are witnessing a rapid rise in cases this month. Siolim’s active cases touched 139 while Aldona was 150. Mayem primary health centre is the only centre in North Goa whose numbers were below 100 on Wednesday. In South Goa, health centres of Margao, Vasco, Ponda and Dharbandora saw a sharp rise in cases. On Wednesday, 351 were cured and sent home. Altogether 20,445 patients have recovered since the pandemic with a 78.21% recovery rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-march-continues-with-628-new-cases-and-four-mortalities/articleshow/78156784.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam wants Hyd-Vij bullet train||Hyderabad: Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Wednesday urged the central government to build a bullet train railway line between Hyderabad and Vijayawada. He raised the issue in the Lok Sabha under Rule 377 and submitted his request to the speaker. When an issue is raised in the Lok Sabha under Rule 377 of the Rules and Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha, the ministry of parliamentary affairs takes follow-up action on matters raised under this rule. “I request that a direct bullet train railway line be built between Hyderabad and Vijayawada via Chityal, Narketpalli, Nakrekal, Suryapet and Kodad,” the Nalgonda MP, who is also Telangana Congress president, said. “The erstwhile state of Andhra Pradesh was divided Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in 2014. Hyderabad and Vijayawada are the principal cities in these two states. They are connected, presently, by a circuitous railway line and the journey takes over six hours. If a superfast bullet train straight railway line is laid between Hyderabad and Vijayawada, the journey time could be reduced to less than two hours,” Uttam said. The economies of both states would also receive a huge boost from such a line. The National Highway-65 between Hyderabad and Vijayawada already has land adjacent to it, which was acquired earlier and can be used to construct the new railway line from Hyderabad to Vijayawada. Connecting Jaggaiahpet and Chityal would be adequate for the purpose of increasing connectivity between these cities. It would definitely boost the economy and traffic between the states of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and benefit the country’s economy, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-wants-hyd-vij-bullet-train/articleshow/78155383.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Over 35k take north-south Metro on Wed||Kolkata: Even as ridership increased in Metro’s north-south section from Tuesday’s 27,100 to 35,053 on Wednesday and from 99 to 234 along the East-West corridor, the latter will now have 12 rides less with an increased frequency from 20 minutes to 30 minutes.Sources said East-West Metro’s dismal footfall of 83 and 99 on the first two days made Metro Railway come up with the above decision on Wednesday. The carrier on Monday resumed services after March 22, but with a rider. One had to book e-passes in advance to access the station. On Tuesday, rules were relaxed for the elderly, who were allowed to walk in simply by showing their age-proof documents. No e-passes are, however, required for the 5km East-West Metro. On Wednesday, there were long queues before stations like Mahanayak Uttam Kumar (erstwhile Tollygunge), Sovabazar during peak hours. The number of e-passes downloaded were more than 60,000 on Wednesday against Tuesday’s 57,000 and Monday’s 53,000.On the other hand, there were excess downloads, as is clear from the 25,000 gap between the number of passes generated and the actual ridership. “But this gap has reduced from 32,000 on Monday. Things will improve with every passing day,” said Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state appointed to develop “pathadisha Metro e-pass”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/over-35k-take-north-south-metro-on-wed/articleshow/78156790.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Great Indian Bustard dies after hitting live wires in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A female Great Indian Bustard (GIB) died after it hit high-tension wires on Wednesday evening near Sanvata village in the Degrai pastureland in Jaisalmer district. The incident has come as a big setback to the conservation efforts made by the Central and state governments for the GIB, which is listed in schedule first and is wiping out fast. Incidents of the Great Indian Bustard hitting the high-tension wires and dying are increasing as a network of these wires has been laid in these areas. Wildlife enthusiasts and forest department team reached the spot and started investigation. The postmortem of the bird will be done on Thursday. Degrai Oran Sanrakshan Samiti president Sumer Singh Bhati and wildlife enthusiast Radheyshaym Pemani reached the spot and saw the carcass of a female GIB lying under 220kv wires passing from Degrain Oran (pasture land) near Sanwata village. The bird possibly must have died after hitting the wires. They said that the network of high-tension wires from windmills in this area is proving fatal for these GIBs. Earlier too, such incidents have taken place and still, the state government and district administration have not taken any steps. At present, this pastureland has been allotted for solar plants, which will certainly affect the environment and wildlife. Desert National Park deputy conservator Kapil Chandrawal, confirming about the death of female GIB, on Wednesday evening at Degrai Oran said that a carcass of the bird was found under 220kv high-tension wires of a windmill, after which the forest department team from Pokhran left for the spot. He said that a high-level meeting to put the high tension wires underground in GIB habitat area was organized in Jaipur in which energy department principal secretary Ajitabh Sharma, forest department principal secretary Shreya Guha and other officers took part and Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi too had joined this meeting through VC. In this meeting, energy department had refused to put the wires underground stating that it would incur heavy costs and decided to put bird diverters on these wires as an alternative and directed to follow it at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gib-dies-after-hitting-live-wires/articleshow/78155378.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Ajgaonkar: Tourism will pick only after vaccine hits market||PANAJI: Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Wednesday said that Goa’s tourism sector will actually pick up only after a Covid vaccine hits the market. “We have opened our borders, but the response so far has not been impressive,” Ajgaonkar said when asked when the hospitality sector will get a relief. Those who have started operating aren’t doing well as the footfalls are below average, the tourism minister said. Ajgaonkar said hotels were given permission to operate as the economy needs to be revived and a beginning has to be made. “A lot of people in the hotel industry have been rendered jobless,” he said. Ajgaonkar said that his ministry will allow beach shacks this season and permissions will be issued at the right time. Recently, a tourism department official said that they will have to obtain permission the government afresh before renewing licences of beach shack operators. Over 350 beach shacks are set-up during the tourist season. Due to the pandemic, this year, shack operators are in two minds over opening their ventures as their workforce comes from other states and without them, the operators will find it tough to restart operations. Even to set-up shacks, the operators rely on labourers from outside the state. The moot point before the shack operators is whether they will able to cover the cost of operations if they set-up shop if the footfalls continue to be limited. Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS) secretary John Lobo said they are still unsure as to what’s to be done. A tourism stake holder said this season, Goa’s tourism industry will have to be content with domestic tourists as international footfalls are expected to be minimal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-will-pick-only-after-vaccine-hits-market-ajgaonkar/articleshow/78156907.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre investing Rs 4k cr in Vizag port||Hyderabad: The Centre is pumping in Rs 4,095 crore in modernising and expanding Vishakhapatnam port’s capacity from the existing 126 million tonnes to 141 million tonnes by financial year 2023, Union minister of state for shipping, Mansukh Mandaviya has said. The investments, which are focused primarily on deepening channels, enhancing berths and putting in place logistics and connectivity infrastructure, are being made through internal accruals as well as private sector tie-ups, Mandaviya said in response to a question by MP Parimal Nathwani in Rajya Sabha earlier this week. Nathwani had raised a question in Parliament about the steps being taken by the Indian government to modernise berths and increase capacity at Vishakhapatnam port in Andhra Pradesh. “The current capacity of VPT is 126.89 million tonnes. With the completion of the ongoing capacity addition projects, the capacity is projected to be 141.64 million tonnes by FY 2023,” said the minister said in RS. According to the details provided by the minister, there are 12 projects involving investments of Rs 3086 crore under the design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) model. Of these, the largest is the expansion of the existing container terminal by adding 9.5MMTA capacity at an investment of Rs 633.11 crore, followed by a Rs 581 crore project for upgradation of the existing mechanised facility for iron ore handling in the Outer Harbour by adding a capacity of 16.2MMTA, said a release issued by Parimal Nathwani’s office. The third investment is that of Rs 444.1 crore for mechanisation of coal handling facilities and upgradation of general cargo berth in the Outer Harbour to cater to 200,000 DWT (deadweight tonnage) vessels. Apart from these, there are nine projects entailing total investments of Rs 1,009 crore towards connectivity and logistics, including the Rs 372 crore project for the development of the second phase of Concor’s multi modal logistics hub. A Rs 211 crore project for developing a multi modal logistics hub is also being taken up jointly by VPT and Balmer Lawrie & Co.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-investing-rs-4k-cr-in-vizag-port/articleshow/78155438.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Covid cert confusion mars London flight; 12 stranded, 16 land in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Twelve out of 28 passengers booked on the inaugural Air India flight from London to Kolkata could not board the aircraft as they did not carry Covid-19 negative test reports. The Boeing B787 Dreamliner aircraft with 234 seats took off from Heathrow airport around noon (local time) and 5.30pm (India time) with just 16 persons on board. The return flight is comparatively better placed with 84 confirmed bookings, including 14 persons travelling in business class. Software engineer Sumanta Sarathi Chakraborty, his wife Ananya and son Trishanjeet were among those stranded in London due to the confusion over pre-boarding Covid test requirement. The Bengal government had given its nod to the flight on the precondition that only those who test negative within 96 hours prior to departure can fly to Kolkata. It is not mandatory for passengers boarding Vande Bharat flights to other Indian cities to undergo the test. “This is so infuriating. I have a voice recording where an AI executive confirmed just three days ago that Covid report is not mandatory for travel. The executive also said we could go in for institutional quarantine and I have booked a hotel accordingly,” said Chakraborty. Fears about confusion over mandatory RT-PCR test prior to boarding had been repeatedly flagged by airport authorities but the airline had brushed off the concerns, saying that the Bengal government’s protocol was being widely publicized. But queries on the issue continued to pour in from London as the confusion persisted. “There was no clarity from the airline. There are passengers who have even received emails stating that RT-PCR negative report is not mandatory. Undergoing the test takes at least four days and costs a whopping sum. I now want to travel to another city in India first and then go to Kolkata,” said Soumyadeep Chatterjee, another software engineer who was stranded in London. An airline official in Kolkata conceded it was embarrassing that almost half the passengers were unable to travel. “This is not only a bitter experience for them, it also gives the airline a bad name,” he admitted, adding that failure to get adequate passengers will only make the flight vulnerable to being withdrawn. In contrast, Emirates flew in from Dubai with 179 passengers, all of them carrying Covid-19 negative reports. Passengers said they had been informed about the guideline well in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-cert-confusion-mars-london-flight-12-stranded-16-land-in-kol/articleshow/78156812.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 17, 2020||Surat||Burglars lift ATM into farm, steal Rs7.4L||Surat: In a daring loot, burglars stole an entire ATM, took it to a farm, dismantled it and took away nearly Rs 8 lakh from it near Surat in the early hours of Wednesday. Three persons targeted the ATM of Surat District Cooperative Bank in Takarma village in the limits of Kim Police Station. The lifted the entire machine, which weighs minimum 500 kg and took it to an isolated spot in a farm about 150 feet away. They used cutters to break open the cash tray and took away Rs 7.44 lakh. They escaped leaving the damaged machine behind. The incident happened sometime between 1am and 2 am. Police are examining the CCTV footage but the burglars had their faces covered. “We have shared the images with other police stations to get clues about the burglars. But we have not received any specific information till now,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/burglars-lift-atm-into-farm-steal-rs7-4l/articleshow/78154108.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: LRS fee to be tweaked; move to benefit all applicants||HYDERABAD: In a decision which may go in favour of TRS in the ensuing polls to GHMC and two other municipal corporations, the government has decided to collect unauthorised layout regularisation fee based on land value on the day of property registration. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday informed the assembly the state government decided to collect regularisation fee based on the land value at the time of registration of the plot by the applicant instead of the current registration value. It might come as a boon to thousands of poor and middle class families who purchased plots several years ago and have to get them regularised now. The GO 131 on LRS would be amended and a revised order will be issued on Thursday, KTR said. It would be on the lines of LRS GO issued in 2015 and the revised charges might be 14% of plot value. This decision might go in favour of ruling TRS in the ensuing elections to GHMC, Greater Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations. People were seeking reduction of regularisation charges under LRS. Even TRS, Congress, BJP and other parties’ MLAs and MLCs urged the government to cut the fee. “CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has never looked back when the matter pertained to welfare of the poor and middle classes. The fresh decision will ease burden on middle class sections while regularising their land,” KTR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lrs-fee-to-be-tweaked-move-to-benefit-all-applicants/articleshow/78156817.cms||Roushan Ali
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Coronavirus-linked ailment afflicts children in Kolkata||KOLKATA: While Covid has largely been sparing children, an increasing number of youngsters in the city are being afflicted with a relatively new condition called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS -C). Doctors said this is linked to a delayed immune response to Covid. Majority of these children are either testing positive to Covid RT-PCR even as they are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Some have tested positive in an antibody test, confirming a Covid attack. A 15-year-old girl from north Kolkata was rushed to Institute of Child Health (ICH) with high fever, rashes, swelling of the glands and inflammation of the heart muscles — symptoms that indicated Kawasaki disease. Some symptoms also resembled Covid-19 infection. The girl, however tested, negative to Covid in RT-PCR but tested positive in an antibody test. “Numerous cases of MIS-C have been reported in the western countries including UK, Italy and Spain. Now we have started getting these cases here. This condition is caused by a late immunological reaction to the Covid infection. They are coming with features like that of Kawasaki syndrome,” said Prabhas Prasun Giri, paediatric ICU in-charge at ICH. ICH has treated at least 10 children with the condition in the past few weeks, including five who needed intensive care. A relatively new condition, WHO has termed the condition as MIS-C observed in children who have recovered from Covid-19 infection unknowingly or are recovering. Most of them have tested Covid positive after seeking treatment for conditions like persistent fever, rashes and inflammation. “We have treated at least 16 children with MIS-C, 12 of them needed ICU care. On testing, we found nine of them Covid positive while four were found to have developed antibodies. This condition can be called a different spectrum of Covid infection in children,” said Mihir Sarkar, associate professor of paediatrics at Medical College Hospital Kolkata, a tertiary level covid hospital. In severe cases, children develop multi-organ impairment affecting the heart, kidneys and the blood vessels. But so far doctors treating these cases said they have been able to save all the affected. “Kawasaki disease is more benign and usually affects children below the age of five years. In most cases of MIS-C what we have observed is that they developed myocarditis, in which the heart muscles get weakened,” said Giri. While most of the children who have been diagnosed as MIS-C are above five years of age, doctors at the paediatric unit of AMRI Mukundapur have come across infants, as young as 13-week, affected by MIS-C. “We started getting children with MIS-C from the middle of August. By now we have had about five cases. One of them is still recuperating,” said Soumen Meur, paediatric intensivist at AMRI Mukundapur. According to doctors, most Covid-infected children have been found to be asymptomatic or with only mild symptoms.  The state has not reported a single Covid death among children so far. Doctors who are getting these MIS-C cases said that all children are from Kolkata itself or from the city’s fringes. They have not ruled out an increase in number once schools start reopening. “Since schools are still closed, children are now at home and hence protected to certain extent. But we never know what will happen once schools reopen. There is a possibility of cases rising,” added Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coronavirus-linked-ailment-afflicts-children-in-kolkata/articleshow/78155440.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 17, 2020||India||Rail revenue down by 42%: Govt to LS||The revenue from passengers and freight reduced by 42% till August-end due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the railway ministry told the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. In a written reply, railway minister Piyush Goyal said the transporter refunded over Rs 3,371 crore for cancelled journeys between March and August. Due to discontinuance of passenger services, till August-end, the number of originating passengers has been 1.27% and freight loading has been 86.6% of the corresponding period last year. “Consequently, traffic revenue of railways to the end of August 2020, at Rs 41,844.31 crore has declined by 42.3% over the corresponding period last year,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rail-revenue-down-by-42-govt-to-ls/articleshow/78158132.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Stuffy cabin forced us to take off masks, claim flyers||KOLKATA: Passengers of two SpiceJet flights from Delhi to Kolkata complained that the airline had put nearly 350 people in harm’s way by not cooling the aircraft cabin while it waited on the ground for around an hour, creating an unbearable condition that forced gasping passengers to remove their masks. The airline denied there was anything wrong with the air conditioning and claimed the timeline provided by flyers was incorrect. “The aircraft door was closed at 7.36pm on September 13 and at 7.40pm on September 14 and the flights departed on time on both days. The allegation in the tweet that the flight did not depart till 8pm is wrong,” the airline said. To the passengers, however, the airline tweeted: “Apologies for the discomfort. Please note while the aircraft is on the ground, air-conditioning is often ineffective and as soon as it reaches height and cruises, the temperature starts getting lower.”  Pradeep Kumar Nemani, who travelled by SpiceJet flight SG253 on September 14, recounted to TOI how the situation became unbearable as the plane without adequate ventilation remained on ground for over an hour after boarding was over. “It was stuffy from the start. But as time progressed and passengers exhaled, the oxygen level in the cabin declined and carbon dioxide level rose. People had to take off their masks to breathe,” said Nemani, a general surgeon at CMRI Hospital in Kolkata, who was in Delhi to attend a conference organised by the Indian Medical Association. Nemani was glad he wasn’t in a middle seat as passengers assigned those seats sweated profusely as they had to be in full PPE gear. The previous evening too, passengers on another SpiceJet flight had made a similar complaint after reportedly being forced to sit in the hot and sweltry cabin for almost an hour. Nemani’s daughter Prachi, an MBBS passout who went to Delhi for an exam, said everyone around gasped for breath and took off their masks. “ Had there been one Covid-19 patient on the flight that day, several people would have got infected,” she said. Aviation experts ruled out the possibility of the ventilation system not functioning, pointing out that aircraft manufacturers Boeing and Airbus had advised airlines to keep the ventilation running during boarding and disembarking to minimize the risk of the spread of the novel coronavirus. SpiceJet operates Boeing B737-900 aircraft. “What had possibly happened was that the outside temperature in Delhi was high. In such a situation, an external AC cart needs to be attached to aircraft parked in remote bays to cool the cabin. When it is attached to the aerobridge, the bridge-mounted AC is attached. In the two instances, SpiceJet appeared to have ignored the adverse climate,” a veteran pilot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stuffy-cabin-forced-us-to-take-off-masks-claim-flyers/articleshow/78156833.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rains wreak havoc in T, two killed||Hyderabad: A woman drowned while crossing an overflowing rivulet in Vikarabad on Wednesday on account of the heavy rains that lashed the district. In Nagarkurnool too, a couple were stranded in Dindi rivulet but rescue operations could not be undertaken as it had become dark. Sources said services of NDRF have been requisitioned. In Khanapur, a person died after being struck by lightning while another sustained injuries. In Vikarabad, a family of four got washed away while returning home from work in the fields, after a local stream at Shahpur Thanda in Marpalli overflowed due to the continuous downpour. Villagers, however, rescued three of the family members, however, a woman, Anitha Bai, drowned. The villagers also used a rope to rescue four others who were stuck in the stream. Nagarkurnool collector L Sharman rushed to Siddapur in Achampet after receiving reports that a couple were stranded in Dindi rivulet. The couple were perched on a piece of ground in the rivulet. The rescue operations could not be taken up though the district administration planned to press in a helicopter as part of the effort. As it had become dark, the NDRF was called in. Nizamabad district authorities have cautioned the public in the areas alongside the Godavari against venturing into the river. As heavy rains had filled projects in Maharashtra, water was being released into the Godavari, collector C Narayana Reddy informed. Revenue officials have also been put on alert to undertake rescue and relief operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rains-wreak-havoc-in-t-two-killed/articleshow/78155442.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 17, 2020||Meerut||Why Covaxin trial is a family issue for these 5||MEERUT: Forty-five-year-old Amit Garg, whose family has been in the vaccine distribution business for decades, was on a routine visit to a manufacturer earlier this month when he heard that not enough people had volunteered for the phase two trials of Covaxin, an experimental Covid-19 jab developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. Two days later, Garg had signed up to be a volunteer. A week on, four more members of his family joined him. “I know how important a vaccine is to counter this pandemic. I heard from insiders that the trials didn’t have sufficient volunteers. That was very concerning to me. I realised it was time to make my contribution to humanity,” said Garg, a resident of Delhi. Along with his 34-year-old brother-in-law Kushal Agarwal, brother Sarthak Gupta, 43, and two nephews Aman Gupta and Sambhav Gupta, both 24 years of age, Garg received the jab on September 10 at AIIMS Delhi. “We were a bit apprehensive, but I looked at the bright side -- if the vaccine works, I’m among the first few to get it,” said Sarthak, who lives in Alwar. The family went through a series of medical tests before being deemed fit for the trial. They now have frequent follow ups over the phone and will get a booster shot of the vaccine next month. Throughout the process, family members said they have been each other’s pillar of support. “Initially, I was worried about side effects of the vaccine. But after a discussion with my family, I realised that even a vaccine that is in the market could potentially have side effects in some people, so there was no point worrying,” said Kushal, who lives with his wife and three-year-old son in Delhi. For Sambhav, a Btech graduate in Ludhiana, being a trial volunteer has come with a certain degree of popularity. “My friends keep a tab on my health every day. I don’t think I have ever been inquired about my health as much as in the past few days,” he chuckled. “None of us has any adverse symptoms,” he added. Inspired by the family’s dedication, their 34-year-old friend who works in a pharmaceutical company in Noida, has also become a volunteer. “I actually didn’t tell my own family that I was taking the vaccine until four days after,” said the man who requested anonymity. Covaxin was developed in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV) and trials started across India in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/why-covaxin-trial-is-a-family-issue-for-these-5/articleshow/78154120.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Recovered, asymptomatic docs hold up beds as Q-hotels are full||Nagpur: Notwithstanding severe bed shortage prevailing, several recovered and asymptomatic Covid positive doctors are forced to stay back in high-dependency unit (HDU) and even ICU wards at medical colleges in the city. The reason behind continued bed occupancy by the resident doctors is shortage of rooms at three hotels, which have been hired by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) exclusively for front-line Covid warriors. As per government hospital administration, the resident doctors prefer private hotels over NMC-run quarantine centre for self-isolation. The hotels running as quarantine centres are full and hence unable to take new admissions while administration is looking for more suitable accommodation for them. Many on-duty staffers too are staying in these hotels since March while some avail the facility when they feel they have high-risk exposure. Officials said though NMC-run quarantine centres like Vanamati and Ravi Bhavan were offered, the doctors are unwilling to stay there. GMCH is planning to set up 15 beds in a bungalow near its staff quarters for using it as quarantine centre for its residents. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey said the hospital has one exclusive ward for doctors and their relatives. “Around 40 staffers are admitted in this ward while asymptomatic members are sent to a hotel in Hingna for isolation,” he said. Dr Pandey said no recovered resident doctor is staying back in the ward. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said 35 doctors, 22 nurses and one clerk are currently admitted. “Some of them can be shifted to isolation. Those not having home isolation facilities are shifted to hotel,” he said. Dr Mukul Deshpande, central MARD general secretary and 3rd-year resident at GMCH, said while private hotels where NMC provides quarantine facility are full, they don’t have guidelines for alternate space. “We also don’t want doctors to keep occupying HDU and ICU beds which should be made available for common people. The hotels assigned to us are full and asymptomatic positive doctors are now stuck in wards. We are also seeking a normal ward where all asymptomatic doctors can spend their isolation period,” he said. Dr Deshpande said residents are not averse to moving to quarantine centre provided they are well-maintained. “Being infected in the line of duty, we expect preferential treatment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recovered-asymptomatic-docs-hold-up-beds-as-q-hotels-are-full/articleshow/78155444.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Govt Polytechnic’s final semester exam from Sept 21||Nagpur: Government Polytechnic, Nagpur (GPN) will conduct final semester exams from September 21, in compliance with directives from University Grants Commission (UGC). Since GPN is an autonomous institution, this exam schedule and pattern is only applicable to its students and not to those from other state-owned polytechnics. In the first phase from September 21, practical exams will be held orally through online mode. These will be conducted by and at department level. GPN has also authorized use of telephone as a mode of conducting the oral exam in case the online platform fails due to technical issues. Even after that if a student is unable to take the oral exams, then marks will be allotted based on term work, journal submission and continuous assessment. Theory exam will start from October 1 for ‘backlog’ students while for regular ones it will be conducted from October 10. Theory exams will be conducted online using MCQ format. Candidates have to solve 30 out of 40 given questions, with each carrying one mark. Candidates will be given one hour for the same. GPN principal (officiating) Deepak Kulkarni said, “These questions will be based on entire curriculum. Detailed schedule and guidelines for examination will be issued to the candidates and departments in due course of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-polytechnics-final-semester-exam-from-sept-21/articleshow/78155454.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Another Covid crematorium, this time in Kolkata's Garden Reach||KOLKATA: Birjunala burning ghat in Garden Reach has become the city’s third Covid-19 designated crematorium. According to Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) sources, it has been made operational as a full-fledged Covid crematorium over the past weeks following an outreach campaign that convinced locals this would not pose any health hazard. A KMC health department official said that the conversion of old complex of Nimtolla burning ghat into a Covid crematorium and introduction of Covid cremation at Birjunala burning ghat help the civic body to take the load of Dhapa crematorium, city’s first and still the principal Covid-designated crematorium. Times ViewThis will help families already in distress because of a bereavement. The system should be attuned to the needs of these families so that things can be made as less harrowing as possible.“The Birjunala crematorium in Garden Reach has been regularly accommodating Covid victims, thereby reducing the pressure on Dhapa crematorium. The victims from the city’s south-west belt and port area are being sent to Birjunala crematorium,” said a KMC health department official. According to a senior member of the KMC board of administrators, on an average eight to 10 Covid victims are cremated every day. However, the civic body’s initial attempts to introduce Covid cremation at Birjunala were resisted by a section of locals in the area. The civic team had to retreat twice due to an agitation by the locals who were scared of getting infected by the virus and refused to hand over the burning ghat to the KMC for the cremation of Covid victims. But continuous persuasion on part of the borough health department (borough XV) and counselling by ward coordinator and local politicians of the ruling party yielded results, said a civic official. According to a KMC official, the challenge before the civic body’s Covid cremation team at Birjunala was to keep the crematorium out of bounds for infection. “Since we have kept the crematorium open for the cremation of normal people other than that of Covid victims, we have been on our toes. Every day we conduct special sanitization drive at the crematorium to safeguard the interest of the locals. This apart, we have a strict vigil on the health of those who stay around the crematorium,” said a KMC health department’s senior official. According to Mamtaj Begum, the local Trinamool Congress ward coordinator, it was an uphill the task to convince locals about the necessity to turn the burning ghat into a Covid crematorium. “The area being congested, locals were reluctant to let KMC arrange for the cremation of Covid victims at Birjunala burning ghat. We went to people from door to door, explaining the necessity of such cremation at the burning ghat. Now, there is no resistance from locals,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birjunala-burning-ghat-helps-kmc-take-cov-cremation-load/articleshow/78155461.cms||Saikat Ray
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||State govt blasts Centre for short supply of urea||Hyderabad: A day after attacking the Centre on the new Electricity (Amendment) Bill, the Telangana government on Wednesday blamed it for not supplying required urea quantities to the state. Agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said the Centre has not been supplying over one lakh metric tonnes of urea to the state despite chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao speaking to the Centre and sending letters. Niranjan said he had even met Union fertiliser minister and secretaries seeking supplies of urea to the state. Replying to a query during the question hour in the assembly, the minister said nearly nine lakh metric tonnes of urea had been kept ready for farmers this monsoon season. “There is no shortage of urea despite the cultivable area going up by 33% over last year. If any village requires urea and informs the agriculture department, we will ensure supplies to the village within six hours,” Niranjan said. He urged MLAs to bring it to the notice of the government on urea requirement. He said the state has 50,000 metric tonnes of buffer stock and another 12,000 metric tonnes is in transit. The minister said there are 8,000 centres for supplying urea in the state. If there is a slight delay in the stocks reaching the centres and farmers are queueing up, opposition parties are claiming that there is shortage of urea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govt-blasts-centre-for-short-supply-of-urea/articleshow/78155459.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||T Covid-19 toll set to cross 1,000||Hyderabad: With the Covid-19 toll inching towards the 1,000 death mark (now at 996), Telangana will be the 13th state in the country to reach the dubious figure. The first death owing to Covid-19 occurred nearly 175 days ago. Interestingly, the average number of deaths due to various medical and health reasons in the state stands at 1,000 per day. A year 2018 report on medically-certified deaths in various states furnished by the Centre says that 37% of deaths in Telangana are medically-certified (at 51,068), while the total number of deaths stands at 1,36,528. Experts said taking into account these numbers, Covid-19 contribution to the overall death rate is very less. They said the current case fatality rate (CFR) may not give the exact picture of mortality rate, but the overall infection fatality rate (IFR) will be much less. “But, if all the deaths are taken into account, the daily toll in the state could be around 900,” medical and health officials said. Attributing the low CFR to prolonged immunisation drive and genetic framework of the people, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology director Rakesh Mishra said the fact the younger population has far less comorbidities cannot be swept under the carpet. “However, there is no truth in saying that the virus spread in the state is less virulent,” he said. Dr Himanshu Negandhi, additional professor of Indian Institute of of Public Health (Delhi), said in any pandemic CFR will be much less than IFR. “One of the reason for lesser CFR is that our medical system had responded well to the emergency. But, at any point of time, we should not let the guard down and continue to maintain social distancing norms,” he said. Senior health officials pointed out that many of those who had succumbed to the virus were stricken with fear. “Apart from improving immunity, Covid-19 treatment protocols are now clear. Hence, the fatality rate can be checked considerably,” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-covid-19-toll-set-to-cross-1000/articleshow/78156898.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Greyhounds cop dies as AK-47 goes off||Hyderabad: A Greyhounds commando, who was combing forest areas on the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, died after his AK-47 rifle accidentally went off on Wednesday morning. The deceased was identified as reserve sub-inspector (RSI) Aditya Sai Kumar, 25. Aditya of Telangana State Special Police (TSSP) battalions was attached to the elite anti-Maoist commando unit, Greyhounds. Aditya was part of the special party teams deputed for combing in Chennapuram forest area of Cherla mandal in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/greyhounds-cop-dies-as-ak-47-goes-off/articleshow/78155452.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pujas take online route to make up for entry curbs in Covid season||KOLKATA: As many bonedi bari and baroari Durga Pujas are restricting guests this year, some have decided to take the online route to reach their audience. While some have made provisions for live streaming, a few are in the process of doing so. Shovabazar Rajbari (chhoto taraf) has decided to completely restrict visitors. “It is not only about our family members. A lot of people pay their visit since morning and they can infect each other,” said Debasish Krishna Deb, a family member. The entire festival, including iconic moments like ‘kolabou snan’ and ‘sandhi puja’ will be streamed live through online platforms. “In the past 230 years, since the time of raja Nabakrishna Deb, we never closed the puja to outsiders,” Deb added. “They have approached me and there is merit in what they think. A website — Durgafest.com, a joint initiative of HIDCO and NKDA among others — will arrange for the logistics to stream live. Such efforts are quite innovative in maintaining social distancing during the pandemic. Other Bonedi families can also think about making it available online. Moreover, the website will also have a rating system by audience,” said state Women and Child Development minister and mentor of Durgafest.com Shashi Panja. “We are tying up with nearly 150 Pujas in Kolkata for live streaming and online presentation of their pandals,” said Indrajit Roy, managing director of Atreyee Nirman, a partner of Durgafest.com. The ‘baro taraf’ of Shovabazar Rajbari, which has been celebrating Durga Puja for 264 years, will allow visitors in a restricted way, following state guidelines. “Visitors can enter via ‘bagh fatak’ and leave through the outlet near the Jaipuria college,” said Tapas Basu, trustee of Estate Raja Sir Radhakanta Deb Bahadur. Central Kolkata’s Laha family is yet to finalize the plan for festival this year. Sabarna Roychowdhury family has a total of eight Durga pujas across the city and they are not inviting anybody this year. “We will, however, not say no if a visitor comes. But they will have to watch it from a distance,” said Devarshi Roychowdhury, a member of the Roy Chowdhury family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pujas-take-online-route-to-make-up-for-entry-curbs-in-cov-season/articleshow/78156899.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Edu min gest flak as students, NU members ignored||Nagpur: Education minister Uday Samant came under attack from Nagpur University’s statutory body members for not granting them time to meet during his visit to review final year exam preparations. The members, particularly students’ representatives, wanted to meet the minister for discussing several difficulties faced by examinees while appearing in MCQ tests, which is being held for the first time. They flayed Samant for inviting politicians for such crucial meetings related to academics and taking feedback only from them. MLC Dushyant Chaturvedi and former MLC Prakash Gajbhiye shared dais with the minister during a review meeting held at NU’s Jamnalal Bajaj administrative complex. Samant couldn’t be contacted for his comments as his phone was switched off. Vishnu Changde, a Management Council member, had replied to Samant’s tweet stating that instead of meeting NU members who are elected on various statutory bodies, he preferred to seek feedback from netas, hardly having any idea about NU affairs and students’ grievances. “The students are confused. A majority of them don’t know anything about MCQ pattern. We wanted to apprise the minister of all such problems faced by students while appearing in online exams. He, however, discussed administrative problems with politicians. Ideally, he should have invited various students’ organizations along with statutory members to discuss problems faced by the university,” Changde told TOI. Another member said since Changde had a background of ABVP, being its activist, the minister didn’t give him an appointment. On the other hand, Samant met students wing members of Aam Admi Party (AAP). “When we enquired with NU officials on why he (Samant) chose to ignore our demand, we were told that the minister himself had instructed them on not to allow anyone to meet him without his permission. Students’ representatives are better informed about problems faced by examinees than outsider,” he said. He added that even members were having grievances with the NU administration which they wanted to discuss with the minister and also had a few suggestions for improving the work efficiency. ABVP stages protests against Samant Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists on Wednesday staged protests at Reshimbagh and Zansi Rani Square against education minister Uday Samant alleging that he and Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government were interfering with the autonomy granted to universities and forcing their administrations to follow their diktats. According to them, the students of final year and ATKT were confused over the government’s wrong policies and flip-flops over the examination issue, despite clear directives by the University Grants Commission. “There were a lot of issues which the minister should have listened to during his visit to the city. It included waiving off 30% college fees for all students this academic session, refund of exam fees charged by NU, and clearing confusion of first and second year ATKT students, among others,” said activist Sanket Jawalkar. The ABVP also flayed action taken on their Amravati University counterparts when they went to meet Samant with problems faced by the students. “Our volunteers were detained and confined to lock-up for entire night. An offence was also lodged against activist Ravi Dandge, which we condemn,” said the ABVP in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-min-gest-flak-as-students-nu-members-ignored/articleshow/78155500.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||City under water as heavy rain brings misery for commuters||Hyderabad: Many parts of the city were inundated after a rainfall of up to 109mm submerged vehicles and brought traffic to a grinding halt on Wednesday. Power cuts in several parts of the city added to the misery of citizens. After a sunny morning, heavy rains started pouring across the city in the evening. According to Telangana State Development Planning Society, Bharadurpura received highest rainfall of 109.8mm followed by 109.3mm at Shaikpet, 104.8mm at Attapur up to 8pm. Vehicular movement was slow on the stretch from Gachibowli towards Tolichowki due to heavy rain as traffic cops deployed on the stretch tried to regulate the traffic. “Breakdown of cars near Malkam Cheruvu resulted in slow moving traffic from Biodiversity towards Mehdipatnam,” said a traffic cop. Many commuters took 1.5 to 2 hours to cover eight kilometres stretch from Biodiversity Junction to Mehdipatnam. “I was coming from Madhapur to Ameerpet, and it was drizzling. When I reached near SR Nagar, it started raining heavily. We stopped at SR Nagar police station because it was getting difficult to drive. It took to almost two hours to reach home,” said T Abhishek, a resident of Madhapur. In many by-lanes of Tolichowki, Hakeempet, Nanal Nagar, water entered houses and underground godowns resulting in huge property damage. Three building/wall collapse complaints were registered from Khairtabad and Charminar zone. “Since June, Hyderabad has witnessed three extreme events of heavy rainfall, the third one being on Wednesday,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-under-water-as-heavy-rain-brings-misery-for-commuters/articleshow/78156914.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Marks out of 600 in HSC from 2021, new syllabus training for teachers||Pune: The students of standard XII from the state board will appear for their term-end examination for a total of 600 marks instead of the prevalent 650 marks from 2021. The Environment Education subject which counted for the remaining 50 marks would now be just a graded subject with water security being included in it. Teachers would soon be given online training for the changed syllabus of standard XII, officials said. “The changes were implemented as per the circular in 2017. The syllabus and the textbooks changed for standard XI in 2019-20, and for standard XII in 2020-21. The question paper will be based on this syllabus and the question paper too will be based on this. Teachers will be trained online,” said Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. Kale also said the paper pattern would remain the same as 2020 even though about 25% syllabus has been reduced by the Maharashtra education department because of the Covid 19 pandemic disrupting regular academic year. A junior college teacher, who did not wish to be named, said, “This year, the class XII curriculum has changed. I teach English and there were many activities planned for the subject but due to Covid 19 pandemic, all that has been hit.” The previous circular says that along with term end examination, students would be continuously evaluated for various factors for internal marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/marks-out-of-600-in-hsc-from-2021-new-syllabus-training-for-teachers/articleshow/78155505.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||2 take shelter from rain, die in wall collapse||Hyderabad: Two carpenters, who stopped near a temple to take shelter from the heavy rain, died after the compound wall fell on them at Old Peerzadiguda Village under Medipally limits, on Wednesday. The victims, Praveen Kumar and Mohan, residents of Vishnupuri Colony, were heading home on their bike when it began raining around 6.30pm. “The wall collapsed right on the them. By the time locals and cops removed the debris, they had died,” said Medipally inspector, Anji Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-take-shelter-from-rain-die-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/78156918.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||No re-evaluation or answer sheet copy||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will not give the option of re-evaluation and securing photocopy of answer sheets to students for the term-end examination. The students are demanding a grievance redressal portal which will work throughout the duration of the examination. However, university officials have assured that the examination process would be transparent, an answer key would be uploaded the very next day and dedicated coordinators would be appointed for all queries, before and during the examination.The university has assured that in case the student logs out due to problems such as connectivity or gadget issues, then whenever he or she logs in again, they will be able to recover whatever time was left in their one-hour duration exam before they logged out. The software would also ensure that the question paper picks up immediately after the last answered question by the student. The circular issued on Tuesday and uploaded on the SPPU website, said the decisions were taken after the meetings of various academic bodies within the university. The online practicals/viva/seminars will be held for the full marks dedicated to them in the regular set up and the colleges need to upload the marks obtained by each student before October 5. Mock tests would also be taken twice before the actual exam so that students get familiarised with the question paper pattern.For grievance redressal during the course of the examination, districtwise, subjectwise coordinators would be appointed and the details would be independently shared by the university on its website. “It is an international practice for such examinations not to have re-evaluation or give photocopy, as it is not possible in the online exam and even the OMR sheet based offline examination. Hence answer keys will be uploaded on the university website the next day immediately after the examination,” N S Umrani, pro-vice-chancellor, SPPU, said.Umrani added, “We have identified about 20 coordinators from the three districts of Pune, Nashik, and Ahmednagar who will be resolving any doubts or confusions of the student, before the exam as well as during the exam. These are highly experienced faculty members with technical know-how of the examination. We have held meetings with these people, guided them and also provided them with the information regarding the Supreme Court order, the state government orders and SPPU’s circulars so that they are well-equipped to field all questions regarding examination, not only from students but also from the concerned parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-re-evaluation-or-answer-sheet-copy/articleshow/78155508.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 17, 2020||Goa||Third ferry boats to be launched this month in Goa||PANAJI: The last of the three ferry boats which was to be added to the river navigation department’s fleet is expected to be launched this month. The third ferry boat will be operational on the river route by September-end, said captain of ports James Braganza. “We have 38 ferry boats plying on 18 routes across Goa and have inducted three now,” he said. Old ferry boats in the department are being phased out and the new ones are being inducted in their place. “We are phasing out three ferry boats on an average, every year. Over the next two to three years, we expect to eliminate at least nine of them so that we have a newer lot in the fleet,” Braganza further said. In addition to this, the long pending solar ferry boat is also on the cards for next financial year. “Due to financial constraints we had kept in on hold but once we issue the work order, we expect it within six to seven months. We intend to operate it on the Panaji to Aldona route, to revive this route,” Braganza said. Some of the routes in South Goa like Cavelossim and Assolna have been closed by the captain of ports . However, new route like Adpai to Racaim has been added to ease the congestion on roads for people to travel to Ponda via Borim. “This has reduced the road traffic considerably on the Ponda to Margao route,” the captain of ports said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/third-ferry-to-be-launched-this-mth/articleshow/78156937.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Siblings held with fake currency notes||Pune: A 22-year-old woman and her younger brother were arrested on Tuesday evening when they were circulating fake currency notes of Rs100 denomination in Bhosari market. The crime branch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police recovered 34 fake notes from the duo. When the police raided their house at Uttamnagar, they found two printers and blank papers. “The siblings printed fake notes of Rs100 denomination in their house and circulated them in the market. We have recovered two fake notes of Rs200 denomination from their house. They were preparing to print counterfeit notes of Rs200 denomination, too,” inspector Uttam Tangade of the crime branch said. He said the police on Tuesday evening received a tip-off that a woman and a youth were trying to circulate fake notes in Bhosari market. The woman, having her roots in West Bengal, told the police that she ran a beauty parlour in Uttamnagar, which shut down during lockdown. “They used to purchase vegetables in the market using the fake notes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/siblings-held-with-fake-currency-notes/articleshow/78155515.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Minus one pvt lab, testing traffic diverts to less reliable RAT||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) closure notice against Dhruv Path Lab Pvt ltd over alleged failure to upload real time test data on ICMR portal resulted in probably more people opting for rapid antigen test (RAT) on Wednesday as compared to Tuesday. Dhruv Lab, reportedly having a RT-PCR testing capacity of 1,000 per day, stopped taking new samples from Wednesday. Two more private labs – Metro and Su Vishwas - were under scrutiny but allowed to function with a warning toupload real time data of testing. RAT’s false negative rate is as high as 60 to 70% and hence not considered as good as the RT-PCR. As per civil surgeon’s data, 3,529 RT-PCR tests were done at five government and other labs and 4,811 RAT on Wednesday for a total of 8,340 tests. Of these, private and NU labs accounted for 1,665 tests. On Tuesday, 6,227 tests were done at five government and other labs. Of these, private labs accounted for 1,570, which shows there was a jump of 95 tests on Wednesday. But the number of RAT tests jumped by over 1,800 from 2,934 a day before. The actual impact of Dhruv’s closure and backlog of over 200 samples at two other private labs would be seen in next couple of days. As per government lab doctors, NMC action will add to their burden of managing samples. “Even if 500 samples were processed at Dhruv daily, it would result in additional 100 or even more extra burden for government labs. We are already burdened with staff deficiency and managing somehow,” said a doctor. A senior microbiologist said, “Ultimately, people will suffer. We are trying to do maximum tests as Nagpur itself has a huge population. We need more labs but here the civic body has taken one good lab off. Private labs have their own smooth system for bed-ridden, elderly and people with special needs. A government lab may not be able to provide that type of service at people’s doorstep.” Dhruv’s inability to know accept samples would impact suspects from city as well as neighbouring districts where testing is still not as strong. The lab had been catering to people who were not able walk up to the government and civic-run testing centres or needed a corona-free certificate for different purposes such as air travel or joining work. Suspected cases admitted at private hospitals too rely on private labs. The other two private labs said they too were not accepting fresh samples as they needed to first clear backlog. “Our capacity is just around 150. But 200 samples have piled up in one day. We had to close for one day. People from Yavatmal, Gondia and Bhandara have been sending samples,” said one of the directors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minus-one-pvt-lab-testing-traffic-diverts-to-less-reliable-rat/articleshow/78155531.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 17, 2020||Pune||Man slashes self near police chowkey||Pune: A 30-year-old man inflicted blade injuries on himself in front of Alankar police chowkey after he was summoned for questioning over a complaint of criminal intimidation lodged against him by a woman. Senior police inspector Shilpa Chavan of Alankar police station told TOI, “We have booked him under Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code for attempting to commit suicide. The man inflicted cuts on his forearms and wrist, claiming that the woman had registered a fabricated complaint against him.” Chavan said, “The man works as an accountant with a private firm in Pune city. He used to stalk the woman. She was annoyed with him and had warned him.” “The woman has filed a complaint against him for issuing threats to her,” Chavan said. “The man was summoned to the police chowkey. Before police could tell him anything, he fished out a blade from his pocket and inflicted injuries on himself,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-slashes-self-near-police-chowkey/articleshow/78155523.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Southern dists report 730 cases, central region 663||Madurai/Trichy: The southern region recorded 730 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 1,03,069, which include 6,270 active cases. The region also recorded four deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 663 cases taking the tally to 42,921. The region also recorded five deaths taking the toll to 616 on Wednesday. The casualties include a 30-year-old postnatal mother in Tirunelveli. The other deaths in the southern districts were recorded in Theni and Tenkasi. No deaths were recorded in the seven other southern districts. Tirunelveli (118) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region on Wednesday, followed by Kanyakumari (114). The eight other districts recorded less than 100 fresh cases. The casualties in the central Tamil Nadu include a 52-year-old man from Thanjavur without comorbidities. He died on September 14, the same day he tested positive. Trichy and Thanjavur reported two deaths each and Nagappattinam one. However, 37,097 patients have been discharged from healthcare centres so far in the region. Trichy recorded 98 fresh cases taking the tally to 9,114. Trichy collector S Sivarasu told TOI around 1,800 samples were tested in the district. Sivarasu attributed the reduction of new cases to the strict containment measures and contact tracing in addition to the ramped up testing. “We are looking to bring down the cases to below 80 in the days to come,” he said. As of the week ended on September 14, Trichy recorded 5.5% positivity rate making it in the 29th position among other districts in the state. On sudden spike of cases in Pudukottai after a gap of two days, deputy director of health services (DDHS), Pudukottai, K V Arjun Kumar said that it is because more contacts tested positive on the particular day. The cases were below 70 in the last two days in Pudukottai, but climbed to 131 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-dists-report-730-cases-central-region-663/articleshow/78156941.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Kamareddy RDO suspended for assigning govt land illegally||Hyderabad: Less than 10 days after Medak additional collector Gaddam Nagesh and a revenue divisional officer (RDO) were arrested in a bribery case, the state government cracked the whip against another RDO from Kamareddy district in connection with irregularities in a land parcel. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders on Tuesday night suspending Kamareddy RDO G Narender for allegedly committing irregularities when he was tahsildar of Jinnaram mandal in Sangareddy district. The GO said Narender had illegally assigned government land in survey No. 181 at Khajipally village in Jinnaram to some persons in collusion with other officers. Official sources said Narender faced corruption charges while working in Hyderabad and Rangareddy. Vigilance wing suggested that he must not be given posting in Hyderabad and surrounding districts. Following allegations against him when he was RDO of Jagtial district, he was transferred to Kamareddy a few months ago. Official sources said Narender faced corruption charges while working in Hyderabad and Rangareddy. Vigilance wing suggested that he must not be given posting in Hyderabad and surrounding districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kamareddy-rdo-suspended-for-assigning-govt-land-illegally/articleshow/78155539.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: KTC’s shuttle routes see 64% drop in footfalls||PANAJI: Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) shuttle service, once was a preferred mode of transport on long distance intra state routes, is now receiving poor response owing to the pandemic. The corporation officials have reported a 64% drop in the service’s passenger count and have thus reduced the number of buses on the shuttle routes. The service that ran on the Panaji-Margao route, among others, started operating with 100% capacity following Unlockdown 4.0. The shuttle buses currently operate only at peak timings instead of all day. On the Panaji to Margao route and vice versa, buses leave between 7am to 9.30am from Margao and in the evening between 4.30 to 6.30pm from Panaji. Currently, a total of 21 buses ply on this route. Similarly, only three shuttle buses operate between Panaji and Ponda. There are 13 shuttle buses on the Vasco route. “There is potential for the buses to travel at full capacity, but poor response from the public is hindering this. We will be able to increase the number of buses and its frequencies by the last week of the month,” general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. “People must avoid personal transport and avoid loss not only to KTC but also to themselves. Since KTC gets its money from the public exchequer, it is the tax payers money we are operating on,” Ghate said. The KTC saw its biggest clientele in students and working professionals, both of whom are currently working from home. In addition to this, KTC pointed out that senior citizens have stopped travelling by buses owing to the pandemic and so have industrial workers, who are mainly migrants that are yet to return to Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktcs-shuttle-routes-see-64-drop-in-footfalls/articleshow/78156961.cms||Nida Sayed
September 17, 2020||Lucknow||Cong panels to shortlist candidates||LUCKNOW: Pulling up its socks for the bypolls slated to take place on eight seats of the state, the UP Congress formed search committees to shortlist candidates on Wednesday. “As part of the poll preparation, the committees have been formed to take applications from every seat and select a suitable candidate,” state president Ajay Kumar Lallu said. According to the order, the charge of Ghatampur (reserved) seat has been given to former Union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya, while former minister RK Chaudhary and state vice-president of the party Yogesh Dixit will serve as members. The responsibility of Malhani seat has been entrusted to former MLAs Ajay Rai, Ram Jiahwan and party secretary general Maqsood Khan. Former MLA Nadeem Javed, former MP Balakrishna Chauhan and party general secretary Vishwavijay Singh have been told to find a suitable candidate for Deoria Sadar. The committee for Bangarmau seat comprises MLA from Kanpur Cantt and state vice-president Suhail Akhtar Ansari, former MLA Sanjeev Daryabadi and general secretary Vivekanand Pathak. For the Tundla assembly seat, former ministers Nasimuddin Siddiqui, Deepak Kumar and state general secretary Badruddin Qureshi have been appointed. The responsibility of Naugawan Sadat has been entrusted to former MP Praveen Singh Airon, MLA Naresh Saini and general secretary Ali Yusuf Ali. The charge of Bulandshahr has been given to ex-MP Harendra Malik, MLA Masood Akhtar, General Secretary Vidit Chaudhary. Ex-MP Rashid Alvi has been asked to find candidate for Swar Rampur Assembly constituency. Ex-MLA Narendra Pal Gangwar and general secretary Brahmwaroop Sagar will assist Alvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-panels-to-shortlist-candidates/articleshow/78156938.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Civic body asks 40 more pvt hosps to treat Covid patients||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has added 40 more private hospitals (1,419 beds) that will now treat the rising Covid-19 patients in the city. Soon, the civic body is hopeful the total will cross 100.According to an NMC release on September 11, there were totally 2,827 Covid beds in city — 1,450 in government facilities and 1,377 in private hospitals. The additional 40 hospitals will bring in 1,419 beds to take the total to 4,246.TOI has been reporting the hardships faced by Covid-19 patients in finding a bed at government and private hospitals. After banning walk-in admissions at private hospitals on Tuesday, NMC on Wednesday announced 40 new hospitals have been added in the list of Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) in the city.These hospitals, situated in different localities, have been given 48 hours to prepare and start functioning. According to administrative officials, NMC had earlier declared 62 private hospitals as Covid hospitals of which about 40 have been functional.“Overall, NMC has issued orders for a total of 102 hospitals in the city. Some hospitals are preparing to start while some are experiencing issues that we are trying to resolve. We are trying to start more than 100 private hospitals dedicated for corona patients,” said additional commissioner Jalaj Sharma.As per NMC’s directives, these hospitals have to reserve 80% beds for Covid-19 patients. If any hospital is found violating this norm, its licence will be cancelled under the Nursing Homes Registration Act. The Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA) and Indian Medical Association (IMA) have been saying it’s difficult for them to treat patients under the fixed government rates. Their demands for a hike have not been met yet. A few Covid hospitals in the city have returned their registrations to the IMA in a symbolic protest launched by the association.Six days back, TOI had reported that 17 out of 31 private hospitals asked to get converted into DCHs had refused to do so. While doctors offer various reasons for not turning their hospitals into DCHs, many Covid-19 patients have reportedly died due to lack of proper and timely treatment. On Thursday, Nagpur district registered 1,671 positive cases and 62 deaths.Dr Anup Marar, convener of VHA, said the opportunity of building a robust infrastructure during lockdown time was lost “and now there is no other option left”. “Let all hospitals and clinics — government or private — treat all patients subject to availability of beds and allied logistics and manpower. Unless proved otherwise, every other person should be considered Covid positive,” he said.Stating that community spread had already occurred, Dr Marar added, “Thus those who are infected and crying hoarse about non-availability of beds and high bills in private hospitals should conscientiously understand that they are only responsible for this tragedy as they did not follow guidelines. Stay safe in home is the simple advice to be followed.”As reported by TOI first on Wednesday, to ensure transparency in allotment of beds for patients, NMC on Thursday has issued strict directives to private hospitals, restricting them from directly admitting non-critical walk-in patients. All admissions will now have to take place through NMC’s helpline number — 0712-2567021. Hospitals are allowed to admit critical patients but they have to inform NMC’s control room about it within an hour and also update the information on the portal. They have also been directed to provide real-time data regarding availability of beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-body-asks-40-more-pvt-hosps-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/78155538.cms||Manka Behl
September 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cricketer Deshmukh passes away due to Covid-19||Mumbai: The city’s cricketing fraternity suffered a blow when former local cricketer Sachin Deshmukh succumbed to Covid-19 at 2.57pm at Thane’s Vedant Hospital on Tuesday. He was 52. Deshmukh had made it to Ranji Trophy squads of Mumbai and Maharashtra but could not find a place in the XI. “He scored 183, 130 and 110 in five innings under my captaincy for Maharashtra Under-19 Cooch Behar Trophy in November 1986. He was a hard-hitting batsman. We grew up together,” Deshmukh’s friend Abhijit Deshpande, who played with him since inter-school level and is an ex-Maharashtra Ranji player, told TOI from Pune. Deshmukh was a superintendent of excise and customs in Mumbai (now GST and customs). He scored seven consecutive centuries while batting for Pune University in All-India Inter-University tournament in the 90s. A prolific middle-order batsman, Deshmukh played for Dadar Parsee Zoroastrian Cricket Club and Mahindra in local cricket. He also played for Mumbai Police in Police Shield. “He was a gifted, talented cricketer. He used to tell me that Madhav Mantri (former India wicketkeeper) used to like him a lot. Unfortunately, he never got a chance to play for Mumbai,” Deshmukh’s friend Ramesh Vazge, a former managing committee member of Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) told TOI on Wednesday. “His death is a message to us that no one should take Covid lightly. He had fever but refused to get himself admitted to hospital. He was detected with Covid nine days back,” he added. “After a superb show for Pune University, he played for All-India Universities against the visiting West Indies side. He was such a fantastic batsman that he was referred to as ‘mini-Gavaskar’ in local cricket. But injuries prevented him from growing in his career,” said Iqbal Shaikh, former MCA managing committee member. “His untimely death has shocked me. He was a great human being, who used to help many Mumbai cricketers. He was like a godfather to young cricketers in the city,” said MCA apex council member Nadim Memon. Deshmukh is survived by wife Smita, son Harshal (16) and daughter Shivani (20).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cricketer-deshmukh-passes-away-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/78155592.cms||Gaurav Gupta
September 17, 2020||Madurai||CPM cadre protest charge-sheeting of Yechury in riots case||Madurai: Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged protests at three places in Madurai on Wednesday, against the inclusion of party general secretary, Sitaram Yechury’s name in the Delhi riots case charge sheet.The protests took place at Jeeva Nagar junction in Jaihindpuram, Arapalayam Cross Road junction and Meenambalpuram. More than 100 members took part in the protest at Jaihindupram, which was led by the party’s district secretary, R Vijayarajan. The protesters raised slogans against the central government.The riot which took place in North East Delhi in February claimed 50 lives. While there were news reports that Yechury’s name has been included in the supplementary charge sheet, the Delhi police have denied it.However, CPM members claimed that their party leader’s name has been included by the Delhi police, who are conducting an inquiry. They said that the central government is behind naming their leader in order to implicate him in the case. They demanded fair probe into the riots and bringing the real culprits to the book. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cpm-cadre-protest-charge-sheeting-of-yechury-in-riots-case/articleshow/78156948.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||36% rise in domestic flyers in Lohegaon airport in Aug||Pune: The city airport has recorded a 36% rise in domestic passenger traffic in August as compared to July.The airport handled 1,49,505 passengers in August and 1,09,564 in July. The number of flights also increased from 1,437 in July to 1,679 in August.There are 64 flight movements at the airport at present and sources told TOI that around 46 flights take off and land between 8pm and 8am. However, from the last week of October, no flights would land or take off from the facility between 8pm and 8am owing to re-carpeting of the runway. The restriction will remain in force for a year beginning October 26.“Flights will continue to operate throughout the day. Flights which currently operate in the evening and night will be rescheduled earlier in the day,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, adding that no airline has presented a fresh schedule as of now.Airlines representatives at the airport said that they were expecting an additional 2,000 to 3,000 passengers during the day following the bunching of evening and red eye flights. “Flight bunching will lead to crowding and it needs to be avoided. Pune being a Covid hotspot, the officials need to carefully visualise all possibilities and situations before coming up with a plan,” aviation expert and analyst Dahiryashil Vandekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/36-rise-in-domestic-flyers-in-lohegaon-airport-in-aug/articleshow/78155535.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 17, 2020||Vadodara||4 persons attacked by wild bear, leopard in Chhota Udepur||Vadodara: Four persons were injured on Tuesday and Wednesday in attacks by wild bear and a leopard in Chhota Udepur district. According to forest department, Ramesh Nayka, Babu Nayka and Jasu Rathwa were attacked by a wild bear in the forest area near Kevdi village on Tuesday evening. “The trio was attacked when they had gone to forest area to take their cattle for grazing,” said deputy conservator of forest Nilesh Pandya. While Jasu is undergoing treatment at primary health centre at Zoz, Ramesh and Babu have been shifted to SSG Hospital in Vadodara. On Wednesday afternoon, 58-year-old Khapar Rathwa was attacked by a leopard in the forest region of Bordha in Pavi Jetpur. Khapar too had taken his cattle for grazing. Sources said that the leopard fled after farmers from nearby farms rushed to Khapar on hearing his shouts. Khapar was taken to Bodeli for treatment.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/4-persons-attacked-by-wild-bear-leopard-in-chhota-udepur/articleshow/78153330.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Medical panel orders hospital to pay Rs 1 lakh||KOLKATA: In an interim order, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has directed a private hospital in Park Circus to pay a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the family of an 81-year-old patient who had died later in another hospital. The patient from Serampore, suffering from various age related ailments, was referred to the neuroscience specialty hospital from another private hospital on January 13. The family alleged the patient had been kept in the emergency for six hours with only a white sheet, due to which he had developed pneumonia. They also complained that the patient also suffered vessel injury during extubation.The octogenarian was shifted later to a local nursing home in Serampore after seven days, where he died later. “While we have forwarded the case of medical negligence to the West Bengal Medical Council, we have asked the hospital to pay a compensation of Rs 1 lakh as an interim directive. We have asked the patient party to come back to us with the medical council’s verdict, after which we will take the final call,” said justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman WBCERC. The commission also asked a nursing home in Entally to refund Rs 10,000 to the parents of an infant who was treated in the hospital in January for 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-panel-orders-hosp-to-pay-rs-1l/articleshow/78155557.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Corporator, spouse booked in chit-fund scam||Hyderabad: A criminal case has been filed against a corporator and her husband for doing businesses allegedly in violation of rules. Neredmet police in the FIR said that a case was registered against them under section PMLA, sections 409(Criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 471, 506, 120-b (conspiracy) of the IPC.  The complaint alleged that corporator and her husband did finance business by collecting high interest besides doing chits business in violation of rules. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-spouse-booked-in-chit-fund-scam/articleshow/78155570.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Posters warn of death penalty for sexually abusing minors||Madurai: The district child protection unit (DCPU) has put up posters at various places in the southern districts, warning of death penalty for those sexually abusing children aged below the age of 18 years. Officials said the exercise was carried out with posters released by the commissioner, department of social defence. The campaign is aimed at creating awareness among vulnerable children and warn perpetrators.The posters were prominently pasted at the entrances of police stations, public distribution system shops and at places where people gathered in large numbers. In Madurai district, the posters were released by superintendent of police (SP) Sujith Kumar. Officials from the district child welfare committee and child protection unit were present at the event.In Tuticorin district, superintendent of police S Jeyakumar kick-started the drive by affixing the posters at the all women police station (AWPS) in the city. “Police personnel from the AWPS visit two villages a week to create awareness on Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and other issues pertaining to safety of women and children. The posters will be circulated there as well,” the SP said.Jeyakumar said that a total of 22 Pocso cases have been registered in the district this year and they aim to bring it down. The posters also popularised child rescue helpline number 1098 that the victims or those who are aware of children facing sexual abuse could report, so that the child can be rescued. Three of the seven AWPS in Tuticorin have child-friendly inquiry rooms and the rest will be ready in a couple of months, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/posters-warn-of-death-penalty-for-sexually-abusing-minors/articleshow/78156960.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE compartment exam from Sept 22||NAGPUR: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will be conducting its compartment exam from September 22. This will be the first time after the lockdown that Std X students will be stepping out of their homes for a national-level exam. Std XII students might have had some experience because of JEE and NEET. The compartment exam is for those students who failed during the regular board exam held in summer. School principals say the fear of Covid-19 during the compartment exam is unfounded because there will be fewer number of students to deal with. Also, there will be multiple safety guidelines in places, they added. Sumathi Venugopalan, principal of Centre Point School (Wardhaman Nagar), said, “When it comes to the number of students appearing for the compartment exam, it’s very less when compared to the regular board exams. Also, because of NEET, we have got confidence in conducting exams which involve students coming to the premises in large numbers.” She added that for Std X students, one paper of the board exam was held in a similar manner. “The last paper for Std X was held according to Covid-19 guidelines. There were fewer students in each classroom and most other safety protocols had been followed,” said Venugopalan. TOI was the only paper to report about that experiment of CBSE way before the actual lockdown was started. CBSE had instructed all centres to make drastic changes in the seating arrangements for the last board exam paper in March. Only a maximum of either 12 or 15 students were allowed in the same room as compared to almost 30 or more earlier. Anmol Badjatia, principal of Jain International School, said big entrance exams have given them much-needed ‘practice’. “Definitely, NEET has provided us with the experience in handling crowds and conducting exams smoothly. At the same time, CBSE has also put in a lot of safety guidelines in place so that the health of students is not compromised.” If the same pattern of JEE or NEET is followed by CBSE, then even those students having fever will be allowed to appear for the exam. However, such students had been asked to sit in a separate room. For NEET, those who were Covid-19 positive, a separate exam will be held later. CBSE’s compartment exam will go on till almost mid-October for both Std X and XII. Though the exact number of students appearing for it in Nagpur is not known, it’s estimated the number will be less than 1,000. While CBSE is all set for this exam, the Maharashtra state board does not have any concrete plans. Ravikant Deshpande, chairman of Nagpur divisional board, said, “So far, no dates have been finalized by the government.” State board had conducted all its papers for Std XII (HSC), but decided to cancel one paper for Std X (SSC) as the lockdown had come into effect by then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-compartment-exam-from-sept-22/articleshow/78159287.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors strongly oppose NMC diktats on pvt hospitals||Nagpur: Doctors of the city have strongly opposed decisions taken by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) regarding Covid patients and termed them impractical. This comes against the backdrop of several hospitals surrendering their registration to Indian Medical Association (IMA) protesting what they feel are abysmally low rates for treating Covid patients. NMC health officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar had issued an order yesterday making it compulsory for any hospital with 10 or more beds to treat Covid patients. Mayor Sandip Joshi had asked NMC administration to order all 637 private hospitals in city to reserve at least 5 beds for Covid patients. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has made it mandatory for hospitals to obtain NMC’s permission before admitting Covid patients. Members of both IMA and Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) met on Wednesday evening and condemned these decisions. Dr Archana Kothari, president of IMA, told TOI the order to make all hospitals compulsorily treat Covid patients was impractical. “If small hospitals treat both Covid and non-Covid patients, there is a strong possibility of the latter getting infected by the disease. Who will take responsibility if a non-Covid patient goes to court against a hospital for infecting him or her with Covid,” she asked. Dr Kothari further said, “Many hospitals do not have facilities to handle critical patients. They do not have proper oxygen flow. If a Covid patient becomes critical in such a hospital, how will the hospital find a proper facility for him or her?” The IMA city president further said that by asking all hospitals to treat Covid patients, there was a chance of entire workforce of health sector getting affected by the pandemic. “The medical staff that treats Covid patients frequently contracts the disease,” she added. According to Dr Kothari, NMC should have asked the state government task force before implementing these rules. Dr Alok Umre, secretary of VHA, also echoed similar views. “This decision may backfire and spread Covid among more Nagpurians. Non-Covid patients will catch the disease from Covid ones in hospitals. Healthcare workers will also become positive,” he told TOI. According to Dr Umre, the Wuhan model was the most successful in Covid treatment. “A jumbo hospital should be set up for treating Covid patients. We had suggested this to the divisional commissioner in March, April and May but unfortunately no action was taken. If we had a 5,000 bed hospital there would have been no shortage of beds,” he said. Dr Anup Marar, convenor of VHA, slammed NMC for making it compulsory for hospitals to take its permission before admitting Covid patients. “This is against our Hippocratic oath and court orders. If a Covid patient comes to me and I have a bed in my hospital then I have to admit him or her. This is my duty,” he said. Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan has warned private hospitals that if they did not inform NMC about Covid patients admitted by them, action would be taken against the owners under Nursing Homes Act. Additional commissioner Jalaj Sharma said if any hospital refused to treat Covid patients, the relatives can lodge a complaint with NMC control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-strongly-oppose-nmc-diktats-on-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/78155618.cms||Ashish Roy
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Man stabbed to death by relative in Madurai||MADURAI: A 65-year-old man was stabbed to death by his relative at Thanakkankulam on the outskirts of Madurai on Tuesday night. The deceased has been identified as A Sivalingam of Perumal Kovil Street at Thanakkankulam, who was running a cement sales godown in the same area.  His wife S Saroja, 60, son S Sivakumar, 35, suffered stab injuries. The accused, B Vijayakumar of the same village, was absconding. Police sources said Sivakumar had married Vijayakumar's sister a few years ago, and the couple has a daughter. Due to frequent disputes, the couple parted ways. Efforts taken by Vijayakumar and his family members to reunite the couple failed as Sivakumar did not show any interest. Sivakumar moved a family court for divorce. In this backdrop, Sivakumar got remarried a few days ago. This angered Vijayakumar and his family members. He picked up a quarrel with Sivalingam on Tuesday night. In a fit of rage, Vijayakumar took out a knife he was carrying and attacked Sivalingam. Sivakumar and Saroja rushed to save Sivalingam. They suffered stab injuries on hands and back. Madurai district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. Based a complaint by Sivakumar, the Austinpatti police registered a murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-stabbed-to-death-by-relative-in-madurai/articleshow/78156972.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB gets 4-day custody of addl collector||Hyderabad: ACB secured four-day custody of Medak additional collector Nagesh and four accused in bribery case. Court granted custody of collector G Nagesh, his benami K Jeevan Goud, Narsapur RDO B Aruna Reddy, Chilipiched tahsildar Abdul Sattar, revenue department employee Md Wasim Ahmed from September 21. The five are lodged in Chanchalguda prison. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-gets-4-day-custody-of-addl-collector/articleshow/78155585.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Locals want health centre at old Ribandar hospital in Goa||PANAJI: Locals of Ribandar appealed to the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) to set up a full-fledged urban health centre at the vacant old hospital in Ribandar under the Smart City instead of a day dispensary. Ribandar councillor Rupesh Harlarnkar said a day dispensary didn’t work out in the past. Advocate Aires Rodrigues said a 20-bed, 24 by 7 full fledged health centre with X-ray, sonography, CT scan and MRI facilities would help not only Ribandar residents, but take care of the health needs of residents of Old Goa, Corlim, Chorao, two panchayats of Divar, Chimbel and Merces. This has been a long standing demand of the local residents ever since the GMC’s gynaecology wing was moved out of the complex in 1988. “The cosmetic facility, which is now approved, is a cheap gesture to pacify the residents of Ribandar and will benefit no one as it would only be a waste of public funds,” the residents stated in their representation to CCP. Rodrigues alleged that the local corporator and residents were not taken into confidence when deciding on a day dispensary there. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said a day dispensary is all that is possible in the 215sqm allotted to CCP in the old hospital. He added that the plan is to have a reception area to accommodate 30 people, an OPD, changing room, etc. He added that the rest of the space is being occupied by a bank, laundry, electricity department and the health department that has decided to give it to Ayush. Madkaikar added that a full-fledged health centre would be difficult as it would have to fit the criteria and population in the area and require staff to manage MRI and CT scanning besides other experts. “Lets start somewhere,” he said. Rodrigues said the delegation has sought appointments with the chief secretary, Ayush minister and would be seeking an appointment with the health minister over allotting more space for the full fledged health centre to be set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-want-health-centre-at-old-ribandar-hospital/articleshow/78156984.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Dengue dip in Salt Lake in Covid season||KOLKATA: The dengue scenario in the areas under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is much better compared to last year. Following the civic body’s record, only 15 people have been affected by dengue in Salt Lake and Rajarhat from January till the first week of September. During the same period in last year the number was 165 and the civic authorities have been taking several preventive measures, said Bidhannagar MMIC (health) Pranay Roy. Over 20 people had died and several hundred of other people had been affected by dengue in the areas under Bidhannagar civic body in the past three years. “Civic teams have been conducting sanitizing drive and spraying disinfectant across all the wards,” said a civic official. Periodical inspections are being done across all the 41 wards to keep tabs on houses and building complexes to check whether there is any accumulation of water on the building premises. “We have been requesting all residents to ensure that there is no accumulation of stagnant water on the roof top of their houses and on the house premises,” said a civic official. Guppy fish that feeds on mosquito larvae are also being released on Kestopur and eastern drainage canal at regular intervals. The civic authorities have decided to clean up vacant and empty plots across Salt Lake, which could become potential mosquito breeding grounds. The authorities would take a certain charge from the owners of vacant plots for the clean-up. “The vacant plot owners would need to pay the charge when they pay the property tax for the next quarter,” said a civic official. For the neighbouring New Town and Sector V, a task force has been formed for daily monitoring of mosquito prevention measures, including regular cleaning of vacant plots and drains, spraying larvicide, door-to-door fever survey and bush trimming. The NKDA has installed ‘mosquito magnets’ in four places in New Town at Eco Park, in the open air theatre of Nazrul Tirtha, at the open lawn of Rabindra Tirtha and Eco Urban Village to trap mosquitoes. In Sector V, Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority has recently conducted a drone surveillance and identified around eight tall buildings where stagnant water might have been accumulated. The building management authorities have been asked to look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dengue-dip-in-salt-lake-in-covid-season/articleshow/78155621.cms||Suman Chakraborti
September 17, 2020||India||Rajnath to take questions on LAC stand-off in Rajya Sabha today||NEW DELHI: The government will answer some of the apprehensions raised by the opposition parties regarding India-China border stand-off in the eastern Ladakh region as defence minister Rajnath Singh is likely to speak in Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The rules of the Upper House allow members to ask supplementaries after a statement. According to sources, after the defence minister’s statement, opposition leaders will speak and Singh may give clarifications. A decision in this regard was taken in a meeting of floor leaders of Rajya Sabha, which was attended by Singh along with parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and leader of the House Thawarchand Gehlot. Congress had staged a walkout in Lok Sabha at the end of Singh’s statement on Tuesday but failed to persuade other opposition parties like Trinamool, NCP or DMK to join them. Singh made a suo motu statement in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, saying China has been very clearly conveyed that any attempt to “unilaterally” change the status quo along the LAC is not at all acceptable, and that India’s armed forces are ready to deal with “all contingencies” in the high-altitude region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-to-take-questions-on-lac-stand-off-in-rajya-sabha-today/articleshow/78158143.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||12-yr-old defends dog, stabbed||Aurangabad: An argument over a stone being thrown at a dog escalated and led to the stabbing of a 12-year-boy on Monday afternoon. The boy, though injured, is recuperating. The police said the dog belongs to the injured child, while the suspects, who too are minors, are vegetable vendors. Based on a complaint lodged by the injured child’s father Jaspalsingh Sandhu, a case has been registered against two vendors at the Osmanpura police station, under IPC sections 326, 323 and 504. Police inspector Dilip Tare said, “The two minor vendors had gone to Jabinda Estate to sell vegetables, when the dog started barking at them.” The vendors were scared of being bitten the dog and one of them threw a stone at the animal to shoo it away. Twelve-year-old Jagjitsingh Sandhu noticed this and objected. An argument broke out and soon took a violent turn with the boys bashing each other up. One of the vendors then took a vegetable knife and stabbed Jagjitsingh in the thigh. The injured boy was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where his condition is said to be out of danger. Inspector Tare said: “We have registered a case. As the suspects are minors, appropriate action in accordance with the law, is being taken.” The officer said the police are also checking if the children were accompanied by an adult at the time of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/12-yr-old-defends-dog-stabbed/articleshow/78153095.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Daily Covid cases drop to 519 in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: As many as 34 deaths were reported across Kolhapur district on Tuesday along with 519 new patients. According to a health official, as many as 1,076 people were also discharged from various hospital across the district. “Around 2,800 people are tested every day, but on Tuesday only 2,045 people were tested. This may be one of the reasons why the number of new cases reported was comparatively low compared to the past few days,” he said. “Earlier, fewer tests were mainly due to technical issues related to testing labs. Every day, Kolhapur city reports around 240 cases, but on Tuesday only 94 cases were reported,” he added. The total number of Covid cases in the district has reached to 36,071, out of which 10,066 are undergoing treatment and 1,123 patients have succumbed to the infection. Police distribute masks While action against people not wearing masks and spitting in public places has been on for some time now, the traffic department on Tuesday fined 188 motorists and recovered over Rs 18,000 as fine. Along with the challans, the traffic cops also handed over masks to the motorists. 749 cases in Sangli Sangli district on Tuesday reported 38 deaths and 749 fresh cases. With this the total number of cases reported across the district went up to 24,778 and the death toll stands at 931. The number of active patient in the district is at 9,033. Also, there is poor response to the ongoing janata curfew. Irked by the carelessness shown by the citizens, police hit the ground and dispersed the gatherings outside road side shops and restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/daily-ncov-cases-drop-to-519-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/78132630.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||267 medical PG students to join Covid duties: Collector to HC||Nagpur: After facing flak from the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court over patients running from pillar to post due to beds shortage, the district administration filed an affidavit assuring that all Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals (DCHs) were directed to provide their information and contact numbers to needy citizens. The affidavit by additional collector Shrikant Phadke through additional government pleader Deepak Thakare informed that the government had directed all medical and Ayurvedic colleges to provide their list of postgraduate (PG) students and nursing colleges were also issued similar directives. Accordingly, the GMCH, IGGMCH and NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences (NKPSIMS) submitted their lists of 267 PG students who would be roped in for treating Covid-19 patients, from the day after completion of their exams. It was filed in response to a suo motu PIL on TOI report of August 24 where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. “The district administration is taking every care that all doctors and paramedical staff assigned with duties and place of work should discharge their obligation with promptitude. The administration would supervise infrastructural facilities and manpower in hospitals and DCHs so that deaths can be controlled,” Phadke stated. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) and District Hospital Association also submitted a list of doctors who would be assigned duties and responsibilities of consulting patients in home isolation. “Various platforms for tele-consultation, including phone calls, cable network, zoom meetings, You Tube and Facebook are being explored. IMA is using social media like WhatsApp, SMS and telephone calls for inviting remaining members, who are yet to join the Covid-19 duties, either in private or public sector,” the affidavit stated. In a meeting of NMC officials and the task force on Saturday, members advised zone wise listing of patients’ load. The zonal medical officer would form an interface between patients and consultants. Alternatively, tele-consultants would be handed over a list of patients’ phone numbers for offering expert advice. The affidavit mentioned collector Ravindra Thakare, in exercise of powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, issued various orders from July 24 till September 11 for acquiring services of medical and paramedical staff. “It included doctors, nurses, interns, PG students of government, semi-government and private medical colleges and hospitals. The district administration is coordinating with them to make their services available at DCHs to fight pandemic,” Phadke said. In his letter to 20 hospitals, the collector explained that both government hospitals along with Shalinitai Meghe Hospital and AIIMS were declared DCHs for admitting coronavirus patients. “As the cases are rising each passing day, the staff at these hospitals are also getting infected and being sent for isolation. Others working without a break for the last four months also need rest. All these factors have led to severe shortage of qualified manpower to treat the growing number of patients,” the collector said in his letter to colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/267-medical-pg-students-to-join-covid-duties-collector-to-hc/articleshow/78155641.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 17, 2020||Nashik||IG (spl) asks cops to ‘adopt” criminals on police records||Nashik: Pratap Dighavkar, the inspector general of police (special) has asked all the superintendents of police to instruct every police personnel in their jurisdiction to ‘adopt’ criminals, who are history-sheeters on police record.Under this programme, the concerned SPs of Nashik Rural, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar will prepare a list of habitual criminals and the police personnel in their respective jurisdiction will ‘adopt’ at least one habitual criminal. ‘Adopting’ a criminal would mean that police personnel would maintain all informations about the criminal like name, address, phone number, friends, relatives, his current source of income etc. He or she will have to regularly keep in touch with the criminal concerned and prevent him from committing any crime.The IG (special) said this would help in controlling the menace of property offences. “Property offences like thefts, robberies, house break-ins and others were mainly committed by habitual criminals. Over 60% of the property offences are committed by criminals with criminal history. If they are kept under watch regularly, they would refrain from committing the offence,” said Dighavkar. After every three months, the criminals given for adoption to the police personnel would be changed, said Dighavkar.Cases like thefts, robberies, house break-ins and dacoities are common and this initiative is expected to bring down the rate of property offences in North Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ig-spl-asks-cops-to-adopt-criminals-on-police-records/articleshow/78153101.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Grain merchants urge govt to relax import restrictions on peas||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association has appealed to Union minister for commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal and the director general of foreign trade to relax import restrictions on peas and implement minimum import price. They also sought easing of port restrictions to import peas through the Tuticorin port.Highlighting the significance peas has in the dietary habits especially in the southern states, association president S P Jeyapragasam said this has led to the formation of ecosystem with stakeholders who depend solely on the peas and peas processing to earn a living. “Due to hostile climatic conditions, only a less quantity is cultivated every year in India. The demand for peas was met only through import for past forty years,” he said.Unfavourable climatic conditions in the southern states and less cultivation in the northern states have resulted in the increase in price of pulse varieties such as peas, tur and lentils. The association stated that MSMEs dependent on peas were forced to shut down, resulting in the loss of livelihoods of labourers. Recalling the import restrictions on peas in 2018, he added that this resulted in a staggering increase in the price of commodity.The government’s idea to restrict import of substitute crops is laudable but there are certain crops that are misconceived to be a substitute crop. This helped farmers realise better value for their produce. “But the price of peas is inflated by 120%, making it too expensive for the middle, lower middle class and daily wage workers who have peas and peas products as an important component of their diet,” he said.Allowing imports for minimum quantity in the southern states will not affect the cultivation pattern or price of crops grown in the northern states. They said that import is the only solution unless the country attains self-sufficient status by increasing peas cultivation.A copy of the representation was also sent to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grain-merchants-urge-govt-to-relax-import-restrictions-on-peas/articleshow/78156981.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Pon takes dig at Stalin for claiming DMK govt will abolish NEET||Madurai: Former Union minister and BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan on Wednesday took a dig at DMK president and leader of the opposition M K Stalin for his assurance to students that NEET will be banned when DMK comes to power in eight months. “Stalin is confused if he is contesting for the post of chief minister of Tamil Nadu or Prime Minister,” Radhakrishnan remarked.Interacting with journalists after taking part in the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Tuticorin on Wednesday, the BJP leader asked whether a party (DMK) that is confused with the powers of a chief minister, would be able to lead the state. “I heard many MLAs have corona,” he said in response to the mask protest organised by DMK MLAs by wearing masks with ban NEET slogans on them.The former minister said that the DMK should focus on issues in Tamil Nadu in the assembly, instead of resorting to such stunts. “Political leaders should aim to motivate students and not wait for them like scavenging vultures, to politicise an issue. The opposition is not opposing NEET for the sake of students but keeping in mind the assembly elections in 2021. Thousands of students wrote the examination and did not find fault with it. Let children not be deceived by their words,” he said.To a question whether he would once again be fielded by the party or someone else would contest for the existing vacancy that has risen after the demise of Kanyakumari Lok Sabha MP H Vasanthakumar, Radhakrishnan said, “There will be a BJP candidate for sure.” Earlier in the day, Radhakrishnan hoisted a 70-feet-tall party flag in view of the PM’s birthday celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pon-takes-dig-at-stalin-for-claiming-dmk-govt-will-abolish-neet/articleshow/78156991.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Six trains on Konkan Railway route restored in Goa||PANAJI: Six Konkan railway trains, which were diverted or cancelled, have begun taking the normal route again after restoration work on the Pernem tunnel was completed. Train No. 02617 Ernakulam Jn-H Nizamuddin Special Express has begun running on its proper route via Madgaon-Roha-Panvel-Kalyan. Similarly, Train No. 02618 H Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Jn Special Express has also resumed its proper route via Kalyan-Panvel- Roha-Madgaon-Mangaluru Jn. The Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Jn Duranto Special Express (Train No. 02284) on September 19 will run on the proper route via Vasai Road-Panvel-Roha-Madgaon-Mangaluru Jn. The Ernakulam Jn-H Nizamuddin Duranto Special Express (Train No. 02283 ) on September 22 will run on the proper route via Mangaluru Jn-Madgaon-Roha-Panvel-Vasai Road. Train No. 02432/02431 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi Rajdhani Special and Train No. 06345/06346 Lokmanya Tilak(T)-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak (T) Special Express resumed service from Wednesday. The trains on the Konkan Railway route were diverted since August 6 when the lined wall of the Pernem tunnel collapsed paralysing train traffic along the Konkan Railway route. The restoration work of the tunnel was completed after nearly 40 days with the spell of heavy rains over Goa and Konkan region decelerated the progress of the tunnel restoration work. Train traffic along the Konkan Railway route was earlier suspended until August 20 and later extended to September 10. The constrained working area available inside the tunnel added to the difficulties in the restoration work, sources said. A 5m stretch of the lined wall inside the tunnel had caved in in the wee hours of August 6, paralysing train traffic along the Konkan Railway route. The 1.56km-long tunnel was built largely in soft soil strata. The collapsed portion was 300m inside from the Mangalore end of the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-trains-on-konkan-railway-route-restored-after-work-on-pernem-tunnel-completed/articleshow/78156995.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Mumbai||Cave-in at Girgaum Metro site, road to be closed for 3 days||MUMBAI: Part of Jagannath Shankar Sheth (JSS) road in Girgaum will be closed to traffic for three days after it caved in where the underground Metro is being built by Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd.MMRCL spokesperson said, “There is a minor cave-in near the northern end of Girgaon station due to ingress of water, leading to some ground loss. The 100-metre portion from Thakurdwar Junction to Kranti Nagar on JSS Road will be closed for 2-3 days for safety.” The road was closed immediately and the cave-in has been filled. Grouting (mix of cement, sand, and water or chemicals) from inside station area has commenced to stop the ingress of water. The spokesperson said, “MMRCL is continuously monitoring all buildings nearby to ensure safety. On-ground teams of MMRCL, general consultants and the contractor have also been deployed. The situation is under control.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/road-closed-after-cave-in-at-girgaum/articleshow/78154877.cms||Manthank Mehta
September 17, 2020||Mysuru||Rajamouli, wife enjoy safari at Bandipur||Mysuru: ‘Baahubali’ director S S Rajamouli visited Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Wednesday. Rajamouli was accompanied by his wife Rama Rajamouli, who are on vacation, went for the wildlife safari in the morning. After that the couple visited the ancient Himavad Gopalaswamy Temple atop GS Betta which comes under the tiger reserve in Gundlupet taluk in Chamarajanagar district. The temple chief priest Gopala Krishna Bhat performed special pujas for the couple. Foresters said that the couple who are on holiday for three days, checked in at Serai Resort near the tiger reserve on Tuesday. “During the safari, the couple sighted only herbivores animals like a herd of elephants, gaur, antelope and others. They did not sight any tigers or leopards,” said Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra , who added, “Rajamouli spoke to the forest officers and staff. He is a simple and down-to-earth person. He appreciated the cleanliness maintained in the park and expressed delight at visiting the tiger reserve.” After visiting the temple, the couple returned to the resort. Foresters said that the couple will check out from the resort on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rajamouli-wife-enjoy-safari-at-bandipur/articleshow/78152988.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||CAT to govt: Look into representations of IAS officers||Vijayawada: The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Wednesday directed the state government to consider the representation given by IAS officers with regard to their grievances in giving promotions to state civil services (SCS) officers. Direct recruit IAS officers approached CAT expressing reservations over the process adopted by the state to recruit SCS cadre officers into IAS cadre. As many as 20 IAS officers of 2013 and 2014 batch filed petitions before CAT, as their representations to the state were kept in pending. After hearing two such petitions, the CAT directed the state government to look into the grievances raised by the officers and take necessary action. The issue has been brewing since long. The direct recruit IAS officers contended in their petitions that the level of seniority being given to SCS officers surpassed the allotment year in many cases, because of which their career prospects are getting affected. While the law stipulates minimum eight years of service for conferment of IAS to a SCS officer, many SCS officers have got allotments after six or seven years of continuous service. However, some SCS officers who were selected in 2016 were given their year of allotment as 2013, which is prior to bifurcation. The government has promoted SCS officers to IAS cadre by taking accrued weighted years into consideration. One weighted year is added to an SCS officer’s record after completion of first four years of service, and from then on, one year will be added for every three years of service. If an SCS officer is promoted to IAS cadre after completion of 10 years of service, he will get three weighted years and the cadre allotment can be made with retrospective assignment of the year of allotment. However, direct recruit officers argue that the weighted years cannot be considered by overlooking the minimum eight years eligibility criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cat-to-govt-look-into-representations-of-ias-officers/articleshow/78154597.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||State Covid-19 tally nears 6L mark, 64 more deaths take toll to 5,105||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 8,835 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking its cumulative caseload to 5,92,760. The toll jumped to 5,105 with 64 more deaths. As many as 10,845 patients were declared cured. There are currently 90,279 active cases with 4,97,376 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 84%. The outbreak continues to be severe in East Godavari as the district surged past the 81,000-case mark with 1,421 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. With no let-up in the virus wave, EG remains a big challenge for state health officials for the last three months. On the other hand, some districts like Krishna, Kurnool and Guntur have been witnessing a clear turnaround in daily infections for the last one month. Visakhapatnam reported 325 fresh cases, the lowest case count in the last 50 days. Other than Prakasam and Srikakulam, the recovery is over 85% in all the remaining districts. Of the 64 deaths, nine are from Chittoor, seven from Nellore, six each from Guntur and Prakasam, five each from Anantapur, Kadapa, Krishna, Srikakulam and West Godavari, four from Kurnool, three from East Godavari, and two each from Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram. The state has so far tested 48.06 lakh samples, including the 75,013 tests conducted on Wednesday. The case positivity rate remains stable at 12.3% for the last one week, reflecting some stabilising trend. The mortality rate stands at 0.86%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-covid-19-tally-nears-6l-mark-64-more-deaths-take-toll-to-5105/articleshow/78154549.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Vadodara||Gym accountant denied bail for cheating doc||Vadodara: An accountant of a popular gymnasium on Wednesday was denied bail in a case of cheating a doctor and siphoning of lakhs of rupees. Sanjay Haliyal, who has been named as one of the accused in the case, had sought bail on the grounds that he is just an employee and accountant of Alivez Gym and Fitness Centre and has nothing to do with the fraud. Besides Haliyal, the gym’s owner Kailash Jadhav, his wife Vinita Patil, gym employee Nilam Mir and chartered accountant Ketan Bhatt have been booked for duping Dr Devang Shah. In response to Haliyal’s bail plea, Shah’s lawyer Hitesh Gupta told the court that all forged documents used for duping the complainant were prepared by Haliyal. “All manipulation of accounts between different partnership firms of the gyms were done by Haliyal,” said Gupta. The gym owner had signed a partnership deed with the doctor for starting a gym. However, that partnership firm did not make any income and instead expenses of other gyms owned by Jadhav were being borne by this firm, Gupta added. The court of additional sessions judge H I Bhatt upheld the argument to deny bail to Haliyal. The court, however, granted anticipatory bail to Patil and Mir. Earlier, Bhatt too had sought anticipatory bail, but later he withdrew his application. Jadhav had duped Shah and had taken loans worth Rs 60 lakh by forging his signature. Shah had invested Rs 97 lakh when Jadhav had approached him in 2015 with an offer to start a gymnasium in partnership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gym-accountant-denied-bail-for-cheating-doc/articleshow/78153357.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Sarpanch’s husband held for accepting Rs 10k bribe||Aurangabad: A 33-year-old man, who is the husband of a woman sarpanch, has been caught red-handed by the anti-corruption bureaau while accepting Rs 10,000 from the complainant. The suspect has been identified as Ganesh Borde. He had allegedly sought Rs 20,000 for sending a proposal to dig a well under the Maharashtra Rural Employment Scheme to Daregaon gram panchayat and get it approved. As per the complaint lodged by a farmer, the villagers had unanimously decided to dig a well under the scheme. The proposal in this regard was also passed in the gramsabha and to get it finally approved, it was to be sent to gram panchayat office. Superintendent of police Arvind Chawria said the villagers were upset with the fact that the suspect d was seeking money for a task which was not only welfare-related, but also meant for sustainable development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sarpanchs-husband-held-for-accepting-rs-10k-bribe/articleshow/78153124.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Madurai||Irked by delayed road project, residents seek temporary roads||Madurai: The elevated corridor project carried out on the New Natham Road has attained substantial progress, yet there is no sign of laying roads to give relief to commuters, who have been suffering due to the bad roads caused by the project. Around 16 residents welfare associations from the areas located alongside the project have joined hands to form New Natham Road Integrated Residents Welfare Associations’ Federation. They have urged the district administration and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to provide road facility at least on one side of the road, bisected by the pillars erected for the project. Its coordinator R Sivanarayanapandian from VOC Nagar said that they are undergoing innumerable problem for the past one and half years. “People are tired of travelling on the bad road. Many have developed back pain and respiratory illness due to the damaged road and dust emanating from it. We heard that the project, which should be completed by this November will take six more months due to the pandemic. We can no longer deal with the bad road,” he said. Mansoor Ali, a commuter said that pillars have been erected all along the proposed elevated corridor project starting from IOCL, Tallakulam to outskirts of Oomachikulam. Spans have also been laid covering at least 50% of the distance. “It is time to provide road at least on one side. Many have started to take other routes although they are circuitous,” he said. Project director of NHAI, Madurai said that it is the responsibility of the contractor to provide road. He has asked the contractor to provide temporary roads to ease vehicular movement. He has also asked them to lay a permanent road in the sections, where heavy machinery movement is no more required. Temporary roads will be available in a few days’ time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/irked-by-delayed-road-project-residents-seek-temporary-roads/articleshow/78157004.cms||V Devanathan
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Vid sees highest single-day Covid-19 fatalities at 99||Nagpur: In a single-day highest spike of deaths, Nagpur recorded 62 fatalities taking the city’s Covid toll to 1,815 on Wednesday. The region too recorded its highest ever deaths at 99 with Yavatmal registering second highest tally of the day at 11. Gadchiroli once again didn’t see any Covid death. This was the fourth occasion in last six days when all 10 districts of Vidarbha reported 90 or more casualties in a day.Vidarbha also recorded highest single-day spike at 3,532 and Nagpur remained major contributor with 1,671 new cases. Vidarbha’s tally stands at 1,08,215 and 2,818 deaths.Other districts reporting Covid deaths are Bhandara 3, Wardha 7, Gondia 1, Chandrapur 5, Akola 3, Amravati 3, Buldhana 3 and Washim 1. Gadchiroli 70 and Bhandara 85 were the only districts to see moderate increase in the daily Covid patient count.Chandrapur’s cases surged by 373 followed by Amravati 292, Gondia 285, Yavatmal 240, Akola 143, Buldhana 138, Wardha 132, and Washim 103.It was also a good day on recovery front with the number of discharged patients surpassing fresh cases. Buldhana saw discharge of 198 patients, Gondia 385 and Bhandara 115. Nagpur though saw marginal difference between discharged (1,594) and new cases 1,671. Total recoveries now stand at 77,251 which at 71.38% is slightly better than state average of 70.7%, but way behind national average of 78%.GADCHIROLI: No death was reported on Wednesday while 70 news cases surfaced. The total caseload is 1,779, while 18 persons were discharged. The district now has 506 patients under treatment, while 1,269 have recovered. The district’s toll remained at seven.BHANDARA: The district’s recovery rate improved with 115 patients discharged on Wednesday, while 85 new cases were detected. Three deaths tool the tally of fatalities here to 71. The district has now 3,187 cases of which 1,946 recovered, while 1,170 under treatment.BULDHANA: Recoveries beat the number of new cases as 198 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday while 138 tested positive out of 535 samples. The positive reports included 108 from lab and 30 Rapid Antigen test (RAT). Over 229 tested negative in lab test, while 168 in RAT.As on Wednesday, 1,497 reports are pending. The district now has 5,392 progressive cases and 4,231 have defeated corona. There are 1,092 active cases with a Covid toll of 69.WASHIM: One person died of Covid even as 103 new cases were reported. The district now has 862 under treatment in its total tally of 3,144. On Wednesday, 98 persons were discharged making it 2,226 recoveries. The Covid toll here is 55.AKOLA: Three deaths and 143 new cases were reported on Wednesday. The total cases rose to 5,939, including 1,257 under treatment and 4,490 recovered. Another 87 were discharged.YAVATMAL: Yavatmal recorded 11 deaths on Wednesday taking the district’s toll to 177. The break-up of Wednesday’s deaths is: Yavatmal city and taluka 6, Arni 2 and one each in Mahagaon, Umarkhed and Darwha. In Yavatmal city, the deceased include 50, 52, 57, 72, 75 year old men and a 60-year-old woman.A 70-year-old man from Mahagaon, 55 and 65 year old men from Arni, 60-year-old woman from Umarkhed and 62-year-old man from Darwha were among the Covid dead. A total of 240 new patients were reported of which 100 are women. The highest number of new patients reported today is 80 from Yavatmal city and taluka. According to GMCH sources, 1,603 persons are under treatment, 224 are in home quarantine, while 281 are in isolation wards of GMCH. Till today, 4,391 persons have recovered and discharged. According to civil surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Warey, there were 1,375 asymptomatic positive patients reported in Covid-19 Care Centres, which was not disclosed by the GMC authorities.CHANDRAPUR: The district registered surge of 373 cases on Wednesday taking the Covid-19 patient total to 6,682. Five deaths were reported during the last 24 hours and the toll now has climbed to 89. There was discharge of 152 patients during the day taking the total of discharged patients to 3,690. This has left 2,903 patients under treatment in the district.Five deaths include a 70-year-old from Bangali Camp, 65-year-old from Christ Hospital and 55-year-old from Tukum locality in Chandrapur city along with a 46-year-old from Ballarpur and 45-year-old from Chimur. All the deceased were comorbid patients and had died at Chandrapur GMCH while undergoing treatment.AMRAVATI: Three deaths and a spike of 292 cases took the districts Covid toll to 218 and patient count to 9,673 on Wednesday. With 186 getting discharge today, the number of recovered patients has reached 7,398. This left 2,057 under treatment, including 10 in Nagpur and 575 in home isolation. A civil surgeon office report said that three persons from Shams Colony, Morshi, and Samarth Colony here, and a female aged 65 from Achalpur breathed their last. The rural belt accounted for 113 of the day’s 292 new cases, taking its count to 3,086. The highest 12 cases came from Paratwada while Anjangaon Surji reported 10. Nine each came from Chandur Railway and Nandgaon Khandeshwar. Warud tehsil reported seven new cases, while Teosa six. Five cases each came from Chandur Bazar, Morshi and Shirpur while four each came from Daryapur and Veni Ganeshpur. Bhatkuli, Warud and Palas Mandal reported three each. Dhamangaon Railway, Umri Bazar, Nandura BK, Amla Vishweshwar, Kapustalani and Shirajgaon reported two cases each. Single cases came from 16 other villages while seven came from outside the district.The remaining 172 cases belonged to the city where Sainagar, Rajapeth and Yashodanagar reported 10 cases each. Rampuri Camp reported five while Camp, Gopalnagar and Sarvagnya Colony reported four each. Three cases each came from Vilasnagar, Badnera, Dasturnagar, Sahannagar, Surajnagar, Shrikrishnapeth, Kanwarnagar and Shegaon Naka. Eleven localities reported two cases each.WARDHA: On third consecutive day on Wednesday, the district registered seven deaths due to coronavirus and 132 new cases. In all, 50 persons were discharged on Wednesday.The deceased include five men (35, 60, 52, 50, 75) and a 28-year-old woman from Wardha, while a 34-year-old woman from Hinganghat. The district’s toll is now at 68.The 706 test reports were received and 132 (87 men and 45 women) tested positive — Wardha 73, Hinganghat 21, Samudrapur 16, Deoli 11, Selu 5, Karanja 4 and Arvi 2. The total count of Covid patients reached 2,873 and the number of patients undergoing treatment is 1,388. After 50 got discharged on Wednesday, the total number of recovered patients in the district reached 1,417.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-sees-highest-single-day-covid-19-fatalities-at-99/articleshow/78156429.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 17, 2020||Madurai||28 peafowls found dead in Tuticorin||Madurai: Twenty-eight peafowls were found dead under mysterious circumstances in cultivable lands between Pilayarnatham and Andipatti villages near Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district on Wednesday. Corn, maize, green gram and pulses are cultivated in the area and it is suspected that the peacocks and peahens could have consumed the seeds with pesticides. Seeing the peafowls dead in their fields farmers informed the forest department in Kovilpatti and the animal husbandry department. Preliminary inquiries revealed that since it is the beginning of the crop season, some farmers mix seeds with pesticide to avert early damage to the crops while some mix it with DAP for good growth and the birds could have consumed the seeds. After conducting an autopsy, veterinarian Kanimozhi told the reporters that indigested corn was found in the stomach of the birds. Vital samples have been collected to be sent for forensic analysis to ascertain their cause of death. Forest range officer Sivaram said that action will be taken on the farmer(s) who had laced seeds with poison. The forest department has asked the farmers to carry out agricultural activities that do not cause harm to birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/28-peafowls-found-dead-in-tuticorin/articleshow/78157000.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Patna||PM Modi to inaugurate Kosi bridge on September 18||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 1.9 km Kosi Mahasetu (mega-bridge) and 12 other railway projects across the state through videoconferencing from New Delhi on Friday, a day after his 70th birthday on Thursday. He will also flag off a train from Supaul railway station on the Saharsa-Asananpur Kupaha section. The Kosi mega railway bridge constructed for Rs 516 crore is strategically placed and gives quick access to the Indo-Nepal border area close to Saharsa, Supaul and Araria districts by linking them with the Mithilanchal region. Besides, it will facilitate long-distance travel benefits by train for the people up to Kolkata, Delhi and Mumbai. The inauguration of the mega bridge would fulfil the long-cherished dream of the people of the Kosi and Mithilanchal regions after 86 years, as the meter gauge link built between Nirmali and Bhaptiahi (Saraigarh) in 1887 was washed away and destroyed by the floods in 1934. Among the 12 other projects to be inaugurated by the PM are two new railway lines, five electrification projects, one electric locomotive shed and third line project between Barh and Bakhtiarur. The two new railway line projects that the PM will inaugurate are Hajipur, Ghoswar and Vaishali section, as well as the Islampur-Nateshar section and the Karmauti-Bakhtiarpur by-pass railway link. The railway electrification projects include Muzaffarpur and Sitamarhi sections, Katihar-New Jalpaiguri, Samastipur-Darbhanga-Jaynagar, Samastipur-Khagaria and Bhagalpur-Shivnarayanpur sections. In the meantime, the state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said on Wednesday that the party’s rank and file would participate in the week-long celebration of PM Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday till September 20. Calling PM Modi as “the Vishwakarma of new India,” Jaiswal also said the Kosi mega railway bridge to be inaugurated by him on Friday would help make Bihar ‘atmnirbhar’ and also give a push to the fulfilment of ‘atmnirbhar Bharat’ programme of the Centre. He said that the PM’s birthday celebration by BJP in the state would be marked by the distribution of 70 each of artificial limbs and spectacles among physically challenged persons in each Mandal unit of the party. Further, residents of 70 slums or poor habitations would be given fruits to fight Covid-19, while the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) youths would donate blood and also give blood plasma for the needy. Also, 70 saplings would be planted by people of each polling booth, and 70 virtual rallies of the intellectuals would also be held to inform them about the life and philosophy of the PM, the party’s state vice-president and former MLA Rajib Ranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-to-inaugurate-kosi-bridge-on-sept-18/articleshow/78155683.cms||Abhay Singh
September 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh has 5th highest number of prisons with Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh stands fifth in the country for number of jails reporting Covid-19 cases. The state currently has 28 jails which have reported coronavirus cases and is preceded by Uttar Pradesh (35 jails); Madhya Pradesh (34); Maharashtra (32); and Odisha (31). The data was revealed in the National Campaign Against Torture (NCAT) report — The Status of Covid-19 in Indian Prisons. As per the report, of the 1,350 jails in the country, infections have been reported from at least 351 jails in 25 of the 36 states/Union Territories as on August 31. The report also revealed that of all the jails in the country, 538 prisons (nearly 40%) were overcrowded. The study found the jails were overcrowded by 1% to 636% beyond their sanctioned capacity thus increasing the risk of the virus being spread among prisoners even if one inmate was infected. As per the official statistics provided by the state prisons department, around 1,400 prisoners in various jails across the state have contracted the virus. One of these prisoners was on dialysis and had succumbed to the disease. Inmates who had tested positive were being treated in their respective jails. However, the prisons department did release over 430 prisoners on interim bail following the Covid-19 outbreak. “As per the Prison Statistics India-2018, which provides the latest information on prison-wise overcrowding — an issue not covered by the Prison Statistics India-2019 — out of the 538 overcrowded prisons, 34 prisons were found to have overcrowding ranging from 201% to 636%. Around 100 prisons had overcrowding varying from 100% to 200% and 404 prisons ranging from 1% to 99%,” said NCAT coordinator, Suhas Chakma. As per the latest prisons statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the four central jails in Andhra Pradesh had an occupancy of 112% by December 31, 2019. Director general of prisons and correctional services Mohd Ahsan Reza said that at present the prisons, including central prisons in Andhra Pradesh, are not overcrowded as altogether around 7,900 to 8,000 inmates were currently lodged in various prisons of the state. “We have enough space in the jails to handle the situation and have been taking measures to prevent the spread of virus,” the director general said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-has-5th-highest-number-of-prisons-with-covid-cases/articleshow/78154528.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 17, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh has 5th highest number of prisons with Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh stands fifth in the country for number of jails reporting Covid-19 cases. The state currently has 28 jails which have reported coronavirus cases and is preceded by Uttar Pradesh (35 jails); Madhya Pradesh (34); Maharashtra (32); and Odisha (31). The data was revealed in the National Campaign Against Torture (NCAT) report — The Status of Covid-19 in Indian Prisons. As per the report, of the 1,350 jails in the country, infections have been reported from at least 351 jails in 25 of the 36 states/Union Territories as on August 31. The report also revealed that of all the jails in the country, 538 prisons (nearly 40%) were overcrowded. The study found the jails were overcrowded by 1% to 636% beyond their sanctioned capacity thus increasing the risk of the virus being spread among prisoners even if one inmate was infected. As per the official statistics provided by the state prisons department, around 1,400 prisoners in various jails across the state have contracted the virus. One of these prisoners was on dialysis and had succumbed to the disease. Inmates who had tested positive were being treated in their respective jails. However, the prisons department did release over 430 prisoners on interim bail following the Covid-19 outbreak. “As per the Prison Statistics India-2018, which provides the latest information on prison-wise overcrowding — an issue not covered by the Prison Statistics India-2019 — out of the 538 overcrowded prisons, 34 prisons were found to have overcrowding ranging from 201% to 636%. Around 100 prisons had overcrowding varying from 100% to 200% and 404 prisons ranging from 1% to 99%,” said NCAT coordinator, Suhas Chakma. As per the latest prisons statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the four central jails in Andhra Pradesh had an occupancy of 112% by December 31, 2019. Director general of prisons and correctional services Mohd Ahsan Reza said that at present the prisons, including central prisons in Andhra Pradesh, are not overcrowded as altogether around 7,900 to 8,000 inmates were currently lodged in various prisons of the state. “We have enough space in the jails to handle the situation and have been taking measures to prevent the spread of virus,” the director general said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-has-5th-highest-number-of-prisons-with-covid-cases/articleshow/78162680.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 17, 2020||Bengaluru||NEP imprints to show on early years of school edu first||BENGALURU: One of the first areas where the newly announced National Education Policy (NEP) is likely to take effect in Karnataka is the early years of education. Samagra Shikshana Karnataka has been conducting online consultation with academicians across the state over the past few days on the implementation guidelines. NEP 2020 demands a complete overhaul of the curriculum, the syllabus and textbooks across all levels of schooling. However, for this, the state will have to wait for the National Curriculum Framework, which is expected in 2021. Until then, the early years, particularly the 3 to 6 years age group, could be the focus area for the state, say experts. NEP suggests 5+3+3+4 format for school education, of which there has to be five years of foundational learning from the age of three. The education department is in talks with the women and child development department to decide on how the early years of education can be delivered between anganwadi and pre-primary section in schools, said sources. Yet another key focus area is likely to be the foundational literacy and numeracy that has to be achieved by the time a child reaches class 3. “The state plans to meet the target set by NEP and aims at 2023 to achieve literacy and numeracy skills among all children by the time they reach grade 3. Reading and writing enhancement programmes and basic numeracy development programmes will get a major push in the coming years,” said officials. The concept of school complexes — a high school at the centre with a group of primary schools in its neighbourhood and under a cluster — will also see some advancement in the years to come. The state is planning to make the best use of the Karnataka Public Schools — the KG-class 12 schools it has successfully started — for the same. The state will have to work on a State School Standards Authority, which will focus on overall assessment and accreditation of all schools. The body will also address the complaints and grievances from them. NEP’s requirement of a new curriculum will also result in the strengthening of the Department of State Educational Research and Training. DSERT is expected to lead a reinvigoration of cluster/block resource centres and District Institute of Education and training (DIETs). “The administrative changes will not be easy and hence the implementation of NEP 2020 will need tremendous willpower from the government,” said Rishikesh BS, associate professor, Azim Premji University. The state will also require the exam board to reform assessments and present new assessment best practices from around the world. It will continue the board exams for grades 10 and 12 till the National Testing Agency’s credit-based system is in place in the next few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nep-imprints-to-show-on-early-years-of-school-edu-first/articleshow/78154388.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Centre gives nod for NIMZ in Prakasam||Amaravati: The state has bagged a prestigious project from Centre as the decks have been cleared for setting up a National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ) in Prakasam district. The NIMZ will be spread over 14,000 acres of land in Markapuram division and the first phase will be developed in 4,000 acres for which the Centre is preparing a Detailed Project Report (DPR). In fact, the NIMZ had been promised to the region almost a decade ago but could not take wings because of various reasons. Following the instructions of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, senior officials from the state held several rounds of discussions with key officials in the central government over the last eight months and succeeded in getting the green signal. After agreeing to revive the project, the Centre recently appointed a consultant to ready the DPR. The Centre also agreed to bear about 60% of the cost to create infrastructure in the proposed big-ticket project. Sources said that the state government would take the burden of acquiring the land. Following instructions from the CMO, Prakasam district administration has identified land in Pamuru and Peda Cherlopalli mandals. A master plan would be prepared in order to avoid clearing existing residential areas in the region. While continuing the villages as green zone areas, land for development of industries would be acquired. The district administration is ready to allocate lands in neighbouring Donakonda, Kanigiri mandals where vast tracts of dry lands are readily available. “We will make all the existing villages part of the development and see that the locals enjoy the benefits of the fruits,” said education minister and local legislator Dr Adimulapu Suresh. Industries minister Gautham Reddy is confident of attracting major industries to the region. He held discussions with chiefs of armed forces during his recent New Delhi visit and requested them to set up defence manufacturing units in the upcoming NIMZ. “We are also hopeful of getting good investments in solar panel making units as the state government is planning to go for a big expansion in solar power generation in next 1-2 years,” said Gautham Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/centre-gives-nod-for-nimz-in-prakasam/articleshow/78154782.cms||Samdani MN
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||GGH Guntur gets 4th chief in a year as Prabhavati takes charge||GUNTUR: The state government on Wednesday appointed Dr G Prabhavati as superintendent of Government General Hospital, Guntur. Dr Prabhavati, who replaces Dr K Sudhakar, is the fourth superintendent at GGH in the last one year. In September 2019, Dr S Babulal was brought in to replace Dr DS Raju Naidu who had a four-year tenure. Before Babulal could set things right at the hospital, he was shifted as special officer to Covid-19 state command control room in March. Dr Raju Naidu was again named as interim chief at the GGH. At the fag end of his career, Raju Naidu had urged the government to extend retirement age of government doctors to 62 from the existing 60 years. With chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy refusing to extend the retirement age, Raju Naidu demitted the office in March prompting the government to bring in Dr K Sudhakar as superintendent. Meanwhile, the government while relieving Babulal from Covid-19 command control centre appointed him as principal of Government Medical College (GMC), Guntur. Sources said that YSRC legislators Ambati Rambabu, Dokka Manikyavaraprasad, MP Balasoury had recommended Prabhavati as GGH chief as she has been working at the institution for over two decades and fit to streamline the administration. “I know every block and department in the GGH and it might not take much time to bring it back on track,” said Prabhavati after taking charge on Wednesday. She said that they would provide better facilities to patients and kin coming to GGH. She said that she would discuss with medical officers to ready a blueprint to provide effective services to Covid-19 patients in GGH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ggh-guntur-gets-4th-chief-in-a-yr-as-prabhavati-takes-charge/articleshow/78154793.cms||Samdani MN
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man held for setting ambulance ablaze||VIJAYAWADA: Police arrested a former history-sheeter for allegedly setting an ambulance ablaze while he was being taken to a hospital due to an injury caused during a scuffle at Ongole Taluk Police station in Prakasam district on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Nelaturi Suresh. According to Ongole Taluk police, Suresh went to the police station at around 2.45 am and broke the glass on the walls of the stations with a knife. Cops tried to stop and during this process he suffered severe injuries to his hands caused by glass shards. Assistant sub-inspector Ramesh said that they soon dialed 108 and were taking him to a hospital in an ambulance. During this time, he (Suresh) collected some cotton and other inflammable material in the ambulance and put it on fire at around 3.30 am. Based on the complaint by the ambulance driver, the history-sheeter was booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-for-setting-ambulance-ablaze/articleshow/78154765.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||G’chiroli nurse single-handedly taking Covid awareness to Red-hit villages||Nagpur: Sangita Kodape, a nurse posted at the sensitive Yelchil sub-primary health care centre in Aheri taluka of Maoist-affected Gadchiroli, is taking awareness about the pandemic single-handedly to five remote villages where there isn’t even road connectivity. She also doubles up as a teacher for the children of families living in the vicinity of her official quarter. The 32-year-old nurse from madia tribal community, who toiled to overcome hardships to become a paramedic, had been serving Kallem, Tondel, Ramaiyyapetha and Maddigodam villages apart from Yelchil where she has been posted for the last six years. Without roads, she has to drive alone on her two-wheeler to reach these villages travelling through deep forested stretch with nullahs in between even in the night. Many times, Kodape financially supports patients for treatment outside her village. During monsoon, Kodape has no other option but to either walk or ride on a bullock cart to reach the villages if there is an emergency call. With the department yet to fill up the vacancies of malaria worker, she is additionally entrusted with the responsibility of distributing anti-malarial doses and keep checking the health of the susceptible population. Already busy with the tribal population, the pandemic had brought new challenges for the nurse in the inhospitable terrain. “The awareness regarding Covid, its symptoms and precautions started among the tribal population the moment pandemic hit the country. I had to personally counsel most of the population as the number of positive cases was rising in the district,” she said. “Though Covid is yet to make inroads in the interiors, it cannot be considered far away. If it enters among the tribal backward population, it would be tough to manage with weak health sector infrastructure in the interiors,” she said. Kodape said she had to repeatedly explain and try to convince the villagers regarding use of masks, maintain hygiene and Covid distancing. “In the deep, my fight is with the superstitions and unscientific beliefs as much as with Covid. Here, people would trust black magic and spells more than a qualified nurse. We are bringing a change in their mindset,” said Kodape, who had to often conduct multiple deliveries simultaneously at her sub-PHC on two or three beds side by side. “Sometimes, we get support of the village-based anganwadi sevikas and health workers but also need to train them up,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gchiroli-nurse-single-handedly-taking-covid-awareness-to-red-hit-villages/articleshow/78155687.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Govt to move HC seeking deferment of BBMP polls||Bengaluru: The government has decided to approach the high court seeking a direction to State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) polls to next year.“The elections can’t be held before January for two reasons. Firstly, the new legislation for the agency’s administration is being examined by the joint select committee. The second is Covid-19 cases, which are on the rise. We will try to convince the court to grant more time on these two grounds,” said law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy.The government is planning to file an interlocutory application for consideration of its plea as a case filed by SEC is still pending in the HC besides a PIL filed by former Congress corporator and leader of opposition in BBMP council Abdul Wajeed, which is coming up for hearing on September 23.Meanwhile, the joint select panel is planning to table the interim report to increase number of wards and the mayor’s tenure in the upcoming monsoon session. Based on it, the government will approach the court seeking more time to rework the delimitation and reservation of the new wards.“We were hoping the committee would submit the full report in the monsoon session, in which case we could have passed the BBMP Bill and gone for the polls under the new law. Now, we need to amend the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act as per the interim report to increase the number of wards and then conduct the elections,” explained Madhuswamy.“We will table the interim report since the final one will take 2-4 weeks to complete,” said BJP MLA S Raghu, who heads the panel. Some civil society organisations are seeking a public hearing on the proposed Bill and the committee has agreed to lend them an ear. SEC, however, is making preparations to conduct the polls in December. “We are not aware of the government’s plan to postpone the elections. It depends on the court’s verdict,” said state election commissioner B Basavaraju.The BBMP Bill that replaces the KMC Act to govern Bengaluru was referred to the 20-member panel in March after it was introduced in the assembly. The panel arrived at a consensus on two significant issues — increasing the number of wards from 198 to 243 and dividing the five-year tenure equally between two mayors. The members are still to deliberate on contentious issues such as division of zones and revenue structure, including property tax.While a section of BJP legislators wants the existing eight administrative zones to be increased to 15, Congress lawmakers argue zones should be divided into four independent civic bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-to-move-hc-seeking-deferment-of-bbmp-polls/articleshow/78155163.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 17, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP comes up with new waste scheme for 38 wards||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is implementing a separate garbage collection system in 38 wards to achieve 100% segregation and removal of black spots in three months. A test run has begun in Govindrajnagar ward (104) to separate wet and dry waste. BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad along with special commissioner D Randeep and other officials working on solid waste management held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss alternative methods of waste segregation. As per the Palike’s micro plan, a survey is being conducted in the wards. The scheme envisages one auto-tipper, compost van, pourakarmika and health inspector (for monitoring) for every 700 houses. “A road map is being chalked out. The auto-tippers and compost vans will be GPS-enabled and we’ll monitor their movement from the central control room,” Prasad said. Link workers will assist BBMP officials and marshals in spreading awareness on segregating waste. “We want to ensure the city’s overall Swachhata ranking improves, for which we need to educate people on the importance of segregation,” he said. Special awareness drive The Palike will conduct a special campaign under which vans with public address system will do rounds of the 38 wards to spread awareness about segregation. “We have categorised the programme into three legs — from 6.30am to 10.30am, we will use loudspeakers and the vans will visit every street, from 11am to 1pm, staff will interact with representatives of small industries about the necessity of segregation and from 11am to 2pm, streets will be cleared of garbage,” the commissioner explained. The agency will monitor citizens’ complaints regarding waste management on Twitter, Facebook and the Sahaaya 2.0 application, and address them. “It is often seen that contractors get involved in malpractices and stop collecting waste or end up dumping it at empty sites, which defeats the purpose of solid waste management,” said Prasad. To check this, the control room will monitor the vans and ensure waste is collected and disposed of in the right manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-comes-up-with-new-waste-scheme-for-38-wards/articleshow/78154362.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University launches international management course||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University (AU) will now be offering an integrated international management programme, in collaboration with a business school, for this academic year. AU is among the 10 universities in the country to receive grants under Phase-II of the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (Rusa) scheme under which it got Rs 100 crore from University Grants Commission (UGC). Of the Rs 100 crore corpus, the varsity earmarked Rs 15 crore for providing infrastructure, faculty and other amenities for the new course. Being a self-supporting programme, the integrated MBA programme will not be covered under the fee reimbursement scheme. AU vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said the varsity had initially planned to offer only an international MBA programme. “At a later stage, the BBA component was added to the course in line with the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020. Being a flexible integrated management programme aimed at moulding the young students into future managers, the course will have an exit option after the third year. The course will be conducted in collaboration with a business school,” said Prof Reddy. Prof Reddy added that the course would have an intake of 65 seats. “The varsity has already completed admissions of 45 foreign students belonging to 12 countries. Being the launching year, the varsity is likely to take the remaining students on a merit basis on their 10+2 (scores) through a notification rather than going for an entrance test,” the vice-chancellor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-launches-intl-management-course/articleshow/78154831.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 17, 2020||Bengaluru||All three parties begin spadework for Sira bypoll||Bengaluru: While the date for bypolls to Sira constituency is yet to be announced, all three political parties in the state have started the groundwork, indicating a stiff electoral battle ahead. The bylection to the constituency has been necessitated following the death of sitting JD(S) MLA Satyanarayana. Given the electoral record and strengths of JD(S) and Congress in this Vokkaliga-dominated constituency, the fight might appear to be between these two parties. But the BJP, which has never won in Sira, is leaving no stone unturned to change its fortunes and has already started the spadework. In 2018 assembly polls, the party’s nominee, SR Gowda had polled nine per cent votes, way below the vote share of JDS (41%) and Congress (35%). Congress, meanwhile, will field TB Jayachandra, who lost the 2018 election to Satyanarayana by little over 10,000 votes. The election is likely to be held in November along with Bihar polls. BJP state general secretary N Ravikumar has been camping in the constituency, evolving strategies and conducting workers. The fact that the party has formed booth-level committees, which have already managed to reach all households in the constituency, shows its resolve to win. BJP is also banking on the natural advantage that a ruling party enjoys. “Going by BJP’s preparation, the fight is surely going to be a triangular one and one shouldn’t be shocked if the result springs a surprise,” said a JD(S) leader from Sira. On its part, the JD(S) too has since the last one week started organising meetings of party workers at the booth level to prepare them for the election, besides entrusting other poll-related responsibilities to local functionaries.  The party is likely to field someone from Satyanarayana’s family to cash in on the sympathy factor. “There are several aspirants for the party ticket, but our first priority will be someone from Satyanarayana’s family,” said state JD(S) president HK Kumaraswamy, exuding confidence of retaining the seat.  “The Congress has started preparations by holding block and district-level leaders’ meetings. We are confident of winning the seat this time,” said KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/all-three-parties-begin-spadework-for-sira-bypoll/articleshow/78155021.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna dist authorities on flood alert||Vijayawada: The Krishna district administration is on high alert with inflows at Prakasam Barrage likely to increase by Thursday morning. Outflows from Nagarjunasagar continued at 4 lakh cusecs on Wednesday morning while the Pulichintala project also received huge inflows due to continuous rain in the catchment area. Flooding at Prakasam Barrage came down to 2.2 lakh cusecs on Wednesday morning as inflows from Munneru and Cuttaleru rivulets decreased. Officials initially lifted the first warning for a while after flood levels receded at Praskasm Barrage. However, irrigation authorities later issued a heavy flood warning in view of the outflows from Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar, and Pulichintala projects. Low-lying areas in Prakasam district remained inundated with authorities continuing flood relief camps. Residents of Pamula Lanka island have been cut off from Thotlavalluru as officials did not permit boats. Krishna administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) continued flood relief camps for residents of Taraka Rama Nagar, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and other areas in the city. Around 3,000 flood victims were taking shelter at various flood relief camps in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-dist-authorities-on-flood-alert/articleshow/78154705.cms||Venu Lanka
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Opposition parties protest over ‘missing’ silver lion idols||VIJAYAWADA: Tension prevailed in the city on Wednesday as BJP, TDP and Jana Sena activists staged a protest, alleging that three of the four silver idols of lions attached to the chariot of goddess Kanaka Durga are missing. Even as the authorities of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam said the idols are in safe custody and they would be produced within three days, the protesters demanded a judicial probe into the alleged theft. They also wanted the temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu to be suspended for ‘dereliction’ of duty. Hundreds of protesters gathered near the silver chariot at the mahamandapam of Durga temple. They demanded that the cover over the chariot be removed to ascertain if the idols were intact. Initially, the temple authorities insisted that the idols are intact, but later yielded to the demand and removed the cover. They told the protesters that the silver figurines are in safe deposit. One of the four figurines was damaged and protesters alleged that there was an attempt to remove it. The police made elaborate security as protestors began gathering in strength. State BJP president Somu Veera Raju and local leaders from TDP and Jana Sena led the demonstration. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas along with temple authorities inspected the chariot. He said the temple authorities cannot confirm the missing of silver lions until they verify the deposits in bank lockers and other temple records. He said strict action will be initiated against the security agency if the idols were really missing. Suresh Babu said it will take at least three days to verify the records and confirm whether the idols are in safe custody or are missing. “The temple authorities should take the issue seriously and produce the idols,” Veera Raju said. Senior TDP’s Devineni Umamaheswara Rao demanded the government order a judicial inquiry while Jana Sena’s Pothina Venkata Mahesh demanded the suspension of the temple EO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/opposition-parties-protest-over-missing-silver-lion-idols/articleshow/78154920.cms||Venu Lanka
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD plans Lord Balaji temple in Ayodhya||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) administration is planning to set up a Lord Venkateswara temple in Ayodhya. The TTD has initiated measures to temples at Varanasi and Jammu. TTD trust board chairman YV Subba Reddy had announced recently that the temple trust has plans to construct Lord Venkateswara temples in every state in the country. The board has approached the Uttar Pradesh state government with a proposal to establish a Lord Balaji temple in Ayodhya. Sources said that TTD has sought a five acre land parcel to ground a main temple complex and other amenities complexes at Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-plans-lord-balaji-temple-in-ayodhya/articleshow/78154675.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Three kids die after eating local biscuits in Kurnool district||TIRUPATI: In a tragic incident, three children died of food poisoning after they ate locally purchased biscuits at a remote village in Allagadda mandal in Kurnool district. According to Allagadda rural SI Prasad, the children (all from the same family) had bought the biscuits from a petty shop in Chintakomma Dinne village on Sunday evening. Soon after consuming the biscuits with their tea, the children started vomiting and collapsed. The children were immediately rushed to a local hospital where six-year-old Hussain Basha succumbed the same night. The other two children were rushed to the government general hospital in Kurnool but both of them died while undergoing treatment. The children’s parents have called for strict action against the shopkeeper and manufacturer of the biscuits. The district administration has ordered a probe and is waiting for the reports to initiate further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-kids-die-after-eating-local-biscuits/articleshow/78154645.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 17, 2020||Bengaluru||BJP-JD(S) merger buzz revives debate on 2-party model in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Talk of a merger between BJP and Janata Dal (Secular) has reignated a debate in political circles about whether the three-party system in the state — believed to be the cause of many a fractured verdict, alliance politics and flipping of chief ministers by ruling parties in the past four decades — is nearing its end. Sources said both parties are weighing the option ahead of the 2023 assembly polls and the brass on either side have reportedly held unofficial parleys in this regard. Since 1980, only two successive governments have completed their full terms — one led by D Devaraj Urs and another by Siddaramaiah. The move for a merger is being seen as a bid for political survival by JD(S) while BJP is staring at a leadership crisis in Karnataka. Several MLAs and MLCs have deserted JD(S) in the past few months and the party is facing more exits. Congress functionary and senior advocate Brijesh Kalappa talk of a merger is purely hypothetical and far-fetched, “given the circumstances under which we assumed office in 2018 and what transpired thereafter”. Some observers feel a two-party system will serve the state well by restoring long absent political stability and fostering growth while curbing political malpractices to topple governments. They cite the example of Tamil Nadu which, with two dominant parties, has seen a hung assembly or an opposition strong enough to stall bills and counter the ruling party in the assembly. Either DMK or AIADMK has formed the government since 1967. In any case, they feel, ideological considerations will not further the exit of or retain JD(S) members. “Karnataka has always had a bi-party system with a distant third player. The third player may have initially (since 1983) been BJP, later KCP and Lok Shakti and more recently JD(S). If the merger talks truly go forward it would be more on account of the compulsions of the JD(S) leadership family. It would surely lead to a realignment as segments of the JD(S) may prefer to move to Congress,” said Sandeep Shastri, a political analyst. “Merger of the JD(S) into BJP cannot rewrite history and the idea of two-party systems helping the cause of Karnataka is a misnomer. What is apparent though is the party interest of JD(S) which has a blurred future because of its family-centric loyalties. Congress is a classical case in focus in this respect that the alliance won’t work in the state,” said Prof Harish Ramaswamy, another political analyst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-jds-merger-buzz-revives-debate-on-2-party-model-in-ktaka/articleshow/78154968.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Cash crunch: Govt tapping into Bengaluru to fend for entire state||BENGALURU: In the last six months Karnataka, which has been strapped for resources, has taken key decisions to secure newer avenues of revenue generation. With conventional routes to mop up revenue disrupted due to Covid-19 pandemic, the government has been looking in one direction — Bengaluru — to fill its coffers. Considered the golden goose because of its global image as the IT-BT capital of the country, Bengaluru accounts for over 85 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) and has land value running into thousands of crores. According to the government, the decisions are all based upon the ground scenarios, wherein “unauthorised” constructions have meant government properties worth thousands of crores have been lost. “From construction of properties on BDA land to government lands locked by private builders and developers, these are all parcels which could have never been recovered. Legal battles could have dragged on for years together before we could see any actual result. But the decisions taken by us in the last few months have ensured that it is a win-win situation for all parties involved,” said a senior cabinet minister, adding that the government will earn a substantial revenue from these decisions. Since January, the BJP government has decided either to regularise or sell no less than 35,000 acres of land in the city. These include illegal constructions on BDA sites, sale of revenue properties leased to educational and social service institutions, nullifying cases under 79 A, B and 108 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act by deleting the sections and authorising sale of ‘B’ kharab land. “All our policies have been pro-people. For decades together, these government lands have been lost to private entities. If you look at the guidance value rates, in case of a BDA site, we could have earned Rs 30 to 40 lakh each. However, the pricing for the regularisation of these illegal sites is at 10 per cent of the guidance value. While we will earn revenue, it is not the only reason for such decisions,” said law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy However, revenue minister R Ashoka was more blunt in his response. “Of course, if it’s Bengaluru we will earn more revenue. Considering there is no guarantee on when Covid-19 will wane, the government needs to consider other revenue sources for continued administration,” said Ashoka. However, government sources say some amount, from the revenue generated, must be directed towards Bengaluru too. “While the proceeds from the regularisation and sale of lands in Bengaluru go to the state exchequer, it should not be that no amount is channelised towards the city’s development. A portion of the sales must be dedicated to Bengaluru’s development,” said another cabinet minister. Legally, the law minister said, most decisions taken with regard to sale and regularisation have been vetted. “The decisions taken by the government have all been vetted and are legally on safe ground. However, only if a person goes to court in any particular case, will we know if there is any loophole,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cash-crunch-govt-tapping-into-bluru-to-fend-for-entire-state/articleshow/78154376.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh has 5th highest number of prisons with Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh stands fifth in the country for number of jails reporting Covid-19 cases. The state currently has 28 jails which have reported coronavirus cases and is preceded by Uttar Pradesh (35 jails); Madhya Pradesh (34); Maharashtra (32); and Odisha (31). The data was revealed in the National Campaign Against Torture (NCAT) report — The Status of Covid-19 in Indian Prisons. As per the report, of the 1,350 jails in the country, infections have been reported from at least 351 jails in 25 of the 36 states/Union Territories as on August 31. The report also revealed that of all the jails in the country, 538 prisons (nearly 40%) were overcrowded. The study found the jails were overcrowded by 1% to 636% beyond their sanctioned capacity thus increasing the risk of the virus being spread among prisoners even if one inmate was infected. As per the official statistics provided by the state prisons department, around 1,400 prisoners in various jails across the state have contracted the virus. One of these prisoners was on dialysis and had succumbed to the disease. Inmates who had tested positive were being treated in their respective jails. However, the prisons department did release over 430 prisoners on interim bail following the Covid-19 outbreak. “As per the Prison Statistics India-2018, which provides the latest information on prison-wise overcrowding — an issue not covered by the Prison Statistics India-2019 — out of the 538 overcrowded prisons, 34 prisons were found to have overcrowding ranging from 201% to 636%. Around 100 prisons had overcrowding varying from 100% to 200% and 404 prisons ranging from 1% to 99%,” said NCAT coordinator, Suhas Chakma. As per the latest prisons statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the four central jails in Andhra Pradesh had an occupancy of 112% by December 31, 2019. Director general of prisons and correctional services Mohd Ahsan Reza said that at present the prisons, including central prisons in Andhra Pradesh, are not overcrowded as altogether around 7,900 to 8,000 inmates were currently lodged in various prisons of the state. “We have enough space in the jails to handle the situation and have been taking measures to prevent the spread of virus,” the director general said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-has-5th-highest-number-of-prisons-with-covid-cases/articleshow/78162681.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Probe team may drop molest charge in Anandapur case||Kolkata: The probe team investigating the Anandapur incident hinted that the molestation charge may be dropped from the final charge sheet even as they press the attempt to culpable homicide case against accused Abhishek Kumar Pandey. This was after the 31-year-old bank official claimed that it was “a result of misunderstanding”.It is likely that Nilanjana Chatterjee (47) will be treated as the primary victim and her statement — along with that of her husband Deep Satpati — treated as primary evidence. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/probe-team-may-drop-molest-charge-in-anandapur-case/articleshow/78157037.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM lays foundation for govt buildings worth Rs 622 crore||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday inaugurated and laid the foundation for a total of 29 government buildings worth Rs 622 crore through video conferencing from the ‘Nek Samvad’ hall of his official residence here. He also laid the foundation for a new multi-storey building and campus for the Patna collectorate at its existing location on the banks of the Ganga. “The new administrative building and campus of Patna collectorate will be built at a cost of Rs 186 crore. Besides the office of Patna DM, altogether 39 district and sub-division level offices of different departments will be housed in the new building. It will also have three conference halls,” Nitish said. He added, “It will have four gardens. There will be a green area of 3,484 square meters within the campus. It will be very beautiful as all norms related to environment protection will be followed in the construction of the new collectorate.” Other prominent buildings for which foundations were laid on Wednesday are the proposed engineering colleges at Ara and Narghoghi village in Sarairanjan constituency of Samastipur district, Khel Bhavan in seven districts, two 200-bed hostels in the MIT campus at Muzaffarpur. Three 200-bed hostels in Mahila Polytechnic at Bela, Muzaffarpur. Two 200-bed hostels (one for girls, one for boys) at the Nalanda Engineering College at Chandi and construction of a building for the Industrial Training Institute at Manihari in Katihar district. The CM also inaugurated new buildings of the Sitamarhi Institute of Technology and laid the foundation for a government degree college at Arwal. The CM lauded BCD officials for constructing several iconic buildings in Patna, Rajgir and other parts of the state in recent years. Presiding over the event, BCD minister Ashok Choudhary praised the CM for leading the state on the path of development. Terming Nitish Kumar as the “architect of modern Bihar”, Choudhary said no other government in Bihar since Independence did so much development on the front of infrastructure as done by the Nitish government in the past 15 years. Education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma, in his speech, said, “Even the hardcore political opponents of Nitish Kumar admit in private that no CM has done development work on a par with Nitish Ji.” Verma also said Nitish is known for completing what he promises. Vidhan Sabha Speaker and Sarairanjan MLA Vijay Kumar Choudhary lauded the CM for laying the foundation for an engineering college in his constituency. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi also spoke on the occasion. Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha said the proposed engineering college at Ara would be built at the cost of Rs 73 crore. Calling it a red-letter day for Bhojpur district, Kushwaha said the establishment of an engineering college will be immensely helpful for aspiring students. Giving information about the layout of the proposed engineering college, the Bhojpur DPRO in-charge, Rashmi Choudhary said the engineering college will have modern architecture. A grand three-storied building will house the administrative and educational departments. While there will be a five-storied hostel for boys and a three-storied one for girls. A beautiful landscape with horticulture has also been planned, the DPRO added. (With Inputs from Praveen, Ara)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-lays-foundation-for-govt-buildings-worth-rs-622-crore/articleshow/78155780.cms||Madan Kumar
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Adhere to West Bengal CM advice, keep pandals open and spacious: Puja forum||KOLKATA: Durga Puja organizers must keep their pandals open and spacious for better air circulation and movement of people, members of Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella organization of community Durga Puja in Kolkata and its suburbs, said on Wednesday. The advisory came after chief minister Mamata Banerjee requested for the same on Monday as a precaution against Covid. Durga Puja, the biggest festival of the state and a huge tourist attraction, will be celebrated after implementation of all safety guidelines to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, the forum stated. “We have requested the organizers to focus on decorations outside the pandal and make arrangements where people can either view the idols without entering the pandal or from the sidelines of the pandal. This will not lead to crowding inside. We agree with the CM’s observations and ask everyone to adhere to the guidelines,” said Sashwata Basu, secretary of the Forum, which will organize a blood donation camp on September 20. Even the cops have started approaching the organizers requesting them to keep pandals open on two to three sides. Organizers have also been asked to submit their plans. “As of now, our advisory has three crucial points: the pandal should be as open as possible so that there is less crowding and people can see the idol from a distance. Second, ensure that the gates are bigger for easy access and vision. Third, install large LDCs — if possible — so that devotees do not crowd near the idols,” said an officer. Police sources said that most organizers are still constructing the super structures or yet to begin work. Hence, making amendments should not be too difficult. “For the first time in several years, we are asking for their crowd circulation plans. The objective is to ensure that social distancing norms can be properly maintained. The additional advantage of having the plan in hand is that we can convince organizers to change their circulation movement, if required, since most pandals will be open,” an officer said. Two kinds of Durga Puja are organized in Kolkata. The first kind involves those held on open grounds or fields while the second type are held in alleys. “We want organizers to widen the gates of the pandals and keep maximum sides open if they are held on grounds so that people can see the idols from a distance and leave. This will help avoid any gathering inside the pandal,” another officer said. “For pujas held in the alleys, bigger barricades must be installed to make crowd-control easier. Several of them have promised us that they will conduct thermal screening at the entry point and no one with a high temperature will be allowed to enter. Wearing masks will be mandatory and hand sanitizers will be made available at the pandals. We shall evaluate all these aspects during our ground inspections later,” explained an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adhere-to-cm-advice-keep-pandals-open-and-spacious-puja-forum/articleshow/78157009.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Cabby arrested for assaulting woman passenger in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 45-year-old resident of Chatterjeehat in Howrah was allegedly assaulted by a taxi driver, Bijoy Kumar Yadav (33), after an argument over fares early on Wednesday. Bhowanipore motorcycle patrol cops reached the spot to rescue the woman after a call was received on 100 and arrested Yadav. The incident occurred around 12.15am, barely hours after a yellow taxi driver was arrested for allegedly stalking and misbehaving with actor MP Mimi Chakraborty. The woman — a market surveyor — was later dropped home by the cops after she recorded her statement. The night-crime SOP — much talked about after the Anandapur incident — was followed in letter and spirit in this case, a joint CP at lalbazar claimed. “The woman had boarded the taxi near PTS in the Hastings area. About half-a-kilometre into the trip, there ensued a quarrel over the fare between the passenger and the taxi driver,” said an investigating officer. “The woman said she was a regular passenger on the route and would pay Rs 30, which was the shuttle taxi fare. But the driver demanded Rs 500 to take her to Chatterjeehat,” he added. The driver claimed that he had told her that she may pay according to the fixed shuttle rate when she boarded the taxi, said cops. According to the police, during the quarrel, the woman tried to stop the driver from taking a U-turn as soon as he said he was going home in Bhowanipore and would drop her at his garage. In an effort to save herself and in panic, she scratched his hands from the rear seat where she was sitting. The driver immediately stopped the car and rained blows on her, before finally changing the direction of the vehicle towards SSKM Hospital. The woman started screaming for help, which alerted a passerby, who then dialled 100. “The patrol intercepted the taxi at Oriyapara behind Gaza Park. The woman told duty officer Debasish Naskar that she had been restrained in the taxi, abused and assaulted. A case under IPC sections 341, 323 and 509 was registered against Yadav, a resident of Beni Nandan Street, and the taxi was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cabby-arrestedfor-assaulting-woman-passenger/articleshow/78157027.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 17, 2020||Madurai||MPs demand increase in MGNREGA work days||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan and Theni MP P Ravindranathkumar have sought the Centre to increase the MGNREGA work scheme to 200 days in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, they were told that the Centre has no such plans at present. Speaking in the Parliament, Ravindranathkumar said that it is estimated that there are 85 lakh people, who have registered under the 100-day work scheme in the state. Many migrant workers, who were hit by the Covid-19 crisis, have returned to their native villages. If the MNREGA is extended to a period of 200 days instead of the present 100 days, it would help many of them earn their livelihood from their native places in the current situation, he said. Venkatesan also raised the same issue, but Union minister for agriculture, farmers’ welfare and rural development, Narendra Singh Tomar, in his reply, stated that the government did not intend to raise the working days to 200 days. Tomar also said that the average working days under the scheme throughout the country for this year from April were—April: 12 days, May: 17 days, June: 6 days, July: 14 days and August: 12 days. But, Venkatesan claimed that the same in Tamil Nadu had been: April: 4 days, May: 7 days, June: 9 days, July: 10 days and August: 8 days. Hence, workers in Tamil Nadu have got lesser working days, compared to people in other states. The MP also urged that the state government to step in and help the workers by giving them adequate work days. This scheme should be made free from budget constraints, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Ravindranathkumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mps-demand-increase-in-mgnrega-work-days/articleshow/78157029.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||CM’s plan to skip event draws flak||Aurangabad: The tradition of the chief minister attending the formal celebration of Marathwada Liberation Day is set to be broken as Uddhav Thackeray is going to skip the event on Thursday. This has generated sharp reactions from social groups and the opposition. As per the official invite, state industries minister Subhash Desai, who is also the district guardian minister, is scheduled to attend the formal event that is held at Siddharth Garden every year. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis attended the Marathwada Liberation Day celebrations every year during his tenure and addressed different public issues faced by the region in his formal address. Senior lawyer Pradeep Deshmukh of Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad said it was unfortunate that the chief minister is breaking the tradition. “The chief minister should at least make some announcement related to Marathwada on the occasion of the Liberation Day. The region is plagued by many pressing issues, which need attention from the government,” he said. BJP was quick to train guns on Thackeray for skipping the event, accusing the him of showing scant regard for the martyrs who laid down their lives to liberate Marathwada. “His absence shows that the chief minister does not have any affinity with Marathwada and issues faced by the region. The people of Marathwada would not forgive him for this,” BJP spokesperson Shirish Boralkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cms-plan-to-skip-event-draws-flak/articleshow/78153144.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Tarpan at 18 ghats ‘real test’ for cops||Kolkata: Thursday’s Mahalaya and Viswakarma Puja would be the first ‘real test’ for cops during the pandemic. “Ganesh Puja went off well, but ensuring tarpan at the various ghats of Kolkata will be the real test,” said an IPS officer.The police have made arrangements for devotees to offer tarpan at 18 ghats. “There will be no bar on individuals coming to the ghats. But devotees must follow social distancing norms. The divisional police and the traffic department will help us,” said an officer who is leading the arrangements. Barricades and restrictions on vehicle movement will be in place from 4am to 4pm. Sources in Lalbazar said they were expecting a drop in devotees at the ghats due to the pandemic. “We have to divide time slots or redirect people to other ghats if there is a crowd at a particular venue. We shall be prepared for the day just like any other year,” said an IPS officer. All non-medical leaves — as is the norm every year — have been cancelled for the day.Later in the day, cops will monitor Viswakarma Puja arrangements as well, especially in the factories on the suburbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tarpan-at-18-ghats-real-test-for-cops/articleshow/78157030.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||More than 60% parents from govt schools want reopening for classes XI, XII||Chandigarh: More than 60% parents of most of the government schools, and less than 25% parents of private schools have given consent for reopening of schools for classes XI to XII, the schools have shared. The government school heads are, however, worried about the authenticity of the consent forms as they believe that consent forms could have been filled by the students instead of parents, as most of the government school parents are not tech savvy. On the other hand, the students of private schools, who have given consent, when asked why they wanted to come to school, said “to meet friends”. A B S Sidhu, director principal Saupin’s School said, “Just about 10-12% parents and students from classes IX-XII have expressed a desire to come to school. We called a few to know which subjects they wanted help in and reply from some was, “We just want to meet our friends!” At AKSIPS in Sector 41, out of 500 parents, 112 gave the consent, principal Ritu Bali said, HS Mamik, director of Vivek High School said only 11% parents gave consent. Atul Khanna, director of Strawberry Fields School said 25% parents were fine with sending their children to school for guidance. Gurpreet Bakshi, administrator St Kabir School said 90% parents have declined. Pooja Parkash, principal of KBDAV School in Sector 41 said, “Less than one fourth in most classes have given the consent to reopening the schools.” On the other hand, principals of dozens of government schools, on the basis of anonymity said more than 60-70% parents in their schools have given consent for sending children to school. “We were surprised to receive so many consents, as parents have always rejected the idea of reopening. Our parents are from poor backgrounds and we strongly believe that the consent has been given by the students instead. When we talk to our students they always show interest in coming to school so that they can meet their teachers, friends and have a change in the life they are leading at the moment.” To reaffirm, some schools are personally calling parents to check if the consent was given by them. According to the authorities, the education department is still compiling the details sent by private and government schools. Based on the data received, a final decision will be taken. Talking to TOI, director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We will cross the bridge as it comes. If the government school children want to come to school, then we may have to cater to academic needs of few needy ones. But safety will be paramount.” Sources said, decision is expected on September 18. If the education department decides to reopen schools for students of classes XI to XII for guidance, then guidelines will be issued, which will include number of students to be seated in a class, sanitisation and safety measures to be taken, to keep students and teachers safe from Covid-19. On September 10, the education department had written to the principals of government, government aided and unaided private recognised schools to take consent of parents of students studying in classes IX to XII on whether they want to send their children to school for guidance by September 15. But on Wednesday, education department again sought same details — asked schools to send details of total number of boys and girls in each class, and total number of parents of girl students and total number of parents of boy students who gave consent. Schools had a tough time sending details as a short deadline was given to them for this bifurcation and submission. The schools were given the format at 3.30pm while they had to revert with information by 5pm. A principal of private school requesting anonymity said, “We went crazy because it was put in private schools group. One doesn’t check WhatsApp so frequently. We had the info in Google form so sorted it and then sent it. Earlier, they had asked for a report by September 15 which we had sent. There was no format as such. Anyway, we managed to send by 7pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-than-60-parents-from-govt-schools-want-reopening-for-classes-xi-xii/articleshow/78155784.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi Sanjay, 3 others in quarantine||Hyderabad: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and three other state leaders are in home quarantine after a political party member tested positive and others were in proximity with them. Bandi Sanjay, who was supposed to be in Hyderabad for Telangana Liberation Day, has stayed back in Delhi. A few days back, Bandi Sanjay had tested negative for Covid before attending the parliament session. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-sanjay-3-others-in-quarantine/articleshow/78155820.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Civic body withdraws ‘compromise deed’ in Raka Lifestyle Club case||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Wednesday did not press for the compromise deed it had submitted in the on-going Raka Lifestyle Club-related case in the district court. Recently, the civic administration had submitted a compromise deed and had agreed to let the club continue with the Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) contract. When contacted, civic administrator Astik Kumar Pandey refused to comment on the issue that has been marred with controversies for a while. This was the first swimming pool club to be given on BOT for a period of 90 years. The club started around 2007 and the tendering process was completed only in 2011. On the night of July 1, 2015, the special branch of Aurangabad city police raided the club and found that an illegal hookah parlour was being operated there. The then mayor, along with some corporators and anti-encroachment squad officials, visited the club and found that some construction was carried out without prior permission from the civic body. This was followed by the then civic commissioner Prakash Mahajan scrapping the BOT agreement. The decision, however, was challenged by the BOT operator before the district court and then the high court. The HC had said the corporation court is the appropriate authority to deal with the case. Eventually, due to series of technical as well as legal flaws, the civic body lost the case in the corporation court in December 2019. This was followed by civic body filing an appeal before the district court. During the same time, several corporators, activists as well as the then mayor made a written representation citing that the contesting of cases is leading to loss of revenue for the civic body. Taking a considerate view, the civic body agreed to the demand and filed a compromise deed before the district court. However, a section of politicians raked up the issue and started making allegations against the civic authorities for filing a compromise deed. As a result, the civic body decided to not to go ahead with the compromise deed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civic-body-withdraws-compromise-deed-in-raka-lifestyle-club-case/articleshow/78153187.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 17, 2020||Patna||Patna: Liquor addict kills daughter after fight with wife||PATNA: A liquor addict allegedly killed his two and a half years old daughter by slamming her on the floor after a fight with his wife at Bhushan Lane under Kadamkuan police station area in Patna on Wednesday. Kadamkuan police station SHO Nishikant Nishi said the accused has been identified as Dharmendra Kumar (30). The deceased girl’s name was Sania Kumari. He said Dharmendra had a fight with his wife Sweety Devi on Tuesday night. “It surfaced during investigation that Dharmendra had found Rs2000 lying on the road on Sunday. Sweety took Rs1000 without informing Dharmendra. He came to know about it on Tuesday night after returning home in an inebriated state,” the SHO said. Dharmendra worked in a printing press while his wife is a maid in a private hospital. Nishikant said Dharmendra thrashed Sweety and kicked her out of their residence. She went to her parent’s home. “He had also thrashed Sania that time,” he said. The SHO said Sweety went to work on Wednesday and Dharmendra reached there to take her back. They had heated arguments. “Thereafter, he returned home and slammed his daughter on the floor. She died on the spot,” he said. The SHO said the incident took place between 1 and 2pm. “Local residents informed the police when they spotted Dharmendra carrying the girl to hospital. The accused is a liquor addict,” he said. Sweety, in her statement, alleged that her husband killed their daughter. An FIR was lodged on Sweety’s statement and Dharmendra was arrested. The SHO said Sania was taken to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) where doctors declared her dead. He said the body was handed over to the family after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-addict-kills-daughter-after-fight-with-wife/articleshow/78155828.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 2,273 new coronavirus cases and 12 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday reported 2,273 new cases of Covid-19 and 12 deaths as the toll inched towards thousand cases with 996 deaths from the deadly virus since the pandemic broke in March this year. The number of total recoveries reached 1,33,447 cases with 2260 people declared free from Covid-19. Greater Hyderabad led the tally with 325 cases followed by Rangareddy (185), Nalgonda (175), Medchal Malkajgiri (164), Karimnagar (122), Warangal Urban (114). Three districts reporting the least number of cases were Narayanpet (3) followed by Adilabad (19), Jogulamba Gadwal and Jagtial each with 21 cases. Rangareddy moved close to 1,000 cases in the past week, while Karimnagar too is witnessing an increasing number of cases. According to the Covid-19 bulletin, a total of 55,636 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and a total of 22,76,222 tests were conducted so far. While test results of 883 people are awaited, there are 30,404 active cases with 23,560 people are under home isolation. Telangana has 1,117 ventilators available, and out of 20,396 beds available in the government hospitals, about 17,823 beds are vacant. According to the authorities, the number of containment zones in the state stood at 2,265 and about 7,712 teams were displayed in the zones. Greater Hyderabad has close to 80 zones in the entire list. Authorities were cautioned to maintain social distance norms and there is a high incidence of Covid-19 infection among the 20-50 years of age group. The highest percentage of cases were found in the 21-30 age group, with 25% of cases accounting for the total number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-records-2273-new-corona-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/78155848.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Court dismisses plea of Nanded farmer convicted of murder||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently rejected the criminal appeal filed by a 60-year-old farmer who has been convicted of murdering his daughter-in-law in June 2008. The convict — Nagorao Kamble, a resident of Panbhosi in Loha taluka of Nanded district — had set his daughter-in-law on fire while the family was away. The deceased, 22-year-old Nilavati, had married Kamble’s son Maneji in 2003. She was unable to bear a child due to which her in-laws were not treating her well. On the day of the incident, June 2, 2008, Kamble came home drunk and started abusing her while she was cooking. Upset over the ill treatment, Nilavati stopped cooking and that infuriated the convict. In a fit of rage, Kamble started assaulting the deceased and pushed her in the corner of their house. Later before leaving the house, he poured kerosene on Nilavati and set her ablaze. She was rushed to a primary health clinic from where she was taken to a private hospital in Nanded. She died while undergoing treatment on June 18, 2008. Following the trial, the Ad-hoc Additional sessions judge (Kandhar) on May 21, 2010, convicted Nagorao and sentenced him to life imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 5,000. Lawyer Rekha K Laddha, while defending the accused, argued before the high court that multiple dying declarations relied upon by the prosecution are unreliable. “Nilavati was not mentally and physically fit to make various declarations and statements as she had suffered 90% burn injuries. The accused had no intention to kill his daughter-in-law,” she argued. While dismissing the plea, the bench comprising justices Ravindra V Ghuge and B U Debadwar observed: “In the case at hand, none of the dying declaration falsifies the other dying declaration, therefore, the aforesaid ratio in any case would not help the defense for claiming benefit of doubt.’’ It added: “We do not find that the learned Ad-hoc Additional sessions judge was in error in arriving at the finding that the appellant-accused is guilty of having committed the murder of his daughter-in-law Nilavati. There is no merit in this appeal and, therefore, the same is dismissed.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/court-dismisses-plea-of-nanded-farmer-convicted-of-murder/articleshow/78153202.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 17, 2020||Agra||Aagra Municipal Corporation to run campaign against 710 illegal dairies||AGRA: Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) administration will soon launch a campaign against illegal dairies operating in the city. The move came after a team of the civic body, led by the assistant municipal commissioner, was attacked during a raid carried out at an illegal dairy on Mughal road on Tuesday afternoon. According to the AMC records, 710 illegal dairies are operating in different parts of the city. These dairies have around 8,500 cows and buffaloes. The waste of these animals is being discharged in the drains. AMC chief veterinary officer Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “Around 14 months back, we had conducted a city-wide survey to identify dairies operating in the city. Total 850 illegal dairies having 10,000 cattle were found operating in 100 wards of the city. So far, 140 dairies having around 1,500 cattle have been shut down. Now, we will be running a campaign to get all the remaining dairies closed in a time-bound manner.” In 2018, a two-judge bench of Allahabad high court had sought reply from the UP government about the action taken on a government order issued in 1998 in which the then principal secretary had asked various departments to move dairies and cattle sheds outside municipal limits of cities. The judges had said, “Despite the said Government Order dated 13.10.1998, and after almost 20 years having passed, the petitioner has said GO is still not being followed and on this account, stray cattle and domestic cattle roaming around on the roads and streets, get engaged in accidents, causing loss of life and injury to residents and cattle. We accordingly require principal secretary, urban development and planning, Lucknow, to file a response to the averments contained in the petition as to what steps have been taken in compliance of the 1998 GO.” Following an order by the officials concerned, ADA, along with district administration, municipal corporation and animal husbandry department, has swung into action. A survey was conducted to identify all the illegal dairies, cowsheds and stables operating in the city. Following high court orders, the Agra Development Authority (ADA), in the first phase, had identified five acres of land for development of a cattle colony in Budhana Village on Fatehabad road. 144 plots were marked. So far, no plot has been sold out. According to the dairy owners, ADA is selling plots at 7,000 square metres which is inappropriate. The matter regarding the rates of the plot and facilities to be provided at the cattle colony is pending with the high court. Chief veterinary officer said, “Even after repeated persuasion, the dairy owners and cattle keepers illegally operating in the city are not ready to shift to the cattle colony developed by the ADA. Now, we will be dealing with them strictly. Their animals will be taken in custody and sent to the cattle shelter facility of the AMC. Illegal dairy owners will be penalized for at least Rs 2,000 per cattle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-to-run-campaign-against-710-illegal-dairies-operating-in-city/articleshow/78153213.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Computer instructors at govt schools still not paid 4 months’ salary||Chandigarh: Yet another month has entered the second half, but the computer instructors working in government schools are still not paid their salary. It has been four months since they have not received salaries. Many instructors said they are unable to manage their families expenses, especially those who are sole bread earners. Teachers shared how they were unable to pay bills and fees and loan instalments as well. They said in such circumstances, if they or any family member contracts the virus, they are not financially sound to bear the expenses. The computer instructors have sent various reminders to the official’s of education department UT Chandigarh with a request to release their four months’ salary. The instructors said, “Around 150 senior and junior computer Instructors are working in various government schools of UT Chandigarh Since 2008.” It is pertinent to mention that computer instructors are handling the online processes like U-DISE, PISA, DBT of Notebooks and Food Security Allowance under MDM scheme, providing support in online teaching, online admission process for Class XI, admission process for classes nursery to VIII, and compilation of regular reports. All regular and contractual staff working in government schools but the computer faculty are getting their salaries on time. Meanwhile, Chandigarh Computer Teachers’ Union has also written to various authorities complaining about their contractor. The instructors were recruited under SPIC (Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh), in 2008, but recently, the contract of computer instructor was given to non-IT based company by education department in June through GeM portal. They alleged that the contractor, R R Enterprise, started calling computer instructors asking for money (Rs 12,000 per person) as registration fee, threatening to sack them if they do not pay the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/computer-instructors-at-govt-schools-still-not-paid-4-months-salary/articleshow/78155838.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||HC quashes FIR against BJP MLA||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently quashed an FIR registered against BJP MLA Narayan Kuche by Chandanjira police. The police had booked Kuche under sections 294 (obscene acts or words in public), 504 (intentional insult) read with section 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with section 67 of the Information and Technology Act, 2000. Kuche along with his brother was accused of instigating a woman to abuse and send obscene messages and photographs to the complainant Deepak Laxman Dongre. Earlier, the police were reluctant to register an offence, following which on July 3 Dongre had approached the high court, seeking directions for police to register an offence. Later, Dongre registered a detailed complaint with the police on July 7 against Kuche. Kuche then approached the high court, challenging the FIR while drawing the attention of the court toward the facts. While ascertaining the details, the bench comprising justices T V Nalawade and M G Swelikar allowed his petition and observed: “This court has no hesitation in observing that Dongare has virtually misused the order made by this court and directing the present petitioner (Kuche) to face the trial will be abuse of process of law.’’ It added, “It appears that Dongre is a close relative of the present applicant and there was some talk of settlement of marriage between these two families. There was some dispute as the talks failed and further there was other dispute of financial nature. From the submissions and allegations made in the present first information report, it can be said that attempt was made to give different first information report to implicate the present applicant in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-quashes-fir-against-bjp-mla/articleshow/78153214.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cops booked teacher for killing wife, attempting to kill son||CHANDIGARH: UT Police booked a government school teacher for allegedly killing his wife at his residence in Sector 23. He also allegedly left his elder son to drown in a canal in Ludhiana. The accused is on the run with his youngest son. Police sent the body to Government Multi Speciality Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 for autopsy. Sector 17 police said the deceased has been identified as Jyoti Rani, 40, a resident of Sector 23 and was working as teacher in Government Model Senior Secondary School, Karsan at Ram Darbar and her husband Mandeep Singh , 43, is also a teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 47. Ram Rattan Sharma, station house officer at Sector 17 police station said the incident came to light when Ludhiana police reached with the son of the deceased at Sector 23 and found the house locked from outside at around 11pm on Tuesday. The victim’s son told the police that when they left the house, his father told them that his mother was in home isolation due to corona infection and that she is inside the house. As foul smell was also coming from inside the house, sector 17 police was contacted and the police entered the house after breaking the door. Police found the body of Jyoti lying on the bed wrapped in the bed sheet. Police said there was an injury mark behind the victim’s head that suggests she was hit by some iron road or stick. Police also said her swollen face indicate that she might have been strangulated as well. However, the exact cause of the death will only be known after the post mortem, the police said. According to police, after possibly strangulating his wife, Mandeep left the house with his two sons in his car to pay obeisance at gurdwara at Doraha, near Ludhiana, on the morning of September 14. After visiting the gurdwara, his elder son allegedly fell into the canal. Mandeep fled with his younger son from the spot, leaving his son dying in the canal. Later, Ludhiana police rescued the boy. Mobile phone of Mandeep has been switched off, the police said. Both husband and wife had an estranged relationship and used to fight regularly, sources said. On the statement of the rescued boy, Sector 17 police registered a case under sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC against Mandeep. Police teams were dispatched to different parts of Punjab in a search of him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-booked-teacher-for-killing-wife-attempting-to-kill-son/articleshow/78155849.cms||Pawan Tiwari
September 17, 2020||Vadodara||Doctor’s gold chain snatched, two nabbed||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Wednesday nabbed two men who were involved in chain snatching in the city. The accused duo had snatched the gold chain of a lady doctor working in the SSG Hospital on Panigate Road on Tuesday afternoon. Dr Arpita Shah was on her way to the hospital when the duo approached her. According to the police, the accused riding pillion on a motorbike snatched Shah’s gold chain. She slipped from her two-wheeler and fell down following which the accused fled from the spot. Crime branch sleuths tracked down the accused with the help of CCTV footage. The duo has been identified as Ajay Vasava and Sunil Vaghela, both residents of Panigate area. The cops have also recovered the gold chain that they had snatched from Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/doctors-gold-chain-snatched-two-nabbed/articleshow/78154370.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Replicate Ahmedabad model across Gujarat: HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday told the state government to “stop playing on the back foot” and aggressively replicate the Ahmedabad model to contain Covid-19 in Gujarat. The high court also ordered the authorities to put all districts across the state on high alert and to take appropriate actions to curb the surge of Covid cases. “The Ahmedabad model shall be made applicable for this purpose,” the court said. While praising the government for its hard work the division bench said, “However, we are constrained to observe that despite putting the best of its efforts, the government has been getting caught unawares and it gets into action only after the situation worsens.” The bench went on to say: “In other words or rather in simple words, we may say that the state government should now stop playing on the back foot.” Asking the government to replicate the successful Ahmedabad model in other cities and districts, the HC said that the government woke up after the situation became extremely bad in Surat. The officials rushed to Surat and because of the government’s intense efforts, the situation came under control. The court had in the past said that replicating the Ahmedabad model could have averted the problem in Surat. It has said the same for Rajkot and Jamnagar, “Today, Rajkot and Jamnagar are the two cities which are hit extremely bad. This situation could definitely have been averted if timely action and precautions would have been taken,” the court said. “Unfortunately, the same was not done and it has resulted in a situation beyond control. However, we are sure that the situation in Rajkot, Jamnagar and other cities will also be brought in control.” The court further took cognizance of the deteriorating situation in Saurashtra, particularly in Rajkot and urged the government and the Rajkot Municipal Corporation to ensure that the situation does not go out of control. “The line of action and model adopted in the city of Ahmedabad should be made applicable in all other major cities, more particularly, the big cities like Vadodara, Rajkot etc.,” the court order reads.The HC ordered IAS officer Sonal Mishra to make an exhaustive survey of the situation and guide local authorities.Mishra supervises the survey ordered by the court about the condition of hospitals and healthcare in this region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/replicate-abad-model-across-state-hc/articleshow/78157105.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Nearly 87k students will be taking PU’s first online exam today||Chandigarh: As many as 86,616 undergraduate and postgraduate students will be appearing in the first online examination that will be commenced from Thursday by Panjab University. On Wednesday, controller of examination held various meetings to check last minute preparations to upload and download question papers in all nodal centres set up by the university. There are 196 affiliated colleges that have this nodal centres. And, on the demand of students from Leh and Ladakh, a special nodal officer is appointed for their area. The tension near the border has made internet connectivity an issue for the candidates. Officials said the students were asked to create a fresh email id through which they can download the question paper and upload their answer sheets. To facilitate border students of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and other states, where internet connectivity is an issue, the controller of examination has decided to send hard copies of question papers to the identified colleges, which will become nodal centres for candidates. According to records, there are around 600 students enrolled in various colleges from the border area of Punjab and 1,300 students from Himachal Pradesh, which include tribal areas as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nearly-87k-students-will-be-taking-pus-first-online-exam-today/articleshow/78155857.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Agra||Eight PHC staff, five cops test Covid positive in Agra||AGRA: At least 110 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 4,377. The patients included eight staff members of primary health centres, five policemen and an official of the stamp and registration department. Also, 127 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 4,377 cases reported in the district, 78.8% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 813 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 3,448 people have recovered from the infection and been discharged. Besides, people who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting checks in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/eight-phc-staff-five-cops-test-covid-ve-in-agra/articleshow/78153227.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bareilly||10-year-old boy kidnapped, FIR lodged||Pilibhit: Police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified persons into the kidnapping case of a 10-year-old boy who has hearing and speech impairment. The boy was missing from his home since September 10. The father of the boy, Punit Lal, claimed that the police filed the case only after the intervention of superintendent of police, Jai Prakash Yadav. SHO Atar Singh said an FIR against unidentified persons was lodged under section 363 (kidnapping) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-boy-kidnapped-fir-lodged/articleshow/78153242.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||1 held for selling liquor from juice shop||Jaskaran Singh | TNNAmbala: The police arrested a man for allegedly selling liiquor from a juice shop near Jagadhri Gate in Ambala city on Tuesday evening. The accused is Vipin Kumar of New Pratap Nagar, Ambala city. As many as 86 bottles of illicit country-made and IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liqour) liquor were recovered from the rooftop of the shop hidden in a generator. A police official said a police team patrolling near civil hospital received a tip-off about the illegal actitivity of Kumar. “A raid was conducted and it was found the shop was serving liquor. Kumar failed to present any permit or licence regarding liquor seized from his shop,” said the police official Ambala city police station house officer (SHO) inspector Ram Kumar said, “A court sent Kumar in one-day police remand on Wednesday. Kumar was booked in another excise case in 2018.” Police registered a case against Kumar and his workers Chandan and Udamraj under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 61 (penalty for unlawful import, export, transport, manufacture and possession) and other relevant sections of the Excise Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-held-for-selling-liquor-from-juice-shop/articleshow/78155853.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Youth Cong protests against water tariff hike||Chandigarh: On Wednesday, Chandigarh Youth Congress protested outside Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) office over increase in water tariffs. During the protest, members of the Youth Congress demonstrated with empty pots. The police arrested office bearers on the spot. State president Love Kumar lashed out at city MP Kirron Kher and the BJP leaders. Kumar said the wrong policies of the BJP leaders have created distress in the lives of people who are already affected by corona. “The city is already paying countless heavy taxes, now increasing the water rate three times has put a burden on the citizens. Instead of giving relief to the public, they are being pressured further. Many employees of the private sector have lost their jobs and the salaries of many people have been cut. People are finding it very difficult to earn their livelihood and to meet everyday expenses. But Chandigarh MC is increasing taxes constantly,” he said. Various office bearers of the Youth Congress and other leaders participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-cong-protests-against-water-tariff-hike/articleshow/78155890.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Agra||Agra district hospitals plans to develop mini emergency for non-Covid patients||AGRA: To ensure non-Covid-19 patients admitted in a critical condition gets proper treatment, the health department has started working on a plan to develop a 20-bed capacity emergency facility at the district hospital. The facility will be made operational in the next three days. At present, the district hospital has only 128 beds. Out of these 28 beds are reserved for Covid-19 patients. Patients who require urgent surgery, those injured in accidents or with serious burn injuries will be admitted to the mini-emergency ward. Patients of other wards in a critical condition will also be admitted in the new facility. Superintendent in-charge of the Agra district hospital SK Verma said, “To provide better medical treatment to non-Covid patients, a mini-emergency ward is being developed. The facility will be made operational by Sunday.” “We are also developing a new 60-bed isolation ward for Covid-19 patients. It will be having at least 10 intensive care unit (ICU) beds equipped with ventilators. We are going to start admitting patients at the centre from September 30 onwards," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dist-hosp-plans-to-develop-mini-emergency-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78153261.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Follow Covid rules: Gujarat HC pleads with ‘folded hands’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday expressed its dejection with the public and politicians who flout Covid-19 rules and do not cooperate with the authorities, who are putting in hard work to curb the spread of Covid-19. While the HC requested people with “folded hands” to follow Covid rules, it also pulled up political leaders for flouting rules openly and asked them not to set a bad example for common people. In an order passed in the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and the lockdown, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala praised the government for its efforts to control the disease, especially in Surat, and expressed hope that it would continue to work hard on this front. However, the judges expressed pain at seeing people not cooperating and not heeding Covid rules, even though they are constantly reminded of the same. They said that the HC has done whatever it can, and it can only request people to behave properly. “We are now left with only one thing to do and that is to request the people at large with folded hands to cooperate with the authorities and follow the norms and protocols prescribed and, more particularly, take care of themselves individually,” the court said. It further observed, “If each individual takes upon himself the responsibility of protecting his life, such endeavour will surely bring around very good results, and within a short time, we may be able to overcome the Covid 19 pandemic.” The HC said that in Ahmedabad, it is routinely observed that hundreds of young men and women gather on public streets and at the most happening places in evening and they are not bothered about social distancing at all. Most of them are seen without wearing masks. There must be a similar situation in other cities too. If people do not obey behavioural guidelines, it is difficult to beat Covid-19. Its high time to behave properly and curb Covid spread instead of keep chasing the virus. The HC also said that youths from the educated class of society are seen in Ahmedabad violating Covid rules. “If this continues, we will never be able to overcome the pandemic. It is high time we start doing something progressive rather than keep chasing Covid-19 all the time. Life is too short to do all this. Therefore, the norms and protocols, as prescribed by the state government, time to time, need to be scrupulously followed, and this applies even to the political leaders of the state, senior and junior.” ‘Politicians should not flout norms, but lead by example’ The high court took notice of political rallies and gatherings, as pointed out to it during the last hearing on September 4, and it said that rules are applied to people as well as politicians alike. It said, “The political leaders of the state are expected to lead their masses and not by themselves flouting the norms or the rules and regulations prescribed to combat the pandemic. The flouting of the norms at the end of the political leaders would set a bad example for the people at large, and the same may prompt the people to defy the norms.” Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/follow-covid-rules-court-pleads-with-folded-hands/articleshow/78157103.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nashik||9 more cases filed against traders||Nashik: Continuing with strict action against traders, who have cheated farmers by purchasing agricultural produce without paying them, Nashik rural police have registered 9 more cases on Monday (September 14)Earlier, the police had registered 14 offences against trader for duping farmers. According to the complaints registered on Monday, the farmers have been cheated of Rs 25.85 lakh. While two offences were registered with the Saikheda police station, one was registered with the Kalwan police station and six were lodged by the Dindori police station.Apart from lodging complaints, the rural police are also contacting the traders concerned and instructing them to make the payment. If the payments are made, the charges against the trader will not hold during the court trails, said senior police officers. The farmers were cheated over 2019 and 2020.  K K Patil, police inspector of the local crime branch (LCB) said there were cases where the traders would initially pay the farmers but later stopped making payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/9-more-cases-filed-against-traders/articleshow/78153258.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Nephew cheats man of Rs 5.03L luring him with ‘cheap’ flat in Noida||Panchkula: A resident of Pinjore was duped of Rs 5.03 lakh by his nephew on the pretext of selling a flat at cheaper rate in Noida. A case has been registered. A complaint was given to the police by Yunus Khan, a resident of Vishwakarma Colony in Pinjore that his nephew Nafis Khan, a resident of Sector 107 in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, came to live with him for finding some job in Pinjore. Nafis told Yunus’s wife about his old senior colleague Bhupati Verma, also a resident of Noida Sector 32A, who got transferred to Chandigarh and his flat in Noida is on sale at Rs 35 lakh but he can help them in getting the flat at cheaper rate of Rs 22 lakh if they can arrange money on time, as Verma needed money. Yunus and his wife saw the flat through a video call and agreed to purchase it. The token money was decided as Rs 5 lakh and Yunus broke his saving of Rs 1 lakh and also borrowed money from close friends and had given cash Rs 5.03 lakh in different instalments since January 20, 2018 till September 2018. After that Nafis brought some notary papers and took their signatures and asked them to wait till the power of attorney will be transferred to their names. After sometime, when they inquired again, Nafis told that Verma had gone to Dubai and we should wait till he comes back. Since Nafis was family, the couple fell for his excuses initially without giving them much thought. It was only after Yunus found out that all the documents belonging to Noida notary were fake, he complained to police. A case under sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC was registered at Pinjore police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nephew-cheats-man-of-rs-5-03l-luring-him-with-cheap-flat-in-noida/articleshow/78155882.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Salem||60-yr-old man killed, 3 injured as two thatched houses collapse||Salem: A 60-year-old man was killed and three others were injured after a common wall of two thatched roof houses collapsed in the city on Wednesday. The Alagapuram police identified the deceased as K Kandasamy, of Govinda Gounder Thottam area near Four Roads in the city. According to a police officer, the incident took place around noon when Kandasamy was talking to his relative Lakshmi, whom he paid a visit, outside her house. “Suddenly, the common wall between the thatched roof houses of Lakshmi and her neighbour collapsed, bringing the houses down completely. Kandasamy and Lakshmi’s neighbours S Dharuman, 48, Arumugam, 50, and Panneerselvam 45, were trapped under the debris,” the officer said. While Kandasamy succumbed to his injuries on the spot, fire and rescue services personnel, along with local people, rescued the remaining three and rushed them to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital. Doctors said their condition was stable. The Alagapuram police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/60-yr-old-man-killed-3-injured-as-two-thatched-houses-collapse/articleshow/78155893.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Film producer Ashok Reddy arrested in Kondapalli Sravani death case||HYDERABAD: SR Nagar police on Wednesday arrested Telugu film producer Ashok Reddy in connection with the suicide case of TV actor Kondapalli Sravani, who hanged herself on September 8. SR Nagar police said that Ashok Reddy was in a relationship with Sravani. Two other accused, Sai Krishna Reddy and Devaraj Reddy, were arrested on Monday and sent to judicial custody. Before the actor committed suicide, she had called up the accused, Devaraja Reddy, and informed him that she is going to commit suicide due to the alleged harassment by him and two others— Sai Krishna Reddy and Ashok Reddy. After the conversation, she went to the washroom and hanged herself. In 2018, Sravani had broken up with Sai Krishna Reddy. Police said that Sravani had come in contact with Ashok Reddy during the making of the film ‘Premato Karthik’ and added that Ashok supported Sravani and her family members financially. “Later, when her relationship got strained with Ashok Reddy later, Sravani came in contact with Devaraja Reddy, in 2019 and the two began an affair. When Devaraja Reddy came to know about Sravani’s previous affairs with Sai Krishna Reddy and Ashok Reddy, he decided to part ways. Devaraja also rejected her proposal due to her previous affairs,” police said. On September 7, Devaraja Reddy picked up Sravani at Azeez Nagar, where she was shooting. “They went to a hotel to have dinner but ran into Sai Krishna Reddy. Sai Krishna reportedly assaulted Devaraja. When Sravani intervened, he slapped her and forcibly took her to his residence. Subsequently, she committed suicide on September 8. The film producer was produced before the local magistrate,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/film-producer-ashok-reddy-arrested-in-sravani-death-case/articleshow/78155872.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bareilly||105 prisoners test Covid positive in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit district jail||PILIBHIT: Of the total 946 prisoners lodged in Pilibhit district jail in 13 barracks against the official capacity of 602 inmates, as many as 105 have been tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. According to the district jail superintendent Anoop Manmav Shastri, a team of medical officers from the district government hospital visited the prison complex in the morning and identified 19 symptomatic infected prisoners, out of 105, for their shifting to L1 facility at the state LH Ayurvedic College. Two prisoners among the positive ones had been released on bail three days ago while the remaining 84 asymptomatic prisoners had been kept in an isolation ward within the district jail complex where they would get proper medical treatment, Shastri said. Prior to this, the jail administration had managed the sampling of 100 prisoners on September 7. They were selected randomly from 13 barracks. Of these, four had been tested positive on September 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/105-prisoners-test-covid-ve-in-pilibhit-district-jail/articleshow/78153273.cms||Keshav Agarwal
September 17, 2020||India||Ulfa admits seeking Britain’s help for its secessionist struggle||GUWAHATI: Close on the heels of the National Archives of the UK declassifying documents that reveal how Assam’s proscribed Ulfa once sought Britain’s “diplomatic support” for its armed secessionist campaign, the outfit’s general secretary Anup Chetia revealed to TOI that meeting diplomat David Austin in Dhaka in 1990 was the end of this audacious gamble. “It’s true that I and two (of) my associates had met Austin in Dhaka in 1990. The diplomat only told us that he was taking note of our request for diplomatic support, but there was no word from him or the British government after that,” Chetia said. “We wanted Britain to support our movement and intervene in the human rights violations in Assam. We did not seek any material support… it was only diplomatic support that we wanted,” said Chetia, who is currently leading a faction of the outfit in its talks with the Centre. The duo that accompanied him were the outfit’s then publicity secretary Siddhartha Phukan, alias Sunil Nath, and foreign secretary Iqbal, alias Munin Nabis. The two have long severed ties with Ulfa. Denying that Ulfa had any understanding with Bangladesh, Chetiasaid, “We were all staying, rather hiding, there illegally. We had no agreement with the Bangladesh government.” He added, “We did send our cadre to Afghanistan for training. We had to build a channel in Pakistan to send our boys to Afghanistan, but we did not have any kind of official understanding with the two countries.” Chetia revealed that Ulfa had its base in Bhutan for about six years till 2003 and still has one in Myanmar. On whether the outfit ever had any ties with China, where Chetia’s cousin and the Ulfa anti-talks faction’s chief Paresh Baruah is suspected to be based, he claimed to have no information regarding this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ulfa-admits-seeking-britains-help-for-its-secessionist-struggle/articleshow/78158157.cms||Prabin Kalita
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Recovery rate in rural areas up to 74%||Nashik: The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has increased to 74% after dropping sharply to 69% a week ago when scores of positive cases were detected from the rural areas of the district. According to a health official, the rural areas of Nashik, Niphad, Sinnar and Nandgaon talukas continue to be hotbeds for Covid-19 largely because of higher number of urban population and major industrial and agricultural centres of Nashik district. “As many as 956 people were discharged from various hospitals on Tuesday and this helped in increasing the recovery rate to 74%. As many as 400 people had also tested positive for the contagion on the same day,” he said. “On Tuesday and Wednesday, a total of 1,311 patients were discharged from various Covid-19 facilities in rural areas — excluding Nashik and Malegaon corporations. At the same time, the fresh number of people testing positive for the contagion during the same period stood at 932,” he added. The official also pointed out several issues regarding the testing of swab samples in the beginning of September that resulted in pendency of cases. “Our health teams, however, took note of the symptoms of those patients who require treatment and carried out several tests that underline the presence of Covid-19 infection and started the treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, the asymptomatic patients were asked to remain quarantined in their homes till the test results arrived. “Interestingly, since people, who tested positive, recovered early and demanded to be released as they did not show any kind of symptoms, the health officials also allowed them conditional discharge,” the official said. It should be noted that the number of active patients across the district including rural and urban areas, that touched 12,104 cases on September 10, has now dropped to 10,467 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/recovery-rate-in-rural-areas-up-to-74/articleshow/78153317.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Man tries to get apples loaded on stolen truck, flees||Panchkula: A man tried to get apples loaded on to a stolen truck after showing fake documents in apple market, Sector 20, leading to the registration of a case, police said on Wednesday. Gurjinder Singh, an apple trader who owns a company, National Road Carrier, in his complaint with the police, alleged a driver with a truck bearing registration number UP-60T-3304 came to his office and asked to load apples for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. When Singh asked him to provide a guarantor, he dialled a number on his mobile phone. The caller claimed to be a trader from Delhi. When Singh asked him to send his ID card as proof, the caller said he would do so the next morning. Becoming suspicious, Singh asked the driver to show the vehicle documents. He found the chassis and engine numbers different from the registration certificate (RC) of the vehicle. Later, when Singh checked the truck’s detail from his sources, he came to know the vehicle’s original number was UP-82 T 6023 and it was stolen from Uttar Pradesh. The driver fled, leaving the vehicle behind. Police registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) and 120 B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at the Sector 20 police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-tries-to-get-apples-loaded-on-stolen-truck-flees/articleshow/78155921.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two held for damaging CPI leader’s car||HYDERABAD: Two persons, including a minor, who reportedly damaged a vehicle belonging to Communist Party of India state secretary Chada Venkat Reddy at Maqdoom Bhavan recently, were arrested on Wednesday. Narayanguda police arrested Naveen Prasad Shukla, 28, a degree student from Kandikalgate, Uppuguda, was sent to judicial remand while his 16-year-old associate was served a notice. The incident occurred on September 13. Naveen, according to police, had let out his house to one Chinna Yadav, who poorly maintained it. “Whenever he would question the tenant, he would flaunt his powerful connect saying he is a relative of CPI, Andhra Pradesh, state secretary,” Narayanguda police said. Naveen hatched a plan to break wind shield of any parked car in CPI office to satisfy his ego, added the officer. During the investigation, police identified the registration number of the duo’s vehicle and nabbed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-held-for-damaging-cpi-leaders-car/articleshow/78155923.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Insurance Medical Services scamsters used shell firms to launder money: ED||HYDERABAD: Enforcement Directorate investigators on Tuesday grilled Insurance Medical Services (IMS) scam accused Ch Devika Rani’s husband P Gurumurthi in connection with the Prevention of Money Laundering Act case. ED speeded up the probe in the multi-crore scam and recorded the statements of several accused and witnesses in the case. ED sources said: “We have recorded the statements of the accused and as well as that of owners of PMJ Jewellers, Banjara Hills, from whom Devika Rani had reportedly purchased Rs 7 crore worth gold.” A senior ED official said: “While recording the statements of the accused, we are also tracking the money transactions and routing through various channels. We will issue provisional attachment orders once examination of the assets is done. Our investigations have found out that several shell firms were used by the accused to re-route the money.” The ED had already issued an enforcement case information report (ECIR) under PMLA based on the Telangana Anti-Corruption Bureau chargesheet. Gurumurthi, who is a retired civil surgeon, was arrested by the ACB earlier. The ACB had already booked a disproportionate assets case and unearthed around Rs 100 crore assets of the couple. The ED is now verifying the assets of the couple, including a villa at Shaikpet worth Rs 4 crore, a flat in RRS Towers, Somajiguda, worth Rs 1.3 crore, three flats in Aditya Empress Towers in Shaikpet worth Rs 2.7 crore and a multi-storied building in Tirupati worth Rs 1 crore. The accused also own properties in Visakhapatnam, it is learnt. The ED has also identified several properties, including flats, buildings, agriculture land and commercial space in AP and Telangana owned by the accused couple. They owned 33 acres of agricultural land in seven places in Telangana worth Rs 88 crore, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ims-scamsters-used-shell-firms-to-launder-money-ed/articleshow/78155903.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Seats fill up in Calcutta University colleges, vacancies on Kolkata fringes||KOLKATA: The problem of unfilled undergradute seats, which prompted the state government to extend the admissions deadline to October 30, seems most acute in colleges on the city’s fringes and in institutes affiliated to universities other than Calcutta University. However, with several reserved category seats still going vacant, students can hope to study their preferred subjects in their desired colleges after the government allows de-reservation and colleges seek fresh applications. At Lady Brabourne College, of the 336 seats in the arts faculty, 224 seats have been taken up after the fifth round of admission. Most seats filled are in sociology, where 41 of the 50 seats have already been booked.  In Persian, only three students have so far taken admission, though the total number of seats is 15. In science, 237 of the 283 seats have been filled up, with geography registering the highest admissions (34 out of 36). The lowest admission has so far been in statistics, where 17 out of 22 are still vacant. “As the cut-off for our college is high, mostly high-scorers applied. Some students will move out after all the JEE, JEE (Main) and NEET (UG) results are announced. Also, some will move to JU,” said principal Siuli Sarkar, adding applicants have been told to keep an eye on their website. “Our college has published one wish-list and another is on the way. Subjects, like Persian, Sanskrit, philosophy and Hindi, will have vacant seats till the end. We are likely to open the vacant reserved seats for general category. But, we can do so only after the admission process is over, when we will seek applications again.” Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College principal Ashok Mukherjee said only 5% of the 2,000 general seats were vacant now. “We have 19 programmes. We will seek applications for reserved category thrice, after which those seats will be de-reserved with state permission,” he said. All seats at St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata have been filled. “We do not have vacancies. Only if some students later shift to other institutes, we may have some seats,” said principal Fr. Dominic Savio. Vivekananda College has also filled almost all general category honours seats. “We have 1,500 seats in 20 subjcets. Only 300 are vacant now, most of them in the reserved category,” said principal Tapan Poddar. The situation is, however, vastly different at East Kolkata Girls’ College in Lake Town. When it was affiliated to CU till 2008, it used to be a popular choice, but its demand has dwindled after its affiliation changed to West Bengal State University. “We have 500 honours seats, out of which 100 are vacant. UGC has advised that all universities will have 80% common syllabus, exam schedules are uniform across state-run universities and we publish results on time. The teaching faculty is excellent. Yet, owing to students’ preference for CU, we do not have as many takers as earlier,” said principal Shukla Hazra. Several principals pointed out that most vacancies were in colleges not affiliated to CU. “Students seek admissions more to the 151 CU colleges than to others. It was a valid decision to extend admissions date as many colleges can still take in applicants,” said a CU teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/seats-fill-up-in-cu-colleges-vacancies-on-city-fringes/articleshow/78284997.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Civil hosp to soon start plasma therapy||Nashik: The civil hospital in Nashik will soon start providing plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has conveyed to the hospital that the latter’s nod is not required for starting this treatment. Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said, “We had got the permission from the Foods and Drugs Authority (FDA). However, we were awaiting permission from the ICMR. Since the permission was getting delayed from the ICMR, we got in touch with them after which it was communicated to us that a permission from them was not needed.” Saindane added that the plasma therapy would soon begin at civil hospital. “However, the consent of Covid patient is a must for beginning the treatment and the physician too needs to prescribe the therapy for the patient. The apheresis machine required to collect plasma from blood arrived at the Nashik civil hospital last month. “We are spreading awareness among patients about the help they can lend to other Covid patients by donating their plasma if they are eligible for the donation,” an official from hospital said. There are counsellors at the district Covid hospital who speak to the patients and inform them about the plasma donation. Once a patient has recovered and completed 21 days at home after discharge from the hospital, he is eligible to donate plasma. “There were many preconditions that had to be met before one can donate his/her plasma and the patients would be informed about the same. We would be seeking approval from district collector before commencing plasma therapy,” the official said. Meanwhile, Mandhare visited the civil hospital on Tuesday to take stock of the treatment being provided to the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosp-to-soon-start-plasma-therapy/articleshow/78153291.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 17, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh sugarcane societies to set up farm machinery banks||PILIBHIT: In a first, UP’s sugarcane societies have embarked upon an ambitious plan to set up farm machinery banks to facilitate sugarcane farmers to avail advanced farm machinery on rent for crop residue management and mulching. The plan aims to effectively curb burning of dry sugarcane leaves by farmers in cane fields, which has already been banned by National Green Tribunal (NGT). UP principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, said, “All 126 functional sugarcane societies in the state have been instructed to complete necessary proceedings on a war footing to make machinery banks functional before the beginning of cane harvesting.” He said the current year’s cane crushing season in Meerut and Saharanpur divisions would begin from the last week of October, while sugar mills in other parts of the state would roll their wheels from November 1. “Because cane harvesting will reach its culmination around that time, farmers across the state will need lots of advanced machinery to manage crop residue. As marginal and small farmers won’t be financially capable of affording this costly machinery, they will be provided the same on rent by the banks,” Bhoosreddy said. Societies have been asked to arrange the machinery through the agriculture department under the Union agriculture ministry’s subsidy scheme, which has a provision of awarding between 40-50% subsidy on the actual selling price of the machinery, he said. He added burning of crop residue leads to decay of 400 kg of productive carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, potash and sulfur per acre, in addition to other essential soil nutrients. “Also, the fire destroys eco-friendly insects, microorganisms and soil-friendly worms, which ultimately leads to drastic loss in the soil’s productivity and immense increase in atmospheric pollution,” Bhoosreddy further said. “On the other hand, eco-friendly management of crop residue not only increases soil fertility naturally, but also strengthens its moisture retaining capacity and reduces the need for irrigation and the expenditure on it to a great extent,” he also said. As burning of crop residue has already been declared a legal offense, farmers who are found flouting norms would be slapped with fines at specified rates, Bhoosreddy warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/all-up-cane-societies-to-set-up-farm-machinery-banks-to-promote-crop-residue-mulching/articleshow/78153298.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bareilly||Illegal arm factory unearthed in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Late night on Tuesday, police busted an illegal arms factory that was being operated near shrubby riverbanks in village Pahadganj under Bilsanda police station, arrested one person and recovered illegal arms along with tools and equipment used in their manufacture. According to SHO Birja Ram, the accused was identified as Chandra Sen of village Jindpur under Nigohi police station in district Shahjahanpur. He had been operating the unit for a long time along with his accomplice Nanhe Languria of village Paharganj, who is on the run. Chandra Sen had earlier been nabbed by police five times for the same crime. On each occasion, an FIR was lodged against him and he was sent to jail, but every time, he succeeded in availing bail, the SHO added. One 315-bore pistol, two 12-bore pistols and two 12-bore single-barrel guns were recovered from the spot, along with tools, equipment and live cartridges, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/illegal-arm-factory-unearthed-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78153305.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt cuts RTPCR test price by Rs 1,000||GANDHINAGAR: In a move that will bring relief to people amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Gujarat government on Wednesday announced a reduction in the price of the RTPCR Covid19 test by Rs 1,000. The test will now cost Rs 1,500. If samples are collected from homes of people, the price will be Rs 2,000 instead of the earlier Rs 3,000. State health minister Nitin Patel said prices of the test have been slashed as there is an increase in availability of test kits now. The number of Covid-19 cases have been steadily increasing in the state. Patel said, “Earlier corona tests were allowed at the government hospitals only. However the state government allowed testing in private labs all well, considering demand by citizens, medical associations and directions from the high court. The had earlier also government slashed the price of Covid-19 tests after availability improved.” Patel said that the decision to reduce the price of Covid-19 testing has been conveyed to private laboratories. “Citizens will now pay Rs 1,000 less for the test at private laboratories,” the health minister said. On June 25, the state government had reduced Covid-19 test prices for the first time after pressure was mounted on it due to prices being higher than Maharashtra and other states. Initially, private laboratories charged Rs 4,000 per test, which was slashed to Rs 2,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-cuts-rtpcr-test-price-by-rs-1k/articleshow/78157106.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bareilly||UP minister of state’s car vandalised in Moradabad||Bareilly: UP minister of state and member of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) commission Sadhvi Geeta Pradhan’s car was vandalised by some unknown miscreants in Moradabad on Tuesday evening. An FIR has been lodged and CCTVs are being scanned to identify the accused. Talking to the media on Wednesday, Pradhan raised safety concerns and alleged that there could be a "political conspiracy behind the incident". The incident took place when her SUV was parked outside her residence in Budhi Vihar. The attack was caught on CCTV. Two men on a white two-wheeler could be seen damaging the windshields of the SUV with sticks and then leaving. The minister recently came from Lucknow to visit her family in Budhi Vihar, Majhola. In her police complaint, she said that in the CCTV footage unknown persons were spotted coming from Khushalpur area, stopped and hit the SUV's windshields, pelted stones and fled. Based on the complaint, police in Moradabad have lodged an FIR against unidentified persons under section 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of 50 rupees) of the IPC. Majhola SHO Rakesh Kumar said, “The CCTV footage has been collected while more CCTVs in the area are being scanned to identify the miscreants who are still absconding. An investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-minister-of-states-car-vandalised-in-moradabad/articleshow/78153323.cms||Maria Khan
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||She was in isolation, not her art||Nagpur: Renuka Purushottam Khode, a 25-year-old student, was not demoralized when she tested Covid positive on August 18, 2020. Instead, she kept herself busy by pursuing her hobby of wall art at her residence in Plot 57 Bhagyashree Nagar, Karbi Road Nagpur. Her mother Meena (54), a state best teacher award winner, and father Purushottam Khode (64), a retired teacher also tested positive during the same time and whole family went into home quarantine till September 3. It was during this time Renuka, a 2nd year B.Ed student and M.Sc Organic Chemistry, pursued her hobby of wall art and kept herself and her parents in a positive state of mind. All this when they were facing social boycott from the neighbours. She started making wall arts from waste paints which were lying unused after their house was painted few years ago. She made wings of fire, owl using mandala art technic, Rudra Avatar of Shiva, Zebra, Octopus, Peacock, Jelly Fish, some varli art etc. Renuka started the hobby of wall art about six years ago but due to hectic schedule of studies, she was not able to devote time to it. “This Covid-19 lockdown made our life a bit difficult so I decided to make my life colourful and started working on the wall arts again,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/she-was-in-isolation-not-her-art/articleshow/78155969.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
September 17, 2020||Agra||Aligarh Muslim University hikes fee for international students by up to 54%||AGRA: Taking admission in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) is set to become costlier for international students as the varsity has hiked the fee for all its courses ranging from six to 54 per cent for the next academic session. The move has unsettled the foreign students, as most of them come from war-torn countries like Afghanistan, Syria, Yemen and Iraq, whose economy is already in tatters. “And the ongoing pandemic has made things worse for us,” said an AMU student who was planning to take admission in a PG course after completion of his graduation. Right now, AMU has at least 800 international students on its rolls. “The hike is unreasonable and most of us can’t afford it,” said A Urza, president of international students association of AMU. He added, “During Covid-19 pandemic, many of us have not been able to go back home. And in such a situation, the administration’s step to hike the fee is unreasonable. We come here only because the fee structure is reasonable.” Varsity should reconsider this decision, he said. Under the new fee regime, the application fee for new international students has been hiked from $ 70 to $ 100. And the admission fees have been raised from 6 to 54 per cent depending on the courses. For B.Tech course, the fee has been raised from $2600 to $4000 per annum. For BA (Hons), it has been revised from $925 to $1200, besides an additional $500, which will be charged for two consecutive years. AMU’s examination controller Mujib Ullah Zuberi told TOI that the foreign students’ fee hike was done after more than a decade. “Even then, it is still less than what is being charged by the JNU and Jamia Millia University. He added that the decision was taken to ‘rationalise’ fee structure as NRI students were paying more fees than foreign nationals since 2013.” “The representation given by international students regarding fee structure is under consideration and the administration will look into it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-hikes-fee-for-international-students-by-up-to-54/articleshow/78153295.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||MC commissioner reviews progress of 2 petrol pumps||Chandigarh: Municipal commissioner K K Yadav on Wednesday visited the newly allotted two petrol pump sites of the municipal corporation (MC) at Industrial Area Phase II and Sector 51A, Chandigarh. During the visit, the commissioner reviewed the status of the construction activities for early opening of these petrol pumps. The Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) officers and engineers of MC assured that the petrol pump at Sector 51A will opened by October 2. The commissioner asked the IOC officers and engineers concerned for early commissioning and starting of petrol pump site at Industrial area Phase II. The senior engineering officers of the MC and officials of IOC were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-commissioner-reviews-progress-of-2-petrol-pumps/articleshow/78155946.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||12 care units for newborns in state: Min||Hyderabad: Health minister Eatala Rajendar said the government is constructing 12 special newborn care units (SNCU) in addition to the 29 existing units in the state. On Wednesday, the minister said, “As of now we have 560 beds in 29 existing SNCUs. If the construction of the other 12 units SNCUs is also completed, we will have another 220 beds. A total of 780 beds would be available for newborns who require special care.”According to the minister each district will have at least one SNCU. “In our state more than 75% of newborns are healthy and do not require any special treatment. Moreover, the death rate among the newborns is just 6%,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-care-units-for-newborns-in-state-min/articleshow/78155953.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Bhatti: Major infra projects done by Cong||Hyderabad: Congress floor leader Bhatti Vikramarka on Wednesday said various projects and premier institutes like DRDL, DRDO, BDL, CCMB, IICT, BHEL, ECIL, NFC, NGRI and NIFT, Krishna and Godavari drinking water supply projects, Hyderabad Metro Rail among others were either started or established by the previous Congress governments and were part of a long journey in transforming Greater Hyderabad into a truly global city. TRS has failed to set up major institutions and create jobs in it and its allied sectors. Even the drinking water supply projects of Krishna Phase-I, II and III and Godavari water project to the city were due to Congress , Bhatti said. “I can list out all industries, IT companies, investments and jobs created after formation of Telangana,” KTR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhatti-major-infra-projects-done-by-cong/articleshow/78155958.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Online classes for first year Intermediate from Friday||Hyderabad: As per the schedule released by the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE), online classes for the intermediate first year students would commence on Friday. The issuance of application forms and admissions commenced on Wednesday. All the junior college principals have been instructed to make provisional admissions on the basis on internet memos and display the number of sections sanctioned by the TSBIE for the academic year 2020-21, seats filled up and vacant in each section. Private unaided colleges were instructed to make admissions only for sanctioned seats and up to the ceiling of 88 in each section. “In view of the introduction of grading system in SSC, admissions should be made based on GPA (grade point average) and subject-wise grade point obtained in the qualifying examination as per the guidelines. They should not conduct any test for admission. Stringent action will be taken against the junior colleges making admissions on any other basis,” read a letter issued by Omar Jaleel, secretary, TSBIE to all the junior colleges on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-classes-for-first-year-intermediate-from-friday/articleshow/78155940.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hubballi||Tahsildar washes away in stream, saves himself||Kalaburagi: Yadagir tahsildar Pandit Biradar has survived miraculously after being washed away in a stream while he was crossing a bridge at Ganapur village in Chincholi taluk in Kalaburagi district. The incident happened when Biradar was crossing the bridge in his car on his way from Yadgir to Bidar on Wednesday evening. After his car was washed away, he saved himself by coming out of the vehicle and climbing a nearby tree. Later, he called the local police and told them about his location and plight. Fire personnel and Chincholi police rushed to rescue. The tahsildar resides in Bidar and works at Yadagir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tahsildar-washes-away-in-stream-saves-himself/articleshow/78154517.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||HC to RTC: Don’t collect rents for 3 mnths from traders||Hyderabad: Asking TSRTC officials to be pragmatic and humane in their approach in view of the pandemic, Justice A Abhishek Reddy of Telangana high court told them not to take any coercive steps on traders running shops in RTC bus stations all over the state till their representations to defer payment of rent for the lockdown period are answered by the RTC management. The judge directed the authorities not to collect rents for the months of April, May and June. The traders were asked to pay 50% of rents for July and August. “The officials are free to act against those traders who do not pay the 50% rents,” the judge said and posted the case to November 6. The judge gave this interim direction while hearing scores of pleas by traders urging the court to intervene and do justice to them. Following directions from the state government and Centre, the RTC management had declared a complete lockown from March 22 to May 15. Advocates for the traders told the court that though the lockdown was later partially relaxed, buses were not running to the optimal level even now. “The footfall of passengers has come down drastically and shops in bus stations have practically become defunct resulting in huge losses to the traders. But, the RTC authorities have been issuing notices to the traders to pay rental arrears and licence fee even for lockdown period,” the counsel said. Even threats are issued saying that non-payment of arrears would result in termination of the licence, he said. The RTC counsel argued that lockown was for 56 days and later bus services resumed and a majority of depots were functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-rtc-dont-collect-rents-for-3-mnths-from-traders/articleshow/78155962.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||3 steal 2.5L at gun point from shop keeper, booked||Mohali: The police have registered a case against three unknown miscreants after a Sohana resident was robbed at gunpoint inside his shop on Tuesday evening. Ashish Kumar Aggarwal, a resident of Sohana, who owns a sanitary hardware shop here, told the police officials that on Tuesday evening, at around 7.30pm, two men came to his shop to purchase sanitary products and decamped with a bag containing nearly Rs 2.5 lakh cash on gunpoint. “After giving them what they asked for, I told them the total amount and they told me that a third person is coming to pay for it. They were waiting outside my shop and I was preparing to close my shop. Then, the two of them came in again, pointed the gun at me and attempted to open the locker, but it was locked. “They then tried to snatch my gold chain, but I managed to save it,” he said. The police said they fled with a bag in a car that was waiting outside. “The bag that was kept on the counter contained nearly Rs 2.5 lakh in cash that the shop owner said he had to pay to another party,” said the police. Meanwhile, the victim complained that he couldn’t get through to the emergency number ‘100’, but had called Mohali Police Control Room officials who took 15 minutes to reach the spot. The victim had also contacted the deputy superintendent of police (DSP), City-2, Deep Kamal who rushed to the spot along with his team. The police officials claimed that they had procured the CCTV footage of the shop and the miscreants had their faces covered. A case under sections 379-B, 511 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25, 27-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Sohana police station. DSP Kamal told TOI said, “No arrests have been made so far.” Still unsolved in Sohana On August 20, a 24-year-old youth’s car was allegedly robbed at gunpoint in Sector 88/89 near village Manak Majra, Mohali during the late hours of Thursday when he went out to smoke a cigarette. Five miscreants were booked in the case but none have been arrested yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-steal-2-5l-at-gun-point-from-shop-keeper-booked/articleshow/78155926.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops book landowner for illegal mining||Panhkula: The mines and mineral department of Panchkula booked a land owner for allegedly carrying out illegal mining in Raipur Rani. The team found two freshly dug up holes at the site during patrolling leading to the further investigation in the case. A complaint was given to the police by mining guards Jai Chand and Rinku, that during their patrolling in Pyarewala village they found that 500m away from Mahadev Stone Crusher, there were fresh signs of illegal mining at two places. The team while measuring, found one hole 190-ft long, 80-ft wide and 9-ft deep and the other hole was 120-ft long, 60-ft wide and 10-ft deep. The team found no machinery, vehicle or persons at the site. The teams clicked photographs and and also called police to the spot. During preliminary investigation, they found that some local land owner in connivance with mining mafia had done this. The police based on the complaint and detailed report submitted by the mining guards, registered a case against the land owner under Section 21 (4) of the Mining Act and Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC at Raipur Rani police station and initiated the investigation. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Devi Dayal, the investigation officer, confirmed that the case was registered and the investigation is under progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-book-landowner-for-illegal-mining/articleshow/78155955.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt to go for pre-arrest antigen testing of accused||AHMEDABAD: The state government has decided to shift from the time-consuming RT-PCR tests to the Rapid Antigen Test to ascertain Covid-19 status of accused ahead of producing them before a judicial officer. The decision to switch over from more reliable but time-consuming RT-PCR to quick antigen test is aimed at conforming to the 24-hour deadline by which a person held by cops needs to be produced before court. In case of overstepping of this time limit due to RT-PCR tests; questions arose on validity of police custody. This led the Gujarat high court to suggest the state government to consider the antigen test instead of RT-PCR test. In response, the home department had conveyed to the high court that police have no issue with the change. Last week, the additional director (public health) issued a circular directing the police to make any arrested accused undergo antigen test before production before a competent court within 24 hours of the arrest. The circular cited the new Covid testing guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), which say that RT-PCR as well as antigen test, both are valid for Covid-19 testing. The circular further says that according to the ICMR guidelines, after the antigen test results of the accused persons are declared, if the doctor feels that any other test is required, the accused will be subjected to that test. If they test Covid-19 positive, they will be referred to the hospital and in case they are asymptomatic; they will be isolated in quarantine facility inside prison. The high court on Wednesday adjourned hearing on this issue till September 21. The issue arose in the high court during a habeas corpus petition filed for one of the accused in the Popular Builder case, Virendra Patel. His wife had approached the HC complaining that the Vastrapur police had summoned her husband on August 26, but he was not shown arrested till August 28 evening. She claimed that police custody beyond 24 hours without producing Patel before a magistrate was illegal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-go-for-pre-arrest-antigen-testing-of-accused/articleshow/78157130.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fear of brewing cases, crackdown on kitlis||Ahmedabad: ‘Ek cutting chai’ is in the cultural fabric of Ahmedabad city, but the Covid pandemic and need for social distancing has brought an end to the tea culture as the AMC has decided to close down tea stalls in the city. AMC officials said the civic body took the decision after it realized that no social distancing was being followed at tea stalls and customers were not wearing masks. The decision came in the wake of checks made in 48 wards the city by joint enforcement teams and the teams of the solid waste department. The Covid protocol checkes were carried out at shops and malls among other establishments. Officials said that at tea stalls it was noticed that people were coming in groups of three to four and were hanging out for hours without masks. When they were confronted, they said they were just having a cigarette or were drinking tea. In some cases, those sitting in groups were even sharing cigarettes with each other, said civic body officials. Harshad Solanki the director of solid waste department said on Wednesday, “As we began checking the tea stalls and sealing them for not maintaining social distancing, the small stalls and the roadside vendors immediately down their shutters and left the shops. Even big tea stalls closed down. It was clear that about 25-30 people hang out with tea cups and stand at these spots for nearly 30 to 40 minutes. This increases the risk of infection.” Ashok Punjabi, the president of the Larri Galla Ladat Samiti said, “After getting the news I have called a meeting of all tea stall vendors and will ask them to keep the stalls closed for some time in the interest of the city. We cannot raise a hue and cry as people were not following the protocols and were crowding. This is a issue of their livelihood but nothing can be done as it involves the fight against coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fear-of-brewing-cases-crackdown-on-kitlis/articleshow/78157136.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC penalises 6 commercial establishments for illegal ads||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM)) wing of the GHMC on Wednesday penalised six commercial establishments for erecting unauthorised advertisements. The penalties ranged from Rs 50,000 to Rs 4 lakh. A cloth store in Ameerpet was fined Rs 4 lakh, while another cloth store in the same area was fined Rs 2 lakh. Continuing its crackdown on illegal advertisements, the EVDM fined two electronic showrooms in SR Nagar Rs 1 lakh each. A hotel in Lakdikapul and a supermarket in Nizampet were also fined Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3 lakh, respectively. The civic body wing levied fines on complaints that were tweeted by citizens to the EVDM. The complainants attached photographs of the advertisements and commercial establishments, following which challans were issued to the establishments. As per the new advertisement policy, if the height of the unauthorised advertisement hoarding exceeds 15 feet, a penalty of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed per day. Also, flashing lights in advertisments erected without permission also attracts violation as per the new law. The state government has instructed the GHMC to reduce visual pollution and give utmost priority to safety of motorists and pedestrians. Most of the hoardings across the city have been pulled down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-penalises-6-commercial-establishments-for-illegal-ads/articleshow/78155975.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||HSPA protest over fee GO violation||Hyderabad: Members of the Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) launched a protest against the violation of government order 46 by private schools during the lockdown. They set up two boxes, one to collect complaints from parents and another to collect flowers, at the director of school education office in Nampally. “We have been receiving complaints from parents across the state. Schools not following GO 46 is a common complaint. Many schools continue to demand full fee in violation of GO 46. Therefore, we decided to raise the issue with the director of school education,” said Seema Agarwal, vice-president, HSPA. The HSPA said that many private schools are depriving students of online classes over parents' failure in clearing the fees. Parents demanded that either schools take only 50 per cent of the total fee or take nominal fee mentioned on the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hspa-protest-over-fee-go-violation/articleshow/78155970.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hubballi||Former int’l hockey player passes away||Gadag: International hockey player Bhimsingh Balu Bhat, 86, who has played the sport with legends like Major Dhyan Chand, Kishan Lal and others, died after prolonged illness here on Wednesday. Bhat had represented the Indian hockey team against Sri Lanka in 1963 and 1964. He had played matches against Pakistan and Japan between 1964 and 1968. He had played at the national level for four years, test matches in 1963 and 1964 and had played inter-railway hockey for eight years. His sports career started with the Gadag-Betgeri Sports Club in 1955. Being a class 7 pass out, he was appointed in the Railways under sports quota in 1962. After retirement, he was a coach with the youth affairs and sports department. He had also played with other international players like Bandu Patil, Laxman, Balbeer Singh, Uddam Singh, Gurubhaksh Singh, V J Fitter, Mahammad Shaheed, Pritipalsingh, M P Ganesh and V Bhaskaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/former-intl-hockey-player-passes-away/articleshow/78153349.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||34 medical students test Covid positive in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Several cases of medical students attending Covid-19 duty and being infected with coronavirus have come to light recently. As many as 34 medical students studying in different colleges in the state have tested Covid-19 positive, said the officials in the know of the matter. With the numbers expected to rise in the next few days, medicos have started demanding a special care for the students living in the college hostels. Amid rising number of coronavirus cases, the Gujarat government had decided to deploy students of all medical, dental and paramedical courses for effective management of the pandemic. After taking training in various department from sample collection, field surveillance and supervision, critical care assistant, the MBBS students are required to join Covid-19 duty in various areas. Many MBBS students had opposed the move and filed a petition in the Gujarat high court where a final decision in the matter is pending. “The 34 students who have tested Covid-19 positive include MBBS students from NHL Medical College, Ahmedabad, Government Medical College, Surat, and city-based AMC-MET Medical College,” said a highly placed source from the health department of the state government. The state government is of the view that there is an acute shortage of frontline medical team to battle the coronavirus crisis, and given the rising number of cases presently, a large number of trained frontline officials are needed. The government had set the target of getting additional frontline task force of one lakh by engaging students who are in their first, second, third and final year of undergraduate medical and paramedical studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/34-medical-students-test-positive/articleshow/78157139.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||BOM’s Rs3,391cr stuck due to frauds: RTI query||Nagpur: Economic frauds have severely hit the banking sector, particularly nationalized banks and adversely affected their functioning. An RTI query has revealed that a whopping Rs3,391 crore of Bank of Maharashtra (BOM) is stuck on account of various frauds in just one year and three months. The reply to queries by RTI activist Abhay Kolarkar mentioned that the bank has unclaimed deposits of over 5.27 lakh depositors worth Rs351.27 crore till July. A total number of 8,739 complaints were received by BoM from its customers while Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has received 32 complaints against it from January 1 last year to March 31 this year. Filed by deputy manager (Recovery) Aditya Prakash, the reply mentioned that the bank has disbursed Mudra loans to over 4.76 lakh persons which is over Rs2,410 crore. Of these, over 36,136 accounts have become non-performing assets (NPA) and the amount involved is Rs529 crore. From January 1, 2019, to March 31 this year, BoM has opened over 6.90 lakh Jan Dhan accounts where Rs252.65 crore are deposited. In the same period, the bank had 1,851 ATMs of which seven were closed. Prakash informed that they had found 1,076 fake notes comprising all denominations from Rs10 to Rs2,000. Also the public information officer, Prakash informed that from January 1, 2019, to March 31, 157 frauds were noticed and four were committed by the bank’s own staff involving Rs2.47 crore. BoM # Mudra loans * Distributed to — 4.76 lakh persons *Amount involved — Rs2,410 crore * NPA accounts — 36,136 * Amount involved — Rs529 crore # Jan Dhan accounts Opened — 6.90 lakh Amount deposited — Rs252.65 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/boms-rs3391cr-stuck-due-to-frauds-rti-query/articleshow/78156011.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board collects long-pending Rs 156cr dues||Hyderabad: The fund-starved Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) received some relief through the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme. The water board fetched Rs 156 crore dues, which were pending with the defaulters for a decade. The board, which launched this scheme on August 19, and which concluded on September 15, tracked regular defaulters and collected of Rs 156 crore, within 25 days. Reason for collecting of dues in a record time was the stringent decision of disconnecting of sewerage network to the defaulters’ premises, according to a HMWS&SB officials. Though the water board had planned to collect Rs 498 crore, it collected Rs 156 crore, which are long standing, he said. For instance, apart from the defaulters (domestic and non-domestic consumers), government agencies like GHMC, cleared Rs 3 crore dues, mainly from O&M Division-VII (Marredpally) in Secunderabad. Another Rs 60 crore is expected from other government departments, too, said a senior HMWS&SB revenue wing official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-collects-long-pending-rs-156cr-dues/articleshow/78155985.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid tally set to cross 2,600-mark in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Covid-19 tally was inching to cross the 2,600-mark in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, when it added 72 new cases, even as 22 patients were discharged from treatment facilities. The hill district has seen 2,596 Covid patients, of which 623 are active cases. As many as 1,956 people recovered and were discharged in the district, where the recovery rate is at 75.3%. According to deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy, the new cases are spread across the district, mostly in rural areas. While 90% of the new cases are primary and secondary contacts of the earlier cases, the remaining were found having travel history to other districts. While seven Covid patients are being treated at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, the remaining active cases are admitted to the Ooty Government Hospital, Coonoor Government Lawley Hospital and Gudalur Government Hospital besides four Covid care centres in the district. Of the 623 active cases, 393 are being treated at the care centres. “A new Covid care centre that will have 40 beds is being readied in Gudalur. Besides the Gudalur GH, new cases from Gudalur and Pandalur taluks will be treated there,” Balusamy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-tally-set-to-cross-2600-mark-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78156004.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon admin notifies 19 pvt hosps||Nashik: Jalgaon district administration has issued notices to 19 private hospitals for overcharging Covid patients undergoing treatment in the district, Dr NS Chavan, the Jalgaon civil surgeon, said on Wednesday. The administration has taken note of all the hospitals that have either overcharged the patients or taken measure which are not required as per the government norms, and hence asked them to refund the amount to the patients.The auditing teams set up under the directives of district collector have picked up 19 private hospitals that have overcharged. The hospitals collectively charged about Rs 19 lakh above the norms set by the state government.He said in the cases of overcharging, the hospitals have either added items in the bills that were not required for Covid-19 patients or things which are not allowed to be added in the bills. Chavan also pointed out that there were two hospitals who were not ready to conduct the audit of the bills issued to the patients, which is also a part of the government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-admin-notifies-19-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78153375.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Govt sanctions Rs 50 crore for Solapur airport||Kolhapur: The state government has sanctioned Rs 50 crore for acquiring land for Solapur’s Boramani airport — a project that has been delayed for more than a decade. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who is also the state finance minister, on Tuesday asked the officials to take the necessary steps to release funds at the earliest. The meeting was attended by district guardian minister Datta Bharne, MLA Praniti Sinde, principal chief secretary Debashish Chakravarty, general administration principal secretary Vatlsa Nair and district collector Milind Shambharkar. According to sources, money has been granted to acquire 34-hectare land for the airport. “Around 549 hectare has been acquired for the purpose. The remaining 34 hectare could not be acquired due to lack of financial provision. Pawar has asked the officials to complete the land acquisition process immediately,” the sources said. “Pawar has also instructed the officials of the forest department to issue necessary permissions. The forest department has around 32-hectare land in Boramani and the department’s permission is needed to carry out the construction work. Pawar also asked Solapur collector to initiate the process to get clearance of the forest department,” they added. Solapur city has an airport at Hotgi, but it can only be used for non-scheduled flights. The existing airport cannot be expanded as it is surrounded by residential area and industries. Given the limitations, a new airport was proposed at Boramani in 2008. The site is on the Solapur-Hyderabad highway. Officials, however, said the disbursement of Rs 50 crore was likely to be a big problem as all the departments have been asked to curtail expenses because of the pandemic. Sources said the current budget had a provision of Rs 78 crore for development, which was reduced to Rs 25 crore. The amount is to be divided between Shirdi, Amravati and Solapur. While people in Solapur have been demanding a big airport to encourage industrial development and transport of agriculture products for a long time now, the state government move comes two months after neighbouring Karnataka sanctioned an international airport at Vijayapura, about 100 km away from Solapur. It takes about two hours to reach Vijayapura from Solapur. That airport is expected to be completed in 2022. The Karnataka government has sanctioned Rs 220 crore for the first phase. The Vijaypura airport was sanctioned in 2008, but it too got delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-sanctions-rs-50-crore-for-solapur-airport/articleshow/78154588.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||17.5kg banned plastic products seized||Udhagamandalam: As much as 17.5kg of banned plastic products were seized during an anti-plastic drive in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. The drive was held in all the four municipalities and all panchayat unions to create awareness among the public and to curb the use of banned plastic items in the hill district. Banned products including plastic bags, plastic cups and plates were seized from shops and Rs 45,600 was collected as fine. Headed by municipal officials, tahsildars and panchayat officials, several teams conducted surprise checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-5kg-banned-plastic-products-seized/articleshow/78156058.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||New bill won’t stop free power to ryots: Sanjay||Hyderabad: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday sought to know if the state government would pay the dues it owed to the discoms. He said the new electricity (amendment) bill of the Centre does not stop any state from giving free power to farmers. Meanwhile, the state BJP has cancelled the virtual rally on Thursday to mark the Telangana Liberation Day. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-bill-wont-stop-free-power-to-ryots-sanjay/articleshow/78156032.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen discuss problems with PWRDA head through video conferencing||Ludhiana: City businessmen on Wednesday held a video conferencing (VC) session with chairman, Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority (PWRDA) Karan Avtar Singh. In the meeting, which was organised by the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), various issues related to the authority were discussed. Businessmen laid emphasis on the recent decisions taken by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), which could impact the working of the industry. Giving more information, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of CICU, said, “A (VC) was held with Karan Avtar Singh, chairman of PWRDA, to discuss the matter regarding use of groundwater for industry, which has been pending for a very long time. Moreover, as the CGWA has issued various notices on downing of water levels, therefore, we approached Karan Avtar Singh to know in depth about the matter. During the VC, healthy discussion took place and various suggestions were given to Singh, including the condition that micro, small and medium enterprises should consume only 50,000 lt water per day must be relaxed. We also discussed the possibilities for development of mechanism for surface water usage, re-audit of black zones declared by National Green Tribunal (NGT), allowing rainwater harvesting for industries and minimising cess on water for industry.” Meanwhile, Singh assured businessmen that the interest of MSME would be safeguarded and said, “There are a lot of pending applications for groundwater extraction and now the PWRDA will handle these applications and the authorities are on the first stage and will frame new guidelines in consultation with all stake holders since NGT guidelines are applicable on all states. As the PWRDA is in the process to form the rules and regulation for groundwater extraction, we will interact regular with the industries to make a hassle-free systems for them.” Other prominent businessmen who attended the VC included SC Ralhan, Amit Thapar, Vijay Mehtani, Narinder Bhamra , Charanjiv Singh, Jaswinder Bhogal, Ashwani Kumar, Lalit Jain, Rajat Sood, Tarun Jain Bawa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-discuss-problems-with-pwrda-head-through-video-conferencing/articleshow/78154631.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Maratha outfits chart out course of agitation||Kolhapur: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s appeal for patience — while the government works out a solution to the Maratha reservation issue — notwithstanding, the members of the community are holding village-level meetings in Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts to chalk out a roadmap for the agitation. In Kolhapur, Sakal Maratha Samaj held a meeting where the activists decided to launch an agitation without notice to the government. The samaj said it will simultaneously demonstrate in 12 places across Kolhapur district. In Karad too, workers of Maratha Kranti Morcha gathered near the Chhatrapati Shivaji statue and decided to launch an agitation. The members asked all Maratha MLAs and MPs to put pressure on state and central governments. They said the state government should promulgate a necessary ordinance. A round-table conference, organised by Maratha Aarakshan Sangharsha Samiti, will be held in Kolhapur on September 23. The samithi has invited representatives of various organisations. The conference will discuss social and economic problems faced by the Maratha community. In Solapur district, various Maratha organisations have called for a bandh on September 21. The workers said they will hold demonstrations in front of the houses of all the MLAs and MPs in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maratha-outfits-chart-out-course-of-agitation/articleshow/78154627.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nashik||2,048 new cases in Nashik dist||Nashik: The district has reported 2,048 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, including 1,305 from Nashik city, taking the tally of Covid positive cases to 57,988. A total of 16 patients have succumbed to the infection in the district on Wednesday, including six deaths reported from Nashik city. The death toll stands at 1,107 in the district, including 614 in the city As many as 1,725 patients were discharged from across the district on Wednesday, of which 1,333 patients recovered were from Nashik city There are 10,476 active cases, including 6,200 cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2048-new-cases-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/78153430.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Divulge correct case and death figures, high court tells govt||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday insisted that the state government should, in public interest, disclose correct figures relating to Covid-19 cases and deaths. The division bench said, “It is necessary to disclose the true and correct figures of Covid deaths and Covid cases so that people may be able to understand and comprehend the seriousness of the situation. People will not take things for granted. This will definitely have a psychological impact on society at large. This aspect should be borne in mind by the state government as a suggestion from this court.” The issue arose on September 4 during the hearing of the suo motu PIL on Covid-19, when senior counsel Anshin Desai accused the state government of suppressing correct Covid-19 figures. He submitted that hiding correct figures is not in the public interest. He had highlighted the case of Surat, where the authorities faced allegations of hiding the number of Covid deaths. The high court said that this was a highly disputed question of facts. The court could have seriously ordered the government to come up with figures but it was not making any allegations and taking the figures being disclosed by the government as correct, but “if there is any element of truth in what has been pointed out by Mr. Desai, then surely it is not in public interest”, the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/divulge-correct-case-and-death-figures-high-court-tells-govt/articleshow/78157164.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cop tests +ve after party, suspended||HYDERABAD: A constable from Keesara, who tested positive for Covid-19, was suspended by senior officials of Rachakonda police after they came to know that the constable recently hosted his birthday party in a resort. A few days ago, the constable, along with few other staff members and civilians, gathered at a resort in Keesara and celebrated his birthday. The constable showed signs of being sick over the last two days. Later, he tested positive for Covid-19. The test results of others who participated in the event are awaited.  The local zonal DCP was directed by Rachakonda commissioner of police Mahesh Bhagwat to conduct a probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-tests-ve-after-party-suspended/articleshow/78156041.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two water ATMs being used to make locals self-sufficient||HYDERABAD: Water ATMs in the city are being used to make local communities self-sufficient. At two centres in the city, the local community is being trained to manage these ATMs. The idea is to make them independent while meeting the water requirements of locals. Under SEWAH (Sustainable Enterprises for Water and Health) programme, a joint alliance between Safe Water Network and USAID, two centres at Malakpet and Vinayak Nagar in Balanagar, are being taken up under the ‘Water Knowledge Resource Center’ (WKRC) initiative. Poonam Sewak, vice-president, Safe Water Network, said: “Going forward, we are working to expand the programme in 15 cities across 11 states of India,” said Sewak, adding that women empowerment and involvement in safe water access, operations and maintenance is an important feature of the programme. “Local women are trained to operate and maintain the Water ATMs and sensitize the community on importance of water and health. There are about 26% women operators and entrepreneurs in our program,” she said. Besides the training of women to manage ATMs, awareness regarding hygiene is also being disseminated. The work is going on with support of the GHMC and Honeywell. Supraja Gorre, manager, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Balanagar, said, “The water board provides raw water to the ATMs where it is treated through a seven-step process and people can buy it for Rs 2/litre in their own water bottle or at Rs 5/10 litre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-water-atms-being-used-to-make-locals-self-sufficient/articleshow/78156045.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||City industrialists pooh pooh minister’s claims||Ludhiana: State industry minister Sundar Sham Arora on Tuesday claimed that more than 90% of industrial units in Punjab have started functioning now. According to Arora, it was due to several key initiatives taken by the state government that 2,34,072 units of total 2,60,000 involving 15,78,000 workers had resumed their operations. Arora has also assured assistance from the state to manage and alleviate Covid induced stress. Meanwhile, city businessmen are of the view that the on-ground situation is different and it would be in the best interest of the industry and state that he took corrective measures. Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners Manufacturers of India, said, “As far as Ludhiana is concerned, there is no way that more than 90% industry is operating right now. The ground reality is that still a high percentage of industrial units in Ludhiana are still shut and not doing any kind of business activity. Moreover, the units which are running are not able to even get beyond 50% production levels due to labour crisis. It would have been better if rather than giving the statistics the industry minister had visited Ludhiana.” According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, “Due to labour crisis factories have not been able to scale up productions and as a result we have not been able to process the little bit of orders which we have got after months.We request the industry minister that he should push state government to run special trains from states like UP and Bihar, where majority of workers live so that they can be brought back to the factories to work. In addition to this a special package for the manufacturers should be introduced which should include subsidy on the electricity bills, GST and bank interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-industrialists-pooh-pooh-ministers-claims/articleshow/78154681.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||4-member panel to fix CT scan and MRI charges||Kolhapur: The state government has appointed a four-member panel to fix charges for CT and MRI scan for both Covid as well as non-Covid patients. Minister of state for health Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar had raised concern about patients being charged exorbitantly by private hospitals and scanning centres. The CT scan is recommended for detecting infection of lungs and upper respiratory tract in Covid-19 patients. In many cases, patients approach scanning centres to get CT scan done without consulting the doctors. The scanning centres are occupied for 24 hours owing to the increasing demand in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Also, patients have been appealed not to go for CT scan without recommendation by doctors. In Kolhapur city, patients are charged somewhere between Rs 5,000 to Rs 9,000 for the HRCT scans. The situation has also led to scanning centres ignoring non-Covid patients seeking MRI scan. “I had ordered higher authorities of health department to fix the charges. Accordingly, a panel under Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of state insurance society, has been appointed. He will be assisted by three experts. The charges once fixed will help to stop the exploitation of Covid and non-Covid patients by private hospitals and scanning centres, ” Patil-Yadravkar said. The government has already fixed rates for medicines and the equipment required for treating Covid-19 patients. The minister said that the panel will hold discussions with private hospitals and scanning centres before fixing the rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-member-panel-to-fix-ct-scan-and-mri-charges/articleshow/78154670.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||One more officer tests Covid +ve, secretariat Covid count rises to 47||Bhopal: The number of Covid-positive cases in the state secretariat reached to 47 on Wednesday. In the fresh case, a woman deputy secretary rank official having charge of two departments was found positive. The department is in Vallabh Bhavan III and Vallabh Bhavan II. Officials said the ones that came in contact with the positive employee were advised to get quarantined. Of the total corona positive cases in Vallabh Bhavan buildings including I, II and III, two employees have lost lives due to corona so far. The departments in which corona positives have been found in all three Vallabh Bhavan buildings are commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM secretariat, health department, finance department, law department, medical education, home department, transport department, forest department, panchayat department, science and technology department, general administration department, Ayush department, sports and mining besides staffers in different ministers’ office in the secretariat. Sudhir Nayak, president of the Mantralayin Karmachari Sangh said the government should take strict measures to check spread of virus in other departments of the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/one-more-officer-tests-covid-ve-secretariat-covid-count-rises-to-47/articleshow/78154692.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Salem||On son’s first birthday, BJP worker hacked to death||KRISHNAGIRI: A BJP youth wing president was hacked to death by an unidentified nine-member gang near Kelamangalam here on Tuesday night when he ventured out of the house after celebrating his son’s first birthday. District superintendent of police Bandi Gangadhar has formed nine special teams to nab the culprits. The Kelamangalam police identified the deceased as V Rangan alias Ranganath, 35, of Kundumaranapalli village. An investigation officer said, “It was his son Dhanudhayash’s first birthday on Tuesday. After celebrations, he stepped out of the house at night. The gang surrounded him a few meters away from his house and hacked him with sickles.” People who witnessed the incident rushed Ranganath to the government hospital in Kelamangalam. “However, he succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital,” the officer said. Kin of the deceased subsequently blocked the road at Kundumaranapalli village and protested for nearly two hours, demanding the arrest of gang members. They dispersed only after police officials assured them to take appropriate action at the earliest. The body was, meanwhile, sent to the Hosur government hospital for postmortem. On Wednesday morning, more than 200 people, including BJP cadres, blocked Kelamangalam-Hosur state highway, demanding immediate arrest of the gang members. Traffic on the stretch was affected for an hour. Once again, police pacified them. The Kelamangalam police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/on-sons-1st-bday-bjp-worker-hacked-to-death/articleshow/78156122.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Doubling rate of cases up in Sangli district||KOLHAPUR: The doubling time of Covid-19 cases in Sangli district has dropped from two months to two weeks, creating a worrisome scenario for the district administration authorities. Similarly, the doubling rate for Covid-related deaths has dropped from three months to three weeks. The rapid fall in the doubling rate has worried authorities as since the last few days, over 900 cases are being reported every day with 35 deaths daily on an average. The authorities are worried that the doubling rate of coronavirus cases as well as casualties may drop further if the situation persists. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said, “We are ensuring less mortality rate. Currently, the mortality rate among Covid cases is around 3.9 which was more than four a couple of weeks ago. We have observed that patients do not approach fever clinics as soon as they start experiencing Covid-like symptoms. Such tendency is one of the major hurdles for controlling mortality rate among Covid patients. We have initiated a drive to check the oxygen saturation and temperature of every individual in the district. It will help in early detection of Covid patients and, thereby, reduce mortality.” So far, 931 patients have succumbed to the contagion in the district. Maximum number of deaths (408) are reported from rural areas whereas the urban areas have so far reported 137 deaths. Sangli and Miraj cities have reported 386 deaths. The reason for rural areas reporting a large number of casualties is mainly due to shortage of hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/doubling-rate-of-cases-up-in-sangli-dist/articleshow/78154689.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||584 cases take Kolhapur’s Covid count to 36,655||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district registered 584 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of patients to 36, 655. Of these, 10, 707 are currently undergoing treatment at various facilities. The district also reported 28 Covid-related deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of casualties to 1,144. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Wednesday said that two oxygen tankers will be provided to hospitals in the district soon. Currently, hospitals are facing severe shortage of oxygen. Rao, who was on a one-day visit to Kolhapur district, reviewed the Covid situation and lauded the efforts put in by the district administration. About 25% beds in hospitals across the district have been fitted with oxygen cylinders, Rao said. He also said that the tele-medicine services provided to the patients and citizens in the district is a novel initiative undertaken by the district administration. Raju Shetti recovers from Covid-19 Swabhimani Paksha chief and farmers’ leader Raju Shetti was on Wednesday discharged from a private hospital in Pune after recovering from Covid-19. Before being admitted to the hospital, Shetti was undergoing home isolation and treatment for a few days. He was taken to the hospital after he complained of restlessness. Sangli reports 865 cases, 38 deaths Sangli district reported865 fresh coronavirus cases and 38 deaths on Wednesday. With this, the total number of patients in the district swelled to 25,653, of which, 9,247, are currently active. The district gas reported 969 casualties so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/584-cases-take-kolhapurs-covid-count-to-36655/articleshow/78154683.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Online fee for fire NOC introduced, but portal not working||Ludhiana: Almost two months have passed when online fee for getting fire NOC was introduced, but still applicants are unaware of the new rules and are filing the applications without paying the fee. The fire officials claimed that there was a dip in the total applications as well. However, for getting the fire call report the online payment portal is yet to start and still manual payment is going on. Earlier, when there was no fee for getting fire NOC from January till July 10 as many as 702 NOCs were applied online. Then the notification was issued and a minimum Rs 5,000 as NOC fee was imposed. Every year there is a provision to increase 10% amount in the charges and if anybody has to get an NOC renewed then 50% charges will be imposed. The new system was started from July 25 and since then the fire brigade received 400 applications, out of which 168 were rejected simply because the applicants did not deposit the fee and were continuously filing the application again and again. Around 232 applications are under consideration. Sub-fire officer Navrang Singh said, “The applicants are not aware of the changes till date and they are still filing for NOC without depositing the fee. We reject the NOC but then they again file it in a similar manner.” He said the applicants were not even asking for the reason for rejection. Meanwhile, while requesting anonymity one of the fire officials claimed that when any fire incident takes place at any unit the owner is required to give the fire call report. Earlier, charges were only Rs 100 but now it has been increased to Rs 5,000. But for this, people have to deposit fee manually as the online portal is not accepting the fee. He claimed that the fee should have been nominal because already people do not get the NOCs and now when a high fee has been imposed people will not come for the same. He said if there were 150 students in a school then NOC fee was Rs 5,000 and if there we even 151 students,then Rs 10,000 fee would have to be deposited, so for small schools the situation has become tough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/online-fee-for-fire-noc-introduced-but-portal-not-working/articleshow/78154695.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara records 973 cases & 23 deaths||Kolhapur:Satara district reported 973 fresh Covid-19 patients and 23 deaths due to the infection since Tuesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 26,449. The death toll has risen to 752 in the district. Meanwhile, 16,524 have recovered from the contagion and 9173 cases are active. The district administration had released the list of 742 patients on Tuesday evening, of which Karad recorded 237 cases, including 64 from Karad town. As many as 69 villages and hamlets have recorded patients. Malkapur added 45 cases Satara tehsil identified 180 new patients including 118 form Satara town. Fresh cases were also traced in Phaltan tehsil (56), Khandala tehsil (55), Khatav tehsil (24), Wai (24), Koregaon tehsil ( 36) Rahimatpur (4), Jawli (5) and Mahabaleshwar (2) among others. Of the deceased, which includes 16 men and seven women, 14 are elderly. Officials said Satara tehsil reported 15 deaths, Koregaon and Wai tehsils registered four and three deaths, respectively among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-973-cases-23-deaths/articleshow/78154703.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural adds 415 cases, 14 deaths||Kolhapur: Rural parts of Solapur district have registered a surge of 415 coronavirus cases along with 14 casualties on Wednesday. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported an addition of 46 cases. According to district administration officials, Malshiras tehsil in the district, which has been gradually witnessing a rise in positive cases, registered 116 new cases. It was followed by Pandharpur (72 cases) and Barshi (59 cases). Madha tehsil registered 54 cases. Pandharpur tehsil continues to have the highest number of positive cases – 3,866, of which, 1,091 are currently active. The tehsil has recorded 90 deaths so far. After Pandharpur, Barshi continues to have second highest number of patients with 3,592 confirmed cases. Of these, 972 are currently active. Barshi has recorded 130 deaths so far — the highest in the district. Of the recent Covid-related deaths, 10 were reported from the rural areas whereas four were registered from the urban areas. Seven of the deceased are senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-adds-415-cases-14-deaths/articleshow/78154696.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||Kolkata-Bhopal flight begins but Lucknow-Bhopal run discontinued within a day||Bhopal: Wednesday turned out to be a mixed day for Raja Bhoj airport and all those associated with it as first flights from Kolkata and Lucknow landed here. It got an excellent response of passengers from Kolkata flight, but it was disheartening to see Lucknow flight discontinued, immediately after its first day operation in the city. Interestingly, IndiGo is operating both the flights.Response to the Kolkata flights can be gauged from the fact that 143 passengers arrived in the state capital in the maiden flight to the city.Director airport, Anil Vikram, said the passengers were waiting for the Kolkata flight for over a year. “This is good news for travellers as Bhopal is connected with the eastern part of the country after a long time,” said director Vikram.Bhopal-Kolkata will fly four days a week. Flight 6E-434 will fly from Kolkata at 12.05 pm to reach Bhopal at 2.05 pm. The 6E-435 flight will fly at 2.45 pm to reach Kolkata at 4.45 pm. Flight will operate on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.But the euphoria over two new flights was punctured when Lucknow flight was discontinued, after day one. Director Vikram said, “Lucknow flight came today, but it will be discontinued from tomorrow. Reasons are not quoted by the airline,” said Vikram.Sources, however, said that IndiGo will operate an ATR in place of A 320 aircraft which arrived on Wednesday. “Lucknow flight will start again after sometime. They have planned to use ATR on this route,” said a senior airport official without quoting his name.Passengers reacted sharply over the cancellation of the Lucknow flight. “This is a major upset. Lucknow is an important destination for passengers living in Bhopal. I hope that airline resumes this flight soon,” said a passenger, Akshay Sahu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kolkata-bhopal-flight-begins-but-lucknow-bhopal-run-discontinued-within-a-day/articleshow/78154709.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Delhi||‘Can use 40,000 Delhi govt flats for slum dwellers’||NEW DELHI: Delhi's urban development minister Satyendar Jain wrote a letter to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday regarding the Supreme Court ordering the demolishing of 48,000 slums dwellings located near railway tracks. Jain requested the Centre to arrange pucca houses for the families affected by the court order before they are evicted from their current dwellings. Jain informed the Union minister that Delhi government had 40,000 flats that can be used for the purpose. Jain said that BJP and Aam Aadmi Party had both promised the slum dwellers permanent houses located near their slums under the 'Jahan jhuggi, wahin makaan' scheme. He said that on the orders of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi government had formulated a policy giving the slum dwellers the legal right to pucca houses near the slums. “The central government has accepted this policy of Delhi government by filing an affidavit in another case in Delhi High Court,” Jain pointed out in the letter. The Delhi minister said that both the Centre and Delhi government had to find land JJ clusters on which to build permanent houses for slum dwellers. “It will require the cooperation of all government agencies. The support of the land-owning agency will also be required,” he wrote to Goyal. “A detailed plan has to be created to find out where every slum is to be rebuilt. We will cooperate fully with you in formulating these policies, and Delhi government can make these plans and give them to you if you need them.” Jain informed the Union minister that Delhi government had more than 40,000 flats, most of which were ready, some to be ready soon. “These flats can be used if needed. Delhi government had also written a letter to the railways last week in this regard. But these flats are located on the outskirts of Delhi. They can be given to slum dwellers who live in areas that do not have vacant land around and who cannot be provided houses under 'Jahan jhuggi, wahin makaan' policy,” he said. Assuring full support and cooperation to provide shelter to the urban poor, Jain said, “I am very happy that the central government lawyer said in the Supreme Court that Delhi government, the Centre and the Railways will prepare a plan in this regard.” By the end of 2021, Delhi is expected to have 45,000 flats for allocation to slum residents, of which 16,600 currently under construction. Most of them have been lying vacant due to lack of coordination among the multiple agencies involved in rehabilitating the cluster dwellers. After the recent Supreme Court order, Delhi government asked officials to formulate a plan to shift the railway land encroachers to these flats in a bid to ensure that no evicted person was left without a roof above his head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/can-use-40k-delhi-govt-flats-for-slum-dwellers/articleshow/78156120.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We will not let Cong hush up ration kits issue’||The newly inducted district president of the BJP, Pushpinder Singal, has been taking up current public issues and actively taking part in protests against the Congress government in the city these days. The recent issue was of unfair ration distribution, where ration kits were found in a private school of a Congress leader in ward number 91. He blamed the Congress government for not doing well, whether it was Covid-19, ration, school fee or even civic issues. Here are a few excerpts from a conversation between Singal and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj Q1) Recently, the BJP found ration kits on a Congress leader’s school premises and earlier also ration distribution issue was taken up by the party. Why this issue is cropping up time and again? A) During lockdown when the central government asked people to sit back at home, then the most important thing was to provide them ration, especially the poor people. But this government could not perform even on that front. There was improper distribution of ration among the needy and that is why most of the migrants stepped outside and preferred to walk towards their native places. If the Congress government had distributed ration properly then the situation would have been different. Ration distribution issue was not only restricted to Ludhiana, rather it was of the entire state as in other districts as well Congress leaders did not pay attention towards the same. They kept the ration kits with them instead of giving it to the needy. Q) As soon as BJP raised these ration kits issue, the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu marked an inquiry and is claiming to take action. What you have to say about it? A) The inquiry no doubt has been marked but a long time has passed since the incident took place, but where is the report. It is all an eyewash exercise and it will not bring any results. The government is not going to take any action against its own leaders. This is not the only case as in the issue involving cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, there are allegations against him for his alleged involvement in SC scholarship scam but chief minister Amarinder Singh has not even marked an inquiry. So in this case as well there will be no action against anybody. Q) Is the BJP is going to take this case further ? A) We have already filed an RTI application in this case because there is difference in the statement of Congress leaders and officials over ration kits. Once we will get a reply under the RTI, we will bring Congress men on road. We will not let the Congress hush up this matter and we will take this to a logical end. Q) Why the BJP is saying that the Congress has failed in dealing with Covid-19 in the district as well as the state ? A) "Jaisa raja, waisi praja" goes well with Amarinder Singh because here the CM is not concerned about the problem being faced by the public. Neither he tried contacting the people, nor he talked to the officers on whom the entire responsibility of making arrangements of Covid-19 was there. Here bureaucracy is imposing on the government and this is the reason the situation is going out of control. We had even offered the Congress government that we are ready to support in any way and we had suggested to use BL Kapoor Hospital building as a Covid care centre, but nobody was bothered. Q) Do you think the Congress tackled other issues during lockdown properly? A) The Congress government failed in tackling even a single issue during lockdown. If we talk about school fee matter, first of all the state government did not put up the case properly in the HC and then schools started harassing parents. The students whose parents are unable to pay fee are not allowed to sit in the exams. A school can hold results but it cannot stop students from taking exams. We are warning school authorities to take such steps against parents otherwise we will have to take up the issue. The Congress leaders are late hours. Here the CM is more concerned about liquor sale instead of public grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-will-not-let-cong-hush-up-ration-kits-issue/articleshow/78154707.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Lasalgaon sees 60% drop in onions brought to market||Nashik: The volume of onions being brought to the Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, fell by more than 60% on Wednesday as most of the farmers refrained from the auction at the market after the wholesale onion prices crashed on Tuesday following the Centre’s export ban.This drops in the supply of onions at the mandis, in turn, led to a Rs500 rise in the average wholesale onion price. From Tuesday's Rs 1,900 per quintal, the average wholesale price rose to Rs 2,400 per quintal on Wednesday.Only about 6,000 quintals of onions were brought to the market on Wednesday, said the APMC sources. In comparison, nearly 15,300 quintals were brought to the market on Monday. Even on Tuesday, the farmers had brought over 14,000 quintals to Lasalgaon. But the auction was halted after 70 quintals had gone under the hammer due to the crash in average wholesale prices. The farmers then returned home with the remaining produce.According to APMC officials, heavy rain in south Indian states and Madhya Pradesh had damaged the onion crops there, increasing the demand for Nashik onions. This had caused the average wholesale onion prices to rise, which had prompted the Centre to impose an export ban. According to the APMC officials, the price trend will be downward until the Centre lifts the ban. The average wholesale onion prices are expected to stay in the range of Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,500 per quintal for the next couple of weeks, they said.There will be fluctuations in prices depending on the government stand and arrivals of fresh kharif onions, said APMC officials. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices on Wednesday were recorded at Rs 1,200 and Rs 2,770 per quintal, respectively, at Lasalgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lasalgaon-sees-60-drop-in-onions-brought-to-market/articleshow/78153559.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Protesters stage rasta roko at Nandgaon & Yeola, seek ban rollback||Nashik: Agitations to protest against the Centre’s ban on onion exports continued in several places on the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The onion farmers staged ‘rasta roko’ agitations at Nandgaon, Niphad and Andarsul in Yeola following the crash in wholesale onion prices. The Congress and Sambhaji Brigade also staged demonstrations in Nashik city and demanded an immediate rollback of the ban. The Congress staged protests in Pune and Solapur cities also, demanding withdrawal of the Centre’s ban. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/protesters-stage-rasta-roko-at-nandgaon-yeola-seek-ban-rollback/articleshow/78153542.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Decision on NIMA prez post by Sept 21||Nashik: The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the deputy charity commissioner of Nashik to decide on a row over the new president of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) within six weeks and conduct a hearing on the issue on September 21. Former NIMA president and member of the board of trustees of NIMA Vivek Gogate had moved the high court after outgoing president of NIMA Shashikant Jadhav did not leave his charge even after the end of his term in July. As elections were not held for the new executive committee of NIMA following the end of outgoing president’s term on July 31, the board of trustees had appointed a three-member committee led by Gogate for the functioning of the organization for the time being. Jadhav, however, did not hand over the charge to the new committee and had also challenged its decision of appointing a new committee instead of giving him extension. Finally, Gogte appealed in the court which directed the deputy charity commissioner of Nashik to list the stand of both the parties and dispose off the issue within six weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/decision-on-nima-prez-post-by-sept-21/articleshow/78153570.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Mysuru||Father, killers arrested for youth’s murder||Hassan: Police nabbed a man in Channarayapatna, who allegedly got his son killed by giving supari to four persons. Police also arrested the man’s younger son and four others who executed the murder plan. Hemanth, 48, had given supari to four men — Kantharaju, 52, Sunil, 27, Nandeesh, 28, and Nagaraj, 65 — to murder his elder son Puneeth, who was living with his mother in another village. Puneeth had returned from Bengaluru after loosing his driving job, owing to Covid crisis. He had asked money from his father to meet his daily needs. This and other old issues led to the murder, police said. Hemanth’s younger son Parashant, 23, supported the supari killers to whom Rs 2 lakh was offered and Rs 5,000 was given in advance. On September 13 police nabbed Hemanth and Prashanth who were responsible for the murder along with Kantharaju who had made the plan. After interrogation, they admitted to the crime and gave details about the other accused. The police team worked under guidance of SP R Srinivas Gowda and ASP BN Nandini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/father-killers-arrested-for-youths-murder/articleshow/78153232.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||KZF militant tries to destroy his phone in jail||Amritsar: Jail authorities in Amritsar have registered a case against a militant of Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) Shubhdeep Singh, currently lodged in the jail, after he attempted to destroy his mobile phone following arrest of his two accomplices. The incident has also exposed the claims of jail authorities of acting tough against the inmates using mobile phones in the prison. Assistant sub-inspector Nishan Singh of Islamabad police station said that a case had been registered against Shubhdeep Singh under Section 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sources said that the jail inmate tried to burn his mobile phone to destroy any data of communication with his accomplices. Shubhdeep’s name had figured after the arrest of Harjeet Singh alias Raju and Shamsher Singh alias Shera on Tuesday, who were allegedly operating in connivance with Shubhdeep, who was arrested in September 2019. Earlier, on March 18, the National Investigation Agency had also filed a chargesheet against him and others for allegedly smuggling arms, ammunition, explosives and fake Indian currency into the Indian territory via drones originating from Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kzf-militant-tries-to-destroy-his-phone-in-jail/articleshow/78156135.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hubballi||Century-old livestock market in Haveri witnesses huge rush||Haveri: The copious rainfall in the district has given a much-needed fillip to agriculture in Haveri, and there has been a spurt in all the auxiliary activities, and nowhere is the buoyancy among those engaged in farming more evident than in the cattle market. Sowing and other activities having gathered pace in the wake of heavy showers in the district, demand for cattle has shot up. At the Shivalingeshwara Cattle Market in the district, as many locals are buying cattle as there are selling them. Buyers are flocking to the market not only from neighbouring districts of Karnataka but also from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. On average nearly 2,500 to 3,000 cattle are being sold each Thursday, with the ‘Khillari’ and other local breeds of cattle being among those in demand. Last Thursday, a pair of cattle was sold for a staggering Rs 2.1 lakh. Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) secretary Parameshwarappa Naik said that, like all other commercial hubs, cattle markets too had been shut for five months owing to the Covid-19 crisis. “The Shivalingeshwara Cattle Market has been open for the past one month, and there is a mad rush here every Thursday. The crowd is so huge that it spills over to the Haveri-Hanagal Main Road,” Naik said. Pointing out that the Shivalingeshwara Cattle Market boasts a history of more than 100 years, Fakirappa Nidagundi, one of the many agents there, affirmed the huge demand for Khillari and the various local cattle breeds. Ramanna Vardi was the lucky peasant who sold a pair of cattle to a farmer from Andhra Pradesh for Rs 2.1 lakh last Thursday. He attributed the price that the pair bagged to the condition they were in – strong and extremely healthy. “We take care of them like our own children and we will not accept a paltry price,” Vardi said. Prathap Reddy, a farmer from Telangana, who was among the customers, called for expanding the market. “It is very cramped, and for the past many years, we have been demanding development of basic facilities. The government must identify a separate spot where the space is ample on the outskirts of Haveri town,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/century-old-livestock-market-in-haveri-witnesses-huge-rush/articleshow/78154150.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
September 17, 2020||Mysuru||Govt must waive school fees, demands BSP||Mysuru: Bahujan Samaj Party’s district chief BR Puttaswamy on Wednesday demanded that the government waive off fees of both private and government school to Covid -19. He said more than 18 crore workers in the unorganized sector had come to the streets without any jobs due to the closure of various firms after the outbreak of the pandemic. “A majority of them had been struggling to eke out their living and get money to pay the fees of their children. Most parents are enrolling their children to government schools from private schools as they are unable to pay fees. In this hour of distress, the government should take bold steps of waiving off school fees to relieve parents at least for this year,” he urged. “Many parents had pawned their gold ornaments to buy mobile phones and laptops after the introduction of an online system. The government should provide help to such parents to get back their pledged gold,” said Puttaswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-must-waive-school-fees-demands-bsp/articleshow/78153782.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Vinayak Mete seeks NCP chief to lead cane cutters||Aurangabad: Citing that the death of BJP stalwart Gopinath Munde has left a leadership vacuum for sugar cane cutters in Maharashtra, Vinayak Mete, chief of Shiv Sangram party has urged NCP chief Sharad Pawar to lead sugar cane harvesters’ movement and address their long-pending issues. Referring to Pawar as the leader of Maharashtra and the country, Mete said, “The responsibility should be given to him for addressing the issues faced by the sugar cane cutters and the decision taken by him should be accepted by all.” Sugar cane cutters have been a loyal vote bank of the Munde clan. Mete’s latest demand has not gone down well with many BJP leaders in the state, especially to the camp loyal to Pankaja Munde who lost assembly polls in a straight fight against her estranged cousin Dhananjay Munde. Mete said, “There are about 8.50 lakh sugar cane cutters in Maharashtra and following death of Gopinath Munde, the people who should have ensured justice for these poor people are the ones who have committed injustice against them.” He pointed out that during Gopinath Munde’s time, the agreement with the sugar cane cutters would have ideally been signed for a period of three years, but sometime back, this period has been extended to five years. “When the labour contractors for sugar cane cutters sought a hike, a cruel joke was cracked on them and were given a hike of 50 paisa,” said Mete. He demanded the formation of an independent committee comprising representatives of sugar cane cutters, labour contractors, sugar factories and government representatives, for addressing the long pending issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vinayak-mete-seeks-ncp-chief-to-lead-cane-cutters/articleshow/78154708.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||ED likely to shift probe into Punjab’s illicit liquor trade to Delhi||Patiala: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is likely to transfer investigations into the enforcement case information report (ECIR) registered to look into the illicit liquor trade from Punjab to Delhi. Ashok Gautam, joint director at the ED’s Jalandhar regional office, said he had not yet received any formal communication from the headquarters to transfer the case to Delhi, but the sources in the ED said the team investigating the matter has been asked to stall the probe till the case is transferred to Delhi. Deputy director Naranjan Singh, when contacted, said it was the prerogative of the ED to transfer any case from the regional office to the headquarter or vice versa. It was on September 3 that the Jalandhar-based regional office of the ED had registered an ECIR to investigate the illicit liquor mafia which was allegedly active in the state. In the ECIR, the ED had incorporated 13 FIRs registered by the state police in various districts over the last two years into cases of the illicit liquor trade. Immediately after registering the ECIR, the ED had written to concerned SSPs seeking details of the cases registered by them. Though the ED had sought these details provided within one week, but it has been learnt that the state police have only provided details into three cases registered at Amritsar Rural, Tarn Taran and Batala following the hooch tragedy. No details related to the other 10 FIRs incorporated by the ED in the ECIR have been provided so far. Ashok Gautam said, “The correspondence with the state police department was still on, and we are waiting for the state authorities to share the details of the FIRs registered into the illicit liquor trade.” However, sources said the state police have sent in writing to the ED all 10 cases related to illicit trade which have been incorporated by the ED in the ECIR ‘have been investigated by the police and challans have been submitted in the concerned courts, hinting that now ED can take the details of these cases from the courts. The ED has so far included five FIRs registered in Patiala district since 2018, three registered at Mohali and one each registered at Khanna and Ludhiana. Besides, one FIR each registered at Tarn Taran, Batala and Amritsar rural where the hooch tragedy has also been made part of the ECIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ed-likely-to-shift-probe-into-punjabs-illicit-liquor-trade-to-delhi/articleshow/78156113.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Hubballi||ZP member murder: CBI quizzes prominent Cong member||Dharwad: In what is considered to be a major development in the probe into the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogishgouda, sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday quizzed prominent Congress member Hanumath Korawar at the Dharwad suburban police station on Wednesday. The summoning of Korawar for questioning in connection with the murder case comes close on the heels of the CBI officials interrogating former minister Vinay Kulkarni’s brother Vijay Kulkarni two days ago in Bengaluru. Korawar was reportedly quizzed for more than three hours in Wednesday after which the officials filed an application under Section 195A of CrPC at a local court in Dharwad. The CBI has sought permission to file a separate FIR against those involved in threatening witnesses and tampering of the evidence. Gurunath Gouda, brother of the slain ZP member, had alleged that prominent local politicians and senior police officials had approached him, and tried to talk him into withdrawing the case. He had previously informed the court of his suspicions of evidence being tampered with, and alleged that he had been threatened against pursuing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/zp-member-murder-cbi-quizzes-prominent-cong-member/articleshow/78155135.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Mysuru||No. of patients discharged higher than fresh cases in Mysuru||Mysuru: The number of Covid-19 patients who were either discharged from hospitals and care centres or cleared from isolation across the district on Wednesday far outstripped the corresponding fresh cases registered in Mysuru. Against 748 more residents testing positive for the novel coronavirus in the district on Wednesday, 1,285 patients were declared recovered, and discharged or released from isolation in Mysuru. Thus far, 20,687 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Mysuru district, while the total number of people who have contracted the infection is 27,488. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 5,992, of whom 4,315 have opted for treatment at home. Meanwhile, 17 people succumbed to the infection in Mysuru district on Wednesday, pushing its death toll to 632.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-of-patients-discharged-higher-than-fresh-cases-in-mysuru/articleshow/78152962.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||22 cadets from SPI in Aurangabad make it to Indian Armed Forces||Aurangabad: Twenty-two cadets of the Services Preparatory Institute (SPI) have made it to the Indian Armed Forces by cracking the rigorous selection procedure. While 13 cadets have been selected for the Indian Army, six have made it to the Indian Navy and three have been chosen for the Indian Air Force, an official release said on Wednesday. SPI director Colonel Amit Dalvi said the successful cadets would join the 144th batch of National Defence Academy (NDA), Pune, and 104th batch of Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, Kerala. “While over seven lakh students across the country were in the race to join the Indian Armed Forces, we are proud that 22 cadets of SPI have made it there by clearing Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination and cracking the Service Selection Board (SSB) interview. The SPI continues to shine at the national level by producing more and more cadets for IMA and INA,” he said. Vinayak Orpe (all-India rank 21), Divyesh Patil (65), Pushkar Sadavarte (67), Prathamesh Hase (70) and Eshan Ghanote (98) are among top SPI cadets, who have made to the Indian Armed Forces, a release said. Earlier, in January, 17 SPI cadets had made it to Indian Armed Forces by clearing the necessary selection process. Established in 1977, SPI is a one-of-its-kind state government-run institution that prepares youth for officer cadre of the Indian Defence Services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/22-cadets-from-spi-in-aurangabad-make-it-to-indian-armed-forces/articleshow/78154706.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Teams formed to keep check on citizens||Nashik: Nashik Municipal Commissioner (NMC) commissioner Kailas Jadhav has directed civic officials to form special squads immediately to fine people who are not wearing masks or those spitting in public places. The squads will keep an eye on public places like market, bus stands, autorickshaw stands, vegetable markets to penalise people for spitting or not wearing masks.  According to the officials, mayor Satish Kulkarni had asked to slap a fine of Rs 500 against those who do not wear masks, but the civic authorities said it is not possible to increase the fine as the government guidelines say the fine should not exceed Rs 200. NMC officials said, “People caught spitting for the first time will be slapped with a fine of Rs 500 but it will increase to Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 if they are caught for the second and third time, respectively. “We have deployed six teams in all six divisions of NMC, which will start a strict drive against erring citizens from Thursday,” added the||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/teams-formed-to-keep-check-on-citizens/articleshow/78153564.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Test all inside containment zones within 5 days, district officials told||NEW DELHI: To contain the second wave of the novel coronavirus infection in the capital, Delhi government has asked all district administrations to test everyone living in the Covid-19 containment zones in five days, and prioritise isolation and treatment in these areas. Accordingly, the districts have started testing everyone without waiting for any Covid-like symptom. The number of containment zones, currently standing at 1,560, has been rapidly increasing, with addition of 611 pockets in just 11 days — between September 3 and 14. In the wake of the highest jump in the red zone count in over 10 days, the government has planned strict surveillance, perimeter control and testing in these areas. Until now, the authorities used to screen all individuals living in a containment zone and mark those with Covid or Covid-like symptoms. Only those with symptoms were eventually tested. Some districts had even restricted screening to the contacts of the Covid-positive people. “All individuals living in containment zones were barred from socialising,” said an official. For the past several days, Delhi has reported over 4,000 new cases every day, prompting chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain to hold back-to-back meetings with health officials to ensure that the focus stays on testing, tracing and treatment. However, the positivity rate in Delhi is still lower than the same during the first wave. Now the government has asked for “testing of all individuals in the containment zones. Due to the size of containment zones and the daily rise in the count, it is turning out to be a tough task, but the frontline health workers are managing to do it”, said an official. Initially everyone is tested through rapid antigen tests, following which individuals who are testing negative despite having Covid-19-like symptoms are undergoing RT-PCR tests, considered more accurate. Among the 1,560 containment zones, South West district has 282 such pockets followed by 203 in West, 187 in North, 159 in South, 126 in North West and 125 in East. North East district has the lowest count at 42. A spot that reports three to five Covid cases in closely located houses or in one tower in an apartment building is converted into a containment zone. Several other factors, mainly chances of infection spread, are also taken into account and the local authority is using its discretion and experience to decide the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/test-all-inside-containment-zones-within-5-days-district-officials-told/articleshow/78156191.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||AVP MD Krishnakumar passes away due to Covid-19||Coimbatore: Founder and managing director of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy (AVP) and chancellor of Avinashilingam University Dr P R Krishnakumar, 68, passed away due to Covid-19 at 8.22pm on Wednesday. The ayurvedic physician was admitted to KMCH on August 29 with Covid-19. He had comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart problems. The infection finally led to sepsis, multiorgan failure and inflammation of the heart muscles.He was known nationally and internationally for his efforts to promote research in ayurveda and to standardize ayurvedic medicines and their formulations. He even managed to create awareness on the system at the World Health Organization. After completing his education in ayurveda at Shoranur Ayurveda College, he took up various efforts to promote the system of Indian medicine and visited 50 countries for the same. He set up the first Gurukula Ayurvedic College in the country. The centre awarded him the Padma Shri in 2009 and the Kuvempu University conferred an honorary doctorate on him in 2011.He took over as chancellor of Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women in November 2015. He not only established the Ayurvedic trust hospital and research institute, but also set up several centers and joint institutions in many parts of the country. The institute is known for the research it takes up on efficacy of ayurvedic medicines for both non-communicable and communicable diseases. The institution also has research projects running with multiple universities across the world, and many universities send their students to AVP for research and courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/avp-md-krishnakumar-passes-away-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/78156166.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Day 2: Tent house owners, caterers give memos to officials, leaders||Ludhiana: The statewide strike by tent house owners, caterers and allied service providers entered its second day on Wednesday as hundreds of businessmen kept their workplaces shut. According to businessmen, even after their car rally on Tuesday, which was conducted by them to make government aware about their demands, no one from the government or among the political leaders came forward to help them against the problems they were facing. As a mark of their protest, several office-bearers of the business associations related to the industry gave a memorandum of their demands to several officials and politicians and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. Giving more information about their struggle, Raj Aggarwal, president of Ludhiana Tent Dealers Welfare Association, said, “It’s been six months now since our business has remained shut and be it tent house owner, caterer, light provider, DJ, photographer, manpower provider, transporter, everyone has become unemployed as the restrictions on organising of wedding functions like number of persons and timings have not been lifted. It seems that instead of coronavirus, people associated with our industry will die of unemployment and hunger. What is even worse that the state government is totally silent and nothing has been done so far to give a push to our businesses. On one side other states are preparing to give permission to increase the ceiling of persons allowed per function to 100, but Punjab government is totally silent on the issue.” Aggarwal added that, “It seems that neither the leaders of ruling party, nor the opposition is concerned about our woes as they are silently watching us getting into such crisis, where we are paying salaries to our workers and managing our expenses by selling off our assets or taking loans. On Wednesday, we have submitted a memorandum to the DC to be forwarded to chief minister and this is the last chance we are taking. If the government does not takes steps like doing away with the ceiling on the number of persons allowed per function, we will resort to agitation throughout Punjab.” According to Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary of Ludhiana Tent Dealers Welfare Association, “It was the second day of our protest and different teams comprising our members went to give memorandums to the officials and political leaders. We also carried along banners to draw attention towards our problems. But by the silence of government, it seems that tent house owners and caterers are considered as third grade citizens of the country, that is why no attention is paid to their problems. The state government should remove the capping on the number of persons allowed per function and introduce special relief package for our industry, which should include interest-free loans, pension for six months to our workers and waiver of GST to the catering business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-2-tent-house-owners-caterers-give-memos-to-officials-leaders/articleshow/78154744.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP leader Radhakrishnan tests positive for Covid||Coimbatore: Former Coimbatore MP and senior BJP leader C P Radhakrishnan has tested positive for Covid-19. Radhakrishnan, 63, has been actively participating in several party events and meeting cadres. Soon after the test results came, Radhakrishnan got admitted in a private hospital here. In a social media post, he confirmed that he has been tested positive for the virus and thanked people who wished him a speedy recovery. Meanwhile, Salem city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar also tested positive on Wednesday.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-leader-radhakrishnan-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78156163.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Treat symptomatic people like confirmed cases: Doctors||PUNE: Patients with flu-like symptoms should immediately be tested again via RT-PCR even if they have been cleared by the 30-minute antigen test kit, health experts have said.  They also said that until test results arrive, it’s critical to consider every symptomatic individual as a potential Covid-positive case. The experts’ comments come in the wake of a 59-year-old woman’s death this week in Rupinagar who received her results a day after she had died due to Covid-related illness and a whopping 11 days after swab collection. Authorities have attributed delays in test results to the region’s rising case load of over 4,000 fresh cases every day. But private labs, with limited manpower, have also been accused of delayed test results. The 59-year-old woman died of acute respiratory failure on September 11 at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital within PCMC limits. She, along with her husband, had undergone both RT-PCR and antigen testing on September 1. The latter had cleared her, but she never received the RT-PCR result in time. “If the symptomatic patient tests negative on the antigen kit, he or she should undergo the RT-PCR, which is confirmatory test,” said public health expert Subhash Salunke, who is an advisor to the state government on Covid-19 management. Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director of Bharati Hospital, said oximeters should be deployed to assess blood oxygen levels in suspected or home quarantined patients. “A simple chest X-ray and blood tests can help doctors assess a symptomatic patient's condition even if test results are awaited or have returned negative via the rapid antigen test,” he said. Delays in test results have been reported across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad corporation limits. The PMC said it has issued notices to private labs with the most delays. Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner, said, “Some labs are taking three to four days to generate test results. All reports should be given to PMC within 24 hours. Three labs that were served notices have replied. We will take action if necessary.” Additional commissioner of the PCMC, Santosh Patil, said authorities have now cleared a backlog of tests until September 13. “We now hope turnaround time of tests will improve,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/treat-symptomatic-people-like-confirmed-cases-docs/articleshow/78156159.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 17, 2020||Mumbai||ATS probing 27 Dubai nos threat call accused often contacted||Mumbai: Investigations into the case of a death threat to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut have shown that accused Palash Bose (49), a Kolkata resident, was in regular contact with at least 27 Dubai mobile numbers, he downloaded several apps on his phones and deleted threat messages which he had sent to Raut. State ATS on Wednesday added section 201 (destruction of evidence) of IPC against Bose. Bose was arrested from Tollygunge and brought here. A court on Wednesday extended his police remand till September 19. Investigators found that on September 6 Bose had made a WhatsApp call through a Dubai number to Raut and reportedly referred to himself as a Dawood Ibrahim gang member. He allegedly told Raut, “I am a Dawood man. You and Maharashtra government stay away from Sushant Singh case otherwise you will be eliminated.” ATS sources said Bose also made threat calls at Matoshree, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s private residence at Kala Nagar in Bandra (E), and at the residence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar and state home minister Anil Deshmukh. ATS had registered a case and a team led by inspector Daya Nayak began a probe and arrested the accused. Nayak’s team recovered two mobile phones, an Indian SIM card, three international SIM cards and Bose’s passport. The phones have been sent to Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory. Investigators took help from a service provider to find the location of a Dubai number used to send messages to Raut, which led them to Bose. ATS sources said they found Bose downloaded apps like Fake Chat, Silver Dialer, Voice Changer, Hello Card Dialer and Five Card Dialer. He later deleted some apps and WhatsApp chats. Bose used voice over internet protocol (VoIP) while making calls to residences of other leaders. A Science graduate, Bose was a gym instructor. “We are trying to find out who the 27 numbers belong to. We are also trying to ascertain if someone instructed Bose to make the calls. We have now invoked a section for destruction of evidence against him,” said an officer. Bose had saved screenshots of WhatsApp chats and display photos of some people. Investigations about these people are under way. Bose had made calls to politicians between September 2-6. An officer added that they were probing if he committed a similar offence earlier, places he travelled to and purpose of the visits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ats-probing-27-dubai-nos-threat-call-accused-often-contacted/articleshow/78155098.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Don’t crowd temples and river banks on Mahalaya Amavasya’||Coimbatore: The district administration has appealed to the public not to crowd temples and waterbodies adjoining them on the occasion of Mahalaya Amavasya on Thursday.Authorities of Perur Patteswarar temple, meanwhile, said they would restrict gathering of devotees along the ghats of the Noyyal river to offer respects to the departed ancestors.District collector K Rajamani has instructed officials of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, police, revenue and local body to keep vigil on temples, mandapams and river banks close to the shrines.With the Hindus gearing up for Mahalaya Amavasya, Purattasi Sani (first Saturday of Tamil month Purattasi) and Prathosham, he said it was the time of the year when people would crowd places of worship. People usually throng Perur river ghat on Mahalaya Amavasya and perform poojas along the river bank to pay respects to their ancestors. The place also draws people from other districts as well as Kerala.The state government has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed in temples. It mandates devotees to wear masks and maintain social distancing. However, the guidelines might be difficult to enforce when a large number of people throng the temples. “Hence, I request people to avoid crowding along the river banks and temples on Mahalaya Amavasya,” Rajamani said.The district administration has also asked the owners of mandapams near the temples to get permission from the government authorities before renting out halls to people. It would be the responsibility of hall owners to ensure that the SOPs are followed on their premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dont-crowd-temples-and-river-banks-on-mahalaya-amavasya/articleshow/78156181.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Set up Covid-19 testing centre in Valparai: Residents||Coimbatore: Residents of Valparai want the state government to set up a Covid testing centre in the hill town. Though there are government hospitals and primary health centres in Valparai, they have to come down to Pollachi, about 50km downhill, to test for Covid.With relaxation of e-passes and operation of public transport, there has been an increase in the number of people visiting Valparai. The influx might spread Covid in the hill town, residents said.“Ever since the lockdown was relaxed and e-passes restrictions were removed, we have been witnessing a surge in the number of people visiting Valparai. Several tourists visit the place on weekend from places like Coimbatore city and Tirupur, where Covid cases are spiking,” said a hotelier.Valparai started having Covid cases from April. At one point, there were zero cases, but once again, cases are surging. Though the number of cases is in single digits now, residents are afraid of a spike.Several people have developed symptoms of cold, cough and fever, which could be due to the inclement weather. “But there is panic and people want to test for Covid to reassure themselves,” said V Ramachandran, a retired government official.“But for testing, the residents have to travel till Pollachi, which is arduous as well as dangerous since the traveller might spread the virus to others enroute. Hence, a testing centre should be set up at the government hospital here or at the primary health centre,” said the hotelier.If not a permanent testing centre, a mobile testing centre can be stationed in Valparai for the benefit of the sick, said the residents.The district administration recently inaugurated an ambulance exclusively for Valparai, which carries life support equipment meant for Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/set-up-covid-19-testing-centre-in-valparai-residents/articleshow/78156187.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Rajesh Tope says Centre not helping Maharashtra with masks, ventilators and PPE kits||PUNE: Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday accused the Union government of halting the supply of masks, ventilators and personal protective equipment kits to the state at a time when the Covid-19 cases were on the rise. “The state has over 10.97 lakh progressive cases and 2.91 lakh active patients. Besides, 30,409 deaths have been registered in the state. The Centre has withdrawn all help at this time,” he told TOI. Tope said the Centre had provided assistance till last month, but has now decided to stop supply of masks, ventilators and PPE kits required to treat the rising number of Covid 19 patients across the state. “On one hand the cases are rising and the demand for PPE kits, masks and ventilators is increasing. On the other hand, the Centre has stopped all support. This is putting pressure on the state and forcing it to curtail funds to other departments,” he said. At a recent meeting held in Pune under Union minister Prakash Javadekar, Tope had raised the issue and also sent a letter to the Centre. Tope said he has, however, not received any response from the Centre. As per its allocation, the Centre has released Rs4,230.78 crore in accordance with the Union health ministry plan. The state was allocated Rs393.82 crore in the first phase and the amount was received. “But the second allocation of Rs450 crore is still not released, state the health ministry data. Even our Good and Service Tax compensation dues that should be passed on to us is not being given,” Tope said. The state government has been demanding its GST compensation dues from the Centre since April. As far as oxygen supply is concerned, the state produces 1,000 tonnes. Of this, 800 tonnes are currently required by the hospitals. ‘ ’The state government has decided to reserve 80% of the oxygen supply for the hospitals and 20% for the industries. Oxygen tankers have been lined up to streamline the supply,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tope-says-centre-not-helping-state-with-masks-ventilators-ppe-kits/articleshow/78158598.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid cases spike by 549, 707 patients discharged||Coimbatore: For the first time in a week, the district saw Covid-19 cases spike by more than 500 a day on Wednesday, when 549 people were tested positive for the virus, taking the tally to 23,702. According to officials, most of the cases were reported from the existing clusters. They attributed the spike in cases to increase in samples being tested. “We are testing more than 7,000 samples a day. At a positivity rate of 8% itself, we will see 500-odd cases a day. We have intensified contact tracing, especially within city corporation limits and Covid-19 hotspots. Most contacts of positive patients are likely to test positive. Hence, the increase in cases,” said an official. It was also the day when the number of patients who were discharged from treatment facilities was higher than the daily spike in cases. With 707 patients getting discharged, the number of active Covid-19 cases has come down to 3,437. At least 19,900 patients have so far recovered from the infection in the district, where recovery rate stands at 83.9%. The toll, meanwhile, shot up to 365 with four more patients succumbing to the virus. Among the four, two men aged 84 and 86 years died of pneumonia that was triggered by Covid-19 in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Monday after 10 and six days of hospitalization, respectively. Another 47-year-old patient also died in CMCH on Monday within a few hours of admission. The remaining one – a 63-year-old man – died in a private hospital on Tuesday. He had fever and cough for four days and breathing difficulty for a day. The new cases were spread across the district. In city limits, 13 people each were tested positive for the virus from Selvapuram, Ramanathapuram and Gandhipuram, five from Annai Indira Nagar at Selvapuram, eight each from Vasanth Nagar at Singanallur and Papanaickenpalayam, four from Vadavalli and one from Veerakeralam. Among rural areas, 20 people were tested positive for Covid-19 from Udaiyampalayam at Chinnavedampatti and eight from Thondamuthur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-cases-spike-by-549-707-patients-discharged/articleshow/78156193.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Rajesh Tope says Centre not helping Maharashtra with masks, ventilators and PPE kits||PUNE: Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday accused the Union government of halting the supply of masks, ventilators and personal protective equipment kits to the state at a time when the Covid-19 cases were on the rise. “The state has over 10.97 lakh progressive cases and 2.91 lakh active patients. Besides, 30,409 deaths have been registered in the state. The Centre has withdrawn all help at this time,” he told TOI. Tope said the Centre had provided assistance till last month, but has now decided to stop supply of masks, ventilators and PPE kits required to treat the rising number of Covid 19 patients across the state. “On one hand the cases are rising and the demand for PPE kits, masks and ventilators is increasing. On the other hand, the Centre has stopped all support. This is putting pressure on the state and forcing it to curtail funds to other departments,” he said. At a recent meeting held in Pune under Union minister Prakash Javadekar, Tope had raised the issue and also sent a letter to the Centre. Tope said he has, however, not received any response from the Centre. As per its allocation, the Centre has released Rs4,230.78 crore in accordance with the Union health ministry plan. The state was allocated Rs393.82 crore in the first phase and the amount was received. “But the second allocation of Rs450 crore is still not released, state the health ministry data. Even our Good and Service Tax compensation dues that should be passed on to us is not being given,” Tope said. The state government has been demanding its GST compensation dues from the Centre since April. As far as oxygen supply is concerned, the state produces 1,000 tonnes. Of this, 800 tonnes are currently required by the hospitals. ‘ ’The state government has decided to reserve 80% of the oxygen supply for the hospitals and 20% for the industries. Oxygen tankers have been lined up to streamline the supply,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tope-says-centre-not-helping-state-with-masks-ventilators-ppe-kits/articleshow/78158597.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Rajesh Tope says Centre not helping Maharashtra with masks, ventilators and PPE kits||PUNE: Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday accused the Union government of halting the supply of masks, ventilators and personal protective equipment kits to the state at a time when the Covid-19 cases were on the rise. “The state has over 10.97 lakh progressive cases and 2.91 lakh active patients. Besides, 30,409 deaths have been registered in the state. The Centre has withdrawn all help at this time,” he told TOI. Tope said the Centre had provided assistance till last month, but has now decided to stop supply of masks, ventilators and PPE kits required to treat the rising number of Covid 19 patients across the state. “On one hand the cases are rising and the demand for PPE kits, masks and ventilators is increasing. On the other hand, the Centre has stopped all support. This is putting pressure on the state and forcing it to curtail funds to other departments,” he said. At a recent meeting held in Pune under Union minister Prakash Javadekar, Tope had raised the issue and also sent a letter to the Centre. Tope said he has, however, not received any response from the Centre. As per its allocation, the Centre has released Rs4,230.78 crore in accordance with the Union health ministry plan. The state was allocated Rs393.82 crore in the first phase and the amount was received. “But the second allocation of Rs450 crore is still not released, state the health ministry data. Even our Good and Service Tax compensation dues that should be passed on to us is not being given,” Tope said. The state government has been demanding its GST compensation dues from the Centre since April. As far as oxygen supply is concerned, the state produces 1,000 tonnes. Of this, 800 tonnes are currently required by the hospitals. ‘ ’The state government has decided to reserve 80% of the oxygen supply for the hospitals and 20% for the industries. Oxygen tankers have been lined up to streamline the supply,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tope-says-centre-not-helping-state-with-masks-ventilators-ppe-kits/articleshow/78158596.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor appeals for janata curfew this weekend||Nagpur: In view of spiralling Covid cases in the city and acute shortage of beds, mayor Sandip Joshi has appealed to citizens to observe janata curfew on Saturday and Sunday. The curfew will begin from 9.30pm on Friday and end at 7.30am on Monday. In the absence of any order issued by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, there will not be any enforcement of the curfew. It is up to citizens to observe it strictly. The decision was taken following a meeting of public representatives and civic officers in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Wednesday evening. Except Tanaji Wanve, leader of opposition in NMC, all other politicians present belonged to the BJP. In the meeting, Radhakrishnan clearly advised against the janata curfew saying it would be counterproductive. However, all public representatives were in favour of it. Earlier, guardian minister Nitin Raut had planned a ‘self lockdown’ on weekends but later changed his mind saying it would adversely affect contact tracing. He also said that a lockdown would hit the livelihood of the poor. Traders of Chandrapur and Yavatmal too had demanded a five-day curfew but their district collectors refused to enforce it, as they did not receive clearance from the central government. Now, it is being observed voluntarily. Many citizens support the janata curfew, though some want the lockdown to be of a longer duration. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said that his organization fully supported the janata curfew and members would keep their establishments closed. “NMC should ask even grocery shops to down their shutters otherwise people get an excuse to venture out of their homes,” he told TOI. Arti Patel, a homemaker, said she fully supported the janata curfew. “However, it should not be left to the will of the people. NMC and police should enforce the curfew and ensure that no one ventures out of his or her home, else it would be meaningless.” Pramod Pande, president of social organization Jan Manch, said there was no point in imposing a janata curfew for two days. “It should be of two weeks to stop community spread. Many asymptomatic Covid patients are moving outside freely spreading the Covid. This will be checked,” he told TOI. Rupesh Meshram, a tea stall owner, who is operating his establishment without permissions, however, strongly opposed the janata curfew. “The government is insensitive towards poor people like us, so it has yet not allowed tea stalls and pan kiosks to open. On the other hand, malls are open. I am not going to keep my shop closed if it is completely voluntary. I have suffered a lot during the summer lockdown and can’t afford to not earn anymore,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-appeals-for-janata-curfew-this-weekend/articleshow/78156195.cms||Ashish Roy
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||Actor Raza Murad accuses Pyare Mian of forging signatures||Bhopal: Bollywood actor Raza Murad on Wednesday reached Shyamla Hills police station and recorded his statement in the case registered against local newspaper owner, Pyare Mian, on charges of forgery. Raza Murad owns a flat in E-Block of posh Ansal Apartment, where Pyare Mian resided with his family.Pyare Mian had forged Raza Murad’s signatures to make him a member in his fake resident welfare society through which he rented the space on his apartment terrace to a telecom company for setting up a mobile tower. SHO Shyamla Hills Tarun Singh Bhati said, “Raza Murad appeared before the police and denied that he was acquainted with Pyare Mian. He accused Pyare Mian of forging his signatures in his fake society documents. Raza Murad said that he is a member of Lake View Enclave Welfare Housing Society and pays his subscription to the society every year. He said that he has nothing to do with Pyare Mian.”On July 12, Pyare Mian was booked on charges of raping and sexually exploiting five minor girls. A case was registered against him and his accomplices at Shahpura police station. On July 13, another 16-year-old girl approached Koh-e-Fiza police and lodged complaint against him on charges of raping and exploitation for over six months. Later, on July 24 Shyamla Hills police registered a case against Pyare Mian, his wives Tanveer Fatima and Badrunnissa, along with their son Shahnawaz, on charges of fraud for allegedly forging papers to register a resident welfare society and then renting the terrace of an apartment to a telecom company for the installation of a mobile tower. The accused received Rs60 lakh as rent from the telecom company since 2011. Pyare Mian’s advocate Sahabuddin Jamali alias Ashi, 39, a resident of Jinsi in Jehangirabad, was found to be a co-accused in the case. Police said that Jamali allegedly forged the signatures of society members and submitted fake audit reports of the society at registrar office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/actor-raza-murad-accuses-pyare-mian-of-forging-signatures/articleshow/78154786.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||MSMEs seek govt support to usher in Industry 4.0||Coimbatore: Representatives of micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) associations have sought the state government’s help for ushering in Industry 4.0.At an orientation meeting on Industry 4.0 on Tuesday, organised by the district industries centre (DIC) and headed by Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, they expressed their expectations from the state for making the shift to industry 4.0 in MSMEs easier and feasible. The meeting sought to upgrade MSMEs in order for them to compete globally by utilising technology such as industrial internet of things, smart manufacturing, cloud computing, additive manufacturing, big data, robotics and artificial intelligence. DIC officials quoted the collector asking MSMEs to evolve a plan for the next decade in all perspectives and utilise the industry 4.0 techniques. A review meeting will be conducted every two months.MSME representatives who attended the meeting said they have sought government’s support in terms of subsidy to implement industry 4.0R Ramamurthy president of the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia), told TOI that they sought subsidy for implementing Industry 4.0, just like that under the lean manufacturing competitiveness scheme, where the Centre gives 80% of the consultant fees for MSME mini clusters to conduct assessment, to implement lean manufacturing techniques. “The government should announce such a subsidy scheme for Industry 4.0 also. Technology will not reduce workforce, but increase efficiency and productivity,” he said.There were also sceptical views. S Surulivel, president of the Railway Suppliers Association (RASA) said while Industry 4.0 with its emphasis on automation, among other things, could suit bigger industries well, micro and small industries need to focus on increasing their investment and production quantity. “We can get ready to implement industry 4.0. But we need hand-holding by the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-seek-govt-support-to-usher-in-industry-4-0/articleshow/78156200.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Rajesh Tope says Centre not helping Maharashtra with masks, ventilators and PPE kits||PUNE: Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday accused the Union government of halting the supply of masks, ventilators and personal protective equipment kits to the state at a time when the Covid-19 cases were on the rise. “The state has over 10.97 lakh progressive cases and 2.91 lakh active patients. Besides, 30,409 deaths have been registered in the state. The Centre has withdrawn all help at this time,” he told TOI. Tope said the Centre had provided assistance till last month, but has now decided to stop supply of masks, ventilators and PPE kits required to treat the rising number of Covid 19 patients across the state. “On one hand the cases are rising and the demand for PPE kits, masks and ventilators is increasing. On the other hand, the Centre has stopped all support. This is putting pressure on the state and forcing it to curtail funds to other departments,” he said. At a recent meeting held in Pune under Union minister Prakash Javadekar, Tope had raised the issue and also sent a letter to the Centre. Tope said he has, however, not received any response from the Centre. As per its allocation, the Centre has released Rs4,230.78 crore in accordance with the Union health ministry plan. The state was allocated Rs393.82 crore in the first phase and the amount was received. “But the second allocation of Rs450 crore is still not released, state the health ministry data. Even our Good and Service Tax compensation dues that should be passed on to us is not being given,” Tope said. The state government has been demanding its GST compensation dues from the Centre since April. As far as oxygen supply is concerned, the state produces 1,000 tonnes. Of this, 800 tonnes are currently required by the hospitals. ‘ ’The state government has decided to reserve 80% of the oxygen supply for the hospitals and 20% for the industries. Oxygen tankers have been lined up to streamline the supply,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-says-centre-not-helping-state-with-masks-ventilators-ppe-kits/articleshow/78156202.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 17, 2020||India||JD(U)-LJP rift gives BJP a headache ahead of polls||With less than a fortnight to go for the Election Commission’s announcement of Bihar polls, the rift between BJP’s allies — JD (U) and and LJP — keeps widening. After JD(U)’s public declaration that it didn’t want to have any truck with Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s outfit, LJP on Wednesday retaliated in the same vein and asserted that it would be better off without being in CM Nitish Kumar’s company. After a meeting of its parliamentary party, LJP sources said they counted only BJP as an ally and threatened that the party could even field candidates against JD(U). The war of words comes against the backdrop of indications that JD(U) has washed its hands of LJP, taking the stand that it would leave half of the 243 seats for BJP and it was for the saffron outfit to accommodate LJP within its quota. Although a junior partner, LJP is not flinching from a fight either. Sources said party chief Chirag Paswan is learnt to have suggested to BJP chief J P Nadda that the saffron outfit should insist on contesting more seats rather than a 50:50 split JD(U) is insisting on. Paswan is also learnt to have written to PM Modi apprising the latter of LJP’s assessment that Kumar no longer enjoyed enough support to be NDA's CM face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jdu-ljp-rift-gives-bjp-a-headache-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78158190.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Second Covid reinfection surfaces, span shorter this time||Nagpur: Soon after confirmation of Covid reinfection among six health workers in Mumbai and Noida hospitals, the city recorded its second such probable case on Tuesday.A 42-year-old Primary Health Centre (PHC) doctor tested positive on Tuesday after recovering from Covid-19 in June first week. Though not yet proven through genetic sequencing, like in the six health workers elsewhere, experts feel thorough investigation is needed to prove if it is reinfection or continuation of dead virus shedding.In its Wednesday edition, TOI had reported a national study by Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, a Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) lab, New Delhi, documenting reinfection in six health workers. The six reinfections have been genetically proved by the researchers. However, the city health authorities are yet to conduct any such study though this is the second case to emerge this month.The doctor has tested positive through RT-PCR, which is considered reliable. On Wednesday, the doctor was taken to AIIMS for blood investigation. He is reported to be asymptomatic this time too.He told TOI he did not have symptoms in June too, and remained asymptomatic during his stay at GMCH Covid ward. He is believed to have contracted the infection on duty at MLA Hostel, which was then the city’s biggest quarantine centre. After recovering, he returned to his original posting at the PHC.On September 8, TOI had reported about constable Laxman Shende testing positive twice in four months — first on May 16 and then on August 16. The span of reinfection is shorter in the case of the doctor.Head of microbiology department of AIIMS Nagpur and professor Dr Meena Mishra said, “To check if a patient is confirmed reinfection, all previous and present reports of the patient need to be studied again. Things like how the antibody response was then need to be correlated.”She added that clinical profile has to be seen carefully to understand if it is really reinfection or virus shedding has continued. “It is documented that dead virus shedding is seen in recovered patients. It is not only about RT-PCR coming positive. We will have to look at antibody also. If IgM is positive, then it can be called reinfection,” she said.District civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar said reinfection is not unknown. “As of now, there is no separate data collection on such cases. Whether it is reinfection or original one, the protocol doesn’t change for treatment. Basically, it is not entirely correct to say people can’t get reinfected. There is no guarantee that there won’t be infection again. It is also a different issue that one may have antibodies or not have. It all depends on how one has responded to first attack. This means nobody should be under the impression that it can’t happen again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/second-covid-reinfection-surfaces-span-shorter-this-time/articleshow/78156207.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Hill districts record biggest 1-day rise in infections||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 1,540 fresh infections of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 35,947 cases. With this, the active cases in the state breached the mark of 11,000 and the infection rate touched 6.7%. On the day, the hill districts of Uttarakhand recorded the highest one-day surge in fresh infections with 97 new cases being reported from Almora, followed by 84 cases from Bageshwar, 55 from Pithoragarh, 51 from Pauri, 47 from Uttarkashi, 31 from Champawat, 12 from Tehri, and seven from Rudraprayag. However, the maximum of 429 fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced from Dehradun on the day. In the last 16 days, the capital city has recorded the most number of cases for the 13th time. The active cases in Dehradun now stand at 3,628. Haridwar also reported 363 cases, followed by 246 from Udham Singh Nagar, and 118 from Nainital. According to official data, the number of active cases went up from 2,500 to 5,000 in 30 days in the state but it took just 18 days for the active cases to cross the mark of 10,000. “Besides the new cases, nine deaths of Covid-19 patients were also recorded in the state on the day, pushing the toll of the virus to 447,” informed Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the nine deaths, seven were recorded from AIIMS in Rishikesh and the remaining two from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. Meanwhile, 1,192 people recovered from Covid-19 infection in the state on the day, taking the number of such cases to 24,277 and recovery rate to 67%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hill-districts-record-biggest-1-day-rise-in-infections/articleshow/78153605.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 17, 2020||Pune||Bed vacancy info update erratic on PCMC dashboard||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body’s dashboard on real-time bed availability information at private hospitals is not getting regular updates. Quite a few hospitals provided the system with vacant bed information of September 7. An official said a few hospitals were updating the number of available beds twice a day. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) executive engineer Manoj Sethiya, assigned to look after the bed management portal, said staff crunch at the hospitals was delaying the timely updates. “When we conducted an enquiry, we were told that they are facing an acute manpower crunch amid rising Covid-19 cases,” he said. On being asked when the portal would reflect timely updates, Sethiya said the administration was planning to send its staffers to the hospitals for clearing the data entry backlog. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said most of the hospitals had “very heavy caseload” because of the increasing number of patients from the rural areas and other districts. On the dashboard not reflecting real-time Covid-19 patient information in Pimpri Chinchwad, he said the problem has been resolved though “such mismatch happens if the number of cases increases”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bed-vacancy-info-update-erratic-on-pcmc-dashboard/articleshow/78156217.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Man detained on suspicion of making avuttukkai||Coimbatore: The forest department has picked up a 48-year-old man on suspicion of making country bombs (avuttukkai). A forest official said K Murthy, of Velliangadu, was detained for questioning. Avuttukkai, which is banned, is often used by farmers to tackle wild animals that raid their crop. According to the official, the bomb is placed inside fruits, which if animals consume would go off in their mouths. There were instances of wild elephants, bears and wild boars dying after biting avuttukkai. The forest department has been trying to crack down on the production of country bombs, the use of which has been on the rise of late. On Tuesday, the forest department got a tip that Murthy was involved in making avuttukkai and officials attached to Periyanaickenpalayam and Karamadai beats searched his house, where they found an air gun, white explosive powder and black powder, which is also known as gunpowder. The officials seized them all and picked him up for inquiry. Later, Murthy was handed over to police for further questioning. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-detained-on-suspicion-of-making-avuttukkai/articleshow/78156214.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists hail fiat on Ooty med college||Udhagamandalam: Now that the Madras high court has declined to stall construction works for the proposed government medical college in Ooty, attention of the concerned locals has turned to the patch of greenery the removal of which was cited as reason for stopping college construction.Environmentalists and experts point out that it would be ecologically naive to contend that exotic eucalyptus trees are of great ecological significance to the landscape. Eucalyptus was planted in the Wenlock Downs, where construction is underway, during the colonial period out of ecological ignorance.The state government adhered to the scientific findings and took a policy decision in 1988 not to plant the species in the Wenlock Downs in future. Forest officials said planted exotic trees, including eucalyptus and wattle, are on their way out as part of the government policy. “Removing these eucalyptus trees from the Wenlock Downs areas will help to stabilize the water table of the locality. There should be a proper balance between the social and health concerns of the people and the environmental protection of the place”, said B J Krishnan, environmentalist and former member of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel.Refuting the view that felling trees will be ecologically harmful, Krishnan said: “Opposing well-conceived medical and health facility of the government on the basis of wrongly perceived environment notions will harm the larger interest of the people of the Nilgiris.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-hail-fiat-on-ooty-med-college/articleshow/78156211.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Man detained on suspicion of making avuttukkai||Coimbatore: The forest department has picked up a 48-year-old man on suspicion of making country bombs (avuttukkai).A forest official said K Murthy, of Velliangadu, was detained for questioning.Avuttukkai, which is banned, is often used by farmers to tackle wild animals that raid their crop. According to the official, the bomb is placed inside fruits, which if animals consume would go off in their mouths. There were instances of wild elephants, bears and wild boars dying after biting avuttukkai.The forest department has been trying to crack down on the production of country bombs, the use of which has been on the rise of late. On Tuesday, the forest department got a tip that Murthy was involved in making avuttukkai and officials attached to Periyanaickenpalayam and Karamadai beats searched his house, where they found an air gun, white explosive powder and black powder, which is also known as gunpowder.The officials seized them all and picked him up for inquiry. Later, Murthy was handed over to police for further questioning. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-detained-on-suspicion-of-making-avuttukkai/articleshow/78156215.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Right time to conquer US apparel market, textile forum tells bizmen||Coimbatore: As outrage builds against China across the world, the textile sector in the region sees remarkable growth opportunities in the US apparel market.City-based textile forum Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) has asked textile enterprises in the state to aggressively focus on US markets.China’s share of US apparel imports has been declining, said ITF convenor Prabhu Dhamodharan. “In 2019, China saw a loss in its market share to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore. In the first seven months of this year, US apparel imports dropped by 30%, of which the drop in Chinese apparels was 49%,” he said. The US has also announced new restrictions on import of apparel from China’s Xinjiang region, citing human rights violations against the Uighur population. These factors and the situations post the Covid-19 outbreak, could accelerate the trend of decline in Chinese apparel imports by global countries,” Dhamodharan said. “This trend may create a $10billion opportunity in the US apparel market for other countries, including India.”“While India’s competitor Vietnam has a free trade agreement with the EU, and Bangladesh has zero duty access to the EU, the case is different with the US. Both India and its competitors don’t have free trade agreements with the US. We have a level-playing field there. So, it’s the right time to step up efforts in US markets as a market diversification strategy,” the official said.In the last two to three months, there have been several inquiries from US businessmen who used to buy from China, Dhamodharan told TOI. “They sent us samples they bought from China and wanted to know if we can supply them. Right now in regions like Tirupur, around 75% units focus on European markets. Focus on US is less. It’s the right time for us to shift our focus. Groups of textile units can also form marketing alliances and market their products in the US.”This is the right time for the Indian textile industry to tap the global anti-China sentiments and for the sector to address and solve its own lacunae, Tirupur-based textile industry representatives said.President of the Tirupur Exporters Association (TEA) Raja M Shanmugam said the three main lacunae were inconsistency in quality, non-fulfilment of order quantity and not delivering on time. “While not all units have these issues, it is widespread in the apparel sector. We have to accept this and address them both collectively and individually,” he said. “To address this, we have to upskill our workforce. The state should help the sector in this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/right-time-to-conquer-us-apparel-market-textile-forum-tells-bizmen/articleshow/78156204.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||1-year-old falls into bucketful of water, dies||Tirupur: A one-year-old toddler fell into a bucket filled with water and died in Tirupur on Tuesday. According to police, Shanthini Devi from Bihar was living at Paraipallam on Uthukuli road with her children – two sons and a daughter. Since her husband Ram Lal died a few years ago, Shanthini would leave the children under the custody of her sister living close by everyday when she goes to work in a garment unit. Deepak, aged one year, had allegedly fell into a bucket filled with water in front of the house. However, nobody noticed the toddler and when Shanthini returned home she found Deepak unconscious in the bucket. She rushed the boy to a nearby hospital where doctors said the boy was dead. Police visited the spot and conducted investigations. The body was sent to government hospital in Tirupur for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-year-old-falls-into-bucketful-of-water-dies/articleshow/78156208.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Delhi||By November, book a luxury bus ride via app on your phone in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Soon, you will be able to book a reserved seat in an air-conditioned bus through an application on your mobile. The bus will pick you up from near your home as per your convenience and provide Wi-Fi and other amenities on board as it takes you to your office. In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the transport department has revived its plan of starting app-based premium bus services in the city. “Though number of public transport buses has gone up in the last one year, their carrying capacity has reduced drastically due to stringent social distancing norms as part of safety measures,” a Delhi government official said. At present, only 20 passengers are allowed in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) or Cluster Scheme buses at any given point of time. “The premium bus service, which was first planned in 2016, aimed at weaning away commuters from personal vehicles to buses. Thanks to booking through app or online, commuters would be assured of a seat and wouldn’t have to face the hassle of driving in rush hour traffic either,” he said. “However, due to various issues related to permissions, the service couldn’t be started. As private buses are available and there is a need for increasing capacity, the proposal has been put on fast track,” he added. Sources said that two meetings on starting the premium bus service have already taken place and in the next meeting, which is scheduled in the next few days, the proposal is likely to get the nod. In the next two months, such buses are likely to start operating. The department is likely to rope in a developer for creating a mobile application that will function as an aggregator. The buses may be of different sizes and there will be no standing passengers. The buses will have CCTV cameras and will be monitored through GPS from the department’s control room. “While there is no objection to the proposal in principle, there are few technical issues that we are trying to iron out as soon as possible,” he said. Buses of DTC and Cluster Scheme are operated as ‘stage carriages’, which can pick or drop passengers from any designated point. Private chartered buses operate under ‘contract carriage’ permits, which only allow them to transport a group of passengers from one point to another, without passengers boarding or de-boarding on the way. “It is the same issue as with shared rides in cabs, which are not allowed to pick up and drop passengers at different points as per their permit, even though it’s a beneficial service. Similarly, we are looking at a way to allow these buses,” he said. “Another decision left to be taken is of routes. As in whether the routes would be earmarked or operators be allowed to ply buses as per public demand,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/by-nov-book-a-luxury-bus-ride-via-app-on-your-phone/articleshow/78156241.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Government needs to procure from Rajasthan MSMEs to create jobs||JAIPUR: Government departments undertaking infrastructure development through constructions of road and bridges, laying pipelines and building dams, and expanding power transmission networks are violating Purchase Preference Policy norms, depriving the state government GST revenue, eliminating scope for jobs creation and undermining the growth of MSMEs in the state. Purchase Preference Policy mandates government departments to procure 80% from Rajasthan-based MSMEs. “Purchase and price preference in procurement from micro, small and medium enterprises situated in Rajasthan is necessary for the promotion of domestic industry and for furtherance of the socio-economic policy of the state government, says the Act. But industry said by awarding turnkey projects, government departments are going beyond the ambit of the Act but it ultimately deprives the state its share of revenues and opportunities for creating jobs and helping the MSME sector. A turnkey contractor is not mandated to procure items like conductors and transformers from Rajasthan-based companies even as the state has become a hub for such products. Industry sources said the biggest transmission company power grid corporation of India Ltd is also awarding contracts on turnkey basis but major items like overhead conductors are procured by them directly. Transmission companies in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Telengana are procuring major items like conductors directly locally so that it benefits companies in their states and also helps the states earn GST revenue. “Because of the Covid pandemic, the industry is passing through a tough time. Even if the government is comfortable with turnkey projects, they can stick to that. But they can always add a clause mandating the turnkey vendors to give preference to Rajasthan-based companies. If the companies get orders, there will be demand for more manpower and the state government will also benefit,” said Vishal Baid, chairman, CII-Rajasthan. He said when the purchases are made from state, it gets 9% SGST. Since the contracts involve over thousands of crores, tax revenues will be significant for the state, while it will also help in the development of ancillary units. Industries in Rajasthan still suffering from lack of demand due to the pandemic with capacity utilization hovering around 50%. If they get government contracts, that significantly help their recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-needs-to-procure-from-state-msmes-to-create-jobs-earn-tax-revenue/articleshow/78156218.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Will strengthen ward offices: KTR||Hyderabad: Municipal minister KT Rama Rao said the government would strengthen ward offices in the state for providing better services to the citizens. Giving a reply in the legislative assembly on Wednesday, the minister said ward offices will also be constructed where both ward officers and local corporators would sit and resolve the public grievances. “On the lines of panchayat raj secretaries, the government would recruit ward officers. They will also be put under three-year probation period before their regularisation,” the minister said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-strengthen-ward-offices-ktr/articleshow/78156229.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Coimbatore||TN supplementary exam 2020: Preparations under way for conducting tests for private candidates||COIMBATORE: The school education department has initiated preparatory work to conduct supplementary board exams for private candidates, which will begin from next week. The department has also taken steps to conduct the eighth standard exam (ESLC). Officials convened a meeting on Friday for arrangements in exam halls. “Teachers who will act as scribes for disabled students have to get themselves tested for Covid-19 and bring the certificate to the exam centre,” a press release said. ESLC exam for private candidates will be held from September 29 to October 5. Meanwhile, the supplementary exam for Class X will be held from September 21 to September 26 and that for Class XI will be held from September 29 to October 7. Class XII supplementary exams will be held from September 21 to September 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/preparations-under-way-for-conducting-supplementary-tests/articleshow/78158663.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj orders CID probe into CG tribal’s shooting by cops||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday ordered a CID inquiry into the death of Jhamsingh Dhurve, a 45-year-old tribal man from neighbouring Chhattisgarh, allegedly at the hands of Madhya Pradesh police. A day ago, Chhattisgarh law minister Mohammad Akbar had written to Governor Anusuiya Uikey, seeking her intervention to ensure action against those responsible for the killing. Akbar said the Chhattisgarh government had taken it up with CM Chouhan and MP home minister Narottam Mishra on September 12, but no action had been taken till then. The minister says MP cops entered Chhattisgarh, shot Jhamsingh, took away his body, and got the post-mortem done at Gadi in Balaghat district after which they handed the body to his family for last rites. Quoting the Kabirdham collector’s report, Akbar said MP police cleaned up blood stains on the spot and tried to destroy evidence. On Wednesday, after CM Chouhan’s orders, CID chief Kailash Makwana asked Balaghat police to send all files related to the incident. “We are looking at all possible angles in this case. No stone will be left unturned,” DGP V K Johri told TOI. Anger is rising in the tribal community against the incident. Various tribal organization have given a 15-day ultimatum to the state government for a judicial probe and Rs1 crore compensation to Jhamsingh’s family, plus two government jobs for his kin. They claim he was returning after fishing in a pond when MP Hawk Force personnel shot him without warning or provocation. It is said that Jhamsingh and his companion started running when they saw the cops, confusing them with forest officers who they thought might take away their fish. “We want a court-monitored investigation. Let a retired judge head the probe committee. It is cold-blooded murder. He was killed without warning and his body was dragged 700 metres from Chhattisgarh border to MP. An ancient bharmar gun and other items were kept near his body to create a scene of encounter with Maoists,” said Bhuwan Koram, district president of MP Adivasi Vikas Parishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-orders-cid-probe-into-cg-tribals-shooting-by-cops/articleshow/78154798.cms||P Naveen
September 17, 2020||Nashik||Security guard duped of Rs 50,000||Aurangabad: A 23-year old security guard was duped of Rs 50, 000 after he was approached by a conman on the pretext of selling him a two-wheeler. Taking cognizance of the complaint filed by Akshay Tirche, Cantonment police have registered an offence against the suspect and have launched a manhunt for him. Citing contents of the complaint, police said that the suspect created a Facebook account under the name Sunil Kholkumbh and floated an advertisement to sell his two-wheeler at a reasonable rate. Falling prey to the advertisement, the security guard contacted the man who agreed to sell off the said bike for Rs 50, 000. Finding the deal lucrative, Tirche readily transferred a certain amount to the suspect’s bank account. The transaction was carried out on August 23 and the suspect assured him of sending the documents as well as delivering the bike soon after receiving the money. The suspect initially dilly-dallied and later stopped responding to the communications. A few days later, his phone started appearing switched off. Realising that he has been duped, the youth lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/security-guard-duped-of-rs-50000/articleshow/78153626.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets 9% more rainfall than 2019||JAIPUR: Southwest monsoon, which was scheduled to withdraw from the state from September 17, will now continue for another week, a good news for Kharif farmers. So far the state has received almost 9 per cent more rainfall than last year. With a few more spells left, the state can better the average by a few more points. Till September13, the state had received an average rainfall of 430 mm, which is 9 per cent higher compared to what it received in the same period in 2019. “Though monsoon has withdrawn from many places, it is still on in some parts of eastern and western Rajasthan. Its extension for a week from September 17 onwards would certainly benefit farmers of Kharif crops,” said an officer with Jaipur Met office. Jaisalmer has received abnormal rainfall this year compared to 2019. “One district has received abnormal rainfall, eight districts have received excess rainfall, 16 districts have received normal rainfall while eight districts have received deficit rainfall,” said an officer. The districts which received deficit rainfall includes Kota. Though Kota has received higher rainfall compared to its average rainfall, it has received less rainfall compared to 2019. “Kota usually records more than 600 mm of rainfall on an average, however this year it has so far received a rainfall of 511.36 mm. Hopefully, with some more rainfall in the last spell, it might cover this deficit,” said an officer. In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that light to moderate rainfall is likely to occur at some places in Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh, Udaipur and Nagaur districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extended-monsoon-state-gets-9-more-rainfall-than-2019/articleshow/78156227.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: 24 more Covid care hubs to be shut for low occupancy||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to shut down 24 more Covid care centres (CCC) owing to lack of demand. Good recovery of patients, with some of them opting for home isolation, reduced the demand for admission to Covid care centres. “Out of the 24, some of the centres have been closed totally and a few partially. A couple of centres at Sinhagad college have been shut down,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of the PMC’s establishment department. Patients coming to these centres would be shifted to other facilities. The administration has taken the decision to reduce the expenses on infrastructure as well as manpower at these centres. The civic body had started around 80 such facilities across PMC areas but they were shut down in phases. The city will now have only 11 such centres. Nearly 83% of total number of positive patients are recovering. The administration has allowed positive patients with mild or no symptoms to remain at home. The norms of Union and state governments as well as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) need to be followed for those opting for home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24-more-covid-care-hubs-to-be-shut-for-low-occupancy/articleshow/78156232.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Private hospitals protest higher Covid ICU burden in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Out of the 2,629 ICU beds, with and without ventilators, for Covid-19 patients in Delhi, 1,138 — 43% — are in public-sector hospitals. The rest 57% are in private-sector hospitals, reveals data shared by the hospitals on the Delhi Corona app.Recently, Delhi government ordered private hospitals with 50 or more beds to reserve 80% of their ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. Many hospitals are protesting the move, stating that it is not financially viable and that the move will add to the woes of non-Covid patients who are already struggling to get ICU beds for critical illnesses like cancer and heart failure. According to Dr D S Rana, chairman (board of management) of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH), it is difficult to create a dedicated isolation section for Covid-19 patients in its existing 60-bedded ICU facility. “We have created a separate Covid-ICU with 116 beds by various modifications at a significant cost on the advice of the health minister of Delhi. We are planning to enhance the capacity further to 150 beds. However, for that we may need more ventilators and monitors. We have requested the government to provide the same,” Dr Rana said. Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, MD and CEO of Fortis Healthcare Ltd, said the private healthcare sector was committed to supporting the governments’ national and state initiatives in the fight against the pandemic. “Despite consistent losses, the sector has invested significantly to upgrade the healthcare infrastructure. Lockdown restrictions and fear of contracting infection have resulted in lower footfall at the hospitals and postponement of pre-scheduled surgeries. Our healthcare system is facing serious challenges related to skilled manpower and our frontline workers are going beyond their call of duty to serve the nation,” Dr Raghuvanshi said. Reserving beds, he added, is not a long-term solution as it will jeopardise the operational sustainability of private hospitals. A collaborative and consultative approach, enabling the private healthcare institutions to function optimally, is required, he pointed out. The authorities at another top private hospital claimed the order would lead to delay in surgeries for non-Covid complications “since most of these require some post-surgical stay in ICUs. Effectively all hospitals will need to shut down their OTs”, said an official. The government must reconsider the order, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/private-hospitals-protest-higher-covid-icu-burden/articleshow/78156247.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 17, 2020||Chennai||Funds for Tamil Nadu’s ASI monuments double in 2 years, but still meagre||CHENNAI: While fund allocation for maintenance of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) monuments in Tamil Nadu has doubled in two years, the funds sanctioned is still inadequate especially when compared to other states with fewer heritage sites. TN has the largest number of centrally-notified monuments and heritage sites maintained by a single circle. Data furnished by the Union culture ministry in the Lok Sabha on Monday reveals that Telangana with just eight ASI monuments received Rs 5.1 crore, while neighbouring Andhra Pradesh was earmarked Rs 5.3 crore for the 2019-20 financial year. Karnataka, home to 506 monuments that are divided among three circles, collectively got nearly Rs 28.5 crore in the last fiscal and Kerala received Rs 4.5 crore for maintenance of 29 monuments. In contrast, Chennai circle with 412 monuments was allocated Rs 9.6 crore for the same period. However, funds earmarked for maintenance of these monuments has increased since 2017 from Rs 4.6 crore to Rs 8.1 crore 2018-19 and Rs 9.6 crore in 2019-20. Ironically, the allocation falls short of the annual revenue of around Rs 12 crore generated at ticketed monuments in the state. Heritage enthusiasts said the funds allocated are grossly inadequate to execute maintenance work. Unlike other states, Tamil Nadu is home to several living monuments that record huge footfall throughout the year, said R Komagan, chairman of Gangaikondacholapuram Development Council. “For instance, the Unesco-notified Brihadeeswarar temples in Thanjavur and Gangaikonda Cholapuram and Kailasanathar Temple at Kancheepuram receive regular inflow of people and require additional funds for maintenance and developing facilities for visitors,” he said. Of the 412 ASI monuments, nearly 80 are living monuments. “There is a disparity in allocation of funds. The new circle headquartered at Trichy will help resolve the issue only to a certain extent,” he added. ASI sources said that poor fund sanction has impacted preservation and maintenance work. Sources said the state needs at least Rs 5 crore just for appointing security guards at monuments and added that the rest of the sum would go towards maintenance work. When contacted, the office of the secretary of the Union culture ministry in the national capital said the ASI director general must be contacted for a response. However, the ASI director general’s office did not respond to the email nor phone calls from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/funds-for-tns-asi-monuments-double-in-2-yrs-but-still-meagre/articleshow/78154805.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Metro gears up to resume services from September 23||JAIPUR: After more than five months, Jaipur Metro services will resume on September 23. The train will be operational on the entire stretch from Chandpole to Baddi Chaupar. The newly constructed underground corridor will be inaugurated by chief minister Ashok Gehlot around noon. Before opeartions were closed due to lockdown, only phase-I (Mansarovar to Chandpole) was open. A senior official at Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) said, “The operations will start around 3 pm. The ministry of housing and urban affairs and ministry of railways have allowed the Metro to operate in a calibrated manner. We will follow the same protocol.” To ensure social distancing, suitable markings at stations and inside trains will be done. Wearing masks will mandatory for all passengers and staff. “Unlike other cities, Jaipur Metro does not have huge ridership. Provisions such as sitting on alternate seats will be made. But there will be no requirement to skip stations in containment zones,” added the official. Mentioning few important guidelines, an official said usage of Aarogya Setu App will be encouraged. Moreover, use of smart cards and cashless/online transactions will be encouraged. The train will run on its regular schedule. “ Now, Metro makes 170 trips between Mansarovar and Chandpole every day. Trains arrive every 15 minutes from 6.25am to 8am and after 8am trains arrive within 10 minutes,” the offical added. Jaipur Metro will ferry commuters from Chandpole to Badi Chaupar at Rs 6 on the 2.4km underground corridor. The fare for the entire 12.06 km corridor (Mansarovar to Chandpole) will be Rs 22. The new corridor could give a fresh lease of life to JMRC as it can increase its ridership once operational. In the absence of Phase 1B, the performance of Phase 1A of Jaipur Metro was ‘poor’ as the average ridership dipped. “At present, an average 20,000 passengers commute through Metro daily, as against the projected figure of 1 lakh. But Phase-II is expected to boost the numbers,” said a senior official. The tariff is comparatively cheaper than other means of transport. People commuting to Walled City from Sindhi Camp, railway station and Sodala use the Metro as it is cost-effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/metro-gears-up-to-resume-services-from-sept-23/articleshow/78156235.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Citing Covid-19 threat, government rejects request to open coaching classes||DEHRADUN: The request made by private coaching centres of Uttarakhand to start their operations was rejected by the state government in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state. The coaching centre owners had made the request on Wednesday and they were accompanied by Vikasnagar MLA Munna Singh Chauhan. The coaching centres had requested to operate at a scale of just 25% of their total strength. The government said that they will be given approval only after a nod from the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/citing-covid-19-threat-govt-rejects-request-to-open-coaching-classes/articleshow/78153638.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Exams for final year Mangalore University students get under way||Mangaluru: The even-semester final year examination for undergraduate/post-graduate courses offered by Mangalore University had a relatively smooth start on Tuesday. Normally conducted in April/May, the examination was deferred due to the pandemic. It is being held pursuant to a direction by the Supreme Court which in August upheld UGC’s July 6 guidelines that made holding exams compulsory for final-year students for all universities. Vice-chancellor P S Yadapadithaya told TOI that initial reports were encouraging. A Covid-19 positive student from Udupi was keen to appear for the exam, but decided against it on medical advice. Separate arrangements have been made in the examination centre for Covid-19 positive students to write the exam, he said adding those who cannot do so, may appear for special examinations in November. The university will treat such students as fresher’s and not repeaters; he said adding they need not pay the examination fee again. Besides, students who appear for ongoing examination and are not able to give their best due to understandable strain too can seek to improve the same in November examinations, he said. “Syndicate has given us the leeway to be liberal with students for this examination as a one-time special case,” Yadapadithaya said. P L Dharma, registrar (evaluation) said a set of students from Belthangady, Uppinangady and Sullia were unable to register for examination online due to connectivity issues. University made special arrangements to issue them manual hall tickets. One Covid-19 positive student appeared for the examination at an examination centre in Moodbidri, Dharma said. The university initially had planned to wrap up the examinations by September 30. However, the multitude of combinations in the BA UG programme and non-availability of dates due to NET/KSET examinations scheduled later in the month has stretched the time-table up to mid-October, VC said. In all, 32,820 UG and PG students have registered to write the examinations in 205 centres spread across DK, Udupi and Kodagu districts, out of which 26,215 students appeared. Students appeared for the UG/PG examination in states as far as Jammu & Kashmir, Manipur and even Karnataka University, Dharwad. “Authorities of the exam centre in J& K have sent the videos and photos of examinations conducted there. Manipur University that conducted the exam on our behalf has also sent us the ‘A’ form, that is attendance sheet of the 16 candidates who appeared for the examinations there,” Dharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/exams-for-final-year-mangalore-university-students-get-under-way/articleshow/78154547.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Health status of seniors’ kin adds to load of surveyors||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has increased the number of teams appointed to conduct home-to-home Covid-19 survey of senior citizens and those with co-morbid conditions from Tuesday. The surveyors now have additional work to seek information about the health status of family members too, under the state government’s new initiative ‘my family-my responsibility’. The PMC has doubled the number of survey teams to 930 within a day. Further, it plans to appoint 1,500 teams in the next few days to survey the population of over 35 lakh. “We begin our survey at 10am and continue for three hours. Now, it will take more time as we will be surveying more people,” said Vikas Benkar, who has been assigned the survey work since the last few months.Satish Narode, another surveyor, said that checking on every family member and seeking information about medical history and symptoms consumes time. Every surveyed house is now being numbered. “We also provide them information about the nearest Covid Centre in the area,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-status-of-seniors-kin-adds-to-load-of-surveyors/articleshow/78156240.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 50% of Haryana’s 1 lakh cases in 26 days||CHANDIGARH: Haryana crossed the one-lakh mark for total Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, around five and half months after the state reported its first case of the deadly virus. While the state had only 50,000 cases in the first four and half months of the pandemic period till August 20, the remaining 50,000 cases were recorded in less than a month. On Wednesday, the state reported 2,694 cases and 19 deaths, raising its total tally to 1,01,316 cases and 1,045 casualties. Even the death count rose drastically after August. While Covid fatalities rose past 1,000 mark on Tuesday, the figure reached 500 only on August 11 and the remaining were reported in the last 36 days. An analysis of Covid-19 data also revealed that it took the state more than two months to get 1,000 cases of the deadly virus, rising from 14 on March 4 to crossing 1,000 on May 21. The state had recorded the first 10,000 cases of Covid-19 on June 20, after a period of around three and half months from the beginning of Covid-19 period. The state hit the 20,000 mark within 20 days by July 10, 30,000 cases on July 25, 40,000 on August 7, and 50,000 cases on August 20. While it took around four and half months for the state, from March 4 to August 20, to reach the figure of 50,000 cases, the last 50,000 cases were recorded in just around 26 days, from August 21 to September 16. The number of Covid deaths has also started rising sharply. The first two Covid deaths were reported in the state on April 6. They rose to 100 by June 15, 200 by June 26, 300 by July 12, 400 by July 28, and 500 by August 11. However, more than 500 deaths in the state were witnessed in the last 26 days. “The recent spike is because of a sudden rise of cases in northern districts, including Panchkula, Ambala, Karnal and Panipat. Southern districts, especially those falling in NCR, witnessed high cases because of the opening of economic activities. Opening of Metro in NCR also impacted Haryana. State may witness more cases in case of opening of schools or colleges in future,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (Health) Haryana. On the state’s preparedness in view of the spike, Arora said testing was being ramped up and special strategies being adopted to control cases. “We are quite prepared as far as medical facilities, testing, availability of beds, oxygen etc. in the state in view of increasing cases. I am sure the situation would come under control in coming days,” Arora claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/50-of-haryanas-1l-cases-in-26-days/articleshow/78156244.cms||Ajay Sura
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kutch powers up for world’s largest RE park||AHMEDABAD: Billed as the world’s largest renewable power generation project at a single location, the proposed hybrid park in Kutch is ready to take off. The park, with a total proposed capacity of about 28,000MW, will house the 10,000MW project of Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL), among others. AGEL aims to invest close to Rs 30,000 crore in the upcoming park where it has been allotted 20,000 hectares of land, said sources. Of the 10,000MW capacity, 8,000MW is likely to be of solar while the remaining will be of wind, said sources. “Over the next five years, our investments will include the world’s largest solar hybrid park in Khavda. The anticipated investment in this park is Rs 30,000 crore,” Gautam Adani, the chairman of Adani Group, had said while speaking at the inaugural session of the Vibrant Gujarat Summit in 2019. The Gujarat government has recently begun the process of allotment of about 50,000 hectares of land to various power producing companies for developing a mix of wind and solar projects. These include AGEL, Sarjan Realities, Gujarat Industries Power Company Ltd (GIPCL), Gujarat State Electricity Corporation Ltd (GSECL), and National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). The park is expected to be completed in five years. To ensure this, developers who had letters of intent or had firm orders or had signed power purchase agreements (PPAs) were given preference. The objective of the hybrid park is to maximize utilization of both land and transmission network, Gujarat energy minister Saurabh Patel said. He said that Gujarat has always taken the lead when it comes to renewable energy. Gujarat came out with India’s first state-specific solar policy and planned innovative projects like the first megawatt-scale canal rooftop project on Narmada canal. The state also set up the country’s largest solar park at Charanka near Patan way back in 2011. The success of the solar rooftop project has become a model for other states to follow today. Patel said that the state government has chalked out plans to draw investments to the tune of Rs 1.5 lakh crore in the renewable energy sector over the next five years. The investment of transmission will be made by Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL) as 50% of the power generated in the park will be given to other states. The Prime Minister’s office has intervened to fast track the project, especially in getting clearance from the ministry of defence (MoD) as some of the areas for the park lie close to the Indo-Pak border, said sources aware of the developments. A series of meetings have taken place between the central energy ministry, MoD, and the Gujarat government, sources added. Over 20,000 hectares of land in the park, which is over and above the area offered to companies for which land allocation process has begun, has been offered to Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI). “Due to the area’s proximity to the border, we have offered SECI this large parcel of land for generating 3,000MW wind power,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kutch-powers-up-for-worlds-largest-re-park/articleshow/78154858.cms||Maulik Pathak
September 17, 2020||Ajmer||HC notice to Rajasthan on school fees||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the state government, director secondary education and Society of Catholic Educations Institutions in Rajasthan on a special appeal petition challenging the single bench order on school fees. The next date of hearing is September 24. The single bench of the court on September 7 in an interim order had directed the parents to pay 70% of tuition fee in three instalments for the academic year 2020-21 till a final decision was taken. The court direction came following a petition by several private school organisations challenging the government order on April 9 directing deferment of school fees for three months for the academic session 2020-2021 which was extended up till re-opening of schools vide order dated July 7. The petitioner said the single bench order had virtually allowed the writ petition in part at the interim stage, virtually directing the institutions to demand 70% of tuition fees from parents during the period for which schools had remained closed or for the period schools would remain close, thus imparting no effective education to the children except through on line medium. He argued that it is settled proposition of law that final relief cannot be granted by law courts at the interim stage and that too in the mandatory form. The petitioner further argued that administrative decision of the government to extend relief to parents of school-going children amidst pandemic was founded upon the sound public policy and for catering larger public interest, which was not open to judicial review. He said the order had been passed without granting any effective opportunity of audience to the affected parties. Besides, school fee of private schools is to be determined in accordance with Chapter II of The Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee Act), 2016. Section 4 of the Act provides for constitution of parents teachers association within 30 days of the beginning of the academic year and parent of every student is mandatorily required to be a member of association. After PTA is formed, then school level fee committee (SLFC) is to be constituted by way of lottery. After the constitution of SLFC, fee is to be determined by it in accordance with the Act of 2016. It is submitted that despite the statutory mandate, none of schools has constituted SLFC in consonance of Act of 2016 and fees have been arbitrarily fixed by the Management of Institution. Thus, parents are not aware of under what head, what fees is being charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hc-notice-on-appeal-against-single-bench-order-on-school-fees/articleshow/78162191.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 17, 2020||Jodhpur||HC notice to Rajasthan on school fees||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the state government, director secondary education and Society of Catholic Educations Institutions in Rajasthan on a special appeal petition challenging the single bench order on school fees. The next date of hearing is September 24. The single bench of the court on September 7 in an interim order had directed the parents to pay 70% of tuition fee in three instalments for the academic year 2020-21 till a final decision was taken. The court direction came following a petition by several private school organisations challenging the government order on April 9 directing deferment of school fees for three months for the academic session 2020-2021 which was extended up till re-opening of schools vide order dated July 7. The petitioner said the single bench order had virtually allowed the writ petition in part at the interim stage, virtually directing the institutions to demand 70% of tuition fees from parents during the period for which schools had remained closed or for the period schools would remain close, thus imparting no effective education to the children except through on line medium. He argued that it is settled proposition of law that final relief cannot be granted by law courts at the interim stage and that too in the mandatory form. The petitioner further argued that administrative decision of the government to extend relief to parents of school-going children amidst pandemic was founded upon the sound public policy and for catering larger public interest, which was not open to judicial review. He said the order had been passed without granting any effective opportunity of audience to the affected parties. Besides, school fee of private schools is to be determined in accordance with Chapter II of The Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee Act), 2016. Section 4 of the Act provides for constitution of parents teachers association within 30 days of the beginning of the academic year and parent of every student is mandatorily required to be a member of association. After PTA is formed, then school level fee committee (SLFC) is to be constituted by way of lottery. After the constitution of SLFC, fee is to be determined by it in accordance with the Act of 2016. It is submitted that despite the statutory mandate, none of schools has constituted SLFC in consonance of Act of 2016 and fees have been arbitrarily fixed by the Management of Institution. Thus, parents are not aware of under what head, what fees is being charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-notice-on-appeal-against-single-bench-order-on-school-fees/articleshow/78162189.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice to Rajasthan on school fees||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the state government, director secondary education and Society of Catholic Educations Institutions in Rajasthan on a special appeal petition challenging the single bench order on school fees. The next date of hearing is September 24. The single bench of the court on September 7 in an interim order had directed the parents to pay 70% of tuition fee in three instalments for the academic year 2020-21 till a final decision was taken. The court direction came following a petition by several private school organisations challenging the government order on April 9 directing deferment of school fees for three months for the academic session 2020-2021 which was extended up till re-opening of schools vide order dated July 7. The petitioner said the single bench order had virtually allowed the writ petition in part at the interim stage, virtually directing the institutions to demand 70% of tuition fees from parents during the period for which schools had remained closed or for the period schools would remain close, thus imparting no effective education to the children except through on line medium. He argued that it is settled proposition of law that final relief cannot be granted by law courts at the interim stage and that too in the mandatory form. The petitioner further argued that administrative decision of the government to extend relief to parents of school-going children amidst pandemic was founded upon the sound public policy and for catering larger public interest, which was not open to judicial review. He said the order had been passed without granting any effective opportunity of audience to the affected parties. Besides, school fee of private schools is to be determined in accordance with Chapter II of The Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee Act), 2016. Section 4 of the Act provides for constitution of parents teachers association within 30 days of the beginning of the academic year and parent of every student is mandatorily required to be a member of association. After PTA is formed, then school level fee committee (SLFC) is to be constituted by way of lottery. After the constitution of SLFC, fee is to be determined by it in accordance with the Act of 2016. It is submitted that despite the statutory mandate, none of schools has constituted SLFC in consonance of Act of 2016 and fees have been arbitrarily fixed by the Management of Institution. Thus, parents are not aware of under what head, what fees is being charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-on-appeal-against-single-bench-order-on-school-fees/articleshow/78156246.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 50% of Haryana’s 1 lakh cases in 26 days||CHANDIGARH: Haryana crossed the one-lakh mark for total Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, around five and half months after the state reported its first case of the deadly virus. While the state had only 50,000 cases in the first four and half months of the pandemic period till August 20, the remaining 50,000 cases were recorded in less than a month. On Wednesday, the state reported 2,694 cases and 19 deaths, raising its total tally to 1,01,316 cases and 1,045 casualties. Even the death count rose drastically after August. While Covid fatalities rose past 1,000 mark on Tuesday, the figure reached 500 only on August 11 and the remaining were reported in the last 36 days. An analysis of Covid-19 data also revealed that it took the state more than two months to get 1,000 cases of the deadly virus, rising from 14 on March 4 to crossing 1,000 on May 21. The state had recorded the first 10,000 cases of Covid-19 on June 20, after a period of around three and half months from the beginning of Covid-19 period. The state hit the 20,000 mark within 20 days by July 10, 30,000 cases on July 25, 40,000 on August 7, and 50,000 cases on August 20. While it took around four and half months for the state, from March 4 to August 20, to reach the figure of 50,000 cases, the last 50,000 cases were recorded in just around 26 days, from August 21 to September 16. The number of Covid deaths has also started rising sharply. The first two Covid deaths were reported in the state on April 6. They rose to 100 by June 15, 200 by June 26, 300 by July 12, 400 by July 28, and 500 by August 11. However, more than 500 deaths in the state were witnessed in the last 26 days. “The recent spike is because of a sudden rise of cases in northern districts, including Panchkula, Ambala, Karnal and Panipat. Southern districts, especially those falling in NCR, witnessed high cases because of the opening of economic activities. Opening of Metro in NCR also impacted Haryana. State may witness more cases in case of opening of schools or colleges in future,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (Health) Haryana. On the state’s preparedness in view of the spike, Arora said testing was being ramped up and special strategies being adopted to control cases. “We are quite prepared as far as medical facilities, testing, availability of beds, oxygen etc. in the state in view of increasing cases. I am sure the situation would come under control in coming days,” Arora claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/50-of-haryanas-1l-cases-in-26-days/articleshow/78161423.cms||Ajay Sura
September 17, 2020||Trichy||Dalit girl tries to end life over caste slur||Trichy: A 13-year-old dalit girl attempted to commit suicide by consuming sleeping pills after her mother was abused by a woman of another community on Tuesday. The woman abused the girl’s mother after her 20-year-old son fell in love with the girl and gave her a love letter. Golden Rock police booked the accused, S Lakshmi, 42, and her son Siva alias Rajarathinam of Sembattu in Trichy, a milk vendor. The minor girl is a Class 7 student in the airport area. Siva, who is from a backward community, has been indulging in stalking her. On Tuesday, Siva gave her a love letter when she was taking water from a public tap. On hearing the news, Lakshmi rushed to the house of the girl on Tuesday morning and verbally abused her mother. It was also alleged that the woman abused her by her caste name. This has caused mental agony for the girl and she could not take it easily. She consumed three sleeping pills to end her life, police said. Her family members rushed her to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy, where she lodged a police complaint. Acting on the complaint, police booked Siva and his mother under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and ST/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Assistant commissioner of police, Golden Rock range P Tamil Maran told TOI that the girl is out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dalit-girl-tries-to-end-life-over-caste-slur/articleshow/78156243.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Edu dept rolls out transfer application calender||Jaipur: The state education department has rolled out the online transfer application calendar for its teachers on Wednesday. The ban on transfer of government employees will remain relaxed till October 31. Online application process will start from September 17 for headmasters or principals and end with grade-II teachers on October 9. Those suffering from cancer, renal failures and age-related or developed disability will be considered on a priority basis. “Priority will also be given to those teachers who have given good results and received awards at the district, state and national levels,” said an official. This is the second-time the state has opened transfers for government employees in their tenure. The schedule says the transfer application link for principals will be open from September 17 till September 21 on the education department website. While the link for school lecturer will be open from September 22 to 25 and for school teachers (grade II), it will be available from October 5 to October 9. The department has clarified that none of the transfer seekers is allowed to visit the department or the government office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/edu-dept-rolls-out-transfer-application-calender/articleshow/78156238.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Udaipur||HC notice to Rajasthan on school fees||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the state government, director secondary education and Society of Catholic Educations Institutions in Rajasthan on a special appeal petition challenging the single bench order on school fees. The next date of hearing is September 24. The single bench of the court on September 7 in an interim order had directed the parents to pay 70% of tuition fee in three instalments for the academic year 2020-21 till a final decision was taken. The court direction came following a petition by several private school organisations challenging the government order on April 9 directing deferment of school fees for three months for the academic session 2020-2021 which was extended up till re-opening of schools vide order dated July 7. The petitioner said the single bench order had virtually allowed the writ petition in part at the interim stage, virtually directing the institutions to demand 70% of tuition fees from parents during the period for which schools had remained closed or for the period schools would remain close, thus imparting no effective education to the children except through on line medium. He argued that it is settled proposition of law that final relief cannot be granted by law courts at the interim stage and that too in the mandatory form. The petitioner further argued that administrative decision of the government to extend relief to parents of school-going children amidst pandemic was founded upon the sound public policy and for catering larger public interest, which was not open to judicial review. He said the order had been passed without granting any effective opportunity of audience to the affected parties. Besides, school fee of private schools is to be determined in accordance with Chapter II of The Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee Act), 2016. Section 4 of the Act provides for constitution of parents teachers association within 30 days of the beginning of the academic year and parent of every student is mandatorily required to be a member of association. After PTA is formed, then school level fee committee (SLFC) is to be constituted by way of lottery. After the constitution of SLFC, fee is to be determined by it in accordance with the Act of 2016. It is submitted that despite the statutory mandate, none of schools has constituted SLFC in consonance of Act of 2016 and fees have been arbitrarily fixed by the Management of Institution. Thus, parents are not aware of under what head, what fees is being charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hc-notice-on-appeal-against-single-bench-order-on-school-fees/articleshow/78162188.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 17, 2020||Trichy||FIR filed over theft of 12 stone idols from Ariyalur temple||Trichy: Idol Wing CID police in Chennai registered a case over the theft of 12 stone idols at Balamabigai- Kailasanathar temple at Sullangudi in Ariyalur district, on Wednesday. The complaint states that the idols were stolen before 2002.The first information report (FIR) was filed by the idol wing CID led by its additional director general of police (ADGP), Abhay Kumar Singh on Wednesday. The report stated that the stone idols of Vinayagar, Dhakshinamoorthy, Lingothapavar, Arthanareeswarar, Durgai Amman, Chandran, Sandikeswarar, Balambigai, Appar, Maha Vishnu, Gajalakshmi and Bhairvan at the temple had been stolen before 2002. The case was filed based on the complaint from the executive officer, in-charge of the temple, N Ramesh. Idol wing appointed the deputy superintendent of police Kathiravan as the investigating officer in the case. A press note from the idol wing also stated that the then trustee or the executive officer had not lodged any complaint to the police with regard to the theft that occurred 18 years back. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fir-filed-over-theft-of-12-stone-idols-from-ariyalur-temple/articleshow/78156256.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||11 killed as boat capsizes in Chambal river near Kota||KOTA: At least 11 people, including women and children, were killed after a boat carrying over 40 pilgrims capsized in the Chambal river on Wednesday morning at around 8.45am. Two were missing. Some two dozen people managed to swim to safety or were rescued by local residents in the mishap that occurred near Gotra village of Dhibri Chambal area under Khatoli police station, about 110km from Kota district headquarters. The boat, carrying around 40 persons, was taking the pilgrims to Kamleshwar Mahadev Temple in Indergarh area of Bundi district when the mishap occurred. The passengers were from various villages in Khatoli and Itawa areas of the Kota district. The state government has announced a relief of Rs 1 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. The accident may have occurred due to overloading and the weak structure of the boat. The Chambal river near Gotra village, where the boat capsized, is around 40-45-ft deep. The accident spot lies between Bundi and Kota districts, an official said, adding that the SDRF and NDRF teams were still searching for the missing three persons. “Anguished by the capsizing of a boat in Kota, Rajasthan. My thoughts are with those who have lost their near and dear ones,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed condolences to the aggrieved families. “The incident is extremely unfortunate and I have asked the administration as well as the police department to find the missing persons at the earliest and the officials to provide assistance to the families from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund,” Gehlot tweeted. Lok Sabha Speaker and Kota-Bundi MP Om Birla also expressed his sorrow over the incident. He said his office was in constant touch with the district administration and monitoring the rescue operation. "At least, 11 people have been killed in the boat mishap in Khatoli. The search for three other persons missing is underway. However, 20 persons have been rescued," said Kota collector Ujjaval Rathore, adding prima facie overloading and the weak structure of the boat may have caused the mishap. A case has been lodged with the police in this connection against the owner and operator of the boat, Rathore added. SP Sharad Chowdhary, Kota rural, told TOI, "The rescue operation will continue till we find the remaining two bodies. In remote areas, people do not take permit to operate such boats, which are made locally and are at times in poor condition.” Following the incident, the district administration has decided to take stock of the condition of boats in Kota district. Officials will also inspect the boats on Thursday, confirmed the SP. According to various versions by locals, the number of people on the loaded boat varied between 35 to 50 people. The boat was also carrying 14-15 motorbikes. Bodies of 11 of them have been recovered, said DSP and circle officer Shubhkaran. They have been handed over to family members after post-mortem. The SHO of Khatoli police station was also sent to police lines till further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-killed-as-boat-capsizesin-chambal-river-near-kota/articleshow/78156275.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 17, 2020||Pune||Serum resumes vaccine trial after regulator approval||Pune: The advanced human trials of the Oxford vaccine have resumed in the country after the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave an all-clear to Serum Institute (SII) to restart the process. The SII is partnering with Oxford University to make the potential vaccine.Doctors at 17 trial sites in India will now start phase 3 of the trials, set to test the vaccine in a large number of volunteers. The trials were paused on September 11, soon after a volunteer at a trial site in the United Kingdom developed an adverse reaction.But the DCGI has applied certain conditions such as additional precautions during screening; additional information to volunteers while seeking informed consent ahead of the trials; and closer monitoring for adverse events.Adar Poonawalla, owner and CEO of the SII said DCGI’s go-ahead will put the process “back on track”. “The trials have no safety issue and that’s why the DCGI allowed us to restart the trials. The UK trials have also restarted. We are now back on track. We lost a few days, but we will try to make that up,” he told TOI on Wednesday. A total of 100 volunteers in India have already received trial doses as part of the phase 2 trials. The phase 3 safety and immunogenicity study of the vaccine will be conducted among the next 1,500 healthy adult volunteers across the 17 trial sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/serum-resumes-vaccine-trial-after-regulator-approval/articleshow/78156250.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Retired SMS hosp doc loses battle against Covid||Jaipur: Retired doctor Dinesh Jindal, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital since September 8, passed away on Wednesday.Jindal was a senior professor (medicine) at the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital.Meanwhile, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Society (PHNHS) alleged that Jindal did not get a bed in a dedicated Covid-19 hospital initially, but after three to four days, he got a bed in a private dedicated Covid-19 hospital.PHNHS secretary Dr Vijay Kapoor said, “Jindal was tested positive for Covid-19 early in September. After three to four days, he searched for a bed in a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, but did not find any. Since, he required oxygen support and other basic treatment, he got admitted to a private hospital for supportive care, while kept searching for bed in any dedicated Covid-19 hospital. On September 8, he found a bed in ICU of a private hospital,” he said.However, the SMS Hospital administration claimed that in RUHS, there are always some protocol beds remain available for treatment.Hospital officials said that his condition remain stable for the first four five days, but in the past two days, his condition deteriorated suddenly and he died. He was put on ventilator, but all efforts went in vain.Recently, a doctor (orthopedician) of SMS Hospital had died due to post Covid-19 complications due to reoccurrence of cytokine storm. Such reoccurrence of cytokine storm was reported in Jindal’s case, said the treating doctors of the private hospital.Jindal was provided with plasma therapy and tocilizumab injections, but due to reoccurrence of cytokine storm, he lost battle to Covid-19 at around 2am on Wednesday. “We provided him plasma therapy and tocilizumab to deal with cytokine storm, but the concentration of interleukin-6 (IL-6) was quite high, which I have not seen in any other Covid-19 patient,” said a doctor.The doctors have started observing that reoccurrence of cytokine storm in some Covid-19 patients is making their recovery even more difficult which leads to multi-organ failure in some cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/retired-sms-hosp-doc-loses-battle-against-covid/articleshow/78156271.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chennai||Empty bars force Chennai hotels to slash prices||CHENNAI: A fortnight after bars attached to city hotels were allowed to resume business, footfalls aren’t anywhere near pre-Covid level. This poor patronage has forced hotels to offer attractive deals. Following in the footsteps of Bengaluru, many star hotels are now offering referral rewards and have slashed booking rates by up to 30%. Even luxurious business rooms are available for less than Rs 4,000 in core areas of the city and near the airport. In the pre-Covid era, a star hotel in the city on an average generated Rs 60,000 to Rs 70,000 revenue on a daily basis. But it is less than Rs 15,000 now, according to hotel industry sources. Reopening of bars hasn’t helped hotels much in increasing room occupancy either. For instance, proprietors of a popular business hotel in T Nagar said usually 110 of the 130 rooms would be occupied pre-lockdown. Now, hardly 15 rooms were occupied by business travellers, they said. Healthcare professionals comprise majority of bookings even today. The situation was slightly better at resorts on East Coast Road (ECR), which report that at least half the rooms are occupied during weekends. But even here, occupants hesitate to use the bar or restaurant and prefer to order food and liquor in their rooms, sources added. T Nataraajan of South Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association (SIHRA) said it was too early to comment on the situation as hotels are understanding the impact of removing the e-pass system only now. “We hope the situation gets better by October first or second week,” he said. Meanwhile, bars attached to Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) liquor stores remained closed even after the government’s green signal three weeks back. Authorities and industry sources confirmed that no preparatory work was underway suggesting that reopening wasn’t on the cards anytime soon. Retail sales, however, remained constant. Last Sunday, Chennai Tasmac sales stood at Rs 52 crore while the overall revenue crossed the Rs 243 crore-mark, according to official data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/empty-bars-force-city-hotels-to-slash-prices/articleshow/78154883.cms||Ram Sundaram
September 17, 2020||Trichy||23-year-old man held for marrying, raping minor girl in Trichy||TRICHY: A 23-year-old man, who had married a 15-year-old girl and sexually assaulted her, was arrested by the Trichy city police on Tuesday. The accused was identified as M Mathiyazhagan, 23 of Samayapuram in Trichy. According to police, the girl, a Class X student, had got acquainted with Mathiyazhagan, who used to frequent her relative’s house. Subsequently, they both fell in love. On September 12, he persuaded the girl to come with him and took her to a temple where he ‘married’ her. He also took her to a house near the airport area and started having sexual relations with her. The offence came to light after the girl’s sister-in-law lodged a complaint with the Srirangam all women police station. Acting on the complaint, police managed to catch the accused and rescue the girl from him. He was booked under sections of the Prohibition of the Child Marriages Act and for committing penetrative sexual assault on the girl under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act The accused was produced in court and remanded in judicial custody. The girl was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) for medical examination. Police said that apart from the illegal child marriage, it is also an offence to have sexual relations with a minor girl. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-23-held-for-marrying-and-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/78156270.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Airline ex-official found guilty of slur against colleague||NEW DELHI: A former senior official of an international air carrier was on Wednesday convicted on the charge of insulting the modesty of a former colleague by using words a decade ago. Though a delay on the part of the survivor in filing a case, the court observed women in a social setting like ours are often subjected to many pressures in such matters. For metropolitan magistrate Dev Saroha, it was clear that Lalith D’Silva, an erstwhile official of the airline, had used words with the intention to insult the modesty of the complainant. The survivor was found to be consistent in her explanation with respect to the delay in filing of the case. “She being a woman in a social setting like ours is often subjected to many pressures in matters like these. In the present case, not only the social dignity of the complainant was on the line but also there must be some professional considerations, the accused being a senior officer of the company and her boss,” the court said. It added, “Thus, the explanation given by the complainant is believable.” As far as her testimony goes, it was termed as “thoroughly consistent” with respect to the date of the incident and the details of how it happened. It is seen from the order that reportedly D’ Silva verbally abused the survivor on October 8, 2009. It is also learnt that she had immediately made a complaint with her seniors and waited for them to take action against the accused, who was also a senior employee. The order records that she was discouraged from approaching police. The abuses didn’t stop when he allegedly used cuss words after he transferred her against her wish. In 2011, when her complaints only fell on the company’s deaf ears, she had no option left but to move the National Commission for Women. It was only after the commission sent a complaint to the Delhi police commissioner that a formal complaint was lodged and investigation began. The survivor alleged that there were other women too who had been treated in a similar manner by the accused. D’Silva said he was innocent and the complainant wanted to settle scores with him over her transfer besides the fact that there were no witnesses. “Just because there are no other witnesses to the incident the testimony of the complainant cannot be disbelieved,” it observed. The order held that the words were uttered to insult the modesty of the survivor. For deciding on the quantum of punishment, the court will hear arguments on November 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/airline-ex-official-found-guilty-of-slur-against-colleague/articleshow/78156281.cms||Aamir Khan
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||CM inaugurates dictionary app for Garhwali, Kumaoni and Jaunsari||DEHRADUN: A mobile app, which has a dictionary for three regional languages spoken in different parts of Uttarakhand, was launched by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday. The app has been developed by Colonel DP Dimri (retd) and his associates. Calling it a commendable effort, CM Rawat said that such initiatives help in preserving the regional languages and encourage people to speak their own languages. Col Dimri said that the app has been developed mainly keeping in mind the youngsters. “Although dictionaries of regional languages of Uttarakhand are available, it becomes difficult when it is required to refer to them immediately. We hope that this digital dictionary will encourage youngsters to speak these languages,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inaugurates-dictionary-app-for-garhwali-kumaoni-and-jaunsari/articleshow/78153669.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Scale up RT-PCR tests on priority: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: RT-PCR, the gold standard test to trace Covid-19 infection, must be the way forward, Delhi High Court noted on Wednesday, directing the AAP government to scale up testing capacity and number of tests. “Having regard to the fact that the results of the tests conducted through RAT are accurate only to the extent of 60% thus leaving a great doubt about infection being carried by those persons who are asymptomatic, we are of the firm view that RT-PCR should be the way forward. For this, in our opinion, Delhi government ought to focus on shoring up the capacity of testing through RT-PCR, so that testing through RT-PCR is scaled up substantially. Only by enhancing the testing capacity can more persons be tested through RT-PCR,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad observed, while taking stock of tests being conducted by the government. It further asked an expert committee set up by the lieutenant governor to meet on priority and examine the extent to which capacity building for RT-PCR testing is required. “The committee shall also identify the areas of focus in Delhi for conducting testing through RT-PCR,” the high court said, while seeking a report from the AAP government. The court also frowned at failure of the government to disclose details of latest sero surveillance and stayed declaration of results till an analysis is first filed in court. “It has been noticed that on the previous occasions too, such a submission was made on behalf of Delhi government and we had accommodated, only to find that the sero surveillance report was made public on the very next date. Till the said report is finalised and the analysis of the sero surveillance-3 vis-a-vis the previous two sero surveillances is placed on record, the same shall not be declared,” the court ordered. The bench also noted that from September 8 to 15, the number of tests conducted through RT/PCR was less than one fourth of the total number of tests. It suggested that RT/PCR should constitute at least 50% of the total testing numbers. The AAP government, meanwhile, told the court that out of 435 mohalla clinics, 400 were functional and 50-60 of them were conducting Covid-19 tests after completing their OPDs. The bench then noted that not only mohalla clinics, but community centres in residential colonies must also be roped in for setting up testing facilities as cases of Covid-19 are shooting up on a daily basis. On Tuesday, 4,473 fresh cases were recorded in Delhi, taking the tally to more than 2.25 lakh. “Delhi government shall ensure that while getting the mapping done, the density of the population in a particular district and the number of containment zones in a district are taken into consideration and wherever there is quite a distance between the facilities presently set up for testing purposes, the dots shall be connected with the intervention of mohalla clinics and community centres of the area,” the court further directed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-scale-up-rt-pcr-tests-on-priority/articleshow/78156279.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur gets first fleet of bike ambulances||JAIPUR: Strengthening ambulance services, the state government has launched bike ambulance (First Responder Vehicle) services in the city on Wednesday. A private company has provided five bike ambulances to the health department under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma flagged off bike ambulances from his residence. The health department handed over the bike ambulances to chief medical health officer (CMHO) Jaipur-I which will issue an emergency number on which the needy patient will call to avail the service. Sharma said, “We have planned to launch the bike ambulance services not only in Jaipur, but also in Jodhpur and Ajmer. The districts have been selected as they have old city area where the lanes are narrow and a normal size ambulance is difficult to enter. These motorbike ambulances are smaller in size and can move easily in such narrow lanes,” said Sharma. The health department will provide training to its selected nursing staff who will ride the bike ambulance and transport the patient to hospitals. National Health Mission Director Naresh Thakral said that these bike ambulances are equipped with all ultramodern facilities such as a first aid box, oxygen cylinder with flow meter, humidifier mask, fireproof equipment, foldable hood and three-tone siren and the cost of each vehicle is approximately Rs 1.70 lakh. In the state, 701 ambulances are running under 108 ambulance services, 587 are 104 Janani Express and 74 are base ambulances. The fleet of ambulances are run by a private firm roped in by the state government. But, the bike ambulances will be run by chief medical health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-gets-first-fleet-of-bike-ambulances/articleshow/78156267.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee Municipal Corporation’s sanitary official succumbs to Covid-19||ROORKEE: A sanitation official of Roorkee Municipal Corporation (RMC) succumbed to Covid-19 late on Tuesday. The man was identified as Dinesh Kumar Pinki, 54, who was a safai nayak with RMC. He passed away at AIIMS, Rishikesh. "Though he was home quarantined for the last few days after he tested positive for Covid-19, he was rushed to Rishikesh for treatment on Tuesday after his condition deteriorated. He was one of the finest frontline sanitary workers of our corporation,” said CK Bhatt, assistant municipal commissioner at RMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rmcs-sanitary-official-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/78153649.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath daydreaming on forming govt: Shivraj||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday took a dig at the Congress leader Kamal Nath's claim to form the government after 35 days in the state and said that Congress' idea is good only to keep its heart happy and he is daydreaming. Cabinet minister Vishwas Sarang has also claimed that several Congress MLAs are still ready to join the saffron party. "Dil ko behlane ko Ghalib khayal achcha hai. (To keep the heart happy, the idea is good)," Chouhan took a dig at the remarks by Kamal Nath. The Congress leader had a day before claimed that the old party will form government after 35 days and then will appoint the Speaker in the assembly. "We will appoint the Speaker after 35 days in the state," Nath had claimed after the all-party meeting at the assembly on Tuesday when he was asked about the appointments of Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the House. Nath had also alleged that Congress MLA Govardhan Dangi, who was admitted to a private hospital in Bhopal three weeks ago with Covid-positive report, did not get proper treatment and succumbed to the infection even after shifting to a private hospital in New Delhi. Meanwhile, state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said that Nath should stop thinking about the Congress government and appointing a Speaker and a Deputy Speaker in the assembly. "Several Congress MLAs are still willing to join the BJP. We have asked them to exercise restraint because their quitting the old party would bring more troubles to Kamal Nath amid Covid-19 crisis," claimed Sarang. Referring to Nath’s statement on poor treatment of late Dangi he said, "It is highly objectionable and irresponsible. His statement will demoralise the corona warriors who have dedicated their life to save people suffering from Covid-19," said Sarang. "Sarang is medical education minister and he should be concerned how to stop corona infection and increasing deaths. As far as Nath's statement goes, it is a fact that Congress will form the government after winning the bypolls in the state," said Congress state spokesperson, K K Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-daydreaming-on-forming-govt-shivraj/articleshow/78154818.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man in home quarantine post-treatment hangs self||PUNE: A 45-year-old man placed in home quarantine after Covid-19 treatment was found hanging from a ceiling bar in his house at Dhankawdi on Tuesday. An officer from the Sahakarnagar police said the man had tested positive for Covid-19 few days ago. “After treatment, he was advised home quarantine by the doctors for about seven days,” he said. The officer said the man stayed in a flat in a housing complex in Dhankawdi, while his wife and two children were staying at one of his relatives’ place in Padmavati. “The brother of the home quarantined man found the latter hanging from the ceiling bar in his flat on Tuesday morning,” the officer said, adding that the man’s sibling had gone there to give him breakfast. The officer said the man’s father — a retired police officer — succumbed to coronavirus infection a few days ago. “The man was upset since then,” he said. The police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-in-home-quarantine-post-treatment-hangs-self/articleshow/78156269.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Jaipur||Govt hands over RUHS, Jaipuria hosps to SMS Medical College||JAIPUR: In a record single-day spike, the state reported 1,782 new infections on Wednesday besides reporting 15 deaths. The cumulative infection count is 1, 076,80 while fatalities stand at 1,279. With 367 new infections, Jaipur’s Covid-19 cases breached the 16,000 mark to touch 16,039 cases. Active cases in Jaipur touched a new high of 5,836. Since active cases are constantly increasing in the city, the health department has taken a major decision of giving control of two government dedicated Covid hospitals — RUHS and Jaipuria — under SMS Medical College. The state government on Wednesday issued orders giving administrative control of RUHS hospital, a state designated Covid hospital, and Jaipuria, also a dedicated Covid hospital, to principal and controller of Sawai Man Singh Medical College for better treatment of patients till further orders.An order jointly issued by principal secretary health Akhil Arora and principal secretary medical education Vaibhav Galriya said all faculty members, doctors and nursing staff, paramedical staff, ward boys and other staff of RUHS Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital will work under the control and guidance of principal and controller of SMS Medical College for Covid management and treatment. The health department issued orders that SMS Hospital’s additional superintendent Dr Ajit Singh will have additional responsibility to work as superintendent of RUHS Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital. Dr DP Meena, senior professor (medicine) at SMS Hospital will be the head of the department (medicine) for RUHS Hospital. “SMS Medical College additioanal principal Dr Deepak Mathur will be the officer in-charge for Jaipuria Hospital. All existing staff of Jaipuria and RUHS will work as they have been working,” said a health department official.Apart from Jaipur, Jodhpur too reported more than 300 new infections. With 301 new Covid cases, the overall tally of Jodhpur now stands at 15,869.Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (367), Jodhpur (301), Kota (126), Alwar (101), Ajmer (100), Udaipur (80), Bhilwara (63), Bikaner (58), Jaisalmer (44), Pratapgarh (42), Sikar (40), Nagaur (38), Pali (37), Sriganganagar (30), Barmer (29), Jalore (27), Bundi (25), Banswara (25), Churu (24), Bharatpur (23), Dungarpur (23), Dholpur (22), Chittorgarh (21), Baran (20), Tonk (18), Dausa (16), Jhalawar (16), Jhunjhunu (15), Rajsamand (15), Sirohi (13), Hanumangarh (11), Sawai Madhopur (8) and Karauli (4). BOX: Today’s positive: 1782Cumulative positive: 1,07,680Today’s death: 15Cumulative death: 1279Today’s recovered: 1479Cumulative recovered: 89352Active cases: 17049BOX: Public Works Department wrote to chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) asking for mass testing for Covid-19 of its employees. PWD chief engineer and additional secratery Sajeev Mathur wrote to CMHO mentioning that seven persons have tested positive for Covid-19 and two of them have died. Other empoyees are at higher risk of getting infected. He demanded that the health deparment should conduct random sampling of emloyees in 20 offices on the premises having 700 employees. Active cases on the rise in state and JaipurStateJaipurSeptember 16170495836September 1139703920August 16138162162August 1118811332July 166666695July 13317539||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-hands-over-ruhs-jaipuria-hosps-to-sms-medical-college/articleshow/78156276.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Trichy||Man ends life after delay in handover of father’s body||Tiruvarur: A 25-year-old man ended his life by consuming pesticide near Tiruvarur district here on Tuesday after doctors from a government hospital refused to hand over the body of his father, who died of some ailments, as Covid-19 test was pending.According to police, Amirthalingam, 55, farmer from Mela Korukkai village near Thiruthuraipoondi, was admitted to the government hospital on Tuesday for some ailments. However, he died while the health workers were preparing to shift him to the Tiruvarur medical college hospital for further treatment on the same day.Following that, the hospital authorities informed A Prabhu, son of the deceased that the body would be handed over to the family only after taking samples for Covid -19 tests. Prabhu returned home on hearing this and consumed pesticide.He was rushed to Thiruthuraipoondi government hospital and then referred to Tiruvarur medical college hospital. However, on the way, he also died. Thiruthuraipoondi police are inquiring into it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-ends-life-after-delay-in-handover-of-fathers-body/articleshow/78156282.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||PMR caseload surges to 2.35 lakh, 74 more dead||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 4,656 cases on Wednesday, with the lion’s share of 2,120 infections from the Pune municipal limits, followed by 1,432 from the rural as well as Cantonment areas. With the Wednesday’s addition, the total caseload in the region has climbed above 2.35 lakh. As per the data released by the district health office, more than 700 new cases were recorded on Wednesday as against Tuesday’s tally of 3,889. The data showed that 3,505 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after bring declared cured, taking the recovery count in the region above 1.88 lakh. More than 1.03 lakh patients have been discharged in the PMC limits so far. Besides, 74 more patients succumbed to the coronavirus-related complication in PMR in the last 24 hours, taking the region’s toll to 5,366. The report further stated that the region’s active caseload increased to 42,479 by Wednesday night as against 41,402 on Tuesday. As many as 25,435 patients were being treated at various hospitals in PMR, while 17,044 patients were in home isolation as of Wednesday night. The report further stated that over 15,490 samples were collected and sent for the tests on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-caseload-surges-to-2-35-lakh-74-more-dead/articleshow/78156273.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Con-call centre operating from riverfront busted in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: While police continue to crack down on ‘con call centres’ in the city, scammers are trying new ways to cheat people. Two such persons were caught by Sabarmati Riverfront (East) police station — Riyaz Shaikh, 30, of Shah-e-Alam and Swapnil Christian, 22, of Hatkeshwar Road in Amraiwadi — making con calls from an open ground on the Sabarmati riverfront. This is the first time city police has caught such a cheating operation being run in the open. Inspector N R Patel of Sabarmati Riverfront (East) police station said the two were sitting on a parked scooter in the open space near Jamalpur Circle on the riverfront with a laptop and cell phones. They were allegedly calling US citizens and cheating them using the ruse of payday loans. A police sources said while Shaikh provided the leads — that is the data of US citizens they found in their possession — Christian would call them pretending to be a US banker and offer them payday loans. “If they managed to trap US citizens, they would make them buy I-Tunes cards which they would redeem through their money processers, and then stop all further contact with the victim,” added a police source. A police official said the accused said that they thought that operating from their laptops in the open would not draw suspicion. Patel said they found some 35 Excel spreadsheets on their computer containing data of US citizens. “We have arrested both the accused after their Covid tests. We want to know how long they have been running this cheating operation for and how many US citizens they have duped. For this we will seek custodial interrogation,” added Patel. A police source said they seized mobile phones, a laptop with various software on it and the scooter on which they came to the riverfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/open-air-con-from-riverfront-duo-fished-for-prey-in-us/articleshow/78154913.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chennai||DMK seeks special session on NEP, walks out of assembly||CHENNAI: The contentious National Education Policy that promoted three-language policy on Wednesday triggered a heated debate in the assembly, with the main opposition DMK walking out in protest against the ruling AIADMK for not moving a resolution to condemn the policy. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami asserted that the AIADMK was firm about the two language formula and would not give it up. The DMK MLAs walked out in protest after school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said the government would take a call after it received reports from the committees constituted by it to study the NEP. When Congress floor leader K R Ramasamy alleged the government was reluctant to take a stand against the Centre, Palaniswami was quick to point out that the Congress had failed to get any benefit for TN. “I don’t want to get deep into the issue because there is no time. It is a national policy and should be reviewed. A decision would be taken based on the committee’s reports on merits and demerits,” the CM said. DMK chief M K Stalin said the two-language policy was the lifeline of Tamil Nadu. “I firmly urge the state to convene an all-party meeting to discuss it and a special session to pass a resolution. The National Education Policy 2020, which is against social justice, federal and egalitarian principles, should be rejected outright,” the DMK leader said, asking the state to expand the terms of reference of the committees and look into the demerits of the policy. He said the significance given to Sanskrit and Hindi was not attached to other languages in the policy. The board examinations in Classes III, V and VIII and structural changes in curriculum were aimed at ruining the successful educational system in the state and minimum educational qualification for teachers were unacceptable, Stalin said. Congress MLA S Vijayadharani said the policy was aimed at weakening the government schools, and the 10+2 existing system was fine instead of the proposed 5+3+3+4 system since it would complicated. “New language will only be a burden for children. We see the three-language policy as nothing but imposition, while the two-language policy is scientific. Hindi should be an option,” she said. IUML Abu Backer hit out at the Centre for seeking the views of the governors (chancellors of the Universities) rather than the state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-seeks-special-session-on-nep-walks-out-of-assembly/articleshow/78154936.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||RSS chief Bhagwat in Bhopal; to attend two-day VHP meet||Bhopal: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat will be the special invitee during a two-day central committee meeting of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) beginning from Thursday (September 17). Bhagwat arrived at the RSS office ‘Samidha’ here on Wednesday afternoon to participate in the sessions. “The meeting is being held to review service and social works undertaken by the VHP and its members during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. Apart from routine topics, the meeting will also discuss and review working of the last six months, prepare the work schedule for the coming year and pass resolutions on important issues,” said VHP regional publicity in-charge, Jitendra Chauhan. Sources in the VHP, however, disclosed that the construction of the Ramjanmbhoomi temple in Ayodhya is the main focus of the VHP meeting. The parishad has plans to project the temple site as a memorial and centre of social harmony in the country. Issues of tribal conversions and anti-Hindu propaganda are also likely to come up during the discussions. Top VHP leaders, including secretary general Milind Parande, organising secretary general Vinayakrao Deshpande and vice-president Champat Rai will be present among others. The meeting was scheduled to be held in March-April at Ujjain. However, due to the coronavirus outbreak, it had to be postponed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rss-chief-bhagwat-in-bhopal-to-attend-two-day-vhp-meet/articleshow/78154919.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Trichy||BDU college principals doubtful of fair practices in final sem exams||Trichy: Principals of several affiliated colleges of Bharathidasan University were apprehensive about the manner in which online examination would be conducted for final semester students, during a video conference with vice-chancellor P Manisankar on Tuesday. “How can we ensure that students don’t indulge in malpractice while appearing for the examination. How do we really know if it is the real student who is appearing for the examination,” asked one principal. Brushing aside such fears, the VC asked principals to have trust in their students. The meeting was planned to decide on the modalities for the ‘online’ examination.College teachers have expressed shocked over principals approving such an invalid plan to test the understanding of students on their subjects saying it can at best termed as “end semester assignment submission” rather than online examination. Over 56,000 students from BDU departments and affiliated colleges from eight districts are set to appear for the final semester examination through online mode from September 21 to 30.On the day of examination, students will download the question paper through the university portal, write the answers on A-4 sheets and upload it to the portal by taking screen shots. Students will be given three hours to write answers and an additional 2 hours to upload the soft copy of the answer scripts. However, during all these hours, they will be on their own and there are no arrangements to monitor their activities.Having the examination in online mode with objective type questions as planned by Anna university could have been an option which BDU could have considered, said another principal. Controller of examination S Srinivasa Raghavan told TOI that the possibility of conducting exams completely in online mode was not possible with the limited time given. On expecting fair practices from students, he said the university is planning to verify the handwriting of students with previous year’s answer scripts if doubts arise. Students need to be honest and not put themselves in trouble, he said. He said the university will be getting support of cloud computing services for the smooth conduct of the examination. It will be finalised after a trial and talks are on with a few companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-college-principals-doubtful-of-fair-practices-in-final-sem-exams/articleshow/78156278.cms||Sampath Kumar
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Madhu Vihar shooting: Killer had faked death by drug overdose in June||NEW DELHI: A probe into the murder case of 33-year-old Yogesh, who was shot dead by three men at a traffic signal in Madhu Vihar on Sunday, has revealed that the main accused, Ravinder alias Raju, had faked his death earlier this year. He was reported to have died on June 6 due to a drug overdose. Police said his family had submitted a death certificate signed by an MBBS doctor from a hospital in Kasganj. On Monday, when sleuths of Special Cell raided the hideout of the criminals, they were shocked to find Raju alive. After a two-hour face-off between police and northeast Delhi ganglord Abdul Nasir and his henchmen, four of them were arrested. Raju was working with Nasir, whose gang has a history of causing bloodshed in northeast Delhi. Nasir was in jail for the past few years, but had come out on parole a few months ago. But he jumped parole and went underground. Raju, an associate of gangster Bunty alias Vishal, who is currently in jail, has 10 criminal cases registered against him, including those of murder, robbery and under Arms Act. His death certificate stated that on June 10 Raju developed cardiac arrest. “The patient was pronounced dead at 2.16pm. Cause of death was likely due to arrhythmia related to possible myocardial damage versus refractory hypoxemia related to renal and shock liver,” the certificate stated. Apart from Raju, the other three arrested men were identified as Abdul Nasir (34), Rajiv (34) and Vivek alias Vicky (28). Police got a tip-off that they were hiding on the fourth floor of a building in south Anarkali. “We saw two men rushing down the dark passageway of the staircase. They were later identified as Nasir and Raju. During the ensuing scuffle, they tried to lock their legs, bang their heads on the grille and jump off the building during which they sustained injuries. Another team broke open two doors of the house and saw Rajiv and Vivek trying to escape from the balcony. They were subsequently arrested,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/madhu-vihar-shooting-killer-had-faked-death-by-drug-overdose-in-june/articleshow/78156290.cms||Sakshi Chand
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Pay for your dump: Finally, corporations start collecting fees in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After much political tussle and years of delay, the rule on user charges for waste generators has partially come into effect in the capital. Several thousand demand notices are being issued to bulk commercial establishments and shops for paying monthly user charges for door-to-door collection of garbage and hundreds of users have already deposited the dues. While the south and north corporations have initiated the process, the east corporation is likely to follow them soon. The user fees were allowed in Solid Waste Management Bylaws 2017, which was notified by Delhi government on January 15, 2018. “Currently, we are not issuing notices to residential properties. All commercial units will be covered in the coming month,” the official said. The commercial category includes small unlicensed shops, dhabas, restaurants, guesthouses, banquet halls and up to five-star hotels, being charged between Rs 500 and Rs 5,000 per month. Small shops will have to pay Rs 500, guesthouses/dharamshalas Rs 2,000, restaurants above 50-seat capacity Rs 3,000 and five-star hotels Rs 5,000. “The fee is based on the ‘polluters pay’ principle. We should be responsible towards environment,” an official said. For residential units, the charges will vary from Rs 50 to Rs 200 in various categories while vendors are supposed to pay Rs 100 each. Both will be covered later. The corporations don’t need to allow these charges separately as the bylaws have been notified, said another official. Multiple notices, accessed by TOI, reveal sanitation superintendents are issuing the notices and people are being asked to issue demand drafts in the name of the respective commissioner. They will have to pay a late payment surcharge in case of non-compliance. The south corporation has already collected more than Rs 4 lakh. An official of the east corporation said they would charge commercial properties as soon as tenders for door-to-door collection of garbage were issued. South corporation mayor Anamika said commercial activities had resumed and paying Rs 500 won’t be a heavy burden. “If users are facing any harassment, they are more than welcome to call the mayor’s office for assistance,” she said. The corporation, she alleged, has to charge such small fees as Delhi government isn’t realising “our legitimate funds. We are in a state that officers are not getting their salaries”. Pointing out that no extra burden had been imposed on commercial units and industries in the past 20 months, she urged everyone to cooperate instead of complaining. Chhail Bihari, the standing committee chairman of the north corporation, said, “The rules are for everyone but charges are being levied in exchange of providing a facility. Commercial units generate a lot of garbage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pay-for-your-dump-finally-corpns-start-collecting-fees/articleshow/78156295.cms||Paras Singh
September 17, 2020||Chennai||OPS presents Rs 12,845 crore supplementary estimates||Chennai: Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Wednesday presented the first supplementary estimates for Rs 12,845 crore in the state assembly for the current financial year. “This is an unusual year. Since the beginning of the financial year, we have been severely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic,” Panneerselvam said, explaining the reasons for the supplementary estimates being higher than earlier years. Around Rs 9,027 crore has been provided for Covid-19 control, prevention and relief measures in the supplementary estimates, he said. The state spent Rs 3,359 crore for free supply of commodities through ration shops, an additional Rs 3,169 crore from the state disaster response fund was spent for giving cash assistance to ration card holders and members of various welfare boards during the pandemic. In addition, Rs 1,050 crore was provided for various corona control and prevention measures, he said. The state provided Rs 1,109 crore to Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation as well as health and family welfare departments for procuring Covid-19 drugs, RT-PCR and related testing kits, besides feeding charges, oxygen supply and ambulance services, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ops-presents-rs-12845-crore-supplementary-estimates/articleshow/78154945.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Thieves snatch gold chains in Kondhwa and Wanowrie||PUNE: Two persons, riding on a motorcycle, snatched gold chains belonging to two women on Salunkhe Vihar Road in Kondhwa and at Kedarinagar in Wanowrie between 6.15pm and 6.30pm on Tuesday. In the first incident at Kondhwa, passers-by chased the suspects after the 28-year-old victim raised an alarm. The suspects, however, fled the area. The chain was worth Rs60,000, the police said. Sub-inspector Nilesh Chavan from Kondhwa police station said, “The woman, a homemaker from Wanowrie, bought vegetables and was on her way to a dairy when the duo came from Fakhri Hill junction on Kondhwa Road and the pillion rider snatched her chain. In the other incident, the two suspects snatched a gold chain, worth Rs20,000, belonging to a 51-year-woman teacher and fled towards Pune-Solapur Road. Assistant inspector Asaram Shete from Wanowrie police station said, “The woman from Salunkhe Vihar road and her son were on an evening walk when the suspects came from Wanowrie circle, snatched her chain and fled.” The police said CCTV cameras had captured images of the suspects, who appeared to be in the 20-25-year age group and were wearing caps and face masks in both chain-snatching cases. The two women could not note down the registration number of the black motorcycle used by the duo as the number was smeared with mud, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-snatch-gold-chains-in-kondhwa-wanowrie/articleshow/78156285.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Burglars steal valuables worth Rs 21L||PUNE: Three persons broke into a flat at Bhale Estate in Wakdewadi and stole 38 tola gold, 5kg silver and Rs3lakh, collectively worth Rs21.2 lakh, early on Tuesday. The Khadki police suspect the trio used a stolen car to commit the crime. They broke open the locks of the safety door and the main door of the flat of Prashant Aminbhavi (50), a real estate agent dealing in documentation work at the sub-registrar’s office, with a sharp weapon. Then they stole cash and valuables from drawers and cupboard in the bedroom. The trio sped away after a dog barked and an eyewitness pelted stones at them. A CCTV camera has captured the images of the trio. Aminbhavi in his FIR stated that he and his family members had gone to attend the birthday party of his elder brother at Sahakarnagar on Monday evening. In the early hours of Tuesday, he received a telephone call from his neighbour stating that the door locks of his ground floor flat were broken and three men aged 20-25 years fled in an Alto car. Inspector Shafil Pathan from the Khadki police said, “Investigations revealed that the trio had parked the car, stolen from Dehu Road on September 14, outside Aminbhavi’s flat to block its view from outside. The eyewitness could have called the police, but instead called the property owner and waited for him to arrive. Aminbhavi called the city police control room on reaching home.” He said, “We are checking CCTV cameras and tracking the routes used by the suspects. Offences have been registered against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-steal-valuables-worth-rs-21l/articleshow/78156284.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Neta-abhinetas from West Bengal toe party line on Jaya Bachchan-Kangana Ranaut row||KOLKATA: Samajwadi Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Jaya Bachchan’s speech on the second day of the Monsoon session in Parliament generated a lot of reactions, including those of Parliamentarians from Bengal associated with entertainment. Though she did not take any names, her remarks came a day after BJP MP and actor Ravi Kishan said there was a problem of drug addiction in the film industry and also actor Kangana Ranaut’s recent remarks calling Bollywood a “gutter” that needs cleansing. According to Ghatal’s Trinamool Congress MP Dev, the entertainment industry is currently a soft target. “There are so many real issues plaguing the country. The GDP, the corona crisis and the floods need to be highlighted. Instead of that, the only focus is on targeting the entertainment industry. We are the first to come forward to help the government in whatever way possible if there is a national calamity. Yet, we are being maligned now. I am also upset with the kind of abusive language in circulation,” Dev said. What has upset many is the sustained attempts of maligning the industry in the face of silence of the ruling dispensation over the issue of reopening of cinema halls. According to Satabdi Roy, Trinamool MP from Birbhum, there is no reason to malign the entire industry this way. “Every industry has good and bad elements. The recent controversy over SSR-Rhea and the drug issue has become very politicised. If any artist has concrete proof, he can always raise it. Otherwise, it is unfair to tarnish the image of the industry in general.” However, BJP Locket Chatterjee came down heavily against Bachchan. “I am from the industry but I believe that any wrong-doing should be called out. Ravi Kishan is right in speaking about the drug nexus. So many talents get wasted because of this. I am surprised that Jayaji never uttered a word when Kangana’s house was demolished in Mumbai or on the demise of Sushant Singh Rajput. ” Meanwhile, Asansol’s BJP MP Babul Supriyo said: “The government is doing its best. Everyone should be happy that the right agencies are probing the case. Few people and not everyone is into mischief. It’s an open secret and now all these investigations will cleanse Bollywood in the long run and save such generalised maligning of our industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neta-abhinetas-from-bengal-toe-party-line-on-jaya-kangana-row/articleshow/78154938.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man held for abduction, murder of 7-year-old girl||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths late on Tuesday night had a breakthrough in the case concerning the abduction and murder of a seven-year-old girl who had been missing since last Saturday. Crime branch investigators detained a 46-year-old Gota man, Bhikha Mistry, and discovered the girl’s decomposing body, which had been dragged into a secluded field near the Ognaj toll plaza by animals. In-charge assistant commissioner of crime branch J M Yadav said, “Mistry is unmarried and works at a fabrication factory. He lives with his younger brother near the girl’s house. “In the demonstration panchnama, we first found the girl’s hair and clothes and her body was found 25m away. It bore marks of dog bites,” Yadav added. Inspector D B Barad of crime branch said that while they have sent the body for a postmortem, the accused has been handed over to Sola police station for further action. “The worst bit of the whole sordid saga is that the little girl used to address the accused as ‘Mama’ (maternal uncle) as her mother had taken him to be her brother about eight years ago,” Barad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-abduction-murder-of-7-year-old-girl/articleshow/78154935.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Bhopal||Army’s ‘White Tiger’ division celebrates 48 years of service||BHOPAL: Raised on September 15, 1973, by Major General Salim Caleb, MVC, ‘The White Tiger’ division commemorated 48 glorious years of service to the nation on Tuesday. Over the last nearly 50 years, the formation has carved out a special niche for itself as the bastion of professional excellence and proved its mettle in all spheres of combat readiness as the spearhead of Indian Army. On the occasion, a solemn wreath-laying ceremony was conducted at Jhansi War Memorial to honour the martyrs and acknowledge their supreme sacrifice for the nation. This was followed by a special Sainik Sammelan at Babina. Major General Vipul Shinghal, General Officer Commanding, White Tiger division, addressed all ranks and congratulated them. He also exhorted them to work with the same zeal, enthusiasm and unflinching commitment to duty. Awards of excellence were presented to officers, Junior Commissioned Officers and other ranks who have performed exceptionally well in different spheres of military endeavours last year. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, these ceremonies were conducted with absolute adherence to corona protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/armys-white-tiger-division-celebrates-48-years-of-service/articleshow/78154941.cms||Ankur Sirothia
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Harassment complaint against doc||Kolkata: The Ultadanga police have lodged an FIR after a doctor — a house staff at the Ayurvedic college who lives in Howrah’s Golabari area — alleged that she was being harassed and stalked by a colleague. Police said that this had been going on for the past month. Police sources said they plan to get the statement of the woman recorded before the magistrate. “We are sending a notice to the accused — also a doctor — to join the investigation,” said an officer. Cops said the primary probe revealed the two have known each other for a long time and initially shared a good friendship. But over the past few weeks, certain things led to the woman refusing to allow this friendship to continue any longer. But the accused kept following her. On Tuesday, he reportedly verbally abused her after restraining the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/harassment-complaint-against-doc/articleshow/78154944.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||New Town hubby killer gets life term||Kolkata: A Barasat fast-track court on Wednesday sent New Town lawyer Anindita Pal Dey, 35, to life imprisonment for killing her husband Rajat Dey, a Calcutta HC lawyer, by strangulating him with the cable of a phone charger in 2018. On Monday, additional district and sessions judge of fast-track third court Sujit Kumar Jha had convicted her after she was found guilty under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing of disappearance of evidence). Though special pubic prosecutor Bivas Chatterjee demanded capital punishment, the court sentenced her to life behind bars with a surety of a fine of Rs 10,000 reasoning that she has a three-year-old and the conviction was based on electronic evidence. “I prayed for the extreme punishment claiming that it was a premeditated crime. But the judge reasoned that she was a mother of a young child and had committed the crime for the first time,” Chatterjee said, adding that there was no witness to the crime and the conviction was based on circumstantial evidence from documents from WhatsApp, Google and Facebook. While being taken to the prison van from the courtroom, Anindita shouted at the media persons, saying, “I have been framed. I’m innocent. I will fight till the last drop of my blood and say I’m innocent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-hubby-killer-gets-life-term/articleshow/78154948.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
September 17, 2020||Trichy||Maize farmers told to practise traditional pest control measures||Trichy: A pest surveillance team from the agriculture department is visiting the rain-fed areas in Trichy district where maize has been raised on hundreds of acres, to create awareness among the farmers on pest management before Fall armyworm appears on the field.To avert pest attack and educate the farmers to adopt the traditional ways of chasing them, the pest surveillance team started visiting all the eight blocks in the district to meet the maize farmers. During the visit, the expert team has analyzed the economy threshold level, the number of worms present on the crops. Farmers were advised to use traditional methods to chase pests and worms instead of using chemical pesticide where the threshold level was low.The team comprising 10 officials including assistant agriculture officer (quality control) P Nalini, entomologist Swaminathan from the Horticulture College and Research Institute visited Nallavanipatti, Pagalavadi in Thuraiyur block, Okkarai, Krishnapuram, and Koppampatti in Uppiliapuram block.According to officials from the agriculture department, farmers, mostly from Thuraiyur, Uppiliapuram, Musiri, T Pettai, Thottiam, Pullambadi, Mannachannallur, Vaiyampatti and Manapparai sow maize in around 25,000 acres every year.“The recent rain is a boon for farmers, particularly for those in rain-fed areas such as Thuraiyur, Manapparai, Pullambadi. More farmers have raised maize utilizing the rain this year. Now the crop is in its 15th day. If rain continues, the coverage may go up further this year,” National Food Security Mission (NFSM) consultant R Santhanakrishnan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/maize-farmers-told-to-practise-traditional-pest-control-measures/articleshow/78156288.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Biker robs shopowner of ornament at gunpoint||Pune: A man robbed a grocery shopowner from Shirgaon of her gold chain worth Rs50,000 at gunpoint around 4.15pm on Tuesday. The 45-year-old woman has lodged an FIR with the Shirgaon police chowkey under the Talegaon Dabhade police. Senior inspector Kishore Mhaswade said the woman was alone at the store when a motorcyclist parked his two-wheeler in front of her shop. “The rider, who was wearing his helmet, then walked up to the shop and asked the woman for gutka while the pillion rider stayed put outside with the motorcycle. When she told him that she did not sell gutka, he enquired about the availability of tobacco,” Mhaswade said. “The woman claimed that the man put a pistol to her head all of a sudden while she was looking for tobacco. The suspect then asked her to remove her gold chain and give it to him,” he said. “The moment she handed over her chain, the suspect fled the spot with his accomplice who was waiting outside with the motorcycle. The woman could not get a glimpse of the suspect’s face as it was covered with the helmet’s visor,” Mhaswade said. “We are checking CCTV footage in the area and the vicinity to ascertain the identities of the duo at the earliest,” Mhaswade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-robs-shopowner-of-ornament-at-gunpoint/articleshow/78156299.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds 1,364 cases, 15 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours recorded 1,364 Covid cases, taking the tally to 1.17 lakh. It was the eighth straight day and 15th day for the state to record 1300-plus daily cases. In the past eight days, the state has added 10,743 fresh Covid cases. The new cases reported on Wednesday include 281 from Surat, 165 from Ahmedabad, 143 from Rajkot, 126 from Jamnagar and 122 from Vadodara. With the update, the cumulative cases in Surat district crossed the 25,000-case mark reaching 25,017. The cases in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 34,322, and 10,200 and 7,132 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of 12 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,259. The deaths in Gujarat include five in Surat, three in Ahmedabad, two in Rajkot, and one each in Vadodara and Gir Somnath. The deaths in Ahmedabad reached 1,768, Surat 705, Vadodara155 and Rajkot 118. A total of 1,447 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the tally to 98,156. The discharged patients included 293 from Surat, 244 from Ahmedabad, 215 from Rajkot, 134 from Vadodara and 123 from Jamnagar. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat reached 16,294, which is 13.8% of the total cases. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 83.4% and 2.7% respectively. Gujarat carried out 85,153 tests - the highest daily tests so far - taking the total to 35.23 lakh. The state health department claimed that the current figure is 1,310 tests per day per million people. As on Wednesday evening, Gujarat had 6.05 lakh persons under quarantine - of whom 493 are under facility quarantine, whereas the rest are in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-adds-1364-cases-15-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78154946.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Sign of 8: Life goes around in circles||NEW DELHI: Three years ago, residents of Dwarka renamed the roundabout below the Delhi Metro line in Sector 10 ‘Idiot Chowk’ because of its confusing design. It is in the shape of an 8 and has six roads abruptly merging at one place. They are now amused to find that Delhi Development Authority agrees and has referred to the roundabout by this popular name in its online book filing system. The book filing system provides details of projects such as roads, service lanes or constructions in an area. TOI accessed the relevant page to note DDA’s entry: Road work from Idiot Chowk to SDM office, 5288.25 sqm, done on July 3, applying tack coat using bitumen.”When questioned, a DDA official said the name was entered erroneously in the billing records. “The roundabout has not been officially named so far. The name Idiot Chowk was a clerical error. We are trying to take corrective action,” the official mumbled. According to the residents, DDA got the designs of five roundabouts cleared by Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre, or UTTIPEC, Delhi’s transport engineering authority, to make the road network signal-free. The first constructed was the one at Sector 10 with the sinuous 8 shape. “People get confused here, especially those visiting Dwarka for the first time because one cannot anticipate where the roads are leading to despite the signage in the middle of the intersection,” said CK Rejimon, president, Dwarka Forum, a grouping of the local RWAs. “It is risky also for pedestrians because of the damaged footpaths and the absence of a zebra crossing.” The protest of the people led to the scrapping of the other roundabouts. “However, DDA didn’t forget the episode, it seems, and this is why in the book filing system, which can be accessed by the public, it has used the derisory name for the spot,” smiled Rejimon. Transport planner Ashok Bhattacharjee, former director in UTTIPEC, explained that the success of any project approved by the body depended on how much the plan was implemented. “The concept of roundabout is successful not only when it allows smooth traffic movement, but also of pedestrians, an aspect often overlooked by agencies,” he said. Residents have doubts over project implementation when the roundabout has no official name in official records. “We don’t think any repairs or reconstruction took place on patch as mentioned in DDA’s record,” said Robin Sharma, senior vice-president, All Dwarka Residents’ Federation. But DDA responded by saying there was no compromise on the materials used during that work. Watch Dwarka: Roundabout below Delhi Metro line in Sector 10 is ‘Idiot Chowk,’ DDA agrees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sign-of-8-life-goes-around-in-circles/articleshow/78156304.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 17, 2020||Trichy||Time for engineers to innovate, develop self-reliant technology: Space scientist||Trichy: Indian Space scientist Mylswamy Annadurai while asking engineers to develop self-reliant technology within existing domains by gathering knowledge said that innovation is not just invention. It is about putting the available technology into better use to create value, business and social impact, he added. Mylswamy, also vice president for Tamil Nadu state council for science and technology (TNSCST), was the chief guest of a webinar session organised by Tiruchirappalli local centre of the institution of engineers (India) on the 53rd Engineers’ Day, observed on September 15 every year, on Tuesday. Speaking about the significance of this day and role of engineers in creating self-reliant India, he said now India has its own technologies in all its space-related projects by its own sustainable innovation driven development strategy. He added that now government has started taking initiatives in developing indigenous innovative sustainable technologies in major sectors like drone usage in agriculture farming, modern equipment in dyeing industries to treat wastages, banana stem plantation with extraction of fibre from banana stem and in-house developed online VC platform for education and business communications, he said. He requested engineers to innovate to make India self-reliant in modern technologies. As part of Engineers’ Day celebrations, the tnstitution of engineers, Tiruchirappalli local centre honours one best engineer in this region every year. For the year 2020, A Balasubramanian, chief general manager (commercial and electrical & instrumentation) of Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Ltd (TNPL) Karur, was selected as the best engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/time-for-engineers-to-innovate-develop-self-reliant-technology-space-scientist/articleshow/78156305.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Low pressure to bring heavy rain||Kolkata: A low-pressure over northeast By of Bengal is set to trigger heavy rain across south Bengal, including Kolkata, from Sunday to Tuesday. While the rain could be very heavy in some areas, the city is expected to receive intense showers on Monday. The low pressure is expected to form on Sunday and could have an impact later in the day, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre. “After forming over north-east Bay of Bengal, the system is expected move across Gangetic Bengal. The initial impact could be on the districts bordering Bangladesh – Nadia, Murshidabad, East Burdwan, East Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas. It could then move westward on Monday, sailing across Kolkata, Howrah, Hoogly, West Burdwan and West Midnapore. Kolkata could receive at least one heavy spell of shower on Monday,” said RMC director G K Das. The rain will continue, though, Das added. “While it will be very heavy in some areas, most areas will receive moderate to heavy showers between Sunday and Tuesday,” he said. On Tuesday, the districts of Bankura, Purulia and Birbhum could receive heavy showers while the rest of Gangetic Bengal will remain relatively dry. An alert has been sounded for fishermen and the latter have been asked to return to shore by Sunday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/low-pressure-to-bring-heavy-rain/articleshow/78154951.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Delhi||How St Stephen’s appears to have cut off differently abled||NEW DELHI: In July, Delhi University wrote to St Stephen’s College asking it to ensure that when the cutoff scores for admissions were determined, they were “sufficiently lowered” for persons with disabilities (PwD), at least “to the level of points required by applicants who are part of Church of North India”. The surprise, when the eligibility bars were released on Tuesday, was the cutoff for PwD was still on the higher side, in history and English even higher than what was required of Scheduled Tribe students. Speaking to TOI, Anil Aneja, officer on special duty at DU’s Equal Opportunity Cell, said, “There is a ruling of Delhi High Court regarding cutoff marks for students with disabilities, which has been upheld by the Supreme Court. I had written to St Stephen’s College about this and sent a reminder before the cutoffs were released. In fact, the principal had committed that PWD candidates would be called for interviews on the basis of the lowest cutoff granted to other reserved categories and they would have an equal opportunity for an interview as per the applicable ratio.” In the cutoffs released on Tuesday, history (Hons) aspirants from the PwD category needed 94.25% to qualify. The lowest cutoff is for CNI candidates at 73.25%. Even the ST category bar is lower than for PwD at 78.25%. In the Anamol Bhandari (minor) through his father/natural guardian vs. Delhi Technological University case of 2012, Delhi high court was “of the view that the lowest cut-off marks amongst GE, OBC (NCL), SC and ST candidates have to be made applicable to the PwD candidates at the time of allocation of seats”. This was upheld by the Supreme Court in the Aryan Raj vs Chandigarh Administration case and others in civil appeal. Principal John Varghese responded that calculating the cutoff was governed by the admission policy of the college. With respect to CNI and CNI Delhi, the cutoff was lower to achieve the required ratio, he said. Being a religious minority college, 50% of the seats are reserved for Christian candidates and in this category, the first preference is for applicants of CNI and CNI Delhi. The college also gives the statutory reservation to SC and ST applicants as well as 5% to PwD applicants. “Our policy mandates that candidates for different categories are to be called for interviews in the ratio of 1:6 and 1:8 for general and Christian applicants respectively,” explained Varghese. “In each category, the cut-off is restricted to the point at which the required ratio of applicants is available. The seats reserved for PwD students are 5% of the total, or 21 seats across disciplines. There are sufficient PwD candidates for the seats available according to the prescribed ratio.” However, Bipin Tewari, who is also an OSD in the Equal Opportunity Cell, said that if a disabled candidate had higher marks than the cutoff, he or she would automatically become eligible under the general category. “Reservation is for those who aren’t generally qualified. The very spirit of reservation is lost otherwise,” Tewari argued. “However, the religious-minority colleges should also be sensitive to the rights of PwD aspirants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-st-stephens-appears-to-have-cut-off-differently-abled/articleshow/78156361.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 17, 2020||Pune||Two drivers assaulted & robbed on expressway||Pune: Four persons assaulted and robbed two truck drivers of cash and cellphones, collectively worth Rs33,500, near Urse along the Pune-Mumbai expressway around 4am on Tuesday. The robbers struck when truck drivers Dattusinh Chavan (45) and Punappa Kumbhar (40), both from Osmanabad district, had halted near a petrol pump for a toilet break. “When the drivers were about to enter their truck cabins after the break, the four men armed with sticks attacked them. Chavan and Kumbhar suffered injuries on their heads and hands. The suspects robbed them of Rs25,500 and cellphones, collectively worth Rs33,500, before disappearing in the bushes along the expressway,” sub-inspector D J Nagargoje of the Shirgaon police said. The truck drivers then consulted their transport operator, approached the police and lodged an FIR, Nagargoje said. The trucks were carrying a courier company’s parcels from Ahmedabad in Gujarat to Solapur. Nagargoje said the drivers must stop on the premises of a petrol pump instead of halting their vehicles in the dark along the expressway. “Our police teams and the those of the highway safety patrol (HSP) maintain continuous vigil along the expressway,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-drivers-assaulted-robbed-on-expressway/articleshow/78156303.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 17, 2020||Pune||DIAT webinar on nanostructure||DIAT webinar on nanostructure: Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) conducted an International webinar on ‘Nanostructured Semiconducting Materials for Energy Application’ between September 15 and 17.Eminent speakers from the US, UK, Canada, Sweden, and IITs and other institutes delivered talks over the three days. The aim was to motivate researchers to discuss the challenges in the development of materials for energy applications and find new solutions.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diat-webinar-on-nanostructure/articleshow/78156307.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid breaks record for new cases in Punjab, 2,717 infected||Chandigarh: Punjab posted another single-day highest surge of Covid-19 cases on Wednesday as 2,717 people tested positive for infection and 78 succumbed to it. Nine districts -- Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Mohali, Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Faridkot-- recorded cases in three figures and accounted for 79.38% (2,157) of total new cases. So far, 87,184 people have been tested positive in the state, while the death count stands at 2,592. The health department removed 13 duplicate entries added in the tally of September 15, while two cases belonging to Haryana were also removed. The state’s fatality rate stood at 2.97%, and 82 people were in a critical condition and on ventilator support, while 451 patients were on oxygen support. Of the 78 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 15 were from Ludhiana, 12 from Patiala and 10 from Jalandhar, nine deaths from Amritsar, six from Bathinda, five each from Hoshiarpur and Sangrur, three from Moga, two each from Fazilka, Kapurthala, Muktsar and Ropar, and one each from Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Mansa and Pathankot. The highest numbr of new cases were reported in Ludhiana, 562, whifch is also the highest number of cases recorded in a district in a day so far in Punjab. It was followed by 272 new cases in Mohali, 267 in Amritsar, 247 in Patiala, 209 in Jalandhar, 206 in Hoshiarpur, 144 people in Gurdaspur, 131 in Faridkot, and 119 in Bathinda. Test reports of 78 people came positive in Ropar, 72 in Kapurthala, 54 each in Fazilka and Nawanshahr, 53 in Sangrur,50 in Mansa, 39 in Ferozepur, 37 in Pathankot, 35 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 32 in Moga, 19 in Muktsar and 12 in Tarn Taran. A total of 2,756 people were discharged from hospital, taking the tally of patients discharged so far to 63,570. Of them, 661 patients were sent home in Ludhiana, 610 in Ferozepur, 527 in Jalandhar, 206 in Patiala, 187 in Gurdaspur, 183 in Amritsar, 74 in Muktsar, 45 in Faridkot, 42 in Mohali, 35 in Pathankot, 28 in Fazilka, 27 each in Sangrur and Barnala, 14 in Nawanshahr, 13 in Bathinda, 12 in Tarn Taran and 10 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Meanwhile, Jalandhar-based 79-year-old ENT specialist Dr Chander Malhotra also died due to Covid-19 during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-breaks-record-for-new-cases-in-punjab-2717-infected/articleshow/78156309.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||Zoos may open from October 2||Kolkata: Zoos across the state are likely to reopen on October 2, said sources. Tourism in national parks and wildlife sanctuaries will, however, resume from September 23. On Wednesday, state forest minister Rajiv Banerjee chaired a meeting for opening tourism in forests. In north Bengal, only four persons will be allowed per safari vehicle and watchtowers may remain out of bounds to tourists. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zoos-may-open-from-october-2/articleshow/78154954.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy government school launches application for effective learning||Trichy: Students of government primary school in Edamalaipattipudur will be in constant touch with their teachers on academic activities with the help of a newly launched smart phone application. The application service is developed by a private education company ‘Best Shine’ with the help of sponsors. It will help engage students in the academic activities in a more effective way by ensuring better interaction among parents, teachers and students. The app ‘PUP School Trichy’ is programmed to send regular alerts to the parents on the participation of their children in the academic activities and their performance besides alerts on various activities of the school. Inaugurating the service through video conferencing on Wednesday, Trichy district chief education officer,S Shanti, termed the move as first of its kind in a government school. Teachers will be able to send video classes through the app and students can watch it whenever they want, she said. So far teachers were using WhatsApp to send home work. But those not having smart phones could not be contacted. Now this application will help in sending SMS to parents who possess a feature phone and sent voice memo to communicate on the home work. This will ensure that students don’t lose track of their academic activity, said headmistress P Jayanthi.Block education officer (BEO) K Marudhanayagam, said that the applications provides the opportunity to conduct online objective type tests which will help assess the understanding of students who are sitting in a remote place. “This will make students ready for competitive examinations conducted online with objective type questions,” he said. H Pushpalatha, assistant teacher, said that they are looking into the possibility of getting smartphones to the families who do not possess one through crowd funding. While the application can be downloaded from the Google Playstore, a user ID and password will be given to teacher and parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-government-school-launches-application-for-effective-learning/articleshow/78156311.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Barriers placed near Khambatki tunnel on Pune-Satara highway||PUNE: The Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) has installed tyre barriers that have reflector stripes on the sidelines of the accident-prone ‘S’ curve near the Khambatki tunnel on the Pune-Satara highway to reduce the impact of vehicle crash in case of an accident. Vehicles heading towards Pune from Satara tend to speed after crossing the Khambatki tunnel owing to a downward gradient. Often, drivers find it difficult to negotiate turns on the ‘S’ curve at high speed and crash into the sideline. The problem is more acute at night. The tyre barriers are aimed at reducing such impact and save lives in event of accidents, an HSP official said. Pritam Yavalkar, additional superintendent of police, HSP Pune, said “The ‘S’ shaped curve is difficult to negotiate at high speed especially at night. Many drivers fail to spot the edge of the roads when it gets dark and they leave the road surface resulting in accidents.” “We want to reduce highway fatalities, especially at this site. Thus, we decided to install tyres on the railings where generally vehicles leave the road surface at a high speed. We have also pasted reflective strips on the tyres to highlight the edges or banks of the road surface,” he added. Yavalkar said, “The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has started work at the site, which connects the tunnel to the highway straight avoiding the ‘S’ curve but, until the work is complete, the HSP decided to install tyres to reduce the impact during an accident. We hope that this will reduce the accidents on the stretch,” he said. In April 2018, 18 persons were killed and 19 persons were injured when a tempo swerved off the ‘S’ shaped curve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/barriers-placed-near-khambatki-tunnel/articleshow/78156339.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Kolkata||25 EV charging stations launched||KOLKATA: Lithium Urban Technologies, one of the major electric vehicle ecosystem integrators, entered Kolkata with an intent to roll out 1,000 EVs to convert corporate diesel fleets to electric and set up India’s largest public charging station in New Town. This will abate 10,000 MT of carbon emissions every year, equivalent to adding 10 Eco Parks in the city. On Wednesday, Lithium started its journey in Kolkata in association with Hidco by setting up 25 fast charging stations near Fintech Hub in New Town. The project was flagged off by state transport secretary Prabhat Kumar Mishra with Hidco chairman Debashis Sen handing over the letter of intent to Vikash Mishra, business head of Lithium. “Our mission is to bring tomorrow’s transportation today. In collaboration with Hidco, Lithium Urban Technologies and our energy partner Fourth Partner Energy, will build India’s largest public charging station at New Town under the brand “Powerbunk”. While we have charging hubs in Gurgaon and Pune, this will be the largest network of Powerbunks in the country,” said Mishra. “Transport is a key component of a sustainable, liveable and energy efficient city, and Kolkata is leading the transition in many ways,” said Rakhi Basu, transport specialist, World Bank. “Companies around New Town have shown interest,” said Ashwin Mahesh, co-founder and CEO, Lithium Urban Technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/25-ev-charging-stations-launched/articleshow/78154974.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 17,000-page chargesheet filed against 15 for riots conspiracy||NEW DELHI: A little less than 200 days after filing an FIR to investigate the conspiracy behind the riots which rocked north-east Delhi in February this year, Delhi Police's special cell on Wednesday filed a 17,000-page chargesheet against 15 people, all anti-CAA protesters, in a city court. This was the culmination of the first phase of the probe. The chargesheet has named as accused, among others, United Against Hate activist Khalid Saifi; Congress ex-councillor Ishrat Jahan; AAP ex-councillor Tahir Hussain; RJD youth wing's Meeran Haider; Pinjda Tod activists Gulfisha Fatima, Safoora Zargar, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita. Six other acccused - Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Danish, Parvez, Iliyas and Faizal Khan - have been arrested in this case but not named in this chargesheet. Police will file supplementary chargesheets naming them and other people who may be arrested. The accused have been charged under a plethora of sections of IPC and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Took weeks of planning, says chargesheetThe Indian Penal Code sections pertain to criminal conspiracy (120B) read with murder, sedition, promoting enmity between two groups, rioting, dacoity and several others. Sections of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Arms Act have also been invoked. The chargesheet was filed in the court of additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat at the Karkardooma courts in the capital. Delhi Police have said in the chargesheet that the top conspirators were directly in touch with the men on the ground when the violence broke out on February 24. “Multiple Whatsapp groups were made dedicated to 20 sites where anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests were taking place. There was a systematic mobilisation of the crowd to incite violence in the garb of anti-CAA protests,” the police told the court. The police have also concluded that the riots and protests were funded by several groups, including PFI, and it took weeks of planning to stock weapons, stones, arms and ammunition like Molotov cocktails on terraces to be used in the riots, thereby indicating a premeditated conspiracy. Delhi Police said that during their investigation, they examined and listed 747 witnesses to back their case. The witnesses include “insiders” who have helped the cops understand how the Whatsapp groups were used to coordinate the protests. These “insiders” are learnt to have recorded their statements before a magistrate under section 164 ofCode of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) which is admissible as evidence. In their statements, the witnesses have explained how these groups were created for the sole purpose of violence and riots. A major portion of the evidence is in electronic form as the data from 75 electronic devices seized from the accused have been analysed and enclosed with the chargesheet. The extracted data from the devices includes text messages and Whatsapp chats between individuals and groups. “Based upon scientific, documentary and testimonial evidence, 15 accused have now been charge-sheeted out of 21persons arrested so far. The remaining six persons are expected to be chargesheeted in due course after collecting sufficient evidence and completing statutory and procedural requirements,” the police said. “The chargesheet submitted today runs into 11 volumes, totalling over 17,000 pages. The hon’ble court has been requested to take cognizance of the offences and begin the trial of the chargesheeted accused persons,” the police added. In a statement released after filing of the chargesheet, Delhi Police said: “Claims amounting to more than Rs 20 crore to compensate for loss of property have been filed before the GNCTD, which indicates the scale and immense cost of the tragedy.” The statement said that around 16,000 PCR calls had been received during the violence and 751 cases were registered by the police. “Fifty nine cases were assigned to an SIT constituted in the Crime Branch, 691 cases were investigated by the district police and one case which was registered on March 6, 2020 to investigate the larger conspiracy behind these riots was assigned to the Special Cell.” “In the course of investigation of the 750 FIRs registered concerning the specific offences committed during the riots, 12 pistols, 121 empty cartridges, 92 live cartridges, 61 glass bottles filled with noxious chemicals and an assortment of sharp-edged weapons have been seized so far by Delhi Police,” said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/17000-page-chargesheet-filed-against-15-for-riots-conspiracy/articleshow/78158228.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
September 17, 2020||Mumbai||50% do not confirm seats under RTE in city||Mumbai: The response to admissions for seats under Right to Education Act, 2009, in the city touched only a little over 54% of selected students despite reminders and an extension. As admissions for the first lottery concluded on Tuesday, 2,942 of 5,371 students allotted a seat secured admission. This year, 7,069 RTE seats were available for 14,135 applicants. Of these, 5,371 were allotted a seat through an online lottery. Despite reminders and extended deadlines, around 50% students did not confirm seats. BMC education department, which implements online admissions, issued warning letters to schools which did not confirm seats. Among admissions confirmed, 2,089 seats were in state board unaided non-minority schools and the others in non-state board schools. Admissions for students on the waiting list will now commence. “Students who did not approach schools to confirm admissions will now be out of the centralised system and not get another chance. We extended deadlines due to lockdown, assuming parents were unable to reach schools. But we exceeded the number of admissions compared to last year. Many students are on the waiting list for vacancies in schools. The state government will announce details for admissions soon,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/50-do-not-confirm-seats-under-rte-in-city/articleshow/78154836.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
September 17, 2020||Pune||4 CCTV cameras worth Rs 12k stolen from buses||Pune: Four CCTV surveillance cameras, worth Rs12,000, were stolen from two PMPML buses parked at the Aundh octroi post sometime in the night intervening Monday and Tuesday. According to Chatushrungi police, the two vehicles belong to a private operator who provides buses to the PMPML. The private operator’s office bearer, Pravin Murkute (49), lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police station on Tuesday afternoon. Police said that the doors of the buses were not properly closed. The suspects entered the buses and stole the cameras. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-cctv-cameras-worth-rs-12k-stolen-from-buses/articleshow/78156359.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||PMPML ridership increases amid frequent breakdowns||PUNE: Bus breakdowns, which left the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) red faced after it resumed services from September 3, have not dented the confidence of passengers. According to the statistics (see graphic), the ridership since September 3 has increased by over 85%. “This shows commuters were waiting for the services to start. As far as the breakdowns are concerned, we have managed to plug the problem to an extent,” a PMPML official told TOI. The average number of breakdowns during the first week remained between 20 to 33, the second week recorded six to seven breakdowns each day, the official said. “As the number of passengers has been increasing each day, the PMPML has also increased the number of buses. What started with around 450 buses, has now gone past 500. On September 14, over 520 buses were plying in both the municipal corporation limits”, the official said. “Even though buses breakdown, majority of the people use the PMPML buses. The primary reason is that they are cheap. Moreover, less cabs and autorickshaws are plying. However, with the number of passengers increasing, the PMPML needs to make sure that all safety protocol is followed. Crowd in buses would further spread the contagion,” PMP Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole said. Last week, the PMPML suggested a fine of Rs500 to Rs5,000 if any bus broke down. The PMPML officials said there would be an investigation to fix the responsibility before the fine was levied. “A team is ascertaining that all safety protocols are followed. Buses were crowded in the first week and the routes where there was more crowd were identified and more vehicles have been introduced there,” another PMPML official said. “I will like to stay safe and travel in an autorickshaw or a cab, but cannot afford them. I work in a shop in Shivajinagar and when buses had stopped, I used to cycle to my workplace. Now with buses resuming, it is a relief. However, some buses are crowded, which isn’t a healthy sign,” Akshat Marathe, a daily commuter, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-ridership-increases-amid-frequent-breakdowns/articleshow/78156351.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 17, 2020||Delhi||Just a trailer? Expect cutoffs to stay up and up||NEW DELHI: If there was any doubt about the probability of high qualifying marks for admission to Delhi University this year, the cutoffs released by St Stephen's College on Tuesday have all but confirmed this. College principals said that with the elevated number of students scoring over 95% in the Class XII examinations, cutoffs were bound to shoot up this year. According to Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, former deputy dean of students’ welfare at DU, “With so many students scoring between 95% and 100% this year, the cutoff for each course is likely to rise by 1-1.5%.” The number of students clearing this year’s Class XII CBSE exams with a score above 90% was 1,57,934 against 94,299 in 2019. More tellingly, while only 17,690 students obtained 95% or more in 2019, the figure doubled in 2020 to 38,686. The overall pass percentage also increased from 83.4% last year to 88.8% this year. SGTB Khalsa College principal Jaswinder Singh claimed that while the high scores logged in the CBSE board exams were a factor in DU’s admission cutoffs, “there is also the big possibility that students who were to go abroad for studies will now decide to stay back due to the Covid pandemic and get admission in DU. Their high scores will raise the qualifying marks”. He felt that the cutoffs in the remaining colleges will vary between 1% and 1.5% of St Stephen’s. Anju Srivastava, principal of Hindu College, conceded that St Stephen’s numbers were an indication of things to come even if Hindu itself “will consider data from the university before we determine our own cutoff list”. However, Simrit Kaur of Shri Ram College of Commerce did not give such weightage to St Stephen's list. “Our college will decide our qualifying marks based on the data provided to us by DU. So, unless we get the data on the applicants to our college, we cannot say what our cutoffs will be like,” said Kaur. SRCC offers only two courses: BCom (Hons) and economics (Hons). At St Stephen’s, the cutoff for economics (Hons) is 99.25% for the commerce stream. However, data collection will not be easy this year. Unlike previous years, when DU gave applicants the options to apply for specific courses, this year, due to the pandemic situation, DU removed the selection option on its admission application portal. This means that completing the application process makes a candidate eligible for any of the courses offered by various colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-a-trailer-expect-cutoffs-to-stay-up-and-up/articleshow/78156383.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government to develop ‘Apuni Sarkar’ portal||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday directed state officials to make a new portal named ‘Apuni Sarkar’ to provide online government services for people. The CM said that all the services under e-districts portal will be available on the ‘Apuni Sarkar’ portal, to be developed jointly by ITDA and NIC. The CM also directed the officials to ensure that all 243 notified services under Right to Service are provided online within three months. “Officials should take care that if there are any objections in a document,it shoul d be mentioned in one go so that people are not inconvenienced,” the CM said. All the departmental heads have been made nodal officers for the implementation of the project. The chief commissioner of the Right to Service Commission will chair meetings with the heads on a regular basis, a communique from the CM’s office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-to-develop-apuni-sarkar-portal-to-provide-all-notified-services-online/articleshow/78153759.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Court allows 2 foreigners accused of theft to travel for three months||PANAJI: A Mapusa court has granted permission to two Bulgarian nationals, arrested for alleged theft of customers data at an ATM, to leave India and visit Bulgaria for three months . The accused told the court that they have to take care of aged parents and attend to their businesses which are suffering losses. The two accused— Ivo Petrov Metchenov and Milen Ivanov Davranski—were arrested in January for allegedly installing a skimming device in a Bank of India ATM in Mapusa . A chargesheet has not been filed. The complaint was filed on January 4, 2020. In the present case, there is no limitation to file the chargesheet and nobody knows when the trial will commence, the court stated. The court said, “Sufficient time was granted for investigation. Moreover, it is not the contention of the investigation officer that he requires their presence for further investigation.” Metchenov submitted to the court that he has parents who are retired and aged and he requires to make arrangement for them. He also submitted to the court that he has a business of internet service provider which requires to be attended to and since he is held up in India the business has suffered tremendous financial loss. Davranski submitted to the court that he has a mother aged 74 and there is no one in his family to take care of her since he is the only child and his father has expired. His mother has to undergo a surgery for the shoulder and is unable to move her right side and placed on record a medical certificate. He added that he has a garment store business which requires to be attended to as the business suffered tremendous financial loss since he is in India. The IO submitted to the court that it has received intimation from the Bulgarian Embassy stating that they have verified the Bulgarian address furnished by the two. “It is not known as to when the chargesheet will be filed and therefore considering the facts and circumstances and in the interest of justice it would be just to permit the applicants to travel abroad.” the court stated, imposing conditions to ensure their attendance in court when the chargesheet is filed and trial begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-allows-2-foreigners-accused-of-theft-to-travel-for-three-months/articleshow/78156367.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Toddler dies after neighbour’s reversing vehicle hits him||PUNE: A two-and-a-half-year-old boy on Tuesday morning was killed after being hit by a light commercial vehicle at Varale village, near Talegaon MIDC, around 40km from the city. The Talegaon MIDC police have registered an offence against the vehicle’s driver. The toddler, Shloak Mhaske, was playing outside his house around 8am on Tuesday when the accident occurred, police said. The suspect, who is his neighbour, was reversing his vehicle. “He failed to notice Shloak and hit him with his vehicle. Shloak was immediately taken to a nearby hospital, where the doctors pronounced him dead on arrival,” an officer from the Talegaon MIDC police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toddler-dies-after-neighbours-reversing-vehicle-hits-him/articleshow/78156363.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Chandigarh||460 test +ve in Himachal, fresh fatality in Shimla||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported a Covid death in Shimla and 460 positive cases on Wednesday, while 114 patients were discharged from hospitals. The state now has 10,795 cases, of which 4,146 are active, 6,531 patients have recovered, 89 have died and 27 have migrated out of the state. New cases include 13 from Bilaspur, 12 from Chamba, four from Hamirpur, 92 from Kangra, 14 from Kinnaur, eight from Kullu, 46 from Lahaul-Spiti, 58 from Mandi, 51 from Shimla, 14 from Sirmaur, 117 from Solan, and 31 from Una. Patients who have recovered include 13 from Bilaspur, five from Chamba, six from Kangra, 20 from Kinnaur, 12 from Lahaul-Spiti, nine from Mandi, and 49 from Solan. Bilaspur has got 556 cases, of which 196 are active and one patient has died. In Chamba, of the total 656 cases, 141 are still active and five patients have died. Hamirpur has recorded 750 cases, and 126 of them are still active, while five patients have died. In Kangra, of the total 1,659 cases, 713 are active and 19 patients have died. Kinnaur has got 135 cases, of which 36 are active. In Kullu, of the total 403 cases, 118 are active and one patient has died. Lahaul-Spiti has recorded 75 cases, of which 55 are active. In Mandi, of the total 1,088 cases, 637 are active and 11 patients have died. Shimla has recorded 727 cases, of which 374 are active and 14 patients have died. In Sirmaur, of the total 1,333 cases, 356 are active and six patients have died. Solan has recorded 2,476 cases, of which 969 are active and 18 have died. Una has got 937 cases, of which 425 are active and nine patients have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/460-test-ve-in-himachal-fresh-fatality-in-shimla/articleshow/78156364.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Criminal held for assault at Khandola||MARGAO: The Maina Curtorim police on Wednesday arrested notorious criminal Anwar Shaikh alias Tiger Anwar on charges of assaulting a 25-year-old Fatorda resident at Ramnagri, Sao Jose de Areal in a case of road rage. According to a complaint booked by the Fatorda police, Shaikh, 29, who was riding a motorcycle blocked the complainant’s vehicle at Ramanagari junction late Tuesday evening, and then abused and assaulted him. Police sources said that during the course of investigation, various teams were formed under the supervision of SP (South) Pankaj Kumar Singh, consisting of Dy SP Margao Kiran Poduval, PI Maina Curtorim, Fatorda, Cuncolim, Quepem and Colva to identify and nab the accused. Shaikh was traced at Khandola, Marcel, along with another accused, Prajot Bhandari,28, a resident of Murida, Fatorda. Both the accused have been arrested. Further investigation is in progress. In a video that had recently gone viral, Shaikh, who was released from the Colvale jail on bail, was seen assaulting one of his inmates in the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/criminal-held-for-assault-at-khandola/articleshow/78156362.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||One more minister in gold smuggling gang: Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday alleged that one more minister in the Pinarayi Vijayan government was linked to the accused in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel case. “I know the minister. But, I am not divulging his name. Let the government clarify this,” he said, while inaugurating a protest by pro-Congress teachers’ associations in front of director general of education office here. Last week, Enforcement Directorate interrogated higher education minister K T Jaleel in connection with the import of a diplomatic cargo by the UAE consulate. Jaleel admitted to accepting 32 packets of Quran from the cargo which is under the investigation of ED. It is learnt that the NIA team which is also probing the case recovered evidence of continuous communication between another minister and Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the case. But, NIA is yet to ascertain whether the relationship was a casual friendship or the second minister was linked to any of the activities of the gang lead by Swapna and Sarith P S, another accused. Chennithala also sent an open letter to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, asking him to give clear replies to allegations levelled against his government instead of venting his anger at questions. “You are saying allegations against the LDF government are cooked up tales. You should specify which allegations are baseless. The sequence of events started with the seizure of gold from diplomatic baggage by the customs. The relation between prime accused Swapna Suresh and your secretary M Sivasankar was a fact. It is a fact accepted by the government that Sivasankar helped Swapna grab a plum government job through backdoor. It is also a fact that various central agencies interrogated Sivasankar for days,” he said. Surendran slams CMIn response to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s statement, BJP state president K Surendran on Wednesday said that it was not he, but Vijayan who had lost his marbles. Vijayan, while reacting to Surendran’s allegations against chief minister’s relatives, had told reporters on Tuesday that Surendran had lost his wits, hence was making baseless allegations. Surendran reacted to chief minister’s statement while inaugurating the BJP march to secretariat. “The chief minister’s open challenge against BJP was nothing but a clear signal to party criminals and CPM’s police for unleashing attack against BJP. But, we are ready to face anything. Pinarayi too knows that BJP won’t cower,” Surendran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/one-more-minister-in-gold-smuggling-gang-ramesh/articleshow/78155039.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Pipeline burst at Colvale to hit water supply to Bardez today in Goa||PANAJI: The Bardez taluka will receive little or no water supply on Thursday as the main pipeline of the supply network burst at Colvale. The repair works are expected to be completed early Thursday. The accident damaging the 1,000mm pipeline occurred near the Viraj nursery at Colvale around 11am on Wednesday. The pipeline is the major link carrying treated water from the Assonora plant to different parts of Bardez taluka. This line runs from Tivim to Colvale. The incident occurred after part of the road had been dug up to replace an old water pipeline with a new one. Earthmoving machinery that was deployed for the task accidentally struck the large pipe. The consequent gush of water, which almost touched the overhead high-tension power lines, led to traffic movement being halted for close to an hour. Spillage stopped temporarily after the authorities at the water treatment plant in Assonora were alerted. Locals in Colvale area expressed dismay stating that this is the third such instance in this region in recent months of the pipeline being affected. Earlier, the ongoing highway expansion work had caused damage to the pipeline. The densely populated regions of Mapusa, Porvorim and Calangute are dependent on water supplied by this pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pipeline-burst-at-colvale-to-hit-water-supply-to-bardez-today/articleshow/78156376.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Goa||Goa:‘Cabral has reneged on Cortalim visit’||PANAJI: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral has failed to keep his promise to inspect the railway tracks between Vasco and Margao and identify measures to mitigate vibrations, chairman of Villagers Action Committee Against Doubling (VACAD) of South Western Railway Tracks, Orville Dourado Rodrigues, said. During an online webinar debate organised by Rotary Club of Panaji on September 1, Cabral offered to visit the Cortalim, Nuvem and Margao constituencies to explain and prove how he has reduced train vibrations. He also promised to address the concerns of the people related to the coal issue. On September 7, VACAD invited Cabral to inspect the current railway alignment in Cortalim constituency and experience first-hand the issues faced by residents living on either sides of the railway tracks, Rodrigues said. “VACAD awaits a response from Cabral to inspect the railway tracks,” Rodrigues said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-has-reneged-on-cortalim-visit/articleshow/78156368.cms||---
September 17, 2020||Nagpur||Retired nurse duped of Rs 41.70L by FB friend||Nagpur: A retired Indian Army staff nurse, a resident of Gittikhadan, is the latest victim of online fraud. She lost Rs41.70 lakh between July 15 and September 15 this year when a suspected fraudster befriended her on Facebook and lured her with the promise of costly gifts. For two months, the victim continued transferring money to four different accounts named by the fraudster. On September 15 the victim’s husband, who is a retired army captain, learnt about this and alerted her that she was being duped. Police said a man from United States had sent a friend request to the woman on Facebook. The retired staff nurse, staying alone in Nagpur, accepted it. The youth then took the woman's WhatsApp number and started talking to her for hours. He told the woman he was an officer in a big company in America. After gaining her faith, he lured the woman to deposit money into his account. In exchange he would sent expensive gifts. He said the gift had arrived at Delhi Airport on July 15 and it was under possession of customs officials. He told the woman that he would have to pay for the gift. The woman then deposited the money. The trickster realized the woman had lots of money. He threatened to implicate the woman in the hawala case and also WhatsApped her some forged documents of hawala scam. The woman panicked continued depositing more and more money until it totalled Rs41.70 lakh in various accounts of Vijaya Bank, Eco Bank, Canara Bank and HDFC Bank. Meanwhile, the nurse's husband got information about this. He lodged a complaint with the police. Gittikhadan police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/retired-nurse-duped-of-rs-41-70l-by-fb-friend/articleshow/78155048.cms||---
September 17, 2020||India||New PLA ‘tactics’: Punjabi songs, warning to Indian troops in Hindi||An uneasy calm prevails as heavily armed Indian and Chinese soldiers face off in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso-Chushul area. Both sides are backed by tanks, howitzers and shoulder-fired missiles after at least four bouts of warning shots were exchanged between them since August 29. The two armies are waiting for the sixth round of corps commander-level talks to determine whether the “diplomatic consensus” reached to reduce tensions at the September 10 talks between foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi actually translates into ground reality. In a bid to “unnerve” Indian soldiers entrenched on the heights, the PLA has taken to loudspeakers to issue warnings in chaste Hindi apart from playing Punjabi songs. “Our soldiers are enjoying the music,” an Indian Army officer said. “The PLA is trying to stir disaffection among our troops. But such psychological operations do not trouble our battle-hardened soldiers,” he added. Read AlsoLAC face-off: Disengagement onus on India, says ChinaDespite the recent five-point India-China consensus for defusing the border situation, China on Wednesday put the ball for disengagement in India’s court and said it was imperative for the latter to correct its “mistake”, disengage on the ground and take concrete steps to ease tensions.‘PLA yet to confirm date of next meet’Though the two armies are on a hair-trigger alert amid a huge trust deficit, there have been no major aggressive moves in the high-altitude region for the last one week. “The PLA seems to be considering its next move and finalising the approach for the next dialogue between the corps commanders, who last met on August 2,” another senior Indian officer said. “China is on the backfoot after our troops occupied multiple tactical heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul area, while also repositioning and consolidating their positions in the ‘Finger’ area on the north bank. It gives us leverage for the first time. PLA is yet to get back with the date for the next meeting,” he added. The operational situation at the ‘friction points’, however, remains on a knife edge, with bullets being fired — even though in the air — for the first time in 45 years. “All the firing incidents took place because the PLA tried to aggressively come near our perimeter defences on the heights, which we have clearly told them is a red line for us. A magazine or two from assault rifles or a light machine gun might have been emptied in the process from both sides,” the officer said. Read AlsoCentre sets up committee to look into Chinese 'spying' revelationsThe Indian government has set up an inquiry into the revelations that a Chinese company is spying on Indian citizens including the top political class and officials across the board. The issue was raised in the ongoing Parliamentary session by Congress MP KC Venugopal on Wednesday.As reported by TOI, the rules of engagement have changed after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15, in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. With the rival military buildups in the Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie area to the north also remaining a major concern, the Indian Army has undertaken massive ‘advance winter stocking’ to sustain its deployed troops through the winter if required. The first two incidents of firing took place on August 29 and 31 when Indian soldiers conducted the pre-emptive military manoeuvre to seize previously-unoccupied tactical heights on the ridgeline stretching from Thakung on the south bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La. Another round of firing took place on September 7 when PLA troops tried to intimidate and dislodge Indian soldiers occupying the Mukhpari Top, the highest feature in the area at an altitude of over 18,000 feet on the ridgeline north of Rezang La. The fourth round took place the next day on the north bank of Pangong Tso where Indian soldiers have also occupied heights overlooking PLA deployments on the ridgeline over ‘Finger-4’. TOI, was the first to report in its September 9 edition that Indian troops had also fired warning shots during Mukhpari incident. Watch Ladakh Faceoff: PLA warning Indian troops in Hindi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-pla-tactics-punjabi-songs-warning-to-indian-troops-in-hindi/articleshow/78158229.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 17, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: LoP issue likely to dominate monsoon session||RANCHI: The upcoming five-day-long monsoon session of the Jharkhand Assembly is likely to be dominated by the pending issue of granting the leader of opposition status to senior BJP functionary Babulal Marandi. On Wednesday, the saffron party made it clear that it will not let go of any opportunity in order to the issue on floor of the house during the session. State BJP president-cum-Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash claimed that JMM and its alliance partners in the mahagathbandhan government, Congress and RJD, are trying to dictate the assembly. “They have the mandate to run the government but it seems that they want to decide the functioning of the assembly as well,” he said. Taking strong exception to the fact that the assembly speaker did not invite Marandi to the all-parties meeting with the MLAs on Tuesday, Prakash said, “BJP has unanimously elected Marandi as the legislative party leader and intimated the speaker in this regard. Despite that Marandi was not invited to the meeting and that amounts to violation of democratic norms.” The ongoing agitation by the assistant policemen at Morhabadi Ground is yet another issue which the opposition would like to highlight in the assembly. The protest has already found support from BJP and other political factions. Meanwhile, the legislators are wary of any constructive work happening given the short period of the monsoon session. Though the session is for five days, beginning from Friday and concluding on Tuesday, work will take place on just three days in view of Saturday and Sunday being official holidays. CPI(M-L) MLA Vinod Kumar Singh said first day of the session is adjourned after paying obituary remarks. “It has been a precedence that no concrete business occurs on the first day. So we are left with just two days to raise questions,” he added. “Even if we have just two days, the time should not be wasted in creating ruckus and the MLAs must be given a chance to raise the issues,” Singh said. He informed that he is planning to raise issues like the plight of migrant labourers, lack of job opportunities in the state and the high rate of unemployment on the floor of the house. Singh, along with Jamshedpur (East) MLA Saryu Rai, has already raised a demand to increase the working hours and commence the session from 10am instead of 11am. Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who is a member of the ruling coalition, also said that only two days of assembly session can be challenging. Tirkey is all prepared to raise the issue of Land Mutation Amendment Bill. “The bill is supposed to be tabled in this session. So it must be debated properly so that the flaws can be highlighted,” he said. The government is prepared to table the first supplementary budget on the first day and get it approved on Monday. Understanding the need for making constructive use of the short session, speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto has appealed to both ruling and opposition members to show restraint and allow business to proceed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lop-issue-likely-to-dominate-monsoon-session/articleshow/78154701.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
September 17, 2020||Ranchi||CM Raghubar Das extends support to police stir in Ranchi||RANCHI: Former chief minister Raghubar Das met protesting assistant policemen at Morhabadi ground in Ranchi on Wednesday. The assistant policemen are demanding an increase in their monthly pay from Rs 10,000 to Rs 18,000, extension of service till 60 years and benefits of all allowances as admissible for a regular cop. After interacting with the agitators, Das said the present government should extend the contract of assistant policemen and start the process for regularization of service. Das said, “My government recruited the rural youths to prevent them from joining extremist groups. After three years of contractual service, these persons were to be given priority in police jobs.” He alleged the JMM-led government came to power by promising to provide five lakh jobs in three months, but the administration has failed to create new jobs. Meanwhile, a delegation of Rashtriya Janta Dal (Loktantrik) also met the agitators but blamed the previous BJP government for the current agitation. The working president of the party, Kailash Yadav, said, “The policies of the erstwhile BJP government regarding these jawans were not clear. I will talk to chief minister Hemant Soren and request him to consider their demands.” A protesting policeman, Avinash Kumar Dwiwedi, said, “We are not affiliated to any party but we are open to meeting anyone, if that helps in realising our demands.” Notably, a senior official had earlier stated that a proposal for extension of service of assistant policemen by a year was already under process. When asked on the issue, the director general of police, M V Rao, said, “I will not comment on this issue until the protesters withdraw their agitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/raghubar-extends-support-to-police-stir/articleshow/78155094.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 17, 2020||Ranchi||Battered markets pin sales hope on Puja bonus payout in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: Several business sectors in Jamshedpur can make up for the losses incurred due to the lockdown if corporate houses disburse the pending annual bonus of employees ahead of the festive season, traders in the Steel City believe. According to estimates, people will spend about 40% of the bonus they receive on shopping for Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath in October and November. Industry insiders said an estimated Rs 500 crore may flow into the markets in the coming months. “The markets are desperately waiting for sales to pick up and several sectors will get a boost, some by as much as 50%, if employees get their bonus,” said national secretary of All India Confederation of Traders (CAIT) Suresh Sonthalia. President of Jamshedpur Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) Alok Chaudhary, said, “Sales normally increase before the festive season, but with the prevailing situation this year, traders are looking for some respite after the establishments remained closed for the first two months of the financial year coupled with negligible sales during the unlock phases. Disbursal of bonus will put more purchasing powetr in the hand of the people and result in a spike in sales.” Noted businessman and president of the Jamshedpur Jewellers’ Association, Bipin Adeshra, said, “An unprecedented rise in gold prices this year has kept buyers off jewellery shops and a timely bonus is likely to give an impetus to sales of the yellow metal.” Apart from the bonus, shopkeepers are also innovating an coming up with out of the box ideas to lure customers. Some are letting people shop on video calls from the comfort of their homes. Raja Singh of National Electronics in Sakchi market said, “People are afraid to step out of their homes so we have introduced a video calling facility through which buyers can select products and we will deliver them at their doorstep.” On Tuesday, employees of Tata Steel applauded the company after it said it will disburse Rs 235 crore as bonus. Trade union leader Vijay Khan said, “Tata Group companies such as Tata Motors, Tinplate, Tata Pigment, Tata Cummins, Tata Hitachi, TSPDL, TSUIS (formerly known as Jusco), Timken India, Novoco Vitas Corp (formerly known as Lafarge cement) and several others are expected to announce bonuses in the next few days.” The impact of increased cash in hand can already be felt in the markets. Shailesh Pandey, an official working with the loan department of HDFC Bank, said, “Queries for car loans are increasing and we expect sales, especially those in the budget segment, to record an encouraging figure this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/battered-markets-pin-sales-hope-on-puja-bonus-payout/articleshow/78154523.cms||B Sridhar
September 17, 2020||Ranchi||Ramgarh stinks as piles of garbage dot streets amid strike by civic workers||RAMGARH: Ramgarh town’s sanitation has gone for a toss as the indefinite strike called by Ramgarh Municipal Corporation’s (RMC) 200-odd cleanliness workers entered its tenth day on Wednesday. The protesters, who work on a contractual basis, are demanding a hike in their wages under the provision of the minimum daily wages as mandated by the state government. The workers claimed that they are getting a little under Rs 200 per day, which is lesser than the government approved minimum wage rate of Rs 294.45 for contractual workers. Besides the residential areas, the prolonged strike has resulted in the Covid care centres here being neglected. For instance, sadar hospital and an old age home here, which is being used now to treat the Covid-19 patients, have allegedly not been fumigated in the last few days — a necessity to curb the virus spread. Meanwhile, the RSS-backed labour union, Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), has lent its support to the strike. BMS (Jharkhand) president Sanjay Thakur said, “The workers’ demands are just but the RMC authorities and the state government are ignoring them. The strike will continue unless their demands are met.” Taking note of the situation, the district administration has instructed the civic body to get the matter resolved at the earliest. Ramgarh SDO Kirtishree G said, “RMC has been directed to convene a meeting with all the officials concerned and get the matter resolved at once.” RMC’s executive officer Suresh Yadav said a meeting will be convened to end the impasse within 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ramgarh-stinks-as-piles-of-garbage-dot-streets-amid-strike-by-civic-workers/articleshow/78154635.cms||N K Agarwal
