September 18, 2020||Mysuru||Abhimanyu gets howdah duty this Dasara as Arjuna retires||In 2019, after the Dasara celebrations, it was speculated that Arjuna, who had been the howdah elephant for a few years, would be eased out and replaced by Abhimanyu, considering that the former was already 59 years old then. Government rules prohibit pachyderms over 60 years of age to be used for rigorous jobs and carrying the howdah would entail a weight of 750 kilos. The official word on this came earlier this week, when Abhimanyu was announced as the howdah elephant at the Jamboo Savari procession to be held on October 26, as part of the Dasara festival, which will be inaugurated by five Corona warriors atop the Chamundi Hill on October 17. Abhimanyu has been participating in Jamboo Savari for the past 18 years. Deputy Conservator of Forests, Wildlife, Alexander MG says, “Abhimanyu holds the record for participating in the most number of Dasara celebrations. In fact, last year, we had started training him to carry the golden howdah.” This time around, though, the Jamboo Savari will have only five elephants and will be held inside the Mysore Palace premises owing to the coronavirus pandemic. A limited number of people will be allowed to watch the procession. There will be cultural programmes as part of the festival itinerary, but these will be held with strict enforcement of social distancing. Get to know Abhimanyu… Abhimanyu is normally camped at the Mathigodu elephant camp. He is 2.68 meters tall and 3.51 meters in length, weighing around 4,550 kgs. He was captured in 1977 from Hebballa forest range in Kodagu district and has, since, been used extensively to capture other wild elephants. In fact, he has travelled to Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Goa to help with the capture of wild elephants and tigers. During the 2019 Jamboo Savaari, Abhimanyu pulled the Aane Gadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/abhimanyu-gets-howdah-duty-this-dasara-as-arjuna-retires/articleshow/78171882.cms||Vinay Lokesh
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||Arun Yogiraj's Common Man statue to be placed at the Malgudi Museum||Arun Yogiraj is a fifth generation sculptor from Mysuru, whose artworks dot various parts of the city. His latest is an ode to one of the most popular creations of the late cartoonist RK Laxman, The Common Man. Arun has been commissioned by railway authorities to do a life-size version of the comic character. “RK Laxman and RK Narayan hailed from Mysuru, as do I, so there is an emotional connect in doing this sculpture. I have grown up seeing The Common Man in The Times of India, so, when the opportunity to sculpt him came, I was overwhelmed. The sculpture, which is about five and a half feet tall, is currently being made in clay, and will later be molded in fibre. I have used nine of RK Laxman’s drawings as reference material to convert the line drawing into a three-dimensional sculpture. It took me about a week to make the clay model and another two days for the final fibre version. Initially, I thought the statue was for the Mysuru railway station, considering that the Divisional Railway Office commissioned it, but I am now told that once completed the sculpture will be on display at the Malgudi Museum in Shivamogga, which is also on railway property. Malgudi Days is one of RK Narayan's best works and having one of his brother's most popular cartoon characters at the museum makes perfect sense” says Arun. Sridhar VG||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/arun-yogirajs-common-man-statue-to-be-placed-at-the-malgudi-museum/articleshow/78174324.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Artist Kartikey Sharma: Our aim is to make 300 murals in Pune||From eye-catching graffiti and murals with social messages, the city of Pune is witnessing a pop of colourful walls telling a story. These old and decrepitude walls are being turned into a sight for sore eyes by youngsters. Started by artist Kartikey Sharma and his friend Sneha, the aim behind ‘Clean and Paint Pune’ initiative was to paint the world together. Kartikey, who is a cancer-victor and dedicated to giving back to the society says, “We started this initiative in Pune because this is our city. We find a dirty wall and we clean the walls and the surrounding area and then, we paint a mural on it. By doing this, the wall becomes the identity of a clean space. The best example that we have pulled for this is a 200 metre long stretch outside of Konark campus in Viman Nagar that is inch by inch covered in paintings. We witnessed a really motivating change in the people around us, who now protect the paintings themselves.” Telling us about how they keep the initiative going, Kartikey shares, “To buy the paint, we speak to small business owners and people around and chip in from our pockets to be able to complete this. Our initial target was to paint 100 walls and we are 30 murals down. Our new aim is to make 300 such murals in the city. Though we know this will take a lot of money and time from our work; we are determined to do so.” Watch Beautifying Pune with one graffiti at a time||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/artist-kartikey-sharma-our-aim-is-to-make-300-murals-in-pune/articleshow/78176708.cms||Rishabh Deb
September 18, 2020||India||NSA Ajit Doval attends BRICS meet on security||NEW DELHI: National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Thursday attended a virtual meeting of top security officials of five-nation grouping BRICS. The 10th meeting of the NSAs of the grouping was attended by China's State Councillor Yang Jiechi and senior security officials from Russia, Brazil and South Africa, officials said. It was hosted by Russia, the current chair of BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa). The meeting exchanged views on combating terrorism and extremism besides deliberating on global and regional security issues, according to details provided by a Russian official. The official said an agreement was reached on further expanding the dialogue on security issues, and providing for closer coordination among law enforcement agencies of the member nations. BRICS represents over 3.6 billion people, or half of the world population, and they have a combined GDP of USD 16.6 trillion. PTI MPB||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nsa-ajit-doval-attends-brics-meet-on-security/articleshow/78177011.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||SAD ready to make any sacrifice for farmers, will decide on continuing in NDA later: Sukhbir||NEW DELHI:The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will decide on whether to remain in the ruling NDA or not in a meeting of the party later, its chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Thursday after party leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal submitted her resignation from the Union Cabinet in protest against three farm sectors bills. Speaking to reporters outside Parliament, Badal said the SAD is ready to make any sacrifice for farmers and their welfare. The party's future course of action and whether to stay in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) or not will be decided in a party meeting later, he said. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who submitted her resignation to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), told reporters, "I don't want to be part of a government which brought farm sector bills without addressing apprehensions of farmers." Her resignation came soon after her husband and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal strongly opposed the bills in Lok Sabha, claiming that they will "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab, and announced that the Union minister will quit the government in protest. In his speech during a discussion on two of the farm bills -- the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill -- in Lok Sabha, Sukhbir Singh Badal said the proposed laws will "destroy" the 50 years of hard work put in by successive Punjab governments and farmers to build the agriculture sector. Lok Sabha passed the two bills by voice vote on Thursday. Another bill related to the farm sector, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, was passed on Tuesday. These three bills will replace ordinances promulgated by the government earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sad-ready-to-make-any-sacrifice-for-farmers-will-decide-on-continuing-in-nda-later-sukhbir/articleshow/78177170.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Business||E-tailers may log record $7 billion festive month sales||BENGALURU: E-commerce companies are expected to post nearly 50% jump in gross sales to $4 billion this Diwali, a two-year high, during the five-day sale events of Flipkart, Amazon India and others, according to the latest estimates from market research firm Redseer. With Covid-19 accelerating digital adoption and traditional offline shoppers moving online, the festive season is expected to see an over 70% jump in consumers with 45-50 million digital buyers. Of these, over 50% are likely to be from tier-II cities and beyond, Redseer estimates. The entire festive month is expected to clock gross sales of $7 billion in 2020 against nearly $4 billion last year, a 75% jump. The date of the much-publicised sales are yet to be announced, but e-tailers have started working with brands, sellers and logistics players in the run-up to the event likely next month. Industry executives are also working with sellers and brands to overcome supply-chain and investment issues to meet the surge in demand. “Technically, what demonetisation did to the payments space, Covid-19 has almost done it for the e-commerce space. We are expecting a higher number of shipments than what we are seeing currently. In peak time, it should be 7.5-8 million shipments a day. We have already planned for the season and now the implementation will happen,” said T A Krishnan, co-founder and CEO, E Com Express, a third-party logistics company catering to online platforms. According to him, the industry is currently shipping about 5-5.5 million items daily. Last year, the average shipments during the festival season were under 5 million. According to industry sources, grocery, FMCG and general merchandise will drive higher volumes due to Covid-induced demand. Typically, smartphones, electronics, small and large appliances and fashion dominate Diwali sales. “The estimates are very realistic. There is a significant higher adoption of digital in non-metro cities. In terms of consumer behaviour during pre-Covid-19 era, we had seen some spurt in online penetration but this is the first time that there has been a sustained and significant movement towards digital — with e-commerce penetration jumping to 5% compared to 3% last year,” said Ujjwal Chaudhry, associate partner, Redseer. This year’s sales are also likely to happen when there are signs of a gradual economic recovery compared to last year when overall spends were muted owing to the broader slowdown in the economy, Chaudhry added. “I am diversifying into new categories like handicraft items, Diwali lights as there are supply issues in segments like electronic accessories,” a Delhi-based online seller said. Emails sent to Flipkart and Amazon India did not elicit any response. Watch E-tailers may post record $7 billion festive month sales||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-may-log-record-7-billion-festive-month-sales/articleshow/78177696.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 18, 2020||India||Regulate digital media, not TV, Centre tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Thursday suggested to the Supreme Court to frame regulatory mechanisms for curbing hateful, insidious and communal content on digital and social media platforms rather than making a fresh attempt to regulate content of print and electronic media, which already have an existing framework recognised by the court in recent judgments. Apparently anguished by Sudarshan TV's 10-part programme allegedly insinuating that Muslims were infiltrating the civil services as part of a larger conspiracy, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph on Tuesday had stopped further telecast of the serial, an order extended till Friday, and expressed keenness to frame guidelines for the electronic media. Attempting to dampen the bench's enthusiasm, the information & broadcasting ministry said, "Even if the SC considers it appropriate to undertake the said exercise, there is no justification to confine this exercise only to mainstream electronic media. The media includes mainstream electronic media, mainstream print media as well as a parallel media namely digital print media and digital web-based news portals and YouTube channels as well as over the top platforms (OTTs)." Pointing to past rulings, the Centre said in the Common Cause judgment of 2018, the SC had said, "We are of the view that the central government, having framed rules in the nature of Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, would be well advised to frame similar rules, in exercise of the power vested with it under Section 22 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, to formalise the complaint redressal mechanism, including the period of limitation within which a complaint can be filed, and the statutory authority concerned which shall adjudicate upon the same, including the appellate and other redressal mechanisms, leading to a final conclusive determination." The Centre further said, "While in mainstream media (whether electronic or print), the publication/telecast is a one-time act, digital media has faster reach from wider range of viewership/readership and has the potential to become viral because of several electronic applications like WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook. "Considering the serious impact and the potential, it is desirable that if the SC decides to undertake the exercise, it should first be undertaken with regard to digital media as there already exists sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements with regard to electronic media and print media." The ministry said the field of balancing between journalistic freedom and responsibility was already occupied either by statutory provisions made by Parliament or by SC judgments. "The present petition be confined to only one channel, namely Sudarshan TV, and the SC may not undertake the exercise of laying down any further guidelines with or without appointment of an amicus or a committee of persons as amicus," it added. The ministry said the SC had already dealt with the issues of "hate speech" and "content regulation of TV and radio shows" in its 2014 and 2018 judgments. "The fact situation in each case shall have to be decided on a case-to-case basis and a broader exercise which is too general in nature is neither warranted nor permissible," it said, relying on the judgments. In the Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan judgment of 2014, the SC had said, "It is desirable to put reasonable prohibition on unwarranted actions but there may arise difficulty in confining the prohibition to some manageable standard and in doing so, it may encompass all sorts of speeches, which needs to be avoided. "For a long time, the US courts were content in upholding legislations curtailing ‘hate speech’ and related issues. However, lately, the courts have shifted gears, thereby paving the way for a myriad of rulings which side with individual freedom of speech and expression as opposed to the order of a manageable society." After examining the existing provisions of law in penal laws, the SC had said, "The statutory provisions and particularly the penal law provide sufficient remedy to curb the menace of 'hate speeches'. Thus, a person aggrieved must resort to the remedy provided under a particular statute. The root of the problem is not the absence of laws but rather a lack of their effective execution." "We, therefore, hereby recommend, that the central government, within the framework of Section 22 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, deliberate on the issue and take a conscious decision thereon, and to finalise a similar statutory framework for radio programmes as well. Till the above issue is considered and finalised, the existing mechanism of complaint redressal shall remain in place." Citing these two judgments, the Centre told the SC on Thursday, "Aforesaid quoted parts lay down the correct legal position requiring no general exercise to be undertaken merely based on one episode or a few episodes of one channel namely Sudarshan TV."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/regulate-digital-media-not-tv-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/78177840.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 18, 2020||India||Send plan within a week to speed up trials of lawmakers: SC to HCs||NEW DELHI: Setting off alarm bells for chief ministers, MPs and MLAs against whom trials in criminal cases have been pending for years, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked high courts to submit within a week action plans to expeditiously complete trial proceedings in 4,442 criminal and corruption cases against sitting and former legislators. As many as 2,556 cases are pending against sitting MPs and MLAs, which include 174 cases where the maximum punishment prescribed for the offence is life sentence. In 352 cases, trial has been stayed either by the SC or HCs. Among chief ministers, Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao leads the tally with 64 criminal cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh’s Y S Jaganmohan Reddy with 38 criminal cases. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy asked chief justices of each HC to formulate an action plan on requirement of special courts for exclusive trial of criminal cases against sitting and former legislators while keeping in view the following parameters: total number of pending cases in each district, number of special courts required for speedy trial, existing number of special courts, number of judges and subject categories of the pending cases, tenure of the judges to be designated, number of cases to be assigned to each judge, expected time for disposal of cases, distance between the designated courts and requirement of infrastructure. The bench also reminded the HC CJs about the 2018 SC judgment, which had ruled that if a stay on trial granted by the HC was more than six months old, then the trial court could proceed with the trial as if there was no stay. It requested the CJs to forthwith take up petitions of sitting and former legislators and either vacate stay or decide their pleas within two months by resorting to day-to-day hearing. “Covid-19 condition should not be an impediment to compliance of this direction, as these matters could be conveniently heard through video conferencing,” it said. This order came on a PIL filed by advocate-petitioner Ashwini Upadhyay. The Justice Ramana-led bench said, “One of the main objectives behind issuing notice in the present petition, and the various orders that have been passed time to time by this court, was to ensure that criminal prosecutions against elected representatives (MPs and MLAs) are concluded expeditiously. “The court was of the opinion that such special consideration was required not only because of the rising wave of criminalisation that was occurring in the politics in the country, but also due to the power that elected representatives (sitting or former) wield, to influence or hamper effective prosecution. "Additionally, as legislators are repositories of the faith and trust of their electorate, there is a necessity to be aware of the antecedents of the person that is/was elected. Ensuring the purity of democratically-elected institutions is thus the hallmark of the present proceedings. However, despite all the initiatives taken by this court in the present petition, there has been no substantial improvement in the situation when it comes to the disposal of pending criminal cases against sitting/former legislators.” Amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita had compiled data on criminal cases pending against legislators, sitting and former, sent by each HC. Hansaria had suggested that it would be appropriate to set up a special court, exclusively for trial of criminal cases pending against present and former legislators, in each district. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioner, had suggested that each HC should determine the number of special courts required to speedily conclude trials in criminal cases against legislators. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta had suggested that all HCs, which have stayed trials in cases against legislators, must decide the petitions within a month. He said the Centre had already released funds for setting up the requested number of special courts, but most states had not sent fund utilisation certificates. He said central agencies like the CBI and ED would pursue matters effectively and ensure that all pending investigations against legislators were taken to their logical end expeditiously. The SC had pointed out that another reason for delay in trial was the non-grant of timely sanction for prosecution of accused legislators by the appropriate authority and that many trials were stalled because of absence of sanction for prosecution. The SG said he would file a status report regarding the stage of pending investigations against sitting and former legislators in CBI/ED cases, pendency of sanctions for prosecution and the expected time for completion of probes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/send-plan-within-a-week-to-speed-up-trials-of-lawmakers-sc-to-hcs/articleshow/78177994.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 18, 2020||India||Nepal depicts Indian areas as its own in book||NEW DELHI: Three months after passing an amendment to sanction a new political map that identifies Indian territory in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh as its own, Nepal has inscribed the changes in its academic curriculum and currency. The office of Nepal education minister Giriraj Mani Pokharel confirmed to TOI the book, ‘Nepalko Bhubhaag Ra Seemasambandhi Swadhyay Samagri (Nepal’s geography and territorial boundary)’ has been introduced for higher secondary school students. The preface has been written by Pokharel. The book includes the disputed area of Kalapani in Uttarakhand as Nepal’s territory. A source said it mentions Nepal has a geographical area of 1,47,641.28 sq km, of which 460 sq km is the Kalapani area. Read AlsoThe Kalapani dispute: All you need to knowThe MEA on Thursday clarified that India's political map released after reorganisation of J&amp;K has in no manner revised the boundary with Nepal. The timing is significant, as it comes amid an unease with Nepal over territorial claims of the Kalapani trijuntion of India-Nepal-China. Nepal media hasThe same day, the Nepal cabinet, headed by PM K P Oli, also gave permission to the country’s central bank, Nepal Rastra Bank, to mint new coins of one-rupee and two-rupee denominations with the new political map. Read AlsoNepal moves ahead with new map, says no offer of talks from IndiaNepal on Thursday completed the legislative process for the validation of its controversial new map which shows parts of India's Uttarakhand state as belonging to Nepal. The ties now seem to be going into free fall with Nepal accusing India of ignoring its repeated pleas for dialogue on the boundarySources said this was announced by the Nepal government spokesperson and foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali. In all likelihood, sources added, the new coins will be in circulation by Dussehra (Dashain, as it’s called there), celebrated as a major festival in the neighbouring country. In November last year, Nepal had protested against the inauguration of a key Lipulekh road in Pithoragarh by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, alleging that a part of the stretch passed through Nepal’s territory. After a renewed dispute over three areas — Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani — Nepal’s parliament unanimously voted to amend the Constitution to update the country’s map to include them as part of its land. The government had then announced that all documents will start using the new map. Read AlsoNepal objects to border road, India says its on own territoryAs Nepal responded with alarm and anger to India building a Link Road up to Lipulekh, which was inaugurated by Rajnath Singh, India said the road “lies completely within the territory of India. "Read AlsoNepal govt's links with China affecting its autonomy, ability to take independent decisions: ReportKATHMANDU: As China continues to wield its influence over various countries, Beijing's nexus with the top establishment in the Nepal government has raised serious doubts over the Himalayan nation's 'autonomy' and 'ability to take independent decisions', according to a report in Global WatchSo now, a source said, introduction of the map in school books and coins is “fully legal” because it follows what is a regular course of action. “The government has started the process of issuing the new maps to Nepal embassies and is introducing it in government gazettes as well,” the source added. Read Also‘No true Nepali closer to any country than India’In an exclusive email interview, Baburam Bhattarai, former Nepalese PM and leader of the Janata Samajwadi Party, the third-largest political party in the country, spoke at length to Ishita Mishra on the border dispute between India and Nepal on the Kalapani issue, the close ‘roti-beti’ ties betweenMany in Nepal, meanwhile, said the need for a resolution is getting more important by the day. “There have been misunderstandings between the two nations over the past few months. However, introducing a new Nepal map is a sovereign decision by the country,” Khadga KC, head of the department of international relations and diplomacy at Tribhuvan University, told TOI. “But I do believe that the issues should be resolved through dialogue and a solution must be found.” Watch Now, Nepal depicts Indian areas as its own in book||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-depicts-indian-areas-as-its-own-in-book/articleshow/78178044.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 18, 2020||India||No force can stop us from patrolling Ladakh borders: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday made a strong assertion in Parliament that no force in the world can stop Indian soldiers from patrolling the country’s borders in the Ladakh region. While reaffirming India’s desire to resolve the stand-off with China “peacefully”, Singh said, “We will not back down from taking any big and tough step in the interest of our country.” He was responding to questions by opposition leaders like Congress’s A K Antony and Anand Sharma, who wanted to know whether India had clearly made restoration of status quo as in mid-April a non-negotiable demand. While sharing a detailed time-line on tensions on the border over the months, the defence minister said it is apparent from Chinese activities that “unki kathani aur karni alag hai (that their words don’t match their actions)”. “A case in point is that even when the discussions were going on, the Chinese side again engaged in provocative military manoeuvres on the night of August 29 and 30 in an attempt to change the status quo in the South Bank area of Pangong lake. But yet again, timely and firm actions by our armed forces along the LAC prevented such attempts from succeeding,” he added. There has been no forward movement since external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi agreed on a five-point consensus on disengagement. In his statement in Rajya Sabha, Singh said, “No force in the world can stop Indian soldiers from patrolling. Our soldiers have sacrificed their lives only for this.” He was responding to a clarification sought by Antony on the issue of Indian forces not being allowed to patrol in certain parts of the Galwan Valley. “I want to make it clear that skirmishes and face-offs are because of this (issue of patrolling),” he said, adding the patrolling pattern is traditional and well-defined. “While no one should doubt our determination to safeguard our borders, India believes that mutual respect and mutual sensitivity are the basis for peaceful relations with neighbours. As we want to resolve the current situation through dialogue, we have maintained diplomatic and military engagement with the Chinese side,” Singh added. He shared in these discussions, India has maintained three key principles — both sides should strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control, neither side should attempt to alter the status quo unilaterally and all agreements and understandings between the two sides much be fully abided by in their entirety. “The Chinese side, on its part, took the position that the situation should be handled in a responsible manner and ensure peace and tranquility as per bilateral agreements and protocol. However, it is apparent from Chinese activities that their words don’t match their actions,” Singh said. He went on to say that the amassing of the troops by China goes against the 1993 and 1996 agreements. Cutting across party lines, members in the Upper House expressed solidarity and support to the armed forces. Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and former Defence Minister AK Antony of Congress asked the government to make efforts to restore status quo ante and resolve the over-three-month-old border stand-off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-force-can-stop-us-from-patrolling-ladakh-borders-rajnath-singh/articleshow/78178103.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Both countries need to focus on easing tensions, India tells China||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday asked China to sincerely work with the Indian side for complete disengagement "at the earliest" from all friction areas, including Pangong Lake, as well as de-escalation in border areas, in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols on maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas. Following repeated assertions by China in the past few days that it was India's responsibility to defuse the border situation, the government also reminded Beijing that both countries needed to focus on that. The Chinese foreign ministry said again on Thursday that it was imperative for India to correct its mistakes, disengage quickly on the ground and take "concrete" action to ease the border situation. "We hope the Chinese side will strictly respect and observe the Line of Actual Control and not make further attempts to unilaterally change status quo," said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The two countries are yet to follow up the 5-point consensus that they arrived in Moscow with a meeting of the senior military commanders and China seems to be suggesting that the onus to implement the consensus is on India alone. The MEA said External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Wang Yi had reached an agreement in Moscow which outlined the way forward and that both sides needed to focus on easing tensions. This meeting followed another meeting of the defence ministers. "There was consensus between the ministers of the two sides, during both the meetings, that there should be quick and complete disengagement of troops from all friction areas along the LAC. Both sides should, therefore, focus on easing tensions in the friction areas by refraining from any actions that may lead to an escalation in the situation," said the official, adding that there was a need for strict adherence to bilateral agreements and protocols and to not make any unilateral attempted to change the status quo. Recalling Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's statement in both houses of Parliament, the official said India remained committed to a peaceful dialogue with the Chinese side, including through diplomatic and military channels. MEA's remarks on the situation were in stark contrast to China's claims in the past few days. China again insisted on Thursday that its troops had always "strictly observed" the relevant agreements between the two countries. That all was not well even after the Moscow consensus was first evident earlier this week when Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong cited an August 31 statement by the Indian army about pre-emptive action to claim that Indian troops had crossed LAC and opened fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/both-countries-need-to-focus-on-easing-tensions-india-tells-china/articleshow/78178174.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 18, 2020||India||Nafed starts dispatching onions to states||NASHIK: The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed), a central government agency, has started dispatching onions from its buffer stock to various states as per their requirement. Nafed had procured 95,000 tonne of onions between May and mid-August to create the buffer stock in a bid to tackle onion scarcity and stabilise the price of the produce between August and September. Of the 95,0000 tonne, 90,000 tonne were procured from various places in Maharashtra — a large volume was procured from the Nashik district. “We are sending onions to Guwahati, Delhi, Kolkata, Bhuvaneshwar and places in Gujarat as per the demand,” Nafed sources said, adding that they are daily sending around three-four trucks. Each truck carries 12 tonne of the produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nafed-starts-dispatching-onions-to-states/articleshow/78178209.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 18, 2020||India||Revoke ban on onion exports, urges B’desh||NEW DELHI: With onion prices shooting up in Bangladesh, Dhaka has written to India asking it to revoke its ban on onion export in keeping with an earlier understanding between the two countries. The Indian government on Monday banned the export of all types of onion with immediate effect to increase availability and curb prices of the commodity in the domestic market. “The latest abrupt announcement undermines the discussions that took place in 2019 and 2020 between the two friendly countries on the matter and the understanding shared,” read the foreign ministry letter sent to India through its High Commission in Dhaka. The letter requests the authorities to resume onion exports taking into consideration the excellent ties between the neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/revoke-ban-on-onion-exports-urges-bdesh/articleshow/78178230.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||KTCL’s electric buses likely to be on road by January||PANAJI: Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited’s (KTCL) 25 of the 100 electric buses will be operational by December-January, minister for transport Mauvin Godinho said on Thursday. “The first electrical bus will arrive by November and we will be able to commission the first 25 buses by December or January. These buses are financed by the central government so we don’t have to spend much money on their purchase,” Godinho told TOI. KTCL officials will be going to Hyderabad on September 28 for inspection of the first vehicle. “After we approve of the design and structure, the bus will be ready by November-end. Following which, the batch production will start. We will get the buses by the second or third week of December. We are planning to introduce the buses from Christmas onwards. We may have the inauguration on the occasion of Goa Liberation Day depending on their arrival,” KTCL general manager Sanjay Ghate said.  Each electric bus is estimated to cost anywhere between Rs 2 to 2.3 crore and the state is to incur 20% of the cost. The bus drivers are supposed to come trained along with the electric vehicle while the bus conductors are to be from KTCL’s staff. KTCL will now have to take up the building of infrastructure for charging stations. “We are exploring various possibilities for the charging stations. We are also in discussion with the different oil companies. Wherever KTC has land, we can have additional petrol pumps along with charging stations,” Godinho said. He further added that this way the income of the KTC can be enhanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktcls-electric-buses-likely-to-be-on-road-by-jan/articleshow/78177778.cms||Nida Sayed
September 18, 2020||Hubballi||Five more waste collection centres to come up in twin cities||Hubballi: The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation is all set to set up five more dry waste collection centres where dry waste will be processed and reused, near stationary compactor stations in the twin cities. In Bengaluru, there are many such centres, but in North Karnataka, it is the first of its kind, claim HDMC officials. In the first phase, HDMC set up a dry waste collection centre near zone office 11 on a trial basis, and it is segregating 100kg of dry waste collected daily from ward number 57. The civic workers collect the waste separately by going door-to-door in that ward. Encouraged by this success, the HDMC has decided to replicate this model by setting up five more dry waste collection centres. In this dry waste collection centre, the workers further segregate the dry waste. As of now, they extract 32 items from the dry waste that they collect. The separation of dry waste and its collection is being conducted successfully with the help of Hasiru Dal, an NGO. According to officials, the dry waste collection centre has reduced the quantity of dry waste going to the dumping yard. According to the Yuvaraj K R, environment engineer, the dry waste is being collected from ward numbers 57, 55 and 58. In ward 57, the collection of wet waste and dry waste is being conducted with the help of Hasiru Dal, he said. Deepika R, health inspector of ward number 57, said that it took almost a year to inculcate the habit of handing over segregated waste by residents of the ward, and the result is before us. She said the dry waste is segregated and processed after which it is sent for recycling from this centre. She said that they create small chips from plastic, by using a shredder machine, which is then sent to factories. A factory located near Hubballi off Karwar Road prepares plastic ropes using this material extracted from the dry waste. Executive engineer of the solid waste management wing of HDMC, Vijaykumar, said that the HDMC is planning to establish five more such dry waste collection centres along with material recovery centres in the twin cities, and that a tender has already been floated for the same. Hasiru Dal, Hubballi-Dharwad manager Manjunath Barker said that last August they collected 10 tonnes of multi-layer plastic produced out of dry waste and handed it over to a cement factory in Bagalkot district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/five-more-waste-collection-centres-to-come-up-in-twin-cities/articleshow/78176794.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 18, 2020||Hubballi||IndiGo to operate Hubballi-Mumbai flight thrice a week||HUBBALLI: After a gap of nearly six months, the direct flight service to Mumbai will commence from Hubballi airport from September 19. 0IndiGo is all set to operate its flight to Mumbai from Hubballi thrice in a week from Saturday. Flight service to Mumbai could give a much needed push to the economic activities in the north Karnataka region. As Hubballi is the only commercial hub in north-Karnataka, resuming flight services to Mumbai will play a vital role for businesses in the city while also bringing more investors in the days to come. Prior to the pandemic-induced lockdown, Air India was operating flights to Mumbai for the city. Hubballi Airport director Pramod Kumar Thakare told TOI that IndiGo will operate its flight to Mumbai three days a week on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The flight will arrive at Hubballi at 8am from Mumbai while it departs at 8.40am. The flight activities are now picking up at Hubbali airport which were stopped following the lockdown. As per the government’s norms and SOP, we have taken all precautionary measures to ensure the safety of each passenger and to protect them from the virus. We have adopted all measures suggested by the government including thermal screening, social distancing among others, he said. He said IndiGo is already operating a daily flight to Bengaluru and to Kunnur three days a week from Hubballi and it also operates flight to Chennai four days a week. There has been a huge demand for resuming service to Mumbai and it will commence on Saturday, he added. Apart from IndiGo, Star Air is operating its flight to Bengaluru and Hindon four days in a week. Flight service to Ahmedabad, Cochin, Tirupati, Hyderabad and other destinations will be commenced soon in phased manner, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/indigo-to-operate-hubballi-mumbai-flight-thrice-a-week/articleshow/78176091.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||Student jumps to death; man attempts suicide in Jamnagar||Rajkot: A second-year student of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery at Gujarat Ayurved University in Jamnagar ended his life by jumping from the fifth floor of his college building on Friday. In another incident, a man attempted suicide in defence colony of Jamnagar. “The deceased, Vijay Thakor (21), took the drastic step on Friday morning. Thakor was a native of Bhimasar village of Anjar taluka in Kutch district. We will be taking the statement of his family members to get a clue of the crime. Thakor’s friends said they are shocked but clueless about the reasons of suicide,” said an official from Jamnagar B division police station. Thakor’s father works as a farm labourer. Thakor had a younger sister.Meanwhile, harassed by loan sharks, a man in the defence colony of Jamnagar consumed pesticide. Police said they were waiting for the victim, Hiren Patel (45), to regain consciousness to record his statement. “We will be able to know the name of the accused after Patel gives his statement,” said an official from Jamnagar C division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/student-jumps-to-death-man-attempts-suicide-in-jamnagar/articleshow/78194101.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||Probe ordered in thrashing of Covid patient in Rajkot civil hospital||Rajkot: A probe has been ordered into the case where a patient was allegedly manhandled by the nursing staff and security personnel of Rajkot civil hospital. After a video of the incident that took place on September 9 went viral on social media platforms, the hospital officials tried to cover it up claiming that the Covid patient was psychologically disturbed. In a statement they said he man was “psychologically disturbed Covid positive patient and was restrained and given psychiatric treatment.” Meanwhile, the patient identified as Prabhashankar Patil (38), who had been admitted in the Covid ward of the civil hospital on September 8, died on September 12. He was also suffering from comorbidities including diabetes and hypertension. The family of the deceased, however, has alleged that he died because of insensitivity of the hospital staff. The contents of the video show the horrific way the patient was manhandled by the staff in cahoots with security personnel. While the man was lying on the floor of hospital passage, he was held down by some nursing staff in PPE kits and was surrounded by security personnel wielding sticks in their hands. One of the nursing staff is seen seating on the man’s chest and heard rebuking the man saying, “I had told you not to do it”. Another nursing staff along with a security personnel are seen slapping the patient. One of the securing personnel is also seen putting his foot on the neck of the patient while a nursing staff tied his hands. The patient is heard begging for mercy and some water. Medical superintendent of the civil hospital, Dr Pankaj Buch told TOI, “When this video was being recorded, the patient (Patil) was in delirium and was trying to run in the ward removing the intravenous line and ryles tube. He was also removing his own clothes. The patient was trying to hurt himself and other patients.”Officer appointed to oversee the Covid situation in Rajkot, Rahul Gupta told TOI that Patile was “suffering from acute kidney disease”. “Patient had gone to a private hospital just two days before he was admitted at the civil hospital for kidney treatment. But he tested Covid positive and was, therefore, sent to PDU,” said Gupta, adding that Patil was not having a psychological problem history but his behaviour had become intolerable for other patients. “He was in delirium and is a psychiatric phenomenon which can occur without any history,” said Gupta. Brother of the deceased, Vilas Patil told TOI, “My brother died because of the negligence of the civil hospital. He was mentally fit. He was working in a big company. I had talked with him two times after he was admitted but thereafter we lost contact. When I contacted the ward, I was told that he is not in a condition to talk.” MAN TRIES TO RANSACK HOSPITAL In yet another video that went viral of the civil hospital, a man is seen ransacking the premises of Rajkot civil hospital with stick on Thursday morning. The video shows him ransacking the lobby of the hospital while security personnel are trying to take him under control. Thereafter, police were called but no formal complaint has been registered in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/probe-ordered-in-thrashing-of-covid-patient-in-rajkot-civil-hospital/articleshow/78175589.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||99 more test positive in Rajkot||Rajkot: Ninety nine more people tested positive in Rajkot city on on Thursday, taking the total number of Covid infected to 4,830 so far. Of these, 1,135 are active cases. On Thursday, 202 patients were also discharged from government and private hospitals. Amid rising Covid-19 cases, principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi again reached Rajkot on Thursday for a two-day visit. Ravi had stayed in the city for 11 days till last week. Talking to reporters, Ravi said, “The discharge rate in Rajkot has reached 70% and a team of over 1,000 people are conducting survey in the city.” The number of vacant beds in civil hospital is also increasing, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/99-more-test-positive-in-rajkot/articleshow/78175604.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||‘Secondary schools to have career cells’||Lucknow: The UP secondary education department’s steering committee on Wednesday formed seven focus groups comprising education policymakers. The move aims at smooth implementation of the national education policy (NEP). The focus groups have been asked to submit a PowerPoint presentation by September 23. The recommendations will be part of the second meeting of the task force slated on September 28. The first group — Curriculum and pedagogy — will focus on improving learning outcomes in UP secondary schools, revising textbooks and syllabus and encouraging learning by doing, languages and multiple pathways. Former chairperson, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Ashok Ganguly and secretary, UP Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad, Divyakant Shukla are prominent persons of this group. The second group focuses on assessment and evaluation with emphasis on examination reforms. The group will see suggestions from former controller of examinations, CBSE Pavnesh Kumar among other government officers. The third focus area is capacity building and recruitment of teachers. “NEP recommends inclusion of mandatory courses for teachers and setting up national professional standards. The hiring and vacancies in schools are to be managed digitally. Only trained teachers will help in enhancing the learning outcomes of students,” said Lalita Pradeep, director, State Institute of Educational Technology (SIET), who is also part of this group. According to additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla, NEP is a truly transformational, aspirational and inspirational document. The focus groups as part of the steering committee are formed to evolve the strategy for implementation of NEP in secondary education sector. “The panel consists of eminent persons with high experience,” she said. The next group is formed with an idea to include technology in education. “We have to use technology in a big way in secondary education and the most important is through massive open online courses. Our teachers and students should be trained for online lectures,” said group member Vinay Pathak, vice-chancellor APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University. The fifth group emphasises on skills and career choices. According to the director, Institute of Career Studies, Amrita Dass, who is also member of this group, a well-equipped career cell will be established in each government school in UP with support of ICS. “We will train over 2,500 state government teachers as career counsellors and provide comprehensive resource material. Each student will be empowered to make informed career choices and also equipped with employability skills. We will be ready to launch the training programme by end of this month,” Dass told TOI. The sixth group is to focus on strengthening the student support system. It deals with children with special needs and other socially and economically deprived sections. “I strongly believe that all schools, private and public should have a special needs division. Special educators should be hired and trained. State schools can engage with private ones like on the PPP model to provide training to in-service teachers on how to deal with children with special needs,” said Urvashi Sahni, CEO, Study Hall Educational Foundation, who is also part of the group. The seventh group focuses on good governance and efficient resourcing. This includes school complex, school standards authority, increasing private investments, universal access, educational management, linkages, convergence with higher education and elementary education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/secondary-schools-to-have-career-cells/articleshow/78177769.cms||Isha Jain
September 18, 2020||Business||Happiest Minds soars, Soota makes Rs 2.4k crore||Shilpa Phadnis & Partha Sinha | TNN Bengaluru: The price of the Happiest Minds stock soared on debut on the stock exchange on Thursday and made promoter Ashok Soota wealthier by over Rs 2,300 crore (more than $300 million). Considering the extent of oversubscription of the IPO (151 times) and the pre-listing grey market trades, the stock was expected to do very well. But it went even beyond most people’s imagination. “Given this kind of a market, we would have been happy with a 50% bump up. This has gone way higher than that,” Soota told TOI on Thursday. The share listed at Rs 351, a premium of 111% over the issue price of Rs 166 — better than the performance of IRCTC and DMart, both of which had risen just over 100% when they listed. It touched a high of Rs 391 and closed at Rs 371, with a market cap of Rs 5,449 crore. The company had given stock options to every employee. So every one of them would have had reason to celebrate. The biggest beneficiaries are the top executives and the ones who joined the company in the first few years of its founding in 2011. Vice-chairman designate Joseph Anantharaju’s stock is now worth Rs 44 crore and CFO Venkatraman Narayanan’s is worth Rs 31 crore. The two presidents, Chaluvaiya Ramamohan and Rajiv Shah, hold stock worth Rs 19 crore and Rs 12 crore respectively. The promoter group includes Soota’s two brothers and two sisters, who hold stocks worth between Rs 1 and 3 crore. Another Soota entity, Ashok Soota Medical Research, holds stock worth Rs 666 crore. While Soota held 49% of the pre-issue shares in the company, the entire promoter group held 60%. Soota sold 12% of his shares in the IPO. A JP Morgan fund that held almost 20% of the stake exited fully, taking a total of Rs 448 crore. Asked if he had any regrets that the issue was not priced higher, he said he had no regrets except that many who had subscribed to the issue would not get allotments because of the massive oversubscription. He said he was delighted that all shareholders including employees and those who subscribed to the IPO have benefited. He attributed the good performance to the value proposition of Happiest Minds being a fully digital services-focused company and the fact that IT services’ share prices have been rising sharply after the initial fall soon after the pandemic lockdowns. Narayanan, the CFO, attributed it also to the good liquidity in the market and the rise in the company’s ebita margin, to 26%, in the first quarter. Soota, who is 77, had in 2007 taken his previous venture, Mindtree, to a similarly successful IPO. Asked about the repeat performance, he said the key to it is to build a clear differentiator. “If I had tried to do in Happiest Minds what Mindtree was doing, it wouldn’t have worked. We created a very different proposition, of a totally digital, agile company,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/happiest-minds-soars-soota-makes-rs-2-4k-crore/articleshow/78177309.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
September 18, 2020||Business||Irdai panel proposes Rs 75k cr pandemic pool||Mumbai: A panel constituted by the insurance regulator has called for setting up a pandemic pool with a backstop from the government ranging from Rs 75,000 crore to Rs 1,23,000 crore. The pool would provide cover against business interruption losses, which is currently not covered for pandemics as it is beyond the risk appetite of insurance and reinsurance markets. One outcome of the pool would be that it will protect MSME workers and migrant labourers from loss of income. “There are estimates that current business interruption premiums in some markets would need to be collected for over 100 years to cover two months of Covid-related business interruption costs,” the report of the committee created by Irdai to look into setting up a pandemic pool said. In July, the insurance regulator had set up a nine-member working group headed by Irdai ED Suresh Mathur to look at insurance solutions for the kind of massive disruption that was caused by the coronavirus pandemic. A pool refers to the practice of insurers coming together and committing funds to meet claims arising out of any particular risk in proportion to the total business they do.“Though government introduced provisions of extended moratoriums on loan, it hasn’t served enough. Government also announced a major financial stimulus equivalent of 10% of India’s GDP amounting to Rs 20 lakh crore. However, this one-time stimulus was ad hoc and took a huge toll on the government’s coffers. The possibility of occurrence of such future pandemics can no longer be ruled out. Doling out one-time ex gratia packages is not a viable long-term solution to such occurrences,” the report said. While recommending a pandemic pool, the working group said that as this would be designed to cover future pandemics only and hence any subsequent waves of Covid-19 or any mutations related to Covid-19 cannot be covered and are excluded from the scope of this pool. With an assumption of 4 crore employees and workers getting benefited and payout is limited to 3 months maximum, then the total payout will be Rs 78,000 crore, the report said. “As per recent Indian Nuclear Insurance Pool (INIP), it is recommended to start with pandemic pool of Rs 5,000 crore. The remaining amount of Rs 75,000 crore will be required as backstop guarantee from the government,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-panel-proposes-rs-75k-cr-pandemic-pool/articleshow/78177595.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||SEC stops transfer of RAS officer, 43 excise dept emplyees||Jaipur: The state election commission (SEC) on Thursday objected to the transfers of two RAS officers and expressed displeasure over executing it without commission’s permission or advice. It put a stay on the transfer of Laxmangarh (Alwar) sub-division officer (SDO) Surendra Prasad till the election process is completed in the panchayat samiti. Earlier, the commission wrote to ACS finance department putting a stay on the transfer/posting of 43 employees of the excise department. On Thursday, department of personnel (DOP) transferred Prasad to Anandpuri (Banswara) as SDO and the SDO of Anandpuri Arun Kumar Jain was transferred to RIICO as special officer. In a letter to the DOP, the commission stated, “It was a violation of the SEC order issued on September 7. While the notification for the polls to Laxmangarh panchayat samiti has been issued on September 16, the nomination papers will be received on September 19. In such a situation, SDO Laxmangarh cannot be relieved from his current place of work.”In a letter to ACS finance department, it stated with the announcement of panchayat polls, the model code of conduct comes into effect, and therefore transfer/posting of officers on election duty is a violation of the SEC order issued on September 7. Till the completion of the electoral process, the transfer/posting of the employees shall be put on stay. Those officers, who have been relieved from work, should report to their previous place of work.”BoxJaipur: District collector Antar Sing Nehra launched a 24-hour election control room at the collectorate on Thursday. The election control room has been set up in Room No. 116 and the number is 0141-2203309. An official will be available round-the-clock to provide election-related information to the public. The control room will be in function till the election process gets over in the district. For the first phase of panchayat polls in 70 gram panchayats (September 28), the randomisation of EVMs was done on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sec-stops-transfer-of-ras-officer-43-excise-dept-emplyees/articleshow/78177260.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Business||Sebi for uniform NAV, fund credit norms in mutual funds||Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi on Thursday said that from January 1, all mutual fund investors will get net asset value (NAV) for the funds they applied for on the day their money reaches the asset management company and not on the day of application itself. Currently, those with investments of up to Rs 2 lakh get their NAVs on the day of application, while other investors get it when money reaches fund houses. At times, there is a gap of a few days between the day an investor puts in an application and the money is credited to the scheme. Sebi’s decision will bring in uniformity among all MF investors. However, this new rule is not applicable to investors in liquid and overnight funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-for-uniform-nav-fund-credit-norms-in-mutual-funds/articleshow/78177082.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||PWD to recover damages from vehicle owners to revamp parapet at Chamundi Hills||Mysuru: Public works department has sought help from police to track down and recover damages from people who have crashed their vehicles onto to the century-old parapet walls constructed on either side of the road at Chamundi Hills. There are 14 roads that lead to the holy temple atop the hill, said a PWD officer. “While the main road from Mysuru city to the temple is around 8km-long, the total length of the other roads is around 20km. The tourists travel from the main road or take the road connecting Nandi statue and Nanjangud Road. As the parapet walls are constructed by the Mysuru rulers by bricks — cemented with mud — even a small crash by the vehicles cause damage to the wall,” the official said. “ On an average, 2-3 accidents where vehicles hit the parapet are reported every week. As there is a very limited fund for such repairs — around Rs 2 lakh per year — it is very difficult for the department to repair the damaged portion whenever there is a crash. If the police who register the case inform and share the vehicle driver’s or owners’ details, we can claim the damage amount from them. This will help us to repair the damaged portion immediately,” the official added. PWD executive engineer Krishna Murthy told TOI that the repair work will be completed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pwd-to-recover-damages-from-vehicle-owners-to-revamp-parapet-at-chamundi-hills/articleshow/78174987.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||City man detained for kidnapping Surat duo||Ahmedabad: Mahesh Nadiadara, 32, a resident of Surat, lodged a complaint at Odhav police station on Wednesday that accused Kamlesh Gohil, Daksha Desai, Manoj Parmar, Rajubhai, Raju Bharwad, Bhagabhai and Rohit called him and his partner Bhavesh Kapopra to Ahmedabad on the pretext of settling a monetary dispute on September 13 and kidnapped them. The complainant said the accused demanded a ransom of Rs 50 lakh for their release and beat the two up. “Afraid of being beaten more, the complaint and his partner arranged Rs 7.50 lakh but the accused wanted full amount,” said a police official. Daksha also allegedly threatened them if they don’t pay them money, she will click nude photos with them and defame them in society, the police official said. On the promise that the remaining amount will be given to the accused the next day, the two were allowed to go. On reaching Surat, Mahesh told his elder brother Nandlal about the incident. “They then decided to lodge a complaint against the accused. We registered an offence and detained Manoj Parmar of Bapunagar,” said inspector R G Jadeja of Odhav police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-man-detained-for-kidnapping-surat-duo/articleshow/78175964.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Man held for hunting deer in Guntur||Vijayawada: Police on Thursday intercepted a two-wheeler at a Govindapuram check post in Guntur district and found that the biker was carrying the carcass of a deer. The accused, Sheik Dhariaywali, was allegedly planning to sell the venison. Cops said that they were conducting raids to check illegal liquor smuggling and were shocked to find a dead female deer with the biker wrapped in newspapers. Dhariywali confessed that he had hunted the deer and was bringing it home to extract meat. Police further said that the accused has told them that he would try to hunt rabbits and other animals for exotic meat. Upon discovery, cops informed the district forest officials who took the accused into custody and seized the deer carcass. Guntur forest officials said that the accused has been booked under several sections of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. The carcass has been sent for post mortem. Officials said that they observed a stab wound on the deer’s neck. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-hunting-deer-in-guntur/articleshow/78175967.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli police make first arrests under amended PASA Act||Rajkot: Two loan sharks in Amreli were arrested on Thursday under the recently amended Prevention Of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act.Amreli local crime branch (LCB) inspector RK Karamta said the arrests of Premji Bawishi (59) and Jhilu Bhutaiya (40) were the first in Gujarat under the amended Act. The duo has been accused of driving a man to suicide in Mota Ankadia village of Amreli taluka. Bawishi was sent to Sabarmati Central Jail while Bhutaiya was sent to Vadodara Central Jail. Earlier, only bootlegging and physical assault and theft were covered under the purview of PASA. Following the amendments, usury, cyber crimes, gambling and sexual offences have also been included under the purview of PASA.Lakshmanpari Gosai (47) had committed suicide by consuming pesticides at his residence after he could no longer bear the harassment caused by Bawishi and Bhutaiya, who were hounding him for recovery of their loan.“After the amendment, we made a proposal against Bawishi and Bhutaiya and sent it to the collector who issued a warrant against them. They were arrested and imprisoned,” said Karamta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-police-make-first-arrests-under-amended-pasa-act/articleshow/78175857.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||Lockdown blues drive trader to end life in Rajkot||Rajkot: Financial crisis due to the lockdown drove a trader to commit suicide at his residence in Shastri Nagar of Gandhigram locality in Rajkot on Thursday morning. Police said Vishal Jogadia (23) hanged himself to death from the ceiling fan in the room of his house. “Jogadia was into the business of decoration of wedding venues. The lockdown destroyed his business. He had married just before the lockdown. He had been suffering from depression for the past few days. On Thursday morning when Jogadia did not come out of his room, his brother went to call him and found his door locked. From the window, he saw Jogadia’s body hanging,” said an official from Gandhigram police station. The police also found the suicide note left by Jogadia in which he did not blame anyone and said that he was taking the drastic step of his own accord.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lockdown-blues-drive-trader-to-end-life-in-rajkot/articleshow/78175812.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Sardar Sarovar dam overflows||VADODARA/BHARUCH: On Thursday, when PM Narendra Modi celebrated his 70th birthday, water levels in the Sardar Sarovar dam at Kevadia Colony in Narmada district reached its peak capacity of 138.68 metres. This is the second time in a year that the dam is brimming to its full capacity. Authorities at Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL) opened the gates of the dam giving way to the waters that gushed down from a height with a roar. PM Modi too tweeted the video of the overflowing dam and recalled his visit to the spot last year. On this day, last year had the honour of being at the site of the dam and had paid tributes at the iconic ‘Statue o… https://t.co/OdrGQvaT7U— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1600345273000Gujarat chief minister, Vijay Rupani performed e-puja from his residence and said, “Water scarcity and droughts are now a thing of past for the state. A dream to make the state water reliant has now come true.” He even tweeted the dam’s photos on Thursday morning. Minister for state for Narmada development, Yogesh Patel and SSNNL managing director Rajiv Gupta performed puja at the dam site. The dam’s height was increased from 121.92 meters to 138.68 meters in 2017 after a nod from the Supreme Court. The continuous inflow of water from upstream helped the SSNNL authorities in storing the water in a planned manner and ensure it reaches the peak. The dam is getting an inflow of 71,000 cusecs (cubic foot per second) out of which 51,000 cusecs of water is being discharged downstream of the river. Three units of canal head power house have been made operational. Water storage in the dam is around 5,760 million cubic meters and it can fulfil the state’s water requirement for nearly two years. Around 9,000 villages and 165 nagarpalikas and corporations of the state will benefit from the waters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had dedicated the dam to the nation on September 17, 2017. It overflowed from its peak height for the first time in September last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sardar-sarovar-brims-over-overflowing-dam-rejoices-all/articleshow/78174163.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Business||Irdai to standardise insurance covers||MUMBAI: The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has said that the insurance industry needs to operate in a counter-cyclical manner and grow as its services are most needed now. The regulator has announced a slew of standardised products for term life, dwellings and small businesses, in addition to health, so that first-time buyers can pick products without having to pore over documents or make comparisons. Irdai chairman S C Khuntia on Thursday also promised to extend products specific for Covid-19 beyond March 2021 and said that the regulator would consider allowing companies to be involved in loan-restructuring schemes as they were already allowed to be part of inter-creditor agreements. “Insurance industry, which saw 19% de-growth in April 2020, has grown by 2.4% at the end of August. Despite the temporary negative impact, we expect that the industry will move towards its long-term average growth of 12% for life, 18% for general, and 25-40% in health insurance,” said Khuntia. He was speaking at the insurance and pension summit organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry. According to Khuntia, non-life insurance penetration in India at less than 1% of gross domestic product (GDP) was a fourth of the world average and had a lot of ground to cover. “Only 79% of four-wheelers and 36% of two-wheelers have mandatory third-party insurance. Of the total dwelling units in the country, only 0.9% are covered under insurance and 62% of healthcare expenditure is paid out of pocket,” said the regulator. To increase the penetration of insurance, the regulator would soon launch standardised covers in different categories in addition to the Aarogya Sanjeevani — the standard health plan. Khuntia said that 32 lakh Covid policies have been sold for a premium of Rs 482 crore. He added that the industry has paid out Covid-related health claims of over Rs 1,500 crore. Irdai had pushed insurers to launch specific products for Covid treatment in the wake of the global pandemic. Most of these products were short-term and designed to terminate at the end of the financial year, by which time the pandemic was expected to come under control. Khuntia said that these policies could now be renewed even if the term ends. “With regard to extending the tenure of the Covid-19 related products, we are hoping that the vaccine would not be delayed for too long. But now that it appears that it will take some more time, we will decide on extending the tenure of the policy at an appropriate time,” Khuntia said. Explaining the rationale behind the general insurance industry’s intervention in the Supreme Court seeking a cap on Covid treatment costs, Khuntia said that the industry had filed the petition to seek fair treatment. “In states where the governments had placed caps on certain healthcare costs to make treatment more affordable, providers were not extending the same rates for insurance companies on the grounds that insurers can afford higher charges. It is not a question of whether insurers can afford, it is policyholders funds that are being used,” said Khuntia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-to-standardise-insurance-covers/articleshow/78177240.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Business||SP serves notice on Tatas, seeks damages||MUMBAI: Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group has slapped a notice for damages on Tata Sons board members over its move to block the group from pledging its 18.4% stake in the company. The notice has sought an explanation from board members, particularly independent directors, whether the company’s decision to move the Supreme Court to stop SP from pledging its shares was with their approval. If the eight board members fail to respond to the notice, SP would then claim damages for the harm inflicted on the group. The notice has said that independent directors are mandated by law to protect the interest of minority shareholders and to stop the company from taking any such decisions which would curtail their rights. It added that the Tata Sons board should have conducted due diligence on whether the company’s stance is borne out by the law and what this means to all its shareholders without wearing a partisan hat. According to SP, Tata Sons’ Articles of Association (AoA) does not prohibit pledge of shares and that the board of Tata Sons has the first right to buy the shares at fair market value. The fair value of SP’s 18.4% stake in Tata Sons is over Rs 1 lakh crore. It had also said that the company had failed to disclose a fact that the lending documents entered into by SP had a specific covenant that lenders would comply with Tata Sons AoA in the event that a pledge of shares were ever invoked. The notice alleged that as independent directors, “you have acted as a mere rubber stamp to implement majority shareholders’ decision without weighing its consequences on minority shareholders”. The development comes a day after SP had sought more time to settle its dues to group company Sterling and Wilson Solar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sp-serves-notice-on-tatas-seeks-damages/articleshow/78177285.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||Five sadhus arrested for duping of Rs 25L in Amreli||Rajkot: A gang of five sadhus was busted on Thursday in Amreli for allegedly committing swindling of cash and jewellery while performing a tantrik ritual at the house of the victim and duping him of Rs 24.80 lakh. Police said the accused, Rukhadnath Chauhan (25), Jan Nath Padhiyar (30), Kavarnath Bhati (35), Nareshnath Padhiyar (25) and Ghasnath Padhiyar (35), were arrested from Chital Road of Amreli. The police seized Rs 7.85 lakh cash and jewellery worth Rs 4.83 lakh and a car from the accused. According to the police, 10 months ago, Chauhan, Jan Nath Padhiyar and Bhati had visited the house of Jayenti Pipadia in Pithadia village of Bagasara taluka in Amreli district for begging. Introducing himself as Vaghasia Bapu, Chauhan told Pipadia that he had a spell of evil in his house. Pipadia also got convinced as his wife was suffering from a mental disease, he had financial trouble and there was no peace in the house. “Chauhan got Pipadia to talk to his so-called guru over the phone in Junagadh. Chauhan told Pipadia that a tantrik ritual would solve all his problems. Then Chauhan called Pipadia to Than near Chotila in Surendranagar. During the ritual, Nareshnath was present. Putting vermilion in his mouth to show that he was bleeding he started writhing in pain. Then Chauhan told Pipadia that the ritual had failed and that he would have to perform another ritual which was very costly,” said R K Karamata, sub-inspector with Amreli local crime branch.Chauhan then called Pipadia at Dwarka and collected Rs 9 lakh cash and gold jewellery worth Rs 80,000. Chauhan told Pipadia that there was a black magic performed on his farm and asked him to sell the farm. When Pipadia got Rs 15 lakh from the sale of his farm, Chauhan asked him to give him that money in order to purify it with ritual. When Pipadia gave him the money at a temple in Kuwadava locality of Rajkot, Chauhan and the co-accused vanished. When Pipadia realized that he had been duped he lodged a police complaint on September 13. The police traced the accused on the basis of the locations of their cellphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-sadhus-arrested-for-duping-of-rs-25l-in-amreli/articleshow/78175781.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||PSI suspended for using bootlegger’s seized car||Rajkot: A sub-inspector with Kalavad taluka police station was suspended after his video showing him using a seized car of a bootlegger went viral on Thursday. Bootlegger Yuvrajsinh Jadeja (30), who was caught along with a car, lodged a complaint alleging that S M Radadia, sub-inspector with Kalavad taluka police station, had been taking his seized car for the personal use. “Radadia sends his family members in my car and many times I have seen him using my car,” alleged Jadeja. On Thursday, Jadeja caught his car on Kalavad-Jamnagar Road. Jadeja was driving in another car with a woman advocate, Prabha. “I overtook the car and made it stop. Then it was Prabha who shot the video of the car and started asking questions to Radadia’s wife and gram rakshak dal jawan Devji Devshi, who was driving the car. While Radadia’s wife evaded questions, Devshi admitted that he drove the car at the instructions of Radadia,” said Jadeja.On August 6, Yuvrajsinh along with his friend Nirmalsinh Jadeja were caught along with 120 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) using Yuvrajsinh’s car. Yuvrajsinh was released on a conditional bail, instructing him to pay attendance at Kalavad taluka police station twice in a month. “When I first went to the police station, I did not see my car. The cops at the station also did not give me satisfactory answers which raised my suspicion. I started keeping a watch on my car. I found that Radadia and his family members were using my car with impunity. On Thursday, I caught the car and got its video shot. I have forwarded my complaint to Jamnagar superintendent of police,” said Yuvrajsinh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/psi-suspended-for-using-bootleggers-seized-car/articleshow/78175828.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Restaurant owner shot at over bill payment in Pokhran||Jaisalmer: A restaurant owner in Pokhran city was injured when three miscreants opened fire at him over payment of bill at Sankada Fanta late on Wednesday night. An injured Waheed, 30, a resident of Gomat, was rushed to a private hospital by the miscreants themselves; however, they fled from the spot later. The bullet hit Waheed on his thigh. He was later referred to a hospital in Jodhpur.Pokhran SHO Surendra Prajapat said the three miscreants — Devi Singh, Rawal Singh and Sonu Nai — had food at the restaurant in and later picked a quarrel with the owner over payment of bill. The verbal spat soon turned violent as one of the miscreants opened fire at him.On getting the information, Waheed’s family members reached the hospital. Deputy SP Motaram Godara took the statement of the injured and he was referred to Jodhpur, where his condition is stated to be out of danger despite heavy blood loss. Police have lodged a case against the three accused under Sections 307, 323 and 3/27 Arms Act and have launched a search for them.Meanwhile, locals agitated over the incident on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to the tehsildar demanding to arrest the culprits at the earliest. One of the agitators threatened to immolate himself if police didn’t arrest the culprits at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/restaurant-owner-shot-at-over-bill-payment-in-pokhran/articleshow/78177262.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata couple kill selves three months after baby’s death||KOLKATA: The death of their four-month-old son during lockdown, debts incurred during the Covid pandemic, failure in paying EMIs for cars bought under a state finance scheme led a young couple to commit suicide at their rented residence in south Kolkata on Thursday. The incident was reported from the KMDA quarters in the Charu Market area. The victims — identified as Arijit Das (32) and Suparna Das (27) — got married three years ago. “Das was the owner/driver of an app cab and was contemplating buying another one earlier this year — around the same time when their child was born — before Covid changed everything,” said Krishna Sarkar, Suparna’s father. “It was around 12.50pm on Thursday that an information about two unnatural deaths from C Block of the KMDA quarters reached Charu Market police. Accordingly, a police team reached the spot and found that a room situated on the fourth floor was bolted from inside. The two bodies could be seen through the window. One of the bodies was lying on the floor with a ligature mark around the neck and another body was found hanging from the ceiling fan. Locals claimed they had not seen the couple in the morning and wanted to inquire if they would participate in the Vishwakarma puja and decorate their app cab. But they received no response. They peeped inside and saw them dead. Soon, the locals informed us,” said an investigating officer. The door was broken in presence of locals and Arijit and Suparna (originally from Chetla Road) were shifted to SSKM where they were declared dead. It was learnt that both were residing at the above address as tenants. “Their four-month-old son had died three months ago due to jaundice. The couple tried to get the child admitted at a private facility and raised money. With app cabs off roads, they had little savings. Even when the app-cab operations began, earnings went down. Arijit found it difficult to even pay EMIs. Money lenders also kept asking them to return money. They were suffering from severe financial crises. A suicide note written on a diary page was found from the place. Arrangements are being made for autopsy and magisterial inquest. No foul play could be detected so far. No complaint has been received yet,” said DC (south) Meeraz Khalid. “They shared a wonderful bonding. I cannot believe that financial crisis drove them to commit suicide. I would request cops to ascertain if there was any external pressure,” a neighbour told TOI. Nothing of that nature has been found yet, a Lalbazar officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/couple-kill-selves-3-months-after-babys-death/articleshow/78175661.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||INS Viraat to set off on its final journey to Alang today||RAJKOT: The longest serving warship INS Viraat will begin its last journey on Friday from Mumbai to reach Alang in Bhavnagar where it will be dismantled. The Indian Navy ship decommissioned after 30 years of service in 2017, is expected to reach Alang around Sunday midnight. This is the only warship to have served both the UK and India Navy. Alang-based Shree Ram Group had won the bid for breaking down the historic ship for Rs 38.54 crore. The ship is currently anchored at the Naval dockyard in Mumbai from where a tug boat will tow the ship to Alang. Talking to TOI, Mukesh Patel chairman of Shree Ram Group said, “The warship’s steel is of high-grade quality. It also has bulletproof material and non-ferrous steel. This is for the first time that a warship that has served two nations is coming to Alang.” The customs department, Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) and Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) will complete their procedures and thereafter it will be handed over for dismantling. INS Viraat was originally a British ship and was commissioned in Royal Navy in 1959. India purchased it in 1986 and was decommissioned in March 2017 after serving 30 years in Indian navy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ins-viraat-to-set-off-on-its-final-journey-to-alang-today/articleshow/78175713.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||Minor gang raped; six including woman detained in Bhuj's Madhapur||RAJKOT: Six persons, including a woman, were detained on Thursday for allegedly gang raping a 17-year-old girl in Madhapar on the outskirts of Bhuj. In the incident that took place a fortnight ago, the survivor, who is a school drop-out, was in love with one Suresh Bawaji, who is a labourer. Her parents too work as labourers. According to the police, for the past 10 days, Bawaji had been out of station and, hence, did not meet her. In the complaint the minor alleged that Bawaji too had allegedly raped her on the promise of marriage, a month ago. After this, he even stopped taking her calls, she told the police. Cops said the four accused — Sultan Surangi, Sikandar Mathada, Sultan Bafan and their unidentified aide — knew about the relationship between Bawaji and the survivor. “The accused contacted the survivor and assured her of arranging a meeting between the duo. Surangi and Mathada took her on a bike to Madhapar, where Bafan and the unidentified accused were waiting. Then all the four accused took turns to rape the survivor,” said an official from Bhuj B division police station. “Apart from the four accused, we've also booked Bawaji as he is accused of raping the survivor. We have also booked a woman named Jamila Bhaya, a relative of one of the rape accused, who had allegedly threatened to kill the survivor and her family members if she complained about the gang rape,” the official added. Scared from the threat on her life, the survivor did not approach the police and went to stay with her elder sister. However, she returned home on Monday and the accused again demanded physical gratification from her, when she opened up about her ordeal to her family members. Following this, they lodged a police complaint. At present, the police have detained the accused, who will be formally arrested once they undergo Covid-19 test. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minor-gang-raped-six-including-woman-detained/articleshow/78175747.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Allahabad||Cold storage owned by Atiq demolished||Prayagraj: Four days after the administration freed nazool land illegally grabbed by the jailed don and his associates, a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), district officials and police on Thursday started the process to demolish a cold storage owned by former MP Atiq Ahmed in Andhwa area of the city. PDA’s officer on special duty (OSD) Alok Pandey said, “The cold storage was spread across around 10,000 square metre. It’s premises had two separate buildings — one was the cold storage and the other was a residential structure.” “PDA and the district administration took cognizance that Atiq and his aides had illegally constructed a cold storage and a residential structure on the land and decided to demolish it. He had purchased the property from a man, but had constructed the cold storage and the residential structure illegally,” said Pandey. Last week, the administration and police had vacated the cold storage and shifted over 22,000 sacks of potatoes to another cold storage in Sahsoon. Police have already attached three properties belonging to the former MP in trans-Ganga area of the city. Earlier during the day, the team sealed a commercial building belonging to one of Atiq’s close aides in Civil Lines. Officials said that a portion of the building was not constructed in accordance with the sanctioned map.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cold-storage-owned-by-atiq-demolished/articleshow/78175895.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three arrested for cheating, forgery at CID headquarters||KOLKATA: An attempt to trick an investigating officer from the CID at its headquarters fell flat after a third person was caught impersonating the accused. When the real accused were later apprehended while trying to change the names in the visitors’ log at Bhawani Bhawan. The entire drama began around noon on Wednesday and ended around midnight with the Alipore police arresting all three accused. According to CID, Romi Hirawat and Varun Laddha — accused in a cheating case involving a major land scam — had been directed by the court to meet the investigating officer. “On Wednesday, the accused sent Raktim Chowdhury to pose as one of them and get the paper of appearance stamped. But when officers asked the IO to meet him, he was caught. “When he did not return, the accused came to Bhawani Bhawan and tampered with the visitors’ register,” said DC (South) Meeraj Khalid. The CID lodged a case with Alipore police and handed the accused over. A case under cheating and forgery has been lodged against all three and cops are trying to ascertain how much money was promised to Chowdhury. The incident — that took place in a building that houses both CID and Bengal House headquarters — has left cops stunned. “While there have been attempts to create dummy accused, this is a rare case when the accused tried to make changes in the entry register. We have supplied the relevant CCTV footage to cops,” said a CID officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-arrested-for-cheating-forgery-at-cid-headquarters/articleshow/78175732.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kalighat goons thrash man, dad over parking row||KOLKATA: An argument over parking led to a major clash on Kalighat Road on Wednesday night, leaving a man with a serious eye injury. The victim’s 67-year-old father was also allegedly assaulted in the fight. The fight stopped when the family dialled 100, but, according to neighbours, the victims were again attacked on Thursday morning. Kalighat Police have lodged an FIR against six persons and detained a few people. According to Sanjay Saha and his father Sajal, there is a prevalent problem of parking on Kalighat Road. The situation worsens when trucks line up during the festival season to pick up idols. “On Wednesday night, my son was coming home and found all roads towards our house blocked by illegally parked matadors, autos and bikes. When my son objected, a few locals got together and started threatening him. Seeing this, I came out to protest. Both me and my son were then assaulted and he sustained an eye injury. They would have beaten us more had my daughter not dialled 100,” Sajal said. “I have swollen eyes and my vision is still blurry. I have been asked to undergo multiple tests to ascertain if my sight is still alright,” said Sanjay. “Around 11pm on Wednesday, Sanjoy Saha alias China and Subayu Halder alias Sonai, got into an argument over Sonai keeping his bike front of Sanjay’s house. Subsequently, members of both families, who reside in the same area, came to the spot and started fighting amongst themselves. Kalighat police reached the spot and brought the situation under control. On Thursday morning, Sanjoy’s sister Soma Saha Dey came to Kalighat police station and lodged a complaint. A case under different sections of hurt, threat and criminal intimidation has been initiated against six persons,” said DC (south) Meeraj Khalid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kalighat-goons-thrash-man-dad-over-parking-row/articleshow/78175719.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 18, 2020||Mangaluru||DG&IGP moots incentive for constables to learn local languages||Mangaluru: Police constables who form the cornerstone of a policing unit face a unique problem in this part of the state – language. While Kannada is the lingua franca in Karnataka, Namma Kudla poses a challenge to outsiders in that it is Tulu, Beary, Konkani, Malayalam in that order, apart from Kannada, that are locally used for business. To overcome this, the state police brass has mooted an incentive for personnel to learn Tulu. Director-general and inspector-general of police (DG&IGP) Praveen Sood, who reviewed the functioning of police units in Dakshina Kannada (DK) recently told TOI that the need to rejuvenate Tulu classes for non-Tulu speaking police constables is an idea that came from the local police brass. “This makes sense in that police constables who are the face of any police unit need to be conversant with the local culture and language for them to be effective,” he said. The move to learn Tulu with their regular training will be incentivised. “It’s just an idea, only for the non-Tulu speaking trainees. The Mangaluru city police commissioner and IGP (Western Range) have to decide the details,” Sood said. Vikash Kumar Vikash, city police chief, said a joint training programme for police constables recruited for the DK and Udupi district police and Mangaluru city police units is on the cards. “This language issue is a strange problem we see in this part of the state, as most recruits who come from outside DK are not aware of the local language,” Vikash told TOI. There is Beary and Malayalam also to contend with, he said. The incentive to learn the language as mooted by Sood will also help constables remain grounded to the region, he said. M Chandra Sekhar, IGP (Anti-Corruption Bureau) said Tulu and Beary speaking classes that he had introduced during his tenure as city police commissioner with help from respective language academies, was well received by the constables. “It is important for policemen to earn the trust of the community they serve, and language is a vital link,” he added. Learning the language and culture also makes constables comfortable working here, said B M Laxmi Prasad, superintendent of police, DK district. “Constables seek to get transferred after the lock-in period in the unit to which they are recruited,” he says. If they serve out their tenure locally, it will help strengthen the police administration, the SP said. Devajyoti Ray, IGP (Western Range) said he has zeroed in on Konkani and Tulu as the languages he wants constables getting recruited to Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Chikkamagaluru district units to learn. “Knowledge of Konkani will be useful in Karwar, just as Tulu will be useful in Udupi and even DK,” Ray said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dgigp-moots-incentive-for-constables-to-learn-local-languages/articleshow/78176464.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 18, 2020||India||MSP for paddy up 2.4 fold, wheat’s 1.7x in 5 years: BJP||NEW DELHI: Allaying doubts that the new legislations linked to agriculture tabled in Parliament may lead to scrapping of the crucial Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism, BJP sources claimed that under the Modi government, the MSP regime had both improved and increased. Party as well as government sources said following the recommendation of the National Commission of Farmers 2006, headed by farm expert M S Swaminathan, the government in 2018 had increased the MSP to 1.5 times the production cost, which was the chief determinant of MSP. It means the guaranteed price to farmers during normal times (good monsoon) or in times of price fluctuations and market uncertainties has further increased. BJP chief J P Nadda has also clarified that the MSP will continue to be provided to farmers. In the Rabi season, nearly Rs 113,000 crore was provided to farmers as MSP in the procurement of wheat, paddy, oilseeds and pulses, a 31 % increase from the previous year. Citing data, BJP sources said MSP to farmers for paddy has increased by 2.4 times during the last five years compared to the 2009-10 to 2013-14 period. MSP payment of Rs 4.9 lakh crore has been made in the last five years, sources said. MSP for wheat has increased by 1.7 times during the last five years compared to the 2009-10 to 2013-14 period. Nearly Rs 2.3 lakh crore has been paid in the last five years against Rs 1.7 lakh crore during 2009-10 to 2013-14, sources said. Sources said MSP for oilseeds and copra rose by 10 times during the last five years compared to the 2009-10 to 2013-14 period and payment of Rs 25,000 crore was made in the last five years against Rs 2,460 crore during 2009-10 to 2013-14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/msp-for-paddy-up-2-4-fold-wheats-1-7x-in-5-years-bjp/articleshow/78178278.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four electrocuted in Jhalawar district||KOTA: Four persons were electrocuted in two separate incidents in Jhalawar district on Wednesday night and Thursday. According to Unhel police station SHO Bhanwar Singh, 22-year-old man Narendra Singh, a resident of Kachnar village in Jhalawar, was electrocuted while attempting to press the switch of water booster at a well to water maize crop on Thursday morning. Noticing Singh caught by the electric current, his grandmother, identified as Kamla Kanwar, grabbed him to rescue, but she herself electrocuted, he said. Both the bodies have been handed over to the family members after post-mortem. A case of unnatural death under Section 174 of Cr.PC. has been lodged. Further investigation into the matter is underway. In another incident, Ghatoli police station SHO Ajit Choudhary, said a 33-year-old woman, identified as Bhulabai Gurjar, was electrocuted while turning the water booster at the well to irrigate the crop in the field on Wednesday night. Noticing his landlady being caught by the electricity current, the domestic help, identified as Ramvilas Bheel (25) rushed to rescue her, but he was also electrocuted, he said. The two bodies were placed in the mortuary on Wednesday night and were handed over to respective family members after post-mortem on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-electrocuted-in-jhalawar-district/articleshow/78177286.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Allahabad||Plea for possession of land allotted to high court quashed||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has dismissed a writ petition filed by a person who had occupied a piece of land at the premises at 19 Clive Road, Civil Lines, Allahabad, which has been allotted to the High Court for the purpose of constructing the residential houses of High Court Judges. Dismissing the writ petition filed by one Shiv Kumar Pandey, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Piyush Agrawal observed, “The property in question has already been resumed by the state government and the said resumption has been held legal and valid by the apex court. The petitioner cannot take the plea of adverse possession against a property of the state and more so, no continuous possession over the property in dispute has been established by the petitioner.” The petitioner had termed demolition of his construction by Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) over the said land as illegal and arbitrary. Rejecting the pleas of the petitioner, the court observed, “A perusal of the record further reveals that opportunity was given to the petitioner to show cause but he failed to avail the opportunity and therefore the PDA had no other option but to demolish the disputed structure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/plea-for-possession-of-land-allotted-to-high-court-quashed/articleshow/78175907.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Newly appointed BSF Raj frontier IG visits Tanot shrine||JAISALMER: Newly appointed BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Ayush Mani Tiwari reached Tanot at the Indo-Pak border in Jaisalmer on a two-day visit on Wednesday evening. He visited many border outposts in the Tanot area and took stock of security arrangements and gave necessary directions to the officers. On Thursday, he took part in a commandant conference and took feedback from the officers about the operational activities. Jaisalmer sector north DIG Mukesh Kumar and sector south DIG Rajesh Kumar, sector north commandant Sanjay Kumar and other battalions commandants were present. Tiwari aslo visited the Tanot shrine where was received by 139th battalion commandant D S Ahlawat. He paid obeisance to the deity and visited a few BOPs. He addressed the jawans and appreciated them for their duty. He also asked them to remain alert and cautious looking at the present situation. Tiwari took charge as the Rajasthan frontier BSF IG on September 12. He is an IPS officer of 1997 batch from Tamil Nadu cadre. Prior to this, he was deputy director general, bureau of civil aviation security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/newly-appointed-bsf-raj-frontier-ig-visits-tanot-shrine/articleshow/78177277.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||16.68 lakh animals to be vaccinated for FMD control in Udaipur dist||UDAIPUR: Under the Central government scheme of vaccination for control of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) among livestock, specially milch cattle, a special campaign will take off in the district from September 21. The state-wide programme will continue till November 4 and cent percent coverage of milch animals will be ensured. The preparations are almost complete and the animal husbandry department is ready to kick start the campaign, joint director Bhupendra Bharadwaj told TOI. In Udaipur, 16.68 lakh animals will be vaccinated. As per the interim livestock census 2019, there are around 14.28 lakh buffaloes and cows in Udaipur district and in the first phase, 12.85 lakh would be vaccinated. Later, 2.07 lakh animals would be injected with first booster dose and 1.88 lakh animals would be covered under the second booster vaccination round, Bharadwaj said. Booster dose is given to boost the immunity of the animals. For the effective execution of the campaign, the district has been divided into 15 blocks. A team of 324 assistants and 36 veterinary doctors would carry out the vaccination programme in teams. Sources claimed 77 posts are vacant against the total posts of 128 veterinary doctors in Udaipur, while 158 out of 496 veterinary assistant posts are lying vacant. Similarly, 410 out of 515 subordinate posts too are vacant and this could hamper the effective execution of the programme, however, officials claim that despite the adversaries, the department staff is determined to achieving the target in the stipulated time. Nodal Officer Dr Om Prakash Sahu said a cold chain system has been maintained to preserve the vaccine so that its quality is intact. A total of 35 cluster refrigeration centres have been made and 8-10 organisations have been attached with each centre. “So far, we have completed nine stages of vaccination in past five years under the FMD control programme. Vaccination is done twice a year and the results have been encouraging. There have been no major outbreaks of the disease and the rate of infected animals too has reduced considerably during the period,” Sahu said. FMD, known as ‘Muhpaka and khurpaka’, is a fatal disease which claims lives of hundreds of cattle and other hoofed animals each year in rural areas, causing heavy losses to farmers and dairy owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-68l-animals-to-be-vaccinated-for-fmd-control-in-udaipur-dist/articleshow/78186061.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Udaipur||16.68 lakh animals to be vaccinated for FMD control in Udaipur dist||UDAIPUR: Under the Central government scheme of vaccination for control of Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) among livestock, specially milch cattle, a special campaign will take off in the district from September 21. The state-wide programme will continue till November 4 and cent percent coverage of milch animals will be ensured. The preparations are almost complete and the animal husbandry department is ready to kick start the campaign, joint director Bhupendra Bharadwaj told TOI. In Udaipur, 16.68 lakh animals will be vaccinated. As per the interim livestock census 2019, there are around 14.28 lakh buffaloes and cows in Udaipur district and in the first phase, 12.85 lakh would be vaccinated. Later, 2.07 lakh animals would be injected with first booster dose and 1.88 lakh animals would be covered under the second booster vaccination round, Bharadwaj said. Booster dose is given to boost the immunity of the animals. For the effective execution of the campaign, the district has been divided into 15 blocks. A team of 324 assistants and 36 veterinary doctors would carry out the vaccination programme in teams. Sources claimed 77 posts are vacant against the total posts of 128 veterinary doctors in Udaipur, while 158 out of 496 veterinary assistant posts are lying vacant. Similarly, 410 out of 515 subordinate posts too are vacant and this could hamper the effective execution of the programme, however, officials claim that despite the adversaries, the department staff is determined to achieving the target in the stipulated time. Nodal Officer Dr Om Prakash Sahu said a cold chain system has been maintained to preserve the vaccine so that its quality is intact. A total of 35 cluster refrigeration centres have been made and 8-10 organisations have been attached with each centre. “So far, we have completed nine stages of vaccination in past five years under the FMD control programme. Vaccination is done twice a year and the results have been encouraging. There have been no major outbreaks of the disease and the rate of infected animals too has reduced considerably during the period,” Sahu said. FMD, known as ‘Muhpaka and khurpaka’, is a fatal disease which claims lives of hundreds of cattle and other hoofed animals each year in rural areas, causing heavy losses to farmers and dairy owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/16-68l-animals-to-be-vaccinated-for-fmd-control-in-udaipur-dist/articleshow/78177299.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Surat||SMC cracks whip on careless units||Surat: Three diamond polishing units in Katargam were sealed by Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) after the enforcement teams found that they were violating Covid-19 guidelines and standard operation procedures (SOP).Two more diamond units were also penalized after teams found that the workers there were not wearing masks.SMC has formed various teams for strict implementation of Covid-19 SOPs in industries and businesses establishments. The civic body has stepped up vigilance as a large number of migrant workers are heading back to Surat in trains.Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI that 941 units, mostly diamond and textiles, have been ordered to close down for violating the SOPs.Central team consisting of officials from the labour department, GIDC and field officers have been formed for implementation of SOPs in textile and diamond industries.“The enforcement teams randomly visit the units daily to ensure the adherence to SOPs. So far, these field teams have collected Rs 75.73 lakh as penalty for violations,” Pani added.Pani said that 904 Suraksha Kavach Samitis (SKS) have been formed to ensure a secure working environment in industrial units. Different government officers are entrusted to facilitate formation of these samitis in their respective field of industries.Each samitis comprise 5 to 7 members from a group of industries geographically located in close proximity. “These committees have been given responsibilities for screening of labours entering units, testing of labourers found symptomatic and adherence to SOPs in particular industry or groups of industrial units,’‘ said an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-cracks-whip-on-careless-units/articleshow/78174708.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||3-day session of U’khand assembly may be restricted to a day||Dehradun: The three-day assembly session that is scheduled to start from September 23 may be cut short to one day due to the rise in the number of Covid-19-positive cases in the state and the limited space in the assembly building of Dehradun, sources familiar with the development said. Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, along with senior state officials including chief secretary Om Prakash, inspected the Vir Chandra Singh Garhwali auditorium in Vishwakarma building of the state secretariat on Thursday evening to explore the possibilities of holding a session there. The sources added that due to limited space in the assembly building and the vast size of the Vir Chandra Singh Garhwali auditorium, it is being contemplated if the session can be held on the secretariat premises. To recall, with Covid-19 cases having been reported among the secretariat employees, the entry of outsiders and mediapersons is not allowed and only the ministers, officials and staff can enter the secretariat for official work. Urban development minister Madan Kaushik said that the issue of the assembly session was discussed in the state cabinet meeting and the ministers also went through the example of New Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, where the session was held for one or two days. “Speaker will take a call on the issue and the CM will update further on Friday,” the minister said. With close to two dozen MLAs in the age bracket of 60 years and above, the authorities have not ruled out the possibilities of a ‘virtual assembly session.’ All MLAs above the age of 65 years have already been requested to virtually attend the session rather than being physically present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-day-session-of-ukhand-assembly-may-be-restricted-to-a-day/articleshow/78173409.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||Man booked for sexually harassing separated woman, causing miscarriage||Pilibhit: A 30-year-old man — identified himself as a “judicial clerk” — was booked by Neuria police for allegedly sexually harassing a 26-year-old divorced woman and causing miscarriage. The accused married the woman on August 1 allegedly under the pressure of society, but after she conceived, he gave her instant talaq just 29 days after their marriage "demanding Rs 5 lakh and a bike in dowry”. In her written complaint filed to police, the woman alleged that she had disclosed to the accused that she was a divorcee and belonged to a poor family, but he forcibly maintained physical relations with her against her will on the pretext of marrying her. The woman alleged that one day, when she was suffering from fever, he deceptively gave her medicine of miscarriage and she aborted. On August 29, the accused shifted her to her parents’ house and then he, along with his parents and two maternal uncles, demanded Rs 5 lakh and a motorcycle in dowry while threatening that he would not take her back home until his demands were fulfilled, she alleged. When she urged him that her father was suffering from paralysis and her family won’t be able to fulfil his demands, he gave her instant triple talaq in presence of her family members, alleged the woman, claiming that the accused was issuing threats to kill her. Neuria police station SHO Jagat Singh said the accused his parents and maternal uncles were booked under section 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act and the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-sexually-harassing-separated-woman-causing-miscarriage/articleshow/78172349.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||File FIR against former minister Pandurang Madkaikar in DA case: Lokayukta||PANAJI: The state Lokayukta has directed the anti-corruption branch (ACB) of Goa police to register an FIR against former minister and Cumbharjua MLA Pandurang Madkaikar on a complaint of allegedly constructing a bungalow valued at Rs 200 crore disproportionate to his known sources of income. Lokayukta has also ordered suo motu proceedings against the then superintendent of police (ACB) for “gross dereliction” of duty by not registering the FIR. The Lokayukta also came down heavily against the then chief minister for favouring Madkaikar, who was in his cabinet. “It is evident that the ACB and then chief minister have shirked and shied away from their responsibility by not registering a FIR and conducting any investigation whatsoever on the pretext that the matter was pending before the Lokayukta,” former Lokayukta Justice P K Misra said. He said the then chief minister expected the Lokayukta to investigate the disproportionate assets case with the assistance of two constables and two head constables. Referring to the four police personnel posted with the Lokayukta at the time, Misra held that the then chief minister “evaded and avoided the responsibility of registering the FIR” and investigating into the alleged offence. “It is crystal clear that the then CM avoided the responsibility because the present respondent no. 3 was a serving minister and MLA belonging to the ruling party.” The complainant, social activist Aires Rodrigues, alleged that a company belonging to Madkaikar had constructed a lavish bungalow valued at around Rs 200 crore and his assets were disproportionate to his known sources of income. Slamming then chief secretary and then superintendent of police (ACB) for failure to discharge their duties in accordance with the law, the Lokayukta noted that the “so called preliminary enquiry” against Madkaikar was “mere eyewash”. The Lokayukta said the allegation definitely indicated the commission of a cognisable offence. Misra said prima facie there was dereliction of duty by the then SP and appropriate punishment was required to be imposed. Lokayukta said both these officials failed to discharge their duties in accordance with the law. “The material on record produced by them indicates that the file was sent to the then chief minister for the purpose of getting permission to register a FIR and investigate thereafter. However, the note sheet indicates that the then chief minister has merely endorsed that since the matter was pending before Lokayukta, there was no necessity of parallel investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/file-fir-against-former-minister-madkaikar-in-da-case-lokayukta/articleshow/78177793.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Religious conversions: UP may bring ordinance||LUCKNOW: Citing the rising number of religious conversions in the name of 'love jihad' in the state, the UP government is likely to promulgate an ordinance against religious conversions soon. “It's in the process and Acts and laws of other states are being studied and discussed before UP has its own law against religious conversion," confirmed a senior officer of the state’s law department. At present, eight states have anti-conversion laws -- Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Uttarakhand. Odisha was the first state to enact this law in 1967, followed by Madhya Pradesh, in 1968. “UP could soon become the ninth state,” says a law department source. Read AlsoUP’s special force to have power to arrest sans warrantThe state government has rolled out a blueprint of UP Special Security Force (UPSSF) to protect key establishments, besides providing security cover to the VIPs. It will work on the pattern of the CISF. The force will be given special powers and its members would be able to make arrests or searchThe recent trigger behind the move is a series of cases of ‘love-jihad’, he says, adding "11 such cases are being probed in Kanpur district alone. Recently, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had also raised the issue of religious conversion during his two-day visit to Lucknow. The anti-conversion laws in various states seek to prevent any person from converting or attempting to convert, either directly or otherwise, another person through ‘forcible’ or ‘fraudulen’' means, or by ‘allurement’ or ‘inducement’. “The UP’s would be quite similar in nature which would make religious conversions a complex and cumbersome procedure,” says the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/religious-conversions-up-may-bring-ordinance/articleshow/78177777.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 18, 2020||Allahabad||BHU prof’s study shows why less Indians dying of Covid-19||PRAYAGRAJ: If you have been thinking why the mortality rate of Covid-19 has been much higher in European countries and in the United States as compared to India and Southeast Asian countries, a research team led by a BHU scientist could have the answer. The team comprising top genetic experts from six institutions, led by Prof Gyaneshwer Chaubey of BHU, analysed complete DNA data of the Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) gene of X chromosome from various continental populations and found that, in fact, it’s our genes that have protected us and helped us battle out the deadly virus saving us from falling prey to it. The results of the team’s analysis have been published in the internationally renowned journal PLOS ONE, released on Thursday. The scientists have provided a possible molecular genetic explanation for why Iranians, Europeans and Americans of European ancestry are at more mortality risk to the novel coronavirus than people in India and East Asia, as reflected in the current global distribution of reported Covid-19 cases per 1,00,000 inhabitants. ACE2 gene gateway point of coronavirusThe international team analysed complete DNA data of the ACE2 gene from various continental populations and found that certain mutations in this gene are helping South Asian and East Asian populations in successfully battling the virus and reducing mortality rate in comparison to USA and Europe. The ACE2 gene is the gateway point of coronavirus and certain genetic mutations of this gene are related to the disease severity, said Prof. Chaubey. “The genetic ancestry of most South Asians can be traced to West Eurasian populations rather than with East Eurasians, whereas for this gene the result is other way round,” said Prof. George van Driem of University of Bern, Switzerland, one of the experts on the team. There have been a few initial studies on the ACE2 gene by other research groups, but all of them looked for the presence or absence of various mutations, whereas, this team used more powerful haplotype-based analysis (the method in which experts break the whole length of DNA into several pieces and make comparisons). In this type of analysis, several DNA fragments are compared rather than few mutations as populations that share more DNA chunks are considered to be more close, said Prof. Chaubey. “The match of DNA fragments of South Asians with East Asians suggests that the entry gate of coronavirus among South Asians will be more similar to that of East Asians rather than that of Europeans or Americans. This also explains the low mortality rate in South Asia,” he added. The second important finding is about two major mutations which are responsible for strengthening the entry point of the coronavirus among South Asians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/bhu-profs-study-shows-why-less-indians-dying-of-covid/articleshow/78175916.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Dholpur police initiates drive against illegal boats in Chambal||JAIPUR: Dholpur SP on Thursday asked all the SHOs to initiate a campaign against illegal operation of boats, the move coming a day after 13 people were killed after a boat capsized in Chambal river in Kota. Though licence for boats is given by the transport department, police are on the job of finding if there are boats which are illegally operating in the river. Eleven people were killed on Wednesday while two more bodies were retrieved on Thursday. Taking cognizance of the incident, SP Kesar Singh said there are many legal provisions in IPC which can deter this practice of illegal boats. “I have asked all my SHOs to check if any boat is illegally operating in Chambal river passing through their respective areas. We will seize these boats and will also register cases under appropriate sections of IPC,” Singh told TOI. He added that many boats which were earlier seen on the banks of Chambal passing through Dholpur are missing after the incident. “Many have fled from the region with their boats. If needed, we will knock at the doors of fishermen to check if they have valid licences,” said a senior police officer. Police said that as per IPC, operating boats illegally is a punishable offence under Sections 287 and 336. “As per Section 287, illegal use of boats is a punishable offence with a fine of Rs 1,000 or six months imprisonment or both,” he added. Section 336 deals with the punishment for act of endangering life or personal safety of others. “In this, whoever does any act so rashly or negligently which can endanger human life or the personal safety of others, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to Rs 250, or with both,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dholpur-police-initiates-drive-against-illegal-boats-in-chambal/articleshow/78177304.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Surat||STV terminal expansion delayed by 11 months||Surat: The much-awaited expansion of the terminal building at Surat airport is set to be delayed by 11 months. The primary reason being coronavirus induced lockdown and the long delay by the central government in issuing the environment clearance (EC) for taking up the critical infrastructure work. As per the information gathered under Right To Information (RTI) Act, the contractor executing the terminal expansion, Siddhi Constructions, has requested the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the Extension of Time (EoT), of about 253 days, for the project completion which had earlier target of October, 2020. The contractor has stated in letter to AAI that the work was affected due lockdown. Also, there was no permission to executive the critical activities of the project due to the non-availability of EC from Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC). A senior AAI officer said, “The contractor has asked for the extension of time for 11 months and the project could be completed by September 2021.”About 90% of the footing or foundation work of the terminal building is completed and the permission for starting other critical works is awaited.It is worth to note that the MOEF&CC had asked the AAI to submit compliance report of the existing terminal building, which is still pending since 2007. Also, the certificate from the forest warden regarding the distance of Hazira bird sanctuary from the airport is pending. The expansion of the terminal building at the cost of Rs 350 crore was envisaged by the AAI following the stupendous growth in the passenger traffic from Surat airport over the last two years. Against the present capacity of the existing terminal building to handle 500 peak hour passengers, the passenger traffic has crossed 4,000 per day.The tender for terminal building extension was floated in December 2018, but the work order was delayed due to the Lok Sabha elections. When the work order was granted in May 2019, the construction work got delayed again due to the early onset of the monsoon that year.After the extension, the terminal building will be capable to handle (1,200 domestic + 600 international) i.e. 1,800 passenger during the peak hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/stv-terminal-expansion-delayed-by-11-months/articleshow/78174733.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||GIB death: Wildlife enthusiasts, villagers stage sit-in at Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Protesting over the death of a female GIB after it hit high-tension electric wires at Degrai pasture land in Jaisalmer district on Wednesday, wildlife enthusiasts and villagers staged a sit-in for around four hours at the spot late in the night. Later, at around midnight, after persuasion by the police, they called off the stir. The protesters demanded to put the high-tension wires passing in this area underground or to put bird diverters and to declare the entire area arc zone of GIB, so that no solar or wind mill is set up here. The postmortem of the GIB was conducted by medical board team of veterinary doctors and Wildlife Institute of India experts. As per the report, the reason for the death was electrocution, as the bird had hit high-tension electric wires. The female baby was 6 years old and weighed 9kg. The wildlife officers of Jaisalmer have once again sent the proposal to announce identified part of Jaisalmer as an eco-sensitive zone, for conservation of GIB. Around three years ago, the same kind of proposal was sent to the state government, but in 2019, the state government sent back the proposal. There has been a resentment among the villagers of Degrai pasture land and wildlife enthusiasts over these cases and a large number of villagers gathered at the spot and staged a sit-in and did not allow the forest department to take the carcass. This sit-in went on for around four hours. At around 11pm, Sangad police got the information and reached the spot and persuaded them to end the sit-in. Confirming this, Degrai Oran Samiti active member Sumer Singh said that the state government is not serious about saving GIBs. He said the pasture land is a habitat of GIB, but the state government has neither put diverters on these wires nor did it put the wires underground. Apart from this, the forest department never took care of the area and even the census of GIB has not taken place after 2014. He said that the samiti, to save this pasture land, is organizing an ‘Oran Parikrama’ on September 19. The main objective of this yatra of around 50-55km is to save the pasture land and to make this area free from solar power project units that are going to be set up here. Another wildlife enthusiast Mal Singh Jamda said that the high court has recently given stay on setting up new units in areas that are important from environment point of view and in the wildlife habitat areas. Despite that, the court orders are violated and private companies are trying to look into their interest. He said that in the last three years, seven GIBs have died hitting the high tension electric wires in this area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gib-death-wildlife-enthusiasts-villagers-stage-sit-in/articleshow/78177301.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Agra||NSUI & Youth Cong workers mark birthday of PM Modi as ‘national unemployment day’||Agra: Members of National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Youth Congress on Thursday marked the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “national unemployment day”.Youth Congress workers gathered outside Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University and organised “cremation of jobs” to mark their protest against the PM Modi-led BJP government. Youth Congress district president Deepak Sharma said, “The central government has failed to fulfill its promise of providing jobs to 2 crore people every year. The unemployment among educated youths is at an all-time high. To mark our protest against the inefficiency of the government, we have organized a symbolic cremation of jobs.” Meanwhile, NSUI workers sold snacks at Rajamandi crossing. NSUI district president Bilal Ahmed said, “Due to flawed policies of the BJP government, the country's economy has been badly hit. New recruitments are not being made. People are losing their jobs. Therefore, we are celebrating PM Modi's birthday as national unemployment day”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nsui-youth-cong-workers-mark-birthday-of-pm-modi-as-national-unemployment-day/articleshow/78174747.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Surat||Surat bizman’s suicide: Accused policemen yet to be arrested||Surat: The Surat police may have arrested two persons in connection with the abatement of suicide case of Surat businessman Durlabh Patel, but the prime accused including police inspector L P Bodana and three other cops, are yet to be arrested.This is despite of formation of four special investigation teams (SITs) comprising officers from specialised agencies like local crime branch (LCB) and special operation group (SOG). Along with a deputy superintendent of police, three police inspectors, two sub-inspectors and 25 other policemen are currently involved in the investigation. Patel had allegedly committed suicide due to harassment by 10 accused over a land deal on September 7. Police has arrested Raju Bharwad and Bhavesh Savani so far. Other accused in the case include, constables Ajay Bhopala, Kiransinh Parmar and Vijay Shindi; Kishore Koshiya, Kanaiyalal Narola, Hetal Desai and Mukesh Kulkarni. Sources said the prime accused Bodana went on sick leave within few hours of him and others being booked for abetment of suicide. While other cops too have disappeared. Of the accused — Narola is suspected to have fled the country. Source close to the investigation said that some of the accused were in touch with their close associates and even their mobile phones were active. Meanwhile, raising doubts over the FIR, inspector general of police, Surat range, Rajkumar Pandian, claimed, “It is a matter of investigation if the victim (Durlabh) and his son were called by the accused cop to the farm house or they themselves went there. It has also been brought to our knowledge that the Durlabh and his sons made multiple calls to the accused cops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-bizmans-suicide-accused-policemen-yet-to-be-arrested/articleshow/78174760.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 18, 2020||Varanasi||SP, Cong workers hold protests||Varanasi: While Kashi celebrated the birthday of its MP and PM Narendra Modi on Thursday, the workers of Samajwadi Party observed ‘National Unemployment Day’ while the Congressmen held several protests. SP workers led by Vivek Yadav and Sanjay Priyadarshi went begging on Harishchandra Ghat road to protest alleging that the Centre has failed to address issues like unemployment and falling economy. They demanded that the day be declared as National Unemployment Day. A group of youths under the banner of Sanskrit Sanrakshan Manch performed a ‘havan’ at Sampurnanand Sanskrit University in protest against unemployment. Congressmen led by former MLA Ajay Rai took out a procession from Bharat Mata Mandir in Sigra area in protest, but were stopped by police. Rai alleged that the job giving small and medium scale industries are on the verge of closure due to the wrong policies of the government.State Youth Congress president Kanishka Pandey and others attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-cong-workers-hold-protests/articleshow/78175950.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Red sandalwood seized in Chittoor||Vijayawada: Police arrested two persons for allegedly smuggling red sandalwood logs at Yerpedu area in Chittoor district on Thursday. The cops were conducting vehicle checks and found the logs in the dickey. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of AP Forest Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/red-sandalwood-seized-in-chittoor/articleshow/78176018.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Agra||UP boy, 17, siphons off Rs 15lakh from grandpa’s account to fund lavish lifestyle||Agra: To fund his lavish lifestyle, a 17-year-old boy allegedly transferred Rs 15lakh from his grandfather’s bank account to his e-wallet accounts of Paytm and Mobikwik. Agra’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar said, “An 80-year-old retired Air Force officer reported that the illegal online transactions of Rs 15lakh had been done from his account by an unidentified person within five months, from March to August this year. A case was registered under section 420 of IPC at Shahganj police station." The victim claimed that he neither received any call nor had given his OTP to anyone regarding any online transaction. The complaint was later transferred to the district cyber crime cell. During investigations, the police found that the money was transferred from the account into Paytm and Mobikwik wallets, which were created by using a fake SIM card. The amount was later transferred to the account of the victim’s daughter-in law, the mother of his grandson. According to cybercrime officer Vijay Tomar, the boy had been regularly withdrawing small amounts of money. He used to delete the SMS alerts from his grandfather’s phone after giving OTP to his friend, Mohit Solanki (21), who was the mastermind. Solanki used to be the victim’s neighbour once. Two other persons who were involved in the crime were identified as Krishna, 24, who provided a fake SIM card for creating the Paytm and Mobikwik accounts and Aakash Kumar, 20, who converted some online transactions into cash for spending on liquor and buying mobile phones. Police said that many items including a double bed, a double door refrigerator, LED TV, high quality speakers were recovered from the victim’s house. All of them have been arrested, said police, adding that the minor was apprehended. The retired officer has three sons. And one of them stays with him in Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-boy-17-siphons-off-rs-15lakh-from-grandpas-account-to-fund-lavish-lifestyle/articleshow/78174726.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 18, 2020||India||Farmers’ interests will be protected: PM hails agri bills||Welcoming passage of agricultural reform bills in Lok Sabha, PM Modi on Thursday allayed fears about the consequences of the legislations and said there were elements trying to misguide people but farmers’ interests would be intact and the MSP regime will persist. “Passage of the bills on agricultural reforms in Lok Sabha is a great moment for farmers,” he said in a series or tweets. “The bills will do away with middlemen and other impediments in growth of farmers,” he added. He said the reforms will bring in new opportunities for farmers to sell their produce, which will enhance their profits. “The new bill not only will help in technological growth of the agricultural sector but also empower farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-interests-will-be-protected-pm-hails-agri-bills/articleshow/78178305.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lockdown boon? Non-Covid deaths in UP decline by 30%||LUCKNOW: Amid the gloom of rising Covid cases and casualties, here is some good news. The number of registered non-Covid deaths in UP in the first seven months has fallen by more than 30%. Even if one adds the Covid deaths till July 31 (approx 700) across UP, the number is well below the 2019 death figures. Against 5.11 lakh deaths registered by the medical and health department in the first seven months of 2019, the number fell sharply to 3.57 lakh between January and July this year. The Covid-induced lockdown started in March this year and since then Covid deaths are being counted separately. The department collects data on deaths within government-controlled medical institutions, including the military and railway hospitals, and also outside, including private medical institutions, nursing homes and also private houses. The official statistics reveal that that from January to July 2020, 18,050 non-Covid deaths were reported in the government-run hospitals, primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs) and other medical institutions, while during the same period in 2019 the number of deaths stood at 47,939 and 51,439 people had died in the corresponding period in 2018. The non-Covid death figures in private medical colleges and hospitals registered even a sharper decline during the same period. The total number of deaths from January to June 2019 was 4.75 lakh while in the same period this year, the deaths figures contracted to almost half 2.91 lakh. On the amazing decline in the number of non-Covid deaths in the state during the lockdown, health minister Jai Pratap Singh told TOI that largely it seemed people were restricted to their homes and as movement was totally banned road accidents and crime also plummeted during the period. This could be the main reason for the trend, he added. “The country's 17% population lives in UP, but its share in road accidents is much higher," observed the health minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-boon-non-covid-deaths-in-up-decline-by-30/articleshow/78177785.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Festive season fails to bring cheers for Bevco||KOCHI: Despite the permission to sell liquor and beer through bars at price same as at outlets of Kerala State Beverages Corporation (KSBC), the sale of liquor and beer at Bevco outlets in Ernakulam on Uthradam day, which usually witnesses the maximum sale during Onam, was severely hit, diminishing the spirits of Bevco. The Bevco outlet at Palarivattom, which reported the highest sale of Rs1 crore last year in the district on Uthradam, witnessed only a sale worth around Rs18 lakh this year. The highest sale was reported at the outlet in Piravom. However, the revenue was around Rs 36 lakh only. Last year, Piravom outlet reported a sale worth Rs 49 lakh. According to officials, sale has come down by more than 50% this year compared to the same period the previous year. There are around 36 Bevco outlets under three warehouses — Tripunithura, Aluva and Vengola — in Ernakulam. But there are more than 140 bars and seven Consumerfed liquor outlets in the district, highest in any district in Kerala. These bars now report higher sales than Bevco retail outlets. “Till last year, Uthradam day used to witness highest festive sale and played a major role in increasing the profit levels of KSBC. But this time, sale at most of the outlets were below average. Most shops have recorded sale of less than Rs17 lakh compared to twice the amount worth sale during previous festive seasons. The pandemic has affected the purchasing capacity of people, which is one of the reasons for the dip in sales. The situation is changing slowly and we hope to get good business if bars are allowed to do in-house serving of liquor not just limited at MRP,” said a KSBC source. As bars are more in number and sell liquor at maximum retail price, people prefer booking tokens at bars than outlets due to faster service. “Also, the availability of premium brands of rum, brandy and whisky is reportedly higher in bars compared to Bevco and Consumerfed outlets. But the lockdown has affected the production and supply of many brands of rums, whisky and brandy leading to shortage at warehouses. Also, many bars are illegally selling liquor without receiving the token,” added the source. After Piravom, the outlet in Mulanthuruthy reported liquor sales worth Rs 33 lakh, the second highest in state. KSBC officials attributed it to lesser number of bars in rural compared to urban limits. A senior KSBC official said dip in sales of liquor through Bevco outlets will not affect the revenue of the corporation as all bars take the stock from KSBC warehouse. Officials, however, said KSBC will lose 20% of MRP if the liquor is sold through bars or Consumerfed outlets. Meanwhile, excise officials said flow of illicit arrack was also one of the major reasons that reduced the sales through Bevco outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/festive-season-fails-to-bring-cheers-for-bevco/articleshow/78174767.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||Dead biker booked for accident with cow||Vadodara: A 29-year-old motorcyclist died after colliding with a stray cow sleeping in the middle of the Vadodara-Waghodiya road on September 15 night. However, instead of registering a case against the cattle owner for letting the animal loose on the road, police booked the dead motorcyclist on charges of “rash driving”. Shailesh Vankar was returning home at Pipaliya village in Waghodiya taluka when the accident took place. Locals said that the road is occupied by cattle after the breeders let them loose at night. As it was dark, Vankar did not see the cow sleeping in the middle of the road and rammed his vehicle with it. Vankar suffered grievous injuries on his head and was taken to a private hospital in Pipaliya where he succumbed during treatment. Next day, instead of acting against the cattle owner, Waghodiya police registered an offence of rash driving and causing death due to negligence against Vankar, the victim. Vankar was the youngest of the four siblings and had been working as a driver in a company at Waghodiya GIDC for past one year. “We have not been able to find the owner of the cow, but there is a possibility that the cow too had suffered injuries,” said in-charge inspector A G Parmar of Waghodiya police station. Police can register an offence under section 90A (penalty for allowing cattle to stray in street or to trespass upon private or public property) of Gujarat Police Act. Often such offences are registered by Vadodara city police on receiving complaints from health officials of Vadodara Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dead-biker-booked-for-accident-with-cow/articleshow/78174231.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Trichy||NIT team collects samples from Uyyakondan canal for pollution check||Trichy: A two-member expert team from the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy collected 11 samples from the polluted Uyyakondan canal passing through the Trichy city on Wednesday. Recently, the Madras high court had sought a status report on the pollution level in the canal.The team, comprising S T Ramesh and T Sivasankar from the civil engineering and chemical engineering departments and accompanied by Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) and Trichy Corporation officials, inspected parts of Raja Colony, EVR road and Ariyamangalm where Uyyakondan passes through. The observation was carried out to ascertain the status of the 9km stretch of the 69km long canal in the city where it is polluted the most. Wastewater discharge occurs at multiple locations of the canal that irrigates around 30,000 acres cultivable land parcels in Trichy and Thanjavur districts. “We have to carry out laboratory tests for the water samples. Inference such as water quality parameters will be submitted to corporation in the next few days,” Ramesh said. Corporation informed the team that sewage inflow into the canal will be plugged once the ongoing underground drainage project is completed. Sources said that the corporation will submit the report to the Madras high court in the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-team-collects-samples-from-uyyakondan-canal-for-pollution-check/articleshow/78177781.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: When thieves eye govt’s third eye||NEW DELHI: Installed to stop crime, Delhi government’s neighbourhood CCTV cameras are falling prey to criminals looking to make a fast buck. In the past few months, more than 1,500 CCTV cameras have been targeted and their valuable components stolen. In 76 cases, thieves have made away with the CCTV camera itself. Delhi government has till date installed around 1.4 lakh CCTV cameras across all assembly constituencies with the primary aim of ensuring safety of women, apart from strengthening law and order. The government plans to install an equal number of CCTV Cameras in the second phase. These cameras have come in for a lot of praise in helping solve cases of theft and snatching but of late. “But there have been reports of CCTV Cameras or their components being stolen and, in some cases, damaged. A survey of all cameras were carried out and the report has recently been submitted,” a Delhi government official said. “This is happening despite CCTV cameras and other equipment having been secured inside locked ‘outdoor enclosures’,” he said. The most targeted components are the 4TB hard disks where the feed from the CCTV cameras are saved. The number of hard disks stolen is 1,230 and other components of value include 145 network video recorders, 108 SIM cards and 31 power supply units. “We have learnt that in most cases, thieves have visited areas posing as technicians and said they needed to repair the cameras,” the official said. This has helped the thieves stealing valuable components, and in 76 cases the entire camera system, without residents suspecting anything, he added. The incidents have been reported from north, northwest and west Delhi areas like Kirari, Mangolpuri, Rithala, Shalimar Bagh, Sultanpur Majra, Tri Nagar, Wazirpur, Narela, Bawana, Shakur Basti, Tilak Nagar, Vikaspuri, Janakpuri, Nangloi, Badli and Uttam Nagar. The CCTV cameras have been installed by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), which also maintains them, and as per its contract with Delhi government, the cameras and other equipment are under insurance and any kind of theft is BEL’s responsibility. However, the rising number of thefts has forced Delhi government to issue directions to stop such incidents. Apart from the primary lock system, an additional system will now be in place for CCTV cameras and the main system. At present, if anyone tries to tamper with the equipment, BEL’s command centre immediately gets an alert but Delhi government is now going to place an additional alarm system, which will be set off if someone tries to open the equipment. Resident welfare associations (RWAs) will be asked to immediately call the command centre once the alarm starts ringing. RWAs will also be asked to ensure that no one touches CCTV cameras and equipment, and even if a BEL technician comes for repair, the RWA concerned will have to first verify with the company if the person has indeed been deputed by it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-thieves-eye-govts-third-eye/articleshow/78195428.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: HC comes to the aid of elderly man in ICU||KOCHI: The high court ordered a sub-registrar of registration department to go to a hospital ICU and authenticate a legal document so as to enable the sale of land belonging to an 87-year-old man in critical condition. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order after considering a petition (WP-C No. 18765/2020) filed by the buyers, Sethu S Nair and Sudhi S Nair of Pallippad in Alappuzha, through advocate P Sreekumar. In their plea, the petitioners sought a court directive to the sub-registrar of Haripad to register two sale deeds regarding their purchase of 12.75 ares of land in Kumarapuvam village in Alappuzha when it is presented by the wife of the man in the hospital. The man is in a very critical condition at Indo American Hospital at Vaikom and the wife is authorized to do the sale through a power of attorney, the petition said. Senior government pleader Harish submitted that the sub registrar of Haripad does not want to stand in the way of registration of sale deeds but the person selling the land is in hospital. If the power of attorney is allowed to be attested by sub-registrar of Vaikom at the hospital, then the sale deeds presented by the wife can be accepted, the government counsel submitted. Based on the submission, the court ordered sub-registrar of Vaikom to visit the hospital and attest the power of attorney as per law. On such attestation, the wife can present the sale deeds and it should be registered by the authority, the court directed. The court appreciated senior government pleader Harish for taking a practical stand to obtain a resolution to the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-comes-to-the-aid-of-elderly-man-in-icu/articleshow/78176038.cms||Mahir Haneef
September 18, 2020||Agra||Two men mowed down by truck on on Yamuna eway in Aligarh||Agra: Two persons were mowed down by a speeding truck in Aligarh’s Tappal area on Yamuna Expressway while they were sleeping on the roadside on Thursday morning. According to police, the deceased were identified as Anil Paswan (32) and Sani Kumar (30). The mishap took place when the victims were sleeping on the roadside after their truck ran out of diesel. They were mowed down by another speeding truck coming from Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-men-mowed-down-by-truck-on-on-yamuna-eway-in-aligarh/articleshow/78174765.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Durga temple EO files plaint over missing figurines||VIJAYAWADA: Authorities of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanams on Thursday lodged a complaint with One Town police, stating that three of the four silver figurines of lions attached to the silver chariot of goddess Durga are missing. Durga temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu said in his complaint that temple officials checked the storeroom and verified all records but could not find the three silver figurines. Devasthanams trust board chairman P Somi Naidu, after conducting a high-level meeting with officials, told reporters that the chariot was last used during Ugadi celebrations in 2019, when the TDP was in power in the state. “The cover on the silver chariot was not removed after the new government was formed. The chariot was kept at its regular parking slot and remained completely covered. It was only after our engineering staff took up renovation works when they noticed the three lion idols missing. We suspect a conspiracy behind it. We have lodged a complaint,” said Somi Naidu. Police commissioner B Srinivasulu said he has formed special teams to investigate the case. Meanwhile, activists of BJP, Jana Sena and TDP continued their protests for the second day, demanding suspension of temple executive officer Suresh Babu. Jana Sena activists offered 101 coconuts to goddess Kanaka Durga, and pleaded before the goddess to safeguard her temple’s properties. Party spokesman Pothina Mahesh alleged that temple officials are trying to put the blame on a private security agency for the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/durga-temple-eo-files-plaint-over-missing-figurines/articleshow/78176048.cms||Venu Lanka
September 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli registers 1,028 cases, 35 deaths||Kolhapur: Sangli district crossed four-digit mark once again by registering 1,028 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. The district also reported 35 Covid-related deaths. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district swelled to 26,681. Of these, 16,191 have been discharged from various facilities after recovery. As of now, Sangli district has 9,486 active cases. In addition, the death toll of the district stands at 1,004. Of the recent cases, 502 have been reported from the rural areas while the municipal corporation added 328 patients. Other urban pockets witnessed a surge of 198 cases. While Sangli municipal corporation registered 328 fresh cases, Walva tehsil added 161, followed by Palus (109 cases). As many as 93 patients from Miraj tehsil tested positive for the contagion. Solapur rural reports 557 cases, 12 dea Solapur rural reported 557 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 19,305. The death toll has risen to 543. As many as 12,184 patients have recovered while 6,578 are undergoing treatment. Malshiras tehsil has emerged has Covid hotspot as 120 fresh cases were recorded on Thursday. Meanwhile, Solapur city reported 74 fresh Covid cases on Thursday, including 40 men and 34 women. Two patients succumbed to Covid-19. Both were elderly. The death toll stands at 450. As many as 6,448 patients have recovered while 818 cases are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-registers-1028-cases-35-deaths/articleshow/78173477.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||PM’s aide from Gujarat calls on UP governor Anandiben Patel||LUCKNOW: Inspired by UP Governor Anandiben Patel’s social activities and works for women and the girl child when she was education minister and chief minister of her home state Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s trusted Muslim face Zafar Sareshwala called on her on Thursday and declared to work for the welfare of war widows in the state. Zafar Sareshwala flew to Lucknow from Delhi on Thursday -- the day when the nation was celebrating the PM's birthday -- apparently on the initiation of the PM and offered to dedicate his organisation for the socio-economic uplift of war widows. Anandiben Patel is learnt to have assured Zafar Sareshwala that she would extend logistical support to him for his nobel cause. “Not only this, the governor also assured me that she would attend all programmes which my organisation would hold for the benefit of war widows as chief guests in Lucknow, Delhi and Bhopal,” Sareshwala told TOI immediately after his meeting with the governor in Raj Bhawan on Thursday. Sareshwala, who heads a charity organisation Taleem-o-Tarbiat, recalled that when Anandibenwas education minister of Gujarat, she had initiated a series of steps to open schools in the Muslim dominated areas for children and then as chief minister she not only undertook measures for the socio-economic uplift of the Muslim community, but also launched a pension scheme of Rs 900 per month for widows of any religion. Ambreen Zaidi, founder and CEO of The Changemakers and functionary of the Taleem-o-Tarbiat,who also accompanied Sareshwala to Raj Bhawan, said that there are over 1.5 lakh war widows in UP and Rajasthan and despite getting financial assistance from the government, they still face social stigma and need personal care to make them self- reliant and empowered socially and economically. “We have briefed the governor about our plans for war widows. We would impart technical training to them so that they can set up their own small units,” Zaidi said adding that “we have selected UP to launch our activities as the state has the second largest population of war widows after Rajasthan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-aide-from-guj-calls-on-guv/articleshow/78177797.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 18, 2020||Varanasi||PM Modi ended rule of anarchy: Yogi||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the nation has seen momentous changes in the last six years and has moved much ahead from the distrust, insecurity and anarchy prevailing earlier. The country is now striding forward with enthusiasm, feeling of pride and strong planning under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking at an event in Gorakhnath temple on Thursday, CM Yogi extended birthday wishes to PM Modi and said, “The country has witnessed momentous changes in the last six years due to the proficient and far-sighted leadership of PM Modi. When he took charge, there was anarchy, insecurity, distrust, and mismanagement in the country. PM Modi with his able leadership brought the country back on the track of development. Today, almost all the developed countries admire our prime minister.” “The poor are now getting houses under PM Awas Yojana along with free power connections and toilets. The benefits of welfare schemes like Ujjawala and Kanya Saubhagya are also reaching people and have improved the lives of women,” he added. The government is ensuring that the benefits of all schemes reach to the last man in society, Yogi said. “PM Modi also taught a lesson to the enemies with surgical strike and air strike deep inside their territory,” he added. The CM distributed 40 tricycles, six wheel chairs, 20 smart canes, 25 hearing aids and 10 MR kits to differently-abled people at the old age home in Gorakhnath temple on the occasion of PM Modi’s birthday. “PM Modi gave respect to the differently-abled people by calling them Divyang,” he said. Yogi also praised PM Modi on skillfully handling the coronavirus pandemic and said the big economic package announced by the PM provided new employment opportunities to those who lost their livelihood during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-modi-ended-rule-of-anarchy-yogi/articleshow/78176064.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: DMRC lost Rs 1,609 crore to Covid-induced closure||NEW DELHI: The closure of Metro rail services due to Covid-19 pandemic resulted in loss of around Rs 1,609 crore to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri told Lok Sabha on Thursday. In a written reply, the minister said during the lockdown period preparatory work like detailed designing, preparation of tender schedule, finalisation of tender have been carried out for projects. He added that the DMRC has informed that payments towards its loan have been made as per schedule. Delhi Metro services, which were shut on March 22 to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, resumed on September 7 in a phased manner. Full-fledged normal operations resumed on September 12. Responding to another question on impact of protests and riots on ridership, Puri said, “The DMRC has informed that there was some decline in cumulative ridership due to protests and riots in Delhi.” In response to another question about the government's strategy to mitigate the effect of losses incurred by the DMRC, Puri said measures to enhance revenue through various innovative means such as provisioning of feeder system, property development at stations and on other land, leasing of spaces, Transit Oriented Development and Value Capture Finance are enumerated in the Metro Rail Policy, 2017. He said, “Ensuring financial sustainability during operations of the Metro rail system is the responsibility of the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dmrc-lost-rs-1609cr-to-covid-induced-closure/articleshow/78176053.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Allahabad||UP Board to conduct improvement, compartment exams from October 3||PRAYAGRAJ: UP Board will conduct improvement/compartment examinations for class X and XII students on October 3. UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla said the exams will be held in two shifts — 8am to 11.15am and 2pm to 5.15pm. In these exams, 33,344 candidates, 15,839 high school and 17,505 intermediate students, will appear across the state. “The board accepted online applications for compartment exams from August 5-20,” he added. “The exams will be conducted in 163 centres in UP. Of these, 77 centres would be such where both high school and intermediate students will appearing for improvement/compartment exams,” he added. The UP Board secretary said that in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in UP, all safety precautions would be observed at the examination centres. “Examinees would be made to sit at a distance of at least six feet and would have to wear masks. Those with symptoms like fever and dry cough would be made to sit in separate rooms. The guidelines issued by the central and state government will be enforced by the district inspectors of schools (DIOS) at all centres, which would be sanitised a day before each exam.” Moreover, DIOSs will arrange for masks for those students who arrive at a centre without one. Examinees would also have to undergo thermal scanning at the centre. This is the first time that UP Board is offering class 12 students to appear in compartment exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-board-to-conduct-improvement-compartment-exams-from-october-3/articleshow/78175928.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara collector warns of strict action against shops||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has issued an order initiating actions like fine and closure of shops in case people are found flouting the physical distancing norm. On Wednesday, the district recorded as many as 915 new cases of Covid-19 along with 31 deaths. Singh has said in press statement that the administration had found that social distancing was not followed at public places, particularly at shops. “I have empowered local authorities to identify such shops. Action like closure of shop for seven days and a fine of Rs 2,000 will be imposed on the shopkeeper,” he said. Meanwhile, Karad is on top of the list for reporting new cases of Covid-19. As many as 263 new patients, including 103 from Karad town, were reported on Wednesday. In Satara tehsil, as many as 253 people were found positive for the contagion. It included 135 cases from Satara town, out of which most of the cases were from Sadar Bazar, Shahupuri and Yadogopal Peth recorded maximum cases. Surrounding villages like Yerwali (11), Godoli (13), Chinchner Vandan (20), Nagthane (10) also reported cases. Koregaon tehsil added 82 cases, which included 12 and 10 patients from Pimpode and Koregaon. Wai added 71 new cases, including 20 from town, while Mahabaleshswar tehsil identified 20 new cases. Out of 31 deaths reported on Wednesday 27 are senior citizens. According to official information, nine deceased are from Satara tehsil. Karad had five cases of death, while four deaths each were reported from Phaltan, Khatav and Koregaon. The district currently has 27,663 positive cases. The number of active patients stands at 9,473, while the death toll has gone up to 703 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-collector-warns-of-strict-action-against-shops/articleshow/78173490.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Grievance meet to go online in Thanjavur||Trichy: After a break of five months, Thanjavur district administration will convene the farmers' grievance day meeting online on Friday. Representatives of farmer's associations have been asked to attend the meeting from their respective assistant agriculture officer’s office. “With Kuruvai paddy harvest picked up in Lalugdi block and cultivation of samba picking up pace in other parts of the district, there are several issues to be addressed by the concerned officials such as demand for harvester machine and procurement of paddy needs,” said N Veerasekaran, BJP state spokesperson. Farmers from Trichy and other districts have also appealed to their district collectors to hold the meeting at least online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/grievance-meet-to-go-online-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78177802.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 11 lakh worth liquor seized||Vijayawada: The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths intercepted an RTC bus and seized around 2,198 liquor bottles worth Rs 11 lakh from four persons, including the driver, at Patamata police station limits on Thursday. “The (accused) have been transporting liquor under the guise of being sanitisers for a while now using the RTC parcel services,” SEB SP Satti Babu told TOI. Cops registered a case against the accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-11-lakh-worth-liquor-seized/articleshow/78176060.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||MES cleaner honey-trapped by ‘Madamji’ passes key info||LUCKNOW: Acting on classified inputs of the Military Intelligence unit of Lucknow, Haryana Police’s Special Task Force (STF) arrested a civilian employee of Military Engineering Services (MES) from Rewari for passing classified information to a Pakistani Military Intelligence unit after getting honey-trapped on Facebook. The person arrested was identified as Mahesh Kumar (28). He is a cleaner in MES Jaipur. His primary task is to clean offices. But Kumar had shared with his handler the ORBAT -- the order of battle -- of a Jaipur-based Army Brigade, details of some senior officers in Jaipur, location of PCDA, Jaipur, details of MES complaint records, Covid-19 status of Jaipur cantonment and a posting order of civilian MES employees. Kumar was in touch with at least two known and established Pakistani Intelligence Operative (PIO)-run Facebook accounts. It was also learnt that he received at least two payments of Rs 5000, each from his Pak handlers via Kerala. MI Lucknow unit got information about Kumar’s activity early this month and informed Haryana STF which arrested him on September 14. Later, a team from MI Lucknow and MI Jaipur interrogated him. During interrogation, Mahesh Kumar revealed that he came in contact with one ‘Harleen Gill’ in July 2018. They became friends on Facebook and used to communicate through text and audio-video chat on Facebook messenger. The account was being run by a young woman who was actually based in Pakistan but claimed to be working with the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (PCDA) office in Jalandhar, said Military Intelligence officers. But her Facebook account soon got deactivated.Later, Mahesh got a friend request from the same woman in 2019, this time from the Facebook account of one ‘Harman Kour’. They started communicating on Facebook messenger and later graduated to WhatsApp. The accused was found to have been in touch with at least two WhatsApp numbers of the woman. They used to exchange text and audio messages between them over WhatsApp and also used to video chat. Kumar shared all pictures and sensitive information about army in Jaipur via WhatsApp to the above PIOs. Lucknow MI first received an input in June this year that a user of a mobile number, registered in the name of Mahesh Kumar, who is posted in Jaipur, was sharing sensitive military information with a young woman associated with Pakistani MI in return of money. It was learnt that he addressed the Pakistani operative as “Madamji”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mes-cleaner-honey-trapped-by-madamji-passes-key-info/articleshow/78177807.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 18, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi region weaning away industry from north & west India||Varanasi: With Uttar Pradesh notching up the second rank in ease-of-doing business, phones are abuzz in the state industry department with entrepreneurs across India expressing interest in investment, particularly in the Varanasi region due its strategic location and easy availability of labour. The Covid-triggered lockdown created a vacuum in industrial belts of Punjab, Haryana and west India after labourers left for their home turfs of UP and Bihar and a reverse migration was yet to pick pace. However, scarce land and its high cost is compelling the state government and industry department officials to convince industrialists to set up shop in the hinterland of Varanasi. Deputy director (industries) Umesh Kumar Singh told TOI that Varanasi region holds an enviable position not only because of cheap labour, but also due to improved infrastructure. Also, Varanasi is strategically located to cater to markets in eastern UP, neighbouring Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. “If a well-oiled distribution network is put in place, it will lower transportation and product cost amid high availability of raw material. We are weaning away industrialists from Punjab and Gujarat,” he said. “A Rajkot-based company had recently come to establish its unit and we arranged land for them on Varanasi-Jaunpur border. A leading pressure cooker manufacturing company also decided to open its second unit here, instead of Punjab. And we are arraning land for them near Karkhiyao Industrial Area in Sathariya area. We are receiving multiple calls from industrialists in West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, MP, Chhattisgarh and other parts of country, expressing interest in exploring investment possibility,” said Singh. P 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/varanasi-region-weaning-away-industry-from-north-west-india/articleshow/78176012.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two cops, 3 robbers and a 30km chase||NEW DELHI: Two Delhi Police constables chased three robbers for 30km and caught one of them when they were fleeing after a snatching spree in northwest Delhi. When cornered at Nand Nagri, the robbers opened fire on the cops and two of them managed to flee. The arrested one had 29 cases registered against him. Gaurav, a resident of sector 4, Rohini, called police at 5.30am on Wednesday, complaining that when he and his friend were cycling near Netaji Subhash Place, three men on a motorcycle stopped them and snatched their phones after pointing a pistol at them. On receiving the PCR call, constables Vishal and Anil from Netaji Subhash Place police station reached the spot. The complainants told them that they have a WhatsApp group of their cyclist friends and they share their live location in it. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said the cops then started tracking the accused with the help of GPS location. The arrested man was identified as Izhaar, a resident of Brahmpuri. Izhar told police that he and his friends had robbed four people and snatched belongings of three other people in Vikaspuri, Rajouri Garden and Subhash Place. “Three gold jewellery, a country-made pistol and a motorcycle have been seized,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-cops-3-robbers-and-a-30km-chase/articleshow/78176074.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kochi||Court refers petition as PIL||KOCHI: A single bench of the high court on Thursday referred a petition seeking a probe into the alleged distribution of sub-standard Onam kits by SupplyCo to be considered as a public interest litigation. Justice PV Asha referred the petition (WP-C No. 19248/2020) filed by Jomy Mathai through advocate Rinu S Aswan to be placed before a division bench considering PILs after SupplyCo’s counsel contended that it has to be considered as a PIL. Advocate Raphael Thekkan, who represented the petitioner during the hearing, submitted that quality control officials of SupplyCo were responsible to ensure items supplied by vendors adhered to quality standards. Quality issues were found regarding jaggery and ‘Kerala Pappadam’ distributed as part of Onam kit, which contained 11 items, the counsel submitted. The tender conditions included specifications about quantity, quality, labelling, etc. The tender document also mentioned about the action, including blacklisting, that can be taken against the vendors if they violated the conditions. Standing counsel for Consumerfed argued that the entire writ petition is based on the public’s use of the kits and not individual use by the petitioner. Test report issued to a third party has been presented as part of the petition and this person has been filing PILs against Consumerfed and is using the petitioner as an instrument to file this petition, the counsel submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-refers-petition-as-pil/articleshow/78176077.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Truck hits car, close shave for doc after 20ft fall from Vadgaon bridge||Pune: A doctor (62) from Aundh survived with fractures to three rib bones as her car fell 20 feet from the Vadgaon bridge on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass on an open area after a truck hit her vehicle from the rear on Tuesday evening. The Sinhagad Road police officers stated that the truck driver lost control over the wheels following a tyre burst. At that point, the doctor’s car (Hyundai i20) and the truck were running parallel to each other on the bridge. Police said the truck veered to its left after one of its front tyres burst and hit the car around 4.30pm. The doctor’s vehicle crashed through the concrete railings of the bridge and fell on the open area in its impact. The bridge has two corridors — one for vehicles moving towards Dehu Road from Katraj and the other in the opposite direction. A gap separates these two corridors. The doctor’s car fell through this gap after crashing through the concrete railings, the police said. “The doctor was returning to her home in Aundh in her car after attending patients. She suffered fractures to her three rib bones,” a police officer told TOI. The police said soon after the fall, the woman gathered her senses and managed to pull herself out of the car. She called the ambulance of her hospital in Katraj, which reached the spot within a few minutes and shifted her to the health facility. By then, a crowd of onlookers had gathered on the bridge. Some people rushed down for the woman’s help, but she stepped out of the vehicle on her own. A few started taking pictures of the fallen car on their cellphones. The injured gynaecologist lodged a complaint with the police on Wednesday afternoon. Subsequently, an offence of rash and negligent driving was registered against the truck driver. The police impounded the truck for an expert analysis to establish the driver’s tyre burst claim. The hospital's medical director said, “Compared to the huge fall the doctor encountered, she suffered very minor injuries. Radiological investigations showed only hairline rib fractures. There were absolutely no blunt injuries. None of her vital organs have suffered any damage despite the massive fall. She was discharged after thorough investigations and medical treatment the same day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-hits-car-close-shave-for-doc-after-20ft-fall-from-vadgaon-bridge/articleshow/78176054.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Trichy||MSMEs waiting for export orders||Coimbatore: Representatives of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the district said they were getting inquiries for orders from people who used to buy from China and expecting them to convert into orders. Industrialists said the players catering to the automobile sector and government orders were also seeing an increase in orders. S Surulivel, president, Railway Suppliers’ Association, said they were getting inquiries for export orders from foreign countries such as Brazil. “They have inquired us whether we could do a component which they were getting done from China.” Similarly, orders from automobile clients have started to pour in, said J James, president, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. “Post lockdown, micro and small units catering to automobile sector were getting only around 35% of their usual orders. Since this month, it has increased by 10%.” He said the government sector orders were also being released. However, there are no orders from pump industry and wet grinder sector, he said. “There are also inquiries from industries that used to buy from China. But we are waiting for them to get converted into orders,” James said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/msmes-waiting-for-export-orders/articleshow/78177801.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Surat||Serial thief held after 10 years of break-ins||Surat: A 40-year-old man wanted for over a decade in connection with about half-a-dozen house break-ins in Surat city was arrested from Ankleshwar GIDC by Bharuch’s local crime branch (LCB) sleuths on Thursday.The accused was identified as Omprakash alias Umesh Ramchandra Sakariya, who hails from Rajasthan and was residing at Nandanvan society at Bhadkodra in Ankleshwar. The LCB sleuths had received tip-off that the accused was spotted in the Ankleshwar GIDC area. The crime branch sleuths laid a trap in the GIDC and nabbed the accused. During interrogation, it was revealed that he was involved in about six different house break-ins in Surat’s Rander area and he was on the run from the last 10 years. YG Gadhvi, police sub-inspector of Bharuch LCB said, “The Surat police had shared the details of the accused 10 years ago and we were on the lookout for the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/serial-thief-held-after-10-years-of-break-ins/articleshow/78174827.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||54-year-old Nashik cop succumbs to Covid-19||Nashik: A 54-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to the wireless department of the Nashik city police succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Thursday. He is the fifth Nashik city policeman to die of the infection so far. ASI Rajendra Bhadane was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection and was quarantined at home. However, on September 13, he began feeling uneasy and was rushed to the hospital. His condition deteriorated. “On Thursday morning, he got a massive heart attack and passed away,” DCP (headquarters) Pournima Choughule said. Bhadane was posted as a driver in the wireless department of Nashik city police and had undergone a bypass surgery in the past. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey, who took charge on September 4, had announced all support to cops in case they contract Covid-19. On the very first day of taking charge, Pandey had said he would have a 100-bed Covid care centre (CCC) for the police personnel and their immediate relatives. The CCC will be inaugurated on Friday by district guardian minister Chagan Bhujbal, a senior police officer said. The officer added at least six ambulances would also be kept on standby to help the cops and their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/54-year-old-nashik-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/78173522.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Agra||500 birth certificates sent by pvt schools to AMC found to be fake||Agra: As many as 500 birth certificates forwarded by private schools to Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) for verification have been found to be fake. The certificates were issued from 2007 to 2014. Mayor Naveen Jain has ordered a probe into the matter.Officials said six convent and two top private schools in the city had sent over 1,000 applications for verification of students' birth certificates received at the time of admission in the current session. Out of these, 500 birth certificates were found to be fake as no record related to these documents was available at the civic body. AMC councilor Mohan Singh Lodhi said, “Outsiders roam around about in the civic body offices. They take money from people to provide fake birth certificates. We had alerted civic body officials in this regard. The matter should be investigated in detail.” Mayor Jain said, "I have asked the civic body officials to prepare an online database of the all the birth certificates issued. Applications for the birth certificates should be received through online mode only.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/500-birth-certificates-sent-by-pvt-schools-to-amc-found-to-be-fake/articleshow/78174852.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Once-a-week water closure in southern parts of Pune||PUNE: Southern areas of the city, including Sinhagad Road, Katraj, Dhankawadi, parts of Katraj-Kondhwa road and Ambegaon will not receive water once a week for the next few months as per a civic body announcement. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has announced a detailed time table for the once-a-week water closure which came into effect on September 14. The listed areas receive water from the Wadgaon water purification plant and pumping station, which, according to the PMC, has insufficient capacity to cater to all the localities, thus prompting the once-a-week closure. Dattatray Dhankawade, former mayor and sitting corporator from Dhankawadi and adjacent areas, wrote a letter to the municipal commissioner demanding restoration of daily water supply and threatened to launch an agitation if the closure is not revoked. “Once-a-week closure results in water supply at low pressure for the next three days. People are facing immense hardships. The problem’s source can attributed to a weak water distribution system in the area,” Dhankawade said. The completion of capacity augmentation of water tanks and the purification plant is expected in the next few months which should streamline supply in some areas, an official from the water supply department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/once-a-week-water-closure-in-southern-parts-of-pune/articleshow/78176110.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP records power peak of 23,867 MW||Lucknow: UP power minister Srikant Sharma on Thursday said that the state achieved a record peak demand of 23,867 MW on Wednesday. This, he said, was almost 7000 MW more than what the state was able to meet before 2017 when the BJP came to power. Before Wednesday, the peak demand had touched a figure of 23,661 MW on September 12 and 23419 MW on July 17. Sharma said that the state government was working to increase the transmission and distribution capacity of the power infrastructure in accordance with Prime MinisterNarendra Modi’s resolve to put in place a self-reliant system. He said that the state government also purchased power at a lesser cost compared to what was done in the previous state governments. He said that the UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) was purchasing power at a cost of Rs 2.98 to Rs 4.19 per unit. The farmers, he said, were being provided power at a cost of Rs 1.24 per unit. In a bid to lessen the load on various power distribution feeders, the state government was in the process of separating 2045 agricultural feeders from the main feeders. The minister claimed that villages were receiving 10 hours of power supply. The present dispensation, he said, was providing 54% more power to the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-records-power-peak-of-23867-mw/articleshow/78177823.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||‘Gulel gang’ busted with arrest of four in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Thursday busted ‘gulel gang’, with the arrest of four men , who used to target luxury cars parked in south Delhi and steal high-end electronic items like laptops, iPads or cell phones kept in the cars. One of the accused, who used to sell the stolen articles at lower prices, was arrested from Haryana. The gang members used a catapult (gulel) to break the windshield of parked cars and then fled with the valuables. The kingpin of the gang, who has at least 10 criminal cases registered against him, was identified as 23-year-old Mohammed Zakir. His two associates are Ankit Singh (23) and Ajay (19). All three of them are residents of Sangam Vihar in south Delhi. The fourth accused, 24-year-old Mukesh Punia, is from Hisar, Haryana. Police have seized eight laptops, 12 laptop bags, 10 mobile phones and three tablets from them. Deputy commissioner of police (south Delhi) Atul Thakur said on September 2, a complaint was received that some miscreants shattered the glass of a swift Dezire car parked on the roadside in front of Gargi College at Siri Fort Road, and stole a bag containing an Apple laptop and an iPad. Watch ‘Gulel gang’ busted, cops arrest four in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gulel-gang-busted-with-arrest-of-four/articleshow/78176106.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Surat||Umarpada pounded by 275 mm rain in three hours||Surat: Umarpada taluka of Surat district was pounded with 275mm of rain in three hours on Thursday afternoon. According to Surat district flood control room, besides Umarpada, Mangrol received 138 mm rainfall.According to sources, due to heavy rains in Umarpada, vehicular traffic was affected due to flash flood on Zankhvav to Paglekedi road in the district. Heavy inflow was reported in Vira river of Umarpada.Umarpada taluka has received 3,567 mm rainfall this monsoon season which is highest in Surat district. Mangrol was second with 2,204 mm of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/umarpada-pounded-by-275-mm-rain-in-three-hours/articleshow/78174859.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Principal’s ‘friend’ tries to strangle her in Ghaziabad school, slits own wrist||GHAZIABAD: A 33-year-old woman, the mother of a Class 3 student, intruded into the St Teresa School campus in Vijay Nagar and allegedly tried to strangle the school’s principal. The woman, who also brandished a cigarette lighter that looked like a gun, was later arrested. The incident took place around 6pm on Wednesday. The woman, identified as Meenakshi, claimed that she is the wife of a DSP currently posted in Lucknow and lives with her daughter in Ghaziabad. While visiting the school, she said that she had become friends with the principal, Sister Savidha, 36, and they would talk over the phone. However, the principal eventually cut herself off from Meenakshi, which annoyed her, she said. On Wednesday evening, Meenakshi overpowered the guard at the main gate to enter the school, threatened the staff with the lighter and attacked Savidha. Later, she slit her wrist with a blade and wrote the principal’s name on her wrist. The drama continued for nearly three hours before the police were called and the woman was arrested. Devendra Bisht, SHO, Vijay Nagar police station, said the woman was annoyed after the principal started ignoring her. “On the basis of a complaint, we have registered an FIR against Meenakshi under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code,” the SHO said. A spokesperson of the school told TOI that when Meenakshi tried to slit the principal’s throat, other staff members saved her. Then Sister Savidha locked herself in a room and when she didn’t come outside after several calls from Meenakshi, the latter wrote the principal’s name on her hand with a blade. “Meenakshi used to call Sister Savidha late in the night and when the latter refused to talk, Meenakshi started threatening in different ways. A few days ago, the accused had also sent a photo of a gun on the principal’s WhatsApp number,” the spokesperson said, adding that all the teachers and staff members share a cordial relationship with parents. “Sister Savidha is very helpful and she even visited Meenakshi’s house to attend a prayer service,” she said. The SHO said preliminary probe revealed that the principal treated her as a sister but Meenakshi got depressed when she was being ignored. “Even at the police station, Meenakshi tore the uniform of a constable and created a ruckus. We have seized the gun, which is a cigarette lighter, and we have also found that her husband is not attached with UP Police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/principals-friend-tries-to-strangle-her-in-school-then-slits-own-wrist/articleshow/78177401.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
September 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Oommen Chandy completes 50 years in electoral politics||KOTTAYAM: Former chief minister, who completed 50 years of electoral politics, was given a rousing reception by his party collegues and other leaders and various celebrities on Thursday. Congress president Sonia Gandhi termed the completion of 50 years of electoral politics as an “extraordinary achievement”. In the greetings message send by Gandhi she said that Chandy is the most cherished member of the Congress party. K C Joseph MLA read out the letter at a function held at town hall here. Rahul Gandhi, who joined the meeting by video link, said that Chandy was the true leader of the people of Kerala. “Chandy feels the pain of the people of Kerala. His doors are always open and listens to all,” he said. The message by former PM Manmohan Sing was also read out at the function. Former CM A K Antony who spoke by video link said that the period when Chandy was the chief minister was the golden era of Kerala. “The period saw lot of developmental activities,” said Antony. CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan showered praise on Chandy. Even during a fierce argument and rivalry in the assembly, Chandy used only decent language, he said. He also said that the previous UDF government with a thin majority could complete five years in power just because Chandy was at its helm. In his reply speech, Chandy thanked all for the good words about him. In a lighter mood, he said that it was extraordinary when he had the chance to listen only to good things about him. “The credit of being in the electoral politics for fifty years goes to the party which allowed me to contest and the people who voted for me,” he said. I never want a celebration without my voters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chandy-completes-50-years-in-electoral-politics/articleshow/78176137.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kanpur||One killed, 50 injured after bus turns turtle on expressway||Kanpur: A person died while nearly 50 others were injured when a double-decker bus overturned after hitting the road divider on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway in Behtamujawar police area of Unnao district on Thursday morning. There were around 60 passengers in the double-decker bus travelling from Anand Vihar terminus, Delhi to Gorakhpur. Near milestone 246 in Gadha village under Behtamujawar police station of Unnao, the driver lost control over the bus and it crashed into a road divider around 7 am, said police. The accident led to a traffic snarl on the expressway for nearly an hour. Bangarmau circle officer Gaurav Tripathi said, “It seems the bus driver dozed off and lost control over the vehicle. However, we will question the bus staff to ascertain what led to the accident.” Later, the overturned bus was removed through a crane, he said. He further said, “The deceased has been identified as Jogi (40), native to Kakrahiya Bakhera village in Gorakhpur. His body was sent for autopsy. .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/one-killed-50-injured-after-bus-turns-turtle-on-expressway/articleshow/78176833.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||AAP MP writes to M Venkaiah Naidu, seeks ‘protection’ against cases in UP||NEW DELHI: AAP MP Sanjay Singh on Friday sought “protection” from Rajya Sabha chairman in over a dozen cases filed against him by the UP police, including one under Section 124A of IPC, which deals with ‘sedition’. Alleging that the cases were an attempt to silence him after he raised matters relating to alleged corruption by UP authorities in procurement of corona equipment, fake encounters and rising joblessness in the state, Singh requested House chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to intervene and protect him besides ordering an inquiry at his level on the issue. Singh has been asked by UP police to reach Hazratganj police station in Lucknow, where a case has been registered against him, on September 20 for presenting ‘facts and evidence’. Though Singh also sought to raise the matter in Rajya Sabha soon after it reconvened following a half-hour adjournment as a tribute to departed member Ashok Gasti and ex-MP Kapila Vatsyayan, it was not permitted as ‘due procedure’ was not followed. Singh said that 37 MPs from 12 parties, including Shiromani Akali Dal, Congress and NCP, supported him when he raised the matter relating to the cases filed against him in UP. “I was assured by the Rajya Sabha Chairman that the matter will be looked into,” he said later. In a letter sent to RS chairman on Friday, the AAP MP alleged that he was being targeted by the UP authorities after he raised the matter of corruption, unemployment and alleged fake encounters during various media interactions organised across the state. “The UP government, to silence me, has registered cases against in 13 different police stations. Not only this, on September 17, all limits were crossed and a sedition case was registered against me,” he alleged. “I seek your protection and urge that the matter be thoroughly probed at your end. I may be sent to jail if I am found guilty,” Singh wrote to the RS chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mp-writes-to-naidu-seeks-protection-against-cases-in-up/articleshow/78195510.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Agra||118 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 118 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 4,495. Moreover, a 41-year-old woman died during treatment at SN Medical College. The Rajpur Chungi resident was suffering from Type 2 diabetes and Sjogren’s syndrome. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 117 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 80 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 4,495 cases reported in the district, 3,528 (78.5%) have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 850 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/118-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78174882.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||AAP’s fresh attack on BJP over farm Bills||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party functionaries have launched a fresh attack on BJP over farm ordinances. Akali Dal and Congress took a U-turn on the minimum support price ordinance Bills following protests from AAP and farmers, claimed AAP MP Bhagwant Mann. Accusing SAD and Congress of being anti-poor, AAP MLA Jarnail Singh, meanwhile, said that AAP will continue its protest inside and outside the parliament. “In the last few days, we have seen how SAD and its leaders have changed their stand. This happened after the farmers of the country announced that if any party supported the MSP ordinance Bill, then they would be considered as anti-farmers,” said Singh while addressing a press conference. SAD national spokesperson Manjinder Singh Sirsa said SAD has been saying since the beginning that farmers should be taken into confidence before going ahead with the Bills. Farmers hold greater importance to us than any political alliance, he added. “Mann was absent when the voting on the Bill was taking place. Unlike AAP, we will never compromise our principles,” claimed Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aaps-fresh-attack-on-bjp-over-farm-bills/articleshow/78176127.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Nandi idol found vandalised in AP||Vijayawada: Unidentified miscreants damaged a Nandi idol at an ancient Shiva temple in Makkapeta village, under Vatsavai mandal in Krishna district, on Wednesday night. Police said the miscreants entered the temple and broke the ears of the stone idol. The temple is dedicated to Kasi Visweswara Swamy. The incident came to light on Thursday morning when the temple priest opened the doors to perform daily rituals to the presiding deity. Vatsavai police station sub-inspector SLR Someswara Rao said the ancient temple did not have any security infrastructure like CCTV cameras or security personnel guarding the premises. The priest said he found the temple doors partially open when he reached there in the morning. “I immediately alerted temple authorities. No valuables were stolen. The miscreants damaged the ancient idol of Nandi,” he said. The temple dates back to 12th century when the idol of Veerabhadra Swamy was installed during the Kakatiya period. Vatsavai police have registered a case under sections 427, 457 and 154 (a) of the CrPC and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nandi-idol-found-vandalised-in-ap/articleshow/78176114.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt hosps’ bills to be audited over ‘exorbitant’ charges: NMC to HC||Nagpur: In a move that would provide patients relief from “exorbitant bills” charged by private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has assured the judiciary that “audit of such bills is under consideration”. During hearing of a suo motu PIL based on TOI report on beds shortage, for which Shreerang Bhandarkar, assisted by Nidhi Dayani, has been appointed as amicus curiae, NMC commissioner Radhakrishnan B informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that railways has agreed to utilize its hospital and staff for Covid-19 patients. Radhakrishnan informed that railway authorities are cooperating and its hospital facility can be immediately made available for Covid patients. Indian Medical Association (IMA) president Dr Archana Kothari assured the HC that a list of 100 doctors willing to work at various Covid hospitals would be handed over to NMC in two days. Through counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni, the IMA added that about 20 medicos are available for immediate placement in various dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs), and their names are provided to NMC. “As and when such a list is received, the commissioner shall be at liberty to assign duties. Many doctors, aged over 65 years, have voluntarily offered their services through video conferencing. We appreciate IMA’s gesture of voluntarily coming forward to involve them in this pious work,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said. Earlier, the Food and Drugs Department (FDA) joint commissioner Mahesh Gadekar informed that there’s no shortage of medicines. Anyone facing difficulty can call the authority on mobile no. 7709788828. On HC’s query related to oxygen shortage, the NMC chief informed that a control room is established at state and district levels through September 7 notification. “We expect that the problem of oxygen supply to private hospitals and semi-government hospitals can be worked out. NMC assures that adequate numbers of ambulances are available and whenever the calls shall be received at the call centre, those would be sent immediately,” the bench said before adjourning the hearing till September 23. Earlier, additional government pleader Deepak Thakare stated that private hospitals and nursing colleges have started the process of allotting paramedical staff at various DCHs, after receiving HC’s directives. NMC counsel Sudhir Puranik informed that appointment orders have been issued to 56 Ayush doctors and 17 have already joined while others are being persuaded. “We expect all doctors to rise to the occasion and cooperate in this pandemic situation. The postgraduate and super speciality students are already working in GMCH and IGGMCH. As soon as they’re free from examination, they will be assigned duties,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hosps-bills-to-be-audited-over-exorbitant-charges-nmc-to-hc/articleshow/78194190.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Flights from Trichy to Dubai, Sharjah under Air Bubble pact||TRICHY: Air India Express and IndiGo Air will operate four flights to Dubai, Sharjah, and Bahrain from Trichy according to the Air Bubble agreement. This will restart commercial passenger services which have been suspended from Trichy since Covid-19 restrictions were in place. Air India Express will operate a flight between Trichy and Bahrain, while IndiGo Air will operated services to Dubai and Sharjah. On September 29, Air India Express will operate a flight to Bahrain and IndiGo Air a flight to Dubai. IndiGo Air will operate a service to Sharjah on September 27. An IndiGo Air flight form Dubai landed in Trichy on Thurday, airport sources said. In Tamil Nadu, Trichy is the only airport after Chennai operating international flights under the Air Bubble agreement. International flight operations have been suspended from Trichy airport for the last five months. An Air Bubble agreement is a bilateral arrangement between two countries under which airlines from both countries can operate international flights with a set of regulations and restrictions. Unlike Vande Bharat flights, passengers need not register their travel plan through Indian embassy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/flights-from-trichy-to-dubai-sharjah-under-air-bubble-pact/articleshow/78177832.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Varanasi||Potter wheels, incense machines distributed by KVIC||Varanasi: Celebrating PM Narendra Modi’s birthday as ‘Seva Diwas’ on Thursday, the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) distributed electric potter wheels and blunger, agarbatti making machines, bicycle mounted tea kiosks at different functions. A footwear training-cum-production centre in Varanasi and a SFURTI Cluster of 500 artisans for making hand-knitted carpets in Prayagraj were also inaugurated on the occasion. KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena took part in the events held at its Teliabagh and Sevapuri premises remotely from Delhi. He said, “First footwear training-cum-production center in this region has been established in Varanasi in collaboration with Central Footwear Training Institute (CFTI), Agra.” Six innovative bicycle-mounted tea/coffee selling units under project ‘DigniTEA, electric potter wheels among 300 families under ‘Kumhar Sashaktikaran Yojana,’ 200 bee boxes among 20 farmers under honey mission and six manually operated agarbatti making machines under the Khadi Agarbatti Aatmanirbhar Mission were also distributed. For easy availability of raw material for incense sticks, plantation of 100 saplings of Bambusa Tulda (bamboo species used in incense sticks) was also done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/potter-wheels-incense-machines-distributed-by-kvic/articleshow/78176213.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Army chief on 2-day visit to Kashmir amid spike in ceasefire violations by Pak||NEW DELHI: Army chief General M M Naravane is on a two-day visit to Kashmir to assess the security situation along the Line of Control (LoC), amidst the spike in ceasefire violations (CFVs) by Pakistan. Gen Naravane’s visit to the forward areas along the 778-km long LoC comes after TOI reported three days ago that the CFVs by Pakistan in just the first nine months of this year had broken all annual records since 2003. India has recorded 3,186 CFVs along the LoC from January 1 to September 7 this year, with another 242 incidents of `cross-border firing’ taking place along the 198-km international border in J&K. “During his interaction with the soldiers deployed in the high-altitude areas, Gen Naravane appreciated their high morale and complimented them on their response to Pakistan CFVs,” said an officer. “He also commended the use of technology to ensure effective day and night surveillance across the LoC, which has resulted in many successful operations to foil cross-border infiltration bids in the recent past,” he added. Gen Naravane reinforced the need to extend all possible support to civilians residing in the border areas, who are victims of targeted CFVs by the Pakistan Army and are facing hardships due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-chief-on-2-day-visit-to-kashmir-amid-spike-in-ceasefire-violations-by-pak/articleshow/78178326.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Varanasi||Land of Mukhtar aide Rajan seized in Mau||Varanasi: Around 766 sq-meter land worth Rs 35.23 lakh belonging to jailed mafia don-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s close aide Rajesh Singh alias Rajan was confiscated by the police under Gangster Act in Khargajepur village in Mau district on Thursday. SP Mau Ghule Sushil Chandrabhan said Rajan is among the close associates of Mukhtar against whom eight criminal cases are lodged in different districts while he has also been booked under Gangster Act. His property created with illegally earned money has been confiscated by the police. Before Rajan, police had seized movable and immovable properties of over Rs 6.5 crores of his senior business partner and coal mafia Umesh Singh on August 11. Police said that Umesh and Rajan, owners of Tridev Group, were co-acccused with Mukhtar in Manna Singh murder case that took place in 2009, said police adding that in 2010 the main witness of this murder case Ram Singh Maurya and police constable Satish, who was deployed for Maurya’s security, were shot dead. Arya said that Rajan was made accused with Mukhtar in this case. For funding and providing shelter to Mukhtar gang and its members, Umesh and Rajan were enjoying support of the don to maintain monopoly in the coal depot of Indara Kopaganj, said Chandrabhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/land-of-mukhtar-aiderajan-seized-in-mau/articleshow/78176252.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Seven shops flout Unlock norms, face action||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken action against seven commercial establishments for flouting the Unlock norms on Thursday. It was the first day of a special drive against defaulters of Unlock regulations. Two shops have been sealed, while others have been served notices. The civic administration has allowed shops to remain open in PMC areas between 9am and 7pm. Shops that stayed open beyond the time limit faced action. The drive continued till late in the night. The PMC has formed special squads under each ward office. Three members make up every squad, including anti-encroachment inspectors. “The squads caught the establishment owners while flouting the norms. The process to cancel the trade license will be initiated against the defaulters,” said Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC’s anti-encroachment department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-shops-flout-unlock-norms-face-action/articleshow/78176125.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||3,988 tested, 123 found positive||Vadodara: Despite highest one-day testing, there was no significant rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases detected in the city and district. Out of 3,988 tests conducted in the 24 hours since Wednesday evening, 123 new cases were detected. With the 123 new cases, the total numbers in the city and district went up to 10,161. In the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) areas, 29 new cases were detected in the south zone, 22 in the north zone, 17 in the west zone and 14 in the east zone. In areas outside VMC limits, 41 new cases were detected. VMC also confirmed the death of three more persons due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. Including these, the total number of deaths due to the infection rose to 169 in the city and district. As many as 119 persons were discharged from home isolation or hospitals, taking total number of recoveries to 8,622. This leaves 1,370 persons hospitalised including 54 in a serious condition on BIPAP machines or ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/3988-tested-123-found-positive/articleshow/78174288.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Govt to arrange staff in 3 BEd colleges facing decognition||Trichy: The higher education department has promised steps to arrange staff in three colleges of education in the state that are on the verge of losing recognition from National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) due to insufficient teachers. Apart from the government college of education in Pudukottai district, Lady Wellington Institute of Advanced Study in Education in Chennai and government college of education at Komarapalayam in Namakkal have been given 90 days by NCTE to set things right or face derecognition.The college of education in Pudukottai, which was started in 1955, has been functioning with over 200 students. Among the seven government colleges of education in the state, it presently has six regular and three ad hoc teachers against the sanctioned strength of 16 according to NCTE norms.Higher education secretary S Apoorva told TOI that she had recently communicated to the southern regional committee of NCTE that recruitment could not be done because of the Covid-19 pandemic and they too had greed. “However, we will make the necessary arrangement and sort out the issue at the earliest,” she said. She said recruitment notification has already been issued by Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB). Besides, they also have plans to shift teachers from other colleges to manage things for the time being. The directorate of collegiate education had started looking for eligible teachers with MEd degrees in government arts colleges across the state who can be shifted to these three colleges. A circular was also sent to all regional joint directors of collegiate education in this regard on August 28 asking them to send a list of eligible teachers in arts and science colleges. Usually, the admission process starts in July in these colleges but this year it got delayed because of Covid-19. The admission process will only start with the final semester results of undergraduate students in arts and science colleges. Admission notification has not been issued as end semester for these colleges will begin only this month-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-to-arrange-staff-in-3-bed-colleges-facing-decognition/articleshow/78177852.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||CM gives Rs 60cr to 4,500 beneficiaries||Lucknow: On the occasion of Vishwakarma Jayanti, CM Yogi Adityanath distributed tool kits and loans to beneficiaries under the Vishwakarma Samman Yojana and the PM Mudra Yojana on Thursday. Loans of Rs 60 crore were distributed to 4,500 beneficiaries in the state. The CM also interacted with some beneficiaries through video conference. An MoU was also signed between the state government and SIDBI for development of MSME sector. In the current financial year, the state government had included bhadbhooja, dhobi and shilpkar under artisans. The scheme was started by the government in 2018 under which it provides kits, loans and training to artisans and craftspersons. Yogi said those given tool kits earlier are now being linked with the PM Mudra Yojana so that they can establish their work and also provide employment to others. Under Vishwakarma Samman Yojana, 19,938 artisans were given training in various crafts and trades in 2019-20. This year, applications have been received from 1,12,889 people out of which 20,000 have already undergone training. The remaining, including migrant workers who returned during lockdown, will be given training in coming months. Yogi said under CM Yuva Swarozgar Yojna, beneficiaries will be given margin money and state level bankers committee should work towards giving loans to them. “Under MSME, 20 lakh units will get loans and a scheme be prepared to provide benefits under the centre’s economic package to 10 lakh street vendors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-gives-rs-60cr-to-4500-beneficiaries/articleshow/78177846.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Jobless engineer caught selling charas||SURAT: A 23-year-old unemployed civil engineer and his 25-year-old friend were caught by police for allegedly selling charas (hash) from a shop. The accused recently took the shop on rent to carry out the illegal activity. The police nabbed Jigar Dholakia and his friend Parth Tejani, both residents of Katargam for allegedly selling charas. The police booked the accused under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The investigation has been handed over to Lalgate police station since the raiding team cannot investigate the NDPS cases as per the latest guidelines. Following specific information, the police raided the shop in Vimalnath Arcade in Katargam on Thursday morning. During the checking, the police found 2.379 kilogram charas worth Rs 2.37 lakh. “The accused had contacted some of their known persons to sell charas. We suspect that they had brought a total of 2.500 kg charas of which some quantity has already been sold. We are investigating to find out as to whom they had sold the contraband,” said an official from Katargam police station. The accused had gone to Himachal by bus to buy charas. Dholakia told the police that he had completed civil engineering a year ago and he had been unemployed since then. Parth had studied upto class XII and he had also been jobless since the lockdown. Both had planned to sell charas to make fast bucks. “Both had no work, and to make easy money they planned to sell charas. They came to know from friends that it was easy to find charas in Himachal, and hence they went there,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jobless-engineer-caught-selling-charas/articleshow/78174909.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||AP illegal miners pay Rs 653cr fine in 3 years||Hyderabad: Andhra Pradesh government has collected Rs 653 crore towards fine from violators for illegal mining in the last three years. After Madhya Pradesh, AP tops the country in launching the crackdown against illegal mining. Stating this, Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi said in Lok Sabha on Friday that Rs 4,028-crore fine was realised by all states from illegal miners. The Indian Bureau of Mines maintains the data on illegal mining. The alleged illegal mining takes place in iron ore, granite, quartz and barytes mines. “There is no proposal with the government to change the definition of illegal mining under the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act. However, there is a proposal to bring legislative amendments in the MMDR Act,” the minister said. Clarity on application of the provisions is lacking as currently there is no differentiation between illegal mining done outside a leasehold area and mining in violation of various clearances and approvals inside a mining lease area, he explained. The CBI had issued an FIR against illegal mining in Palnadu region. CBI booked the case against 17 accused, who were already named in FIRs issued by Guntur district police. The alleged illegal mining of limestone took place in Konanki village of Piduguralla and Kesanupalli and Nadikudi in Dachepalli mandals in Guntur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-illegal-miners-pay-rs-653cr-fine-in-3-years/articleshow/78176163.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 18, 2020||Pune||Criminal held on charge of extorting money from fuel pump cashier||Pune: A 28-year-old criminal on police records was arrested on Wednesday after the cashier of a petrol pump in Nana Peth lodged an FIR accusing the criminal of extorting Rs4,000 from him and demanding another Rs12,000 on Tuesday night. The arrested suspect, Ainul Anwar Khan from Ambedkarnagar in Market Yard, has been sent to custodial remand till September 21 by a court. “Khan visited a public sector oil company’s fuel outlet at Nana Chawdi Chowk and demanded Rs12,000 from its employee, Akash Ambey (28) of Somwar Peth. Khan threatened Ambey with dire consequences, snatched Rs4,000 from his hand and took to heels,” said assistant inspector Ravindra Alekar from the Samarth police on Thursday. “We established Khan’s involvement in the matter after going through the fuel pump’s CCTV footage. We picked him up from his residence following a tip-off. Our investigation revealed that Khan had twice extorted small amounts from the fuel pump employees earlier, but no complaint was lodged. We have recovered Rs15,000 from him,” Alekar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-on-charge-of-extorting-money-from-fuel-pump-cashier/articleshow/78176132.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||No EDM fests till vaccine found: Manohar Ajgaonkar||PANAJI: The state government has kept a proposal to organise an electronic dance music (EDM) festival in the last week of December on hold. “To us, the safety of people is more important,” tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar told TOI on Thursday. “I’m not in favour of allowing EDM festivals at least till a vaccine for Covid is introduced.” For over a decade now, Goa holds large EDM festivals in the last week of December, which is peak tourist season. On average, a three-day festival with international DJs sees crowds of 15,000-20,000. The tourism minister said that the organisers intimated the government that they would like to have the event at a smaller scale, with a crowd of up to 5,000 persons. But Ajgaonkar said that while Goa does need to have big music events as they bring in the numbers, this isn't the right time to have such events. “Even for a smaller crowd, we need to make proper arrangements and ensure that social distancing norms are followed,” he said. “For that to happen, the crowd too needs to be disciplined.” He added that if there are no adequate arrangements in place, “everything will go for a toss”. In case of big events linked to tourism, a state-level permission committee of the tourism department assesses the proposals and gives its recommendations. After that, the government decides on it. Thus, Ajgaonkar said that if at all the permission is eventually granted to the EDM festival, it will be done at the chief minister's level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ajgaonkar-no-edm-fests-till-vaccine-found/articleshow/78177894.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 18, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur MLC injured on NH28||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur MLC Devendra Pratap Singh was injured after a motorcycle hit him on NH 28 in Faizabad district on Thursday. He was rushed to a local hospital where doctors referred him to Lucknow. “Singh was travelling in a car from Lucknow to Gorakhpur. At around 3pm, he halted to have tea near Bhelsar police station in Faizabad. He was crossing the road to reach the tea stall when a motorcycle hit him from behind,” said Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar. “He was immediately rushed to a local hospital from where he was taken to Lukcnow. I have spoken to the Lucknow commissioner and trauma centre deputy SP regarding the BJP MLC’s treatment,” added the DIG. “According to passersby, the person riding the motorcycle was Maniram of Raunahi police station limit of Faizabad district,” said Kumar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-mlc-injured-on-nh28/articleshow/78176277.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown norms violation keeps cases up in Tiruvarur||Tiruvarur: The Tiruvarur district administration has ramped up the number of tests to 2,000 from 1,000 daily after fresh Covid -19 cases began rising and hovering around an average 140 in the last 12 days. This is mainly because people have not been following social distancing while moving around, health officials say. The imposition of penalties has failed to make people adhere to the norms.There are 746 patients undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital and various quarantine centres. The total death toll stood at 65, cases at 5,784 and number of discharged at 4,867. The spurt in fresh cases had happened after Unlock 4.0 relaxations were announced, officials said. “When inter-district and intra-district movement was under restriction till August end, the positive cases were somewhat under control”, an official said. Nobody cared about social distancing, wearing masks and handwashing, officials said. Tiruvarur and Koradacherry are witnessing more cases compared to other areas. “The enhanced testing to 2,000 in the last one week is also a reason for the hike in the positive results”, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-norms-violation-keeps-cases-up-in-tiruvarur/articleshow/78177877.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 18, 2020||Pune||Flights to bring 350 from Dubai to Pune||PUNE: More than 350 passengers would fly to Pune next month on four special international flights of Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission. “Three Air India flights brought back 154 passengers from Dubai this month. Another flight is expected to reach Pune on September 24. Next month, four more flights from Dubai would land in Pune, ferrying more than 350 passengers,” an official said. The flights would arrive in Pune on October 1, 8, 15 and 22. In August, Pune airport operated six international flights with 83 flyers. There were three international flights in July with 414 passengers. In June, there were nine international flights with 315 flyers, and four international flights with 286 flyers in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-special-flights-to-bring-350-passengers-from-dubai-in-october/articleshow/78176166.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 15k crore loan target for MSMEs||Lucknow: The state government is aiming to provide the emergency credit line guarantee scheme under the Atmanirbhar Package to maximum MSMEs and has set a target of Rs 15,000 crore being given as loan to units, said additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal on Thursday. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Reserve Bank of India on post-Covid situation, ensuring easy availability of loans to MSMEs, Sehgal said 80% units have started working at 80-100% capacity since the lockdown was lifted and efforts are on to get the remaining units started at the earliest. “Banks should provide all assistance for this. Compared to other states, the growth of MSMEs in Uttar Pradesh is quite good. Under the One District One Product scheme, clusters had been identified in all districts. Banks under the state level bankers committee should identify two ODOP products and provide loans to artisans and industries under them,” he said. MSME units had been unable to take advantage of credit facilities under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package for various reasons, Sehgal said. He said a list of units facing difficulties in getting credit should be prepared so that they can be given assistance. He also asked for loans to be issued faster and the process to be eased. An ODOP cell would be established for this purpose, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-15k-crore-loan-target-for-msmes/articleshow/78177873.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘Bullet Raja’ held in Bhosari, 14 stolen bikes recovered||PUNE: Hemant Bhadane’s penchant for stealing Bullet motorcycles, the prime two-wheeler from the Royal Enfield stable, has earned him the nickname “Bullet Raja”. He has been arrested several times since his motorcycle-theft spree began in 2015 and, each time, the police have recovered at least five Bullets that he had stolen. Bhadane, a jobless man from Satpur in Nashik district, sold the motorcycles cheap to unsuspecting buyers. Like most criminals on police records, he has been in and out of jail several times with 37 motorcycle theft cases against his name in Nashik alone as well as similar thefts in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Thane, among other places. On Thursday, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash told a news conference that Bhadane was arrested from Bhosari on September 11. The police have since recovered 14 high-end stolen bikes totally worth Rs17.7 lakh which Bhadane had sold to people in Ahmednagar, Beed and Dhule for as little as Rs10,000 to Rs15,000 each. Bhadane would contact buyers through the messenger services of social media platforms. He would quote around Rs40,000 for a motorcycle but would collect only around Rs 10,000-15,000 and tell the buyer that he would take the remaining amount while handing over the registration papers. Thereafter, he would stop contacting the buyer and would delete all social media exchanges so that the buyer could not contact him, police said. Police said ten of the 14 motorcycles recovered were of the Bullet make and the rest were power bikes like KTM Duke and Pulsar 280cc. Ten motorcycles were stolen from Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune and four from Nashik. In fact, after his last release from Nashik jail in March, Bhadane had pulled off vehicle thefts in Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune during the peak lockdown period between March 24 and June 8 when the police presence was at its highest on roads and inter-district movement too was under check. Inspector Uttam Tangade, who arrested Bhadane, told TOI, “Bhadane’s mother and older brother live in Nashik. He spent the money he got from selling motorcycles on smoking marijuana. Constable Ganesh Sawant received a tip-off on September 11. Our team laid a trap and nabbed him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bullet-raja-held-in-bhosari-14-stolen-bikes-recovered/articleshow/78177417.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Reservation wards: All set for selection||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State election commission has fixed dates for drawing of lots for reservation wards that need to be chosen ahead of local body elections. The notification regarding the appointment of officials, time, place and date for drawing of lots has been issued, said state election commissioner V Bhaskaran. Lots will be drawn for selecting reservation wards in 941 grama panchayats from September 28 to October 1. The drawing of lots for 152 block panchayats and 14 district panchayats has been scheduled on October 5. District electoral officers will draw the lots for grama/block and district panchayats. The drawing of lots for 86 municipalities will be held from September 28 to October 1. Urban affairs regional joint directors of respective zones will be in charge of drawing of lots. The urban affairs director will draw the lots for selection of reservation wards in six municipal corporations on September 28, 30 and October 6. Meanwhile the meeting of political parties will be convened by SEC on Friday. The discussion will focus on safe conduct of elections in compliance with Covid protocols even as there is a clamour for postponing elections. The cabinet meeting on Wednesday had approved an ordinance to extend poll timing and to introduce postal ballot for Covid patients. The wards reserved for women in 2015 local body elections will become general wards in 2020 local body polls. Ward reservation for SC/ST community in each local body will decide upon percentage of SC/ST population in respective local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/reservation-wards-all-set-for-selection/articleshow/78176185.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kanpur||50 Metro Priority Corridor U-girders erected in 36 days||Kanpur: UP Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) is executing the civil construction of the Priority Corridor in the industrial city at a remarkable pace. UPMRC has erected a total of 50 U-girders under the nine kilometre-long Priority Corridor that is being constructed between IIT and Motijheel. This milestone has been achieved within a time span of just 36 days. Also, the base for Metro track laying is ready on the stretch of almost one kilometre. The civil construction work of the Priority Corridor had commenced on November 15 last year and the first U-girder was erected on August 11 this year. The elevated section of the Metro’s structure that could be seen above the road is called a viaduct, and under the nine-kilometre-long viaduct of the Priority Corridor, a total of 638 U-girders are to be erected on which the Metro track will be laid. Metro track laying for the corridor will start soon. After completing the processes of casting and load-testing when it is ensured that the U-girders are perfectly suitable on the length, width, and weight-bearing parameters, they are placed at the designated position in the viaduct with the help of a crane. Praising the fast pace of civil construction of the Kanpur Metro Project, UPMRC’s MD Kumar Keshav said, “U-girder erection is a very crucial part of the civil construction of a Metro corridor and in Kanpur, this work is being executed with the maximum efficiency possible. Seeing this, I am quite sure that UPMRC will complete the civil works of the Priority Corridor of the Kanpur Metro Project within the stipulated timeframe. Till now, a total of 134 U-girders have already been cast in the Casting Yard and they are being erected every night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/50-metro-priority-corridor-u-girders-erected-in-36-days/articleshow/78176784.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
September 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Universities can conduct exams in October, declare results in November||PUNE: The state and public universities in Maharashtra will have to complete the final semester examinations by October 31, and universities will have to announce the results of these exams by November first week, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has informed the Maharashtra government on Wednesday. The UGC approved the state government's request to extend the exam date from September to October-end. The UGC, in its letter, to the state government said that it had considered the request of the additional chief secretary, higher and technical education department, Maharashtra government on September 10, for an extension of time sought till October 31 to complete the conduct of terminal semester / final year examinations. The UGC letter added, “The said request states that such an extension is being sought pursuant to a decision of the state disaster management authority that it would not be possible to hold the final year/ terminal semester examinations in colleges and universities till September 2020.” Keeping in view the health and safety of the students and also in larger interest of their academic progression, the UGC decided to accede to the request of the Maharashtra government. “Accordingly, the final year/terminal semester examinations in colleges and universities in Maharashtra will be completed by October 31. Further, you are requested to ensure that the assessment and evaluation work should also be done simultaneously so that the result of these examinations be declared at the earliest and preferably by the first week of November 2020 so that the admissions to the first year of post graduate and PhD programmes can be completed without any further delay and the next session can commence timely,” the UGC stated to Maharashtra government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-varsities-can-conduct-exams-in-oct-declare-results-by-nov-first-week/articleshow/78176175.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||UPSIDA, pvt players to set up industry parks along e-ways||LUCKNOW: The state government’s intent to transform stretches along expressways and highways into industry hubs led ‘Invest UP’ to plan a potential analysis of 8,380-hectare land in 15 districts identified by district magistrates for developing industrial infrastructure. UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) had asked DMs to identify land along expressways and highways, which had the potential to be developed as industrial parks. With 15 districts submitting proposals, UPSIDA has been asked to share details with the development cell of ‘Invest UP’, which will carry out the study. Once the exercise is executed, UPSIDA will identify and develop land on its own. UPSIDA chief executive officer has been asked to develop at least two industrial areas along expressways, while other high potential land will be developed by private developers. “Land with high potential for industrial use will be developed by private developers. For this, UPSIDA and ‘Invest UP’ will be preparing a concept note of facilities and advantages offered to investors and an expression of interest will be issued,” said a senior official of the industries department. ‘Invest UP’ has been asked to examine various models adopted for development of industrial areas and multiple models may be used. With Central government ministries offering funds for development of infrastructure for industrial parks, UPSIDA will approach agencies like National Investment and Infrastructure Fund for aid. The land identified in 15 districts also includes land on both sides of Gorakhpur Link Expressway. An official said, more districts are expected to revert with details of land, which can potentially be developed for industrial purpose. Directions have also been issued to Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority to begin work on proposed industrial areas in their jurisdiction. GIDA has proposed an industrial corridor while YEIDA has identified 3,000-hectare land in Raya in Mathura and Tappal in Aligarh for development of industrial areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upsida-pvt-players-to-set-up-industry-parks-along-e-ways/articleshow/78177892.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Can’t impose 40kmph if MV Act says 80kmph’||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has struck down the state government’s 2018 notification laying down a speed limit of 40km/hour for a category of transport vehicles registered after October 2015. Clearing the confusion, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan held that the state government can’t fix a speed limit for vehicles, which varies from that prescribed under the amended central Motor Vehicles Rules 2015 and the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. It pointed out that for category of light transport vehicles, the MV Rules clarified that these must have a speed governor having maximum pre-set speed of 80 kmph, equipped or fitted by the manufacturer, either in the manufacturing stage or at the dealership stage, yet the state government made a separate order lowering their speed at 40kmph. “The requirement for installation of speed governors for vehicles registered after the said date (October 01, 2015) is dealt with in Rule 118(1), which itself lays down the required specifications, and does not leave it to the state governments to prescribe,” the bench observed, while setting aside the government’s order on speed limit. It was hearing a petition challenging the legality of the notification where provisions were made for transport vehicles of various categories to be equipped with speed governors at various speed limits. The petitioner, a dealer in motor vehicles classified as light goods vehicles, complained that due to the rule he was unable to get vehicles registered after 2015 cutoff date in Delhi, even though they fulfilled the MV Act/Rules specifications of built in speed governors of 80kmph. Defending the notification, Delhi government cited verdicts of the Supreme Court in the celebrated “MC Mehta vs Union of India” case, to argue that the court had laid down that transport vehicles plying in the capital must have a speed governor with a maximum speed of 40 kilometre per hour. “On a careful reading of the said judgment, we are of the view that it does not confer power upon the state government to issue the notification. The judgment proceeds on the basis that the Act and Rules contain sufficient provisions to enable the authorities to act in the interest of curbing the menace of traffic in Delhi,” the bench responded, rejecting the stand of Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-impose-40kmph-if-mv-act-says-80kmph/articleshow/78176189.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Highways officials file complaint against illegal pruning of trees||Trichy: State highways (SH) department officials have lodged complaint at the Musiri police station against illegally pruning timber value tree branches from eight trees along Musiri-Thuraiyur road. K Manoharan, assistant divisional engineer (ADE), Musiri sub-division of the state highways department, lodged the complaint against Ramesh, from Valavanthi of Musiri, for cutting branches of healthy trees without permission. Officials said that Ramesh was one among the five contractors to whom the state highways department had auctioned to clear 12 dried trees. Preliminary inquiry by SH officials revealed that tree branches weighing over 10 tonnes were removed illegally by Ramesh on the pretext of removing dried trees. The branches of healthy trees were cut on the 15km stretch of Musiri-Thuraiyur road falling under Musiri sub-division of the state highways department.Over 40-year-old healthy tamarind trees branches that were providing shade to the road stretch were chopped off last week. Locals had raised the issue with state highways department officials after finding branches of healthy trees chopped off. A neem tree was fully axed down by workers of the private contractor, said locals from nearby Ayithampatti and Soriyampatti villages. Following complaints, ADE Manoharan took stock of illegally chopped branches on Tuesday and held inquiry with the assistant engineer and road inspector who had processed the tender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/highways-officials-file-complaint-against-illegal-pruning-of-trees/articleshow/78177889.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Actor Sonu Sood flooded with requests from Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: After helping thousands of migrants reunite with their families during the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood has been flooded with requests from several people from Uttarakhand seeking help. Scores of people from across the state are tweeting to the actor requesting him to help them avail expensive medical treatment, asking for job opportunities and even money to buy costly engineering books. Nirmala Mehta, a specially-abled badminton player from Haldwani who has won five medals for the country, recently tweeted to Sood requesting him to find her a job. “I work as a contractual worker in a university and hardly have any savings. I am getting married in November and my fiancé also lost his job during the lockdown. I have approached many people for help but nothing worked out. Finally, I decided to ask help from Sonu Sood. I was pleasantly surprised when I got a call from his team enquiring about my requirements,” Mehta said. Apart from players like Nirmala, many people from Uttarakhand have tweeted to the actor asking him for financial assistance for undergoing medical treatment. Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Udham Singh Nagar, said, “I used to work at a restaurant and lost my job during the lockdown. Last month, I met with an accident and I cannot bend my knee. My family doesn’t have enough money for the treatment that’s why I asked for help from Sood.” Some of these tweets have also received replies from Sood’s official Twitter handle seeking details of the patient in fixing appointments with doctors. Many of these people have exclusively created a Twitter account to reach out to the actor for help. These include students who are unable to pay the school fees to attend online classes and buy books for competitive examinations. A huge number of tweets to the actor are from youths who have lost their job during the lockdown and are unable to support their families and repay debts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-helping-thousands-of-migrants-reunite-with-their-families-bwood-actor-sonu-sood-flooded-with-requests-from-ukhand/articleshow/78173641.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Agra||Why UP is invoking NSA in murder cases? Public order, threat of communal tension & ‘panic’, say cops||AGRA: When a girl, 17, was raped and killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, the National Security Act (NSA) was invoked. Then, a Dalit man was killed in Malihabad outside Lucknow. NSA was brought in. A nine-year-old was kidnapped and killed in Agra. It was NSA again. Designed as a law to act against security threats, NSA is being increasingly used in murder cases by the state. While police say it is meant to be a “pre-emptive” move, legal experts and politicians are baffled by the alacrity with which the stringent Act is being invoked for cases that do not have larger security implications. NSA states that the Centre or the state may detain a person for “preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the defence of India, the relations of India with foreign powers, or the security of India,” or a foreigner whose “continued presence in India” may need to be “regulated”. So, how does a murder qualify as grounds for NSA? “The NSA can be imposed on the accused in cases that lead to disruption of public order,” said ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar. Likewise, ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand said NSA can be used on the basis of the “nature of heinous crime, which has a potential to create tension between communities, leading to disruption of public order.” This relies on a broad interpretation of what “public order” is and what impact it has on national security. In the Malihabad murder, five accused — Ghulam Ali, Mushtaqim, Mufeed, Shanu and Guddu — had allegedly attacked Dalit farmer Ram Vilas Rawat when he was irrigating his farm. IG (Lucknow range) Laxmi Singh said a protest had broken out and a road blocked after the murder. In case of the Lakhimpur Kheri rape and murder, she said there had been “panic”. Both, according to her, were sufficient grounds for NSA. The nine-year-old’s abduction and murder, Agra SSP Babloo Kumar told TOI, had “created fear” among people. Legal experts contested the arguments. “What is the need for Section 302 (murder) then? Preventive detention is an exception. It cannot be used as a routine course of action. Applying such stringent laws to crime cases is diluting the law,” Supreme Court lawyer S Prasanna said. Human rights lawyer at Allahabad high court KK Roy said there are very specific circumstances in which NSA should be invoked. “It is imposed in cases where there is a threat of complete breakdown of public order … Disruption of public order is a situation when a community feels insecure, with so much panic because of one incident that people don’t move out of their houses.” Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra said the use of NSA is in response to the rise in crime. “Section 302 is very strong. Police can add charges according to the nature of the crime, but using NSA for every case is a sheer sign of panic.” UP chief secretary Rajendra Tewari, without going into the specifics of each case, admitted that not every case warrants NSA. “But it can be used against those accused of murder, if required,” he added. Both ADG Kumar and IG Singh there are processes in place to ensure validity of use. “NSA is used with many checks and balances. There is an independent advisory board, headed by three judges, who give final approval. There is no bureaucratic meddling. There are no instructions from headquarters. Every case is decided on merit,” Kumar said. The NSA allows three months’ detention at a time, which can be extended up to 12 months with approval from the NSA advisory board set up by the government. A detention order can be executed in the same manner that an arrest warrant is, but the grounds of detention can be provided 10 days later. Using this, UP detained 338 people over 2017 and 2018, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Of them, 188 are still under detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/why-up-is-invoking-nsa-in-murder-cases-public-order-threat-of-communal-tension-panic-says-cops/articleshow/78174979.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Sastra distributes tablet PCs to non-teaching staff||Trichy: The Management of Sastra Deemed to be University, Thanjavur, distributed 250 tablet PCs with six months internet plan to its non-teaching staff members to enable their children to attend online classes. Rs 35 lakh was invested for the initiative. The tablets were handed over to the staff members by Sastra vice-chancellor S Vaidhyasubramaniam. He urged their children to use the facility to attend online classes and wished students success in their academic pursuits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sastra-distributes-tablet-pcs-to-non-teaching-staff/articleshow/78177896.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Man attacks hospital employee near ATM kiosk in Yerawada||Pune: A 36-year-old private hospital employee was attacked by an unidentified man with a stick moments after he withdrew cash from an ATM kiosk near Sahyadri hospital at Shastrinagar in Yerawada on Tuesday evening.Police are yet to establish the motive as he was not robbed of cash or valuables. The injured, Navkaran Ravindra Singh (36) from Shastrinagar, stated in his FIR, registered with the Yerawada police on Wednesday, that he was walking on the road after stepping out of an ATM kiosk when an unidentified man hit him with a stick on his back and left hand and took to heels.Yerawada police senior inspector Yunus Shaikh told TOI, “Singh has not suspected the involvement of any known person behind the attack. He did not resist the attacker even though the incident occurred in a public place.”“We have recorded the victim’s statement. He will be summoned again for questioning for collecting further details relating to the incident and the attacker,” he said.“Prima facie, it appears that the incident may be a fallout of a previous enmity or dispute. We hope to detect the case at the earliest,” said Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-attacks-hospital-employee-near-atm-kiosk-in-yerawada/articleshow/78176181.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Eight greenfield dairies to be set up in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Promoting cow rearing and milk cooperatives in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that the government was setting up eight greenfield dairies in the state. In the coming days, more dairies would be set up in a phased wise manner with one dairy to be set up in each division in the first phase, followed by one dairy for two districts and in the final phase, one dairy in each district. Speaking at a programme when Gujarat’s Banas Dairy, the largest supplier to Amul Milk, distributed bonus to farmers who are supplying milk to it, the CM held milk production as an important tool for strengthening rural economy. “For this, efforts are being made to make more milk committees in all villages. Currently there are 7,293 committees in the state. We are also setting up greenfield dairies in Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Firozabad, Ayodhya and Moradabad. Dairies in Jhansi, Noida, Aligarh and Prayagraj are being upgraded,” the CM said. He also interacted with one farmer each from Bijnore, Varanasi, Fatehpur, Jalaun, Agra and Kanpur Dehat who supply milk to Banas Dairy. Giving the example of the dairy which is using cow dung for producing CNG, the CM said that a similar process could also be followed in UP to help farmers financially. Chairperson of the dairy, Shankar Bhai Chaudhary, who joined the meeting through a video conference, said that in 2013, Banas Dairy had purchased milk worth Rs 14 crore per month from UP farmers. This is now up to Rs 60 crore per month. The dairy has given out Rs 30 crore as bonus, which is 4.41% of its total purchase. “The dairy is running a six month long course for cow rearing. Youth from UP interested in the course would be given free stay and training. A cow dung based CNG plant will be set up in Varanasi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8-greenfield-dairies-to-be-set-up-in-state/articleshow/78177901.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||In Maharashtra IPS reshuffle, Amitabh Gupta to be new Pune police chief||PUNE: The state government late on Thursday night transferred Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham as additional director general of police (special operations) in Mumbai. He has been replaced by Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) in the home department. The transfer is part of a reshuffle of six additional DG rank police officers in the state. Deputy inspector general of police Jalinder Supekar from the state criminal investigation department (CID) and Kolhapur superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Deshmukh have also been transferred to the vacant posts of additional commissioner of police (administration) in Pune city and SP (Pune rural) respectively. Sandeep Bishnoi, who was replaced by Krishna Prakash as Pimpri Chinchwad commissioner of police earlier this month, will take over as ADG (railways). Senior IPS officer Makarand Ranade, who was awaiting his new posting, has been assigned the post of special inspector general of police, CID, which is headquartered in Pune. Late on Thursday night, Venkatesham issued a message which read: “Thank you. Dear Punekars. Thank you for the support given to our innovative policing experiments, thank you for giving this great opportunity to serve the needy, thank you for giving us encouragement when we needed it, thank you for understanding our honest intentions and genuine mistakes, thank you for allowing us to create new benchmarks in policing and crime control, thank you for giving feedback on our frequent reports of outcomes, and thank you for refining my Marathi.” Amitabh Gupta to be new Pune police chiefThe transfers of IPS officers, which are usually done in June/July, were delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the 10-day Ganesh festival which concluded on September 1. Venkatesham, who took over as Pune police chief on August 3, 2018, was due for transfer but the state government preferred not to move him out till the conclusion of the Ganesh festival. As such, his transfer was expected. Similarly, the posts of additional CP (administration) and Pune rural SP were lying vacant for some time now. Pune rural SP Sandeep Patil was transferred on promotion as deputy inspector general of police in Gadchiroli two weeks ago. Vinit Agarwal replaces Gupta at Mantralaya as principal secretary, Vinay Korgaonkar will be ADG (civil defence), Brijesh Singh will be the new IG (administration) in the DG office, Vikram Deshmane will be Thane SP, Sachin Patil has been shifted to Nashik as SP, Pravin Munde will be new SP, Jalgaon, and DCP Ankit Goyal has been shifted to Gadchiroli as SP. For the first time, over a dozen SPs will be in waiting as they’ve been replaced but not given new assignments. (With inputs from Prafulla Marpakwar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amitabh-gupta-to-be-new-pune-police-chief/articleshow/78177455.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||No foul play in Lokka’s death, confirm police||Coimbatore: The crime branch-CID police have ruled out any foul play in the death of Sri Lankan underworld don Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka, who had been staying in the district under the identity of Pradeep Singh. Now, they are waiting for to establish that the deceased was Lokka. Crime branch-CID inspector general of police K Shankar on Thursday said the Lankan fugitive don had died of sudden cardiac arrest and no poisonous substances were found in the viscera samples. He said they were waiting to establish that the deceased was Lokka by cross matching the DNA samples of the don’s parents and the one retrieved from the dead body. Lokka died of cardiac arrest at Balaji Nagar near Cheran Maa Nagar in the district on the night of July 3. Samples of viscera, including liver, stomach, kidneys and small intestine, were taken from the body and sent to the forensic science laboratory in Chennai to retrieve DNA, which was done last week. Shankar said, “The toxicology and two other reports issued by the forensic science experts clearly mentioned that there were no poisonous substances in the viscera samples. He died of sudden cardiac arrest. His death is no longer shrouded in mystery. Now, we must prove whether the deceased was Lokka or not. We are waiting for cross matching of DNA samples of Lokka’s parents with the one retrieved from the viscera.” According to CB-CID police, Lokka escaped to Tamil Nadu from Colombo in 2017 and he was arrested by the city police on June 9, 2017, under various sections of the Foreigners’ Act of India, Indian Passport Act and Indian Penal Code. During the arrest, fingerprints were collected from him. The CB-CID officials had also received Lokka’s fingerprint from the Sri Lankan police through diplomatic channels. However, that was not clear. Lokka had taken an Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh in Madurai. While police had sent three letters to the Unique Identification Authority of India in Bengaluru to get the fingerprints that it had recorded while issuing the card, the requests were turned down. Lokka had reportedly possessed a pistol during his illegal stay in the district. The same was said to be handed over to his close aid Chanuka Thananayaka in Madurai. A police team is trying to trace the whereabouts of Thananayaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-foul-play-in-lokkas-death-confirm-police/articleshow/78177458.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Cops seize drugs worth Rs 40,000||Pune: The anti-narcotics cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police arrested two men at Shahunagar in Chinchwad and seized 13gm of synthetic drugs Mephedrone (MD) worth Rs40,000 on Wednesday night. The police have identified the duo as Shubham Ghatak (23) of Kalewadi and Harshal Patil (28) of Akurdi. Sub-inspector VJ Panchmukh said that the two men were arrested on Wednesday night from Shahunagar in Chinchwad based on a tip-off. “We are probing whether the men possessed the drugs for personal use or if they wanted to sell it to someone,” Panchmukh said. He said both suspects have been remanded to police custody till September 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-seize-drugs-worth-rs-40000/articleshow/78176194.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||JJP apologies to farmers for Pipli lathicharge||CHANDIGARH: Digvijay Chautala of the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP), which is part of Manohar Lal Khattar-led coalition government in Haryana, on Thursday apologised for police lathicharge on farmers protesting against Centre’s three agri-marketing ordinances in Pipli. He also assured the farmers of a probe into the incident. “Kisano pe koi lathi chali hai to vo kisano pe nahin, Devilal ke parivar pe chali hai. Lathi lagne wale kisano se JJP mafi mangati hai (JJP apologises to every farmer who was subjected to police action at Pipli. It was not a lathi charge on protesting farmers but on the family of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal),” Digvijay said in Chandigarh on Thursday. He was accompanied by JJP state president Nishan Singh and other leaders of the party. Significantly, Digvijay’s statement has come just after Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhbir Badal, BJP’s long-standing ally in Punjab, opposed the three agriculture ordinances in the Lok Sabha. Sukhbir had met Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and his father Ajay Singh Chautala in Delhi earlier this week for support on the agri ordinances. Digvijay, who is the younger brother of the Haryana deputy CM and head of JJP’s student body INSO, said that JJP was firmly with farmers and assured that the farmers would continue to get MSP on their crops. He said rumours regarding MSP would be cleared from September 25, when procurement of paddy would begin in Haryana. Digvijay also alleged that some Congress leaders were attempting to tarnish his brother’s image by unnecessarily connecting him with the Pipli incident. Asserting that Dushyant had no role in the Pipli incident, he challenged his detractors to come up with any evidence to prove their allegations. Dushyant initially maintained silence on the issue but had later condemned the police action even as he accused the Congress party of unnecessarily provoking the farmers. Dushyant had also tried to defend the ordinances, saying that the farmers would not be losing MSP or any related benefits. Khattar: Haryana will procure all crops on MSPChandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said his government was committed to procure every grain on minimum support price (MSP) and assured farmers that there will be no change in the functioning of mandis. With the introduction of new farm ordinances, he clarified, the government mandis will not be closed and procurement of crops on MSP will continue. He announced a special ‘Krishi Adalat’ in each district to effectively redress agriculture-related issues and queries of farmers. He said the ordinances introduced by the Centre have only given a facility to farmers that if a private agency wants to purchase from outside government mandis at a price higher than MSP, then the farmers can sell their crops at a higher price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jjp-apologies-to-farmers-for-pipli-lathicharge/articleshow/78177463.cms||Ajay Sura
September 18, 2020||Kanpur||Divine hospital loses Covid facility status||Kanpur: The private hospitals granted permission to admit Covid-19 patients are still being found adopting a careless attitude in compliance of norms for treatment and availability of expert doctors in spite of the district magistrate and chief medical officer taking stock of facilities daily. District magistrate Kanpur Nagar Alok Tiwari detected anomalies at Divine Hospital in Swarupnagar on Thursday and scrapped its covid facility status. The DM also ordered an inquiry against the hospital and sought a report on Covid deaths there. Despite rising Covid cases and casualties, the private hospitals were being found negligent following which the DM and CMO are inspecting facilities daily. DM and CMO inspected Divine hospital on Thursday and found the anesthetist absent. The static magistrate deployed at the hospital said the anesthetist remains absent from ICU the entire day. On being questioned, the hospital management said the doctor works somewhere else and comes to the hospital at night. The CMO said this is not acceptable as no one can work round the clock and scrapped the Covid facility status of the hospital. The DM asked additional city magistrate VIth to conduct an inquiry and submit details about the number of Covid deaths at the hospital, recording statements of family members of Covid patients on the treatment and information provided to them by hospital as well as the amount charged for the treatment. The district magistrate had earlier scrapped the Covid facility status of Zeus hospital last Saturday. The district administration is taking all measures to curb the mortality rate. Several teams are inspecting private hospitals to check facilities and giving suggestions for providing better treatment and issuing warnings in case of major deficiencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/divine-hosp-loses-covid-facility-status/articleshow/78176809.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||MahaMetro installs 45m steel girder at Dhole Patil chowk, 7 more in pipeline||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) recently installed the first composite steel girder at the busy Dhole Patil Chowk. The girder, installed at the beginning of Mangaldas Road, is one of eight that will be installed on the Civil Court-Ramwadi section of the Vanaz-Ramwadi Metro corridor. The other seven girders will vary in length from 45 metres to 90 metres. MahaMetro said the longer girders will be installed at busy chowks and stretches to avoid traffic-related issues. “Segment installation with ground supporting system at these spots because it would require the closure of the road and the chowks for a month. This will not be possible because of some complications — high traffic density, limited road width or frequent movement of ambulances to and from nearby hospitals,” a MahaMetro official said. The other girders will be installed at Jehangir chowk, Bund Garden Chowk, Parnakuti Chowk, Gunjan Talkies Chowk, Kalyaninagar Chowk, Ramwadi bypass and Hyatt Chowk. “We have successfully installed the first girder. Now, we have started preparations to install the other girders. Basic plans are being chalked out based on the location, available space and structure of the viaduct,” another official said. To facilitate the installation of the first girder, MahaMetro had imposed traffic diversions around Dhole Patil Chowk. The diversions have been removed. This section of the Metro corridor passes via the RTO, Pune railway station, Jehangir Chowk, Dhole Patil Chowk, Bund Garden, Yerawada, Kalyaninagar and Ramwadi. The viaduct will cross the river at two spots. “We are ensuring minimum road closures and traffic diversions. For the safety of road users and to ensure free flow of traffic, the installation is being done at night. Advanced machinery and cranes are being used to finish the work fast. Vehicle users need to use alternate roads during closures,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahametro-installs-45m-steel-girder-at-dhole-patil-chowk-seven-more-in-the-pipeline/articleshow/78176201.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Seva Saptah: MLA Bharath Shetty donates plasma||Mangaluru: On a day that BJP workers organised a blood donation camp to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mangaluru City North MLA Y Bharath Shetty went a step ahead. Dr Shetty, who was the first MLA in the state to contract the novel coronavirus, donated plasma to become first Covid-19 infected MLA from this region to do so. Congress Kunigal MLA H D Ranganath donated plasma along with his brother on August 20. The plasma donation comes at a time when the BJP is in the midst of ‘Seva Saptah’ that the national and state units of the party are organising from September 14, to mark the birthday of PM Modi. Dr Shetty told TOI that he had his blood tested at a private medical college lab in the city on Wednesday, and the doctors had cleared him to donate plasma. “The benefits of plasma therapy for people afflicted with Covid-19 are hard to ignore,” he said. The process that lasted around 45 minutes at Justice KS Hegde Charitable Hospital, Deralakatte, will help treat two Covid-19 patients. Shetty said he will volunteer to donate plasma again after 15 days if needed, subject to approval from doctors based on the antibody count then. Hitherto, plasma donors had to go to Bengaluru to donate plasma, which they can now do at the blood bank of the hospital, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/seva-saptah-mla-bharath-shetty-donates-plasma/articleshow/78175958.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hubballi||HDMC turns wet waste into compost to help earn revenue||Hubballi: The cash strapped Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation(HDMC) will soon be able to generate revenue by selling compost. Its comprehensive solid waste management plant has reached the stage of generation of compost from wet waste. The plant at Dharwad started functioning on Wednesday. The 150 tonnes per day capacity windrow composting plant will generate its first batch of compost in the next 20 days. This is a small step towards generating additional income by selling the compost to farmers, said the HDMC. Another windrow compost generating plant at Hubballi is all set to be commissioned from Monday, and it’s capacity is 300 tonnes per day. Both the plants were set up on over 5 acres each, on waste dumping yards. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said they are very excited that one of the flagship programmes of the HDMC, its comprehensive solid waste management plan, which is being implemented in the city by spending almost Rs 60 crore, is nearing completion. One of the main components of the plan of generating compost through wet waste has been realised after the Dharwad plant started working, and the Hubballi plant will start working in a couple of days, he said. He said, “The plants will definitely end the problem of wet waste. By processing the wet waste, good quality organic compost will be churned out, which can be used by farmers. Those who are interested in organic farming can buy it. It enhances soil fertility and increases crop yield.” He said the plants were established by spending Rs 32 crore, which was borne by the state government, HDMC and Swachh Bharat Mission. Vijaykumar, executive engineer of the HDMC SWM wing, said that the plants will address the wet waste issue, as the twin cities are generating 400 tonnes of waste every day, and there is a plan to recover the spent amount in the next 10 years by selling the by-products of the plant, and by levying Cess on the residents. “ Our aim is to produce high-quality compost, for which several tests will be done. We are expecting a good return by selling the compost,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdmc-turns-wet-waste-into-compost-to-help-earn-revenue/articleshow/78176745.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Issue white paper on your part in farm ordinances: SAD to Cong||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has asked Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to issue a white paper on his as well as the Congress government’s participation “which led to the framing of three central agricultural ordinances”. SAD spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema on Thursday alleged the CM had betrayed farmers of Punjab “by supporting various provisions” contained in these ordinances. The Congress should burn its manifestos in Delhi instead of indulging in cheap drama as it was the party which had promised in its national manifesto in 2019 that it would repeal the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and allow free inter-state trade without any restrictions, he claimed. The former minister claimed not only was Capt Amarinder a member of the high-powered committee which framed the ordinances but finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had also attended a meeting of the committee in Mumbai. The Congress government in Punjab also sent a six-page note to the Centre which formed its reaction to the discussion on the ordinances, he added. The SAD functionaries said now that it had been “proven beyond doubt” that the Congress government had actively participated in the framing of the ordinances, the state government must issue a white paper detailing all the meetings, ministers and officers who had participated in meetings and the minutes of these meetings. “All this is necessary to make it clear to the people as to who betrayed them,” he added. He said the Congress government’s response highlighted the need of market reforms. He said the response also stated that market reforms would promote private investment. “It also admits that the draft resolution suggested scrapping of the Essential Commodities Act, which has now been amended,” he added. Responding to cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s statement on contract farming, Cheema said he had talked about the Contract Farming Act brought in by the SAD-BJP government in 2013 but had refused to specify if he had opposed it then or not. He added if the Congress government felt the Act was not beneficial to farmers it should have revoked it by now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/issue-white-paper-on-your-part-in-farm-ordinances-sad-to-cong/articleshow/78177466.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||Dabhoi woman kills husband for her paramour||VADODARA: A woman in Dabhoi was arrested on Thursday for killing her 35-year-old husband in sleep. According to police, the deceased Hasmukh Vasava was strangulated to death by his wife Jyotsna Vasava and her paramour Kirit Rathodiya on Wednesday while he was asleep at his in-law’s house at Lunadra village in Dabhoi taluka. The couple was living separately for the last three months due to Jyotsna’s extra-marital affair. However, Hasmukh went to meet his wife and children on September 15 and decided to stay there for the night. Jyotsna had moved in with Rathodiya, but a month later she went to live with her parents. On Wednesday morning Jyotsna told the family members that Hasmukh died of natural reasons in his sleep. But when his sister Suri noticed strangulation marks on his throat and blood oozing from the nose, she became suspicious and questioned Jyotsna. The accused woman could not give any satisfactory reply and suddenly walked out of the house. The sarpanch of the village then informed the police. Police said that in the past too Rathodiya had threatened Hasmukh at Fofadiya village in Shinor taluka. Suri told cops that Rathodiya would have killed her brother too, but for the gathering of villagers. “We have arrested the woman but her paramour, who is also involved, is yet to be nabbed,” said inspector J M Vaghela of Dabhoi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dabhoi-woman-kills-husband-for-her-paramour/articleshow/78174320.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Over 2,000 get admission under RTE quota in Pimpri Chinchwad schools||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: As many as 57% of students eligible to get admission under the 25% reservation quota under Right to Education (RTE) Act have been verified in the first round of the admission process in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. The education department said the verification concluded on September 15, and the details regarding non-verified students have to be sent to the higher authorities by September 30. The education department officials have said that they will soon issue guidelines for the students on the waiting list. Parag Mundhe, assistant administrative officer, told the TOI that for this year’s RTE admission process, they had selected 3,786 students, of which 2,175 have been verified and their admission is confirmed. As many as 1,611 students were not verified due to various issues including the non-availability of documents. He added that in the twin towns as many as 179 schools are eligible for the admission process under the RTE, however, a few schools have not responded to the admission process. Action is being taken against such schools. After the lockdown was eased, the admission process of the RTE quota resumed from June across eligible schools in the PCMC limits. The process was on hold from March when the first lockdown was initiated. Mundhe added that the first lottery was drawn earlier in March and the verification of the documents was on hold, which resumed from June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2175-students-get-rte-admissions-in-pcmc-schools/articleshow/78176208.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Buddha App to draw more tourists to east UP||Lucknow: In a review of various development works taking place in Purvanchal belt (east UP), chief secretary RK Tiwari directed officials that to tap the tourism potential of the region, the Buddha App should be made available in Mandarin, Korean, Thai and Sinhalese languages to attract more tourists to the Buddha circuit. The App is currently available in English and Hindi and provides information about routes, transport, hospitals, embassies, police, emergency help, lodging-boarding, catering, tour package. Tiwari told officials to connect the App with the Buddha Study Center, Gautam Buddha University, Greater Noida. During the review on Thursday, Tiwari discussed the various plans and their implementation strategies. Departments like agriculture, irrigation, fisheries, industry, tourism, health, vocational education, basic, secondary and higher education and transport gave the presentations. The chief secretary has asked officials to identify suitable locations for installation of 2,500 solar borewells in districts of Balrampur, Shravasti, Siddharthnagar, and Kushinagar. He also discussed the possibility of improving traditional methods of farming which would benefit members of the Tharu tribe, which occupies districts of Balrampur, Maharajganj, Shravasti, Bahraich and Sonbhadra. He said that the tribe should also be encouraged to adopt crop diversification and be given assistance to market their produce and assisted in marketing their produce. A pilot project for organic farming has been planned on 100-200 acres across districts in Purvanchal. The meeting saw a discussion on promotion of contract farming too. Tiwari said that more facilities, including cold storage, be provided at mandis after assessing the demand for vegetable and fruits in these mandis. He was informed that work on a startup incubator has started in Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur. The Gorakhpur project will be completed by December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/buddha-app-to-draw-more-tourists-to-east-up/articleshow/78177906.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CBI quizzes Stephen Devassy||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Musician Stephen Devassy, who was a close friend of violinist Balabhaskar, appeared before CBI officers on Thursday afternoon and gave his statement. The agency has begun a probe to unearth the alleged mysteries surrounding the death of the violinist. Devassy turned up at the CBI Thiruvananthapuram unit’s office in Muttathara around 3pm and left only 6.30pm. Devassy, an ace key board player, had visited Balabhaskar prior to his death, while he was on ventilator support in hospital. Following the visit, he posted on his social media page that he had taken special permission of doctors to enter the intensive care unit and during the meeting, Balabhaskar recognized him. Later, the case became convoluted after contradictory statements emerged about the accident that claimed the lives of Balabhaskar and his close aides were arrested in a gold smuggling case. His family raised a suspicion over the activities of his friends in the days following the accident. They alleged that Balabhaskar had invested huge amounts of money in various projects of his friends and they needed to be questioned to throw light on these dealings. Meanwhile, CBI is set to conduct polygraph test on Vishnu Somasundaram, Prakash Thampi, Arjun K Narayan and Soby George as part of the probe. Soby George claimed that he witnessed the musician’s car being attacked by a group of men at the accident spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cbi-quizzes-stephen-devassy/articleshow/78176249.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kanpur||Village heads of Bikru, Bheeti removed by DM||Kanpur:Village heads of Bikru and Bheeti under Chaubeypur block of the district were removed from their posts by district magistrate of Kanpur Nagar Alok Tewari. Anjali Dubey, village head of Bikru and Vishnupal Singh alias Ziledar, village head of adjoining Bheeti village, were absconding since the Bikru ambush wherein eight policemen including a deputy SP rank official and a civilian were killed after gangster Vikas Dubey and his 50 to 60 aides sprayed bullet on them during a raid at his house in Bikru village on the night of July 2 and 3. “The two neither contacted the Panchayati Raj department nor they replied to our notices issued soon after the Bikru incident. Also, they didn’t carry out any development work or projects at both Bikru and Bheeti villages. Therefore, they were removed from the post of village head on the instructions of the DM on Wednesday,” Kamal Kishore, district Panchayati Raj officer, told TOI on Thursday. Kishore added, “Further, on the instructions of the DM, one Ram Kumar, who is a gram panchayat member, has been given post of village head of Bikru, while one Radheyshyam, also a gram panchayat member, hs been appointed as village head of Bheeti. Now they will carry out all the pending development work and projects at these villages.” Anjali Dubey, village head of Bikru, is wife of Deep Prakash Dubey, brother of the slain gangster. Deep has been absconding since July 3 when the massacre took place in Bikru village. Police have announced a reward of Rs 20,000 on him. Deep and his wife Anjali, according to police sources, were both aware of Vikas’s activities and are an accomplice in his unlawful deeds. Deep had several cases of forgery registered against him at Krishna Nagar police station of Lucknow. Vishnupal, accused of killing 8 policemen, who was on run after the Bikru massacre, had surrendered before the anti-dacoity court in Maati in Kanpur Dehat district on August 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/village-heads-of-bikru-bheeti-removed-by-dm/articleshow/78176870.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 18, 2020||India||FDI in defence sector to now require security clearance||NEW DELHI: Foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country’s defence sector will now require security clearance, the government said in a notification on Thursday. After reviewing the existing FDI policy in the vital defence sector, the government had raised the FDI cap to 74% from the earlier 49% under the automatic route. It had made it clear that it would be under the government route beyond 74% wherever it is likely to result in access to modern technology or for other reasons to be recorded. “Foreign investment in the sector is subject to security clearance by the ministry of home affairs and as per guidelines of the ministry of defence,” the government notification said while elaborating the conditions. “Foreign Investments in the defence sector shall be subject to scrutiny on grounds of national security and government reserves the right to review any foreign investment in the defence sector that affects or may affect national security,” the notification said. It also said the investee company should be structured to be self-sufficient in the areas of product design and development. The investee/joint venture company along with the manufacturing facility, should also have maintenance and life cycle support facility of the product being manufactured in India, the notification said. Licence applications will be considered by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), ministry of commerce and industry, in consultation with the ministries of defence and external affairs, according to the notification. Infusion of fresh foreign investment up to 49%, in a company not seeking industrial license or which already has government approval for FDI in defence, shall require mandatory submission of a declaration with the ministry of defence in case change equity/shareholding pattern or transfer of stake by existing investor to a new foreign investor for FDI up to 49%, within 30 days of such change. Proposals for raising FDI beyond 49% from such companies will require government approval, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fdi-in-defence-sector-to-now-require-security-clearance/articleshow/78178410.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Congress MPs protest outside Parliament by burning copies of Farm Bills||Chandigarh: Congress MPs from Punjab burnt copies of the agriculture Bills proposed by the Centre inside the Parliament complex as part of the party’s protest on Thursday. Accusing SAD-BJP of being “anti-farmer”, the farmers carried posters in Hindi saying “I’m a farmer, farm labourer, don’t cheat me.” The protesting Congress MPs, including Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjit Singh Aujla, Jasbir Singh Gill and Amar Singh, burnt copies of the bills. “Parkash Singh Badal had burnt copies of the Constitution and we are setting the Bills on fire. You (SAD-BJP) are trying to harm the farmers who fed the entire country and we will oppose it,” they said. The Congress party also staged a protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue. They raised slogans against the BJP and demanded that the “anti-farmer” ‘black” Bill be withdrawn. A delegation of Punjab Congress had met with the governor to seek withdrawal of the Farm Bills on Wednesday. The party has been opposing the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 that the NDA government has proposed in the Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/congress-mps-protest-outside-parliament-by-burning-copies-of-farm-bills/articleshow/78177489.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat makes U-turn to ‘Test is Best’||AHMEDABAD: A government advertisement shows chief minister Vijay Rupani volunteering for a Covid-19 test and he appealed to citizens to volunteer for the test earlier this week and even put out a slogan: ‘Test is Best’. This stance, inviting people to take Covid tests is in stark contrast to what the state stood for when people panicked during the lockdown and when Ahmedabad was returning the highest number of Covid cases. This is a complete U-turn from its earlier highly restrictive resting policy. Since the epidemic set in and the Gujarat HC took up hearings in public interest, there were demands to ramp up testing. But the state government strongly resisted this till last month, until the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) changed its stand on testing and PM Narendra Modi on August 11 said Gujarat should test more. Senior advocate Anshin Desai, who is involved in the litigation in the HC, said the issue was raised constantly in court and the state government vociferously resisted and asserted that it would not go beyond ICMR guidelines. He also questions the panel of three prominent city-based doctors, who concurred with the state policy of restrictions on Covid testing. The state government weathered not only attacks from litigants and the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMC), which also urged ramping up testing, it also came up with some reasons, unpalatable at present if juxtaposed with the CM’s ‘Test is Best’ slogan and Covid testing kiosks at every corner. When the HC asked the government, “Is this an action to artificially control the data qua the number of cases?”, advocate general Kamal Trivedi on May 22 said that if everybody were tested, 70% of those in Ahmedabad would test positive. The state did not have any justification for restricted testing except to fall back on ICMR guidelines. This led the HC to ask whether it is a citizen’s fundamental right to get a diagnosis. To this, the government said that all cannot claim the right to Covid testing in this pandemic situation. It agreed that health is a fundamental right, but asserted “reasonable restrictions” on this right.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-makes-u-turn-to-test-is-best/articleshow/78177498.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||After a dry spell, rain to lash Kumaon region from Sept 18||Dehradun: After a prolonged dry spell, monsoon rains are once again expected to lash parts of the Himalayan state. Moderate to heavy showers are expected in the districts of Kumaon region from September 18 onwards. According to the regional meteorological centre, light to moderate rain and thunderstorms are likely to occur at isolated places in Champawat, Bageshwar, Nainital and Pithoragarh districts of the state between September 18 and 20. The rest of the places, especially in Dehradun, Chamoli and Pauri districts, are likely to receive light showers during the same period. "Overall, the monsoon activity has reduced in Uttarakhand. However, there would be good rainfall in certain parts of Uttarakhand, especially in Kumaon region, between September 18 and 20. Post that, dry weather is likely to prevail in the state again," Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-a-dry-spell-rain-to-lash-kumaon-region-from-sept-18/articleshow/78173739.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Cong MPs don’t need whip, know party stand on farm Bills’||Chandigarh: Accusing the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for its “concerted attempt to divert public attention from its failure” to protect the rights and interests of the farmers, Punjab Congress functionaries on Thursday said in contrast to the Akalis, the Congress was totally in unison over the farm Bills and had not needed a whip to vote against the Centre’s “reprehensible bid to destroy the state’s agriculture”. They were reacting to the statement of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema over the fact that the chief minister had led a delegation on Wednesday to submit a memorandum to the governor on the issue “instead of directing his MPs to express solidarity with the farming community by voting against the ordinances”. “The Congress MPs have been fighting against these dangerous anti-Punjab ordinances from the outset and knew which way to vote, unlike those of the SAD, whose MPs were totally lost due to the total lack of clarity or direction from their leadership, which has been changing its stance on key issues to suit their personal interests,” said MP Manish Tiwari. He was joined by PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, and cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Bharat Bhushan Ashu. The Congress MPs, not just from Punjab but around the country, had voted against the Bills, which, unfortunately, the BJP-led NDA, “of which the Akalis continue shamelessly to be a part”, succeeded in passing through brute majority in the House by voice vote, they said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-mps-dont-need-whip-know-party-stand-on-farm-bills/articleshow/78177478.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Jobless teachers demand withdrawal of agri bills, NEP||Bathinda: The Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) Pass Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union held a day-long campaign in the social media, terming September 17, which coincided with the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as ‘Unemployment Day.’ They asked Modi to withdraw the agriculture marketing bills introduced in the Lok Sabha and also repeal the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. In a statement issued by the union’s president Sukhwinder Singh Dhillon and press secretary Randeep Sangatpura, it was stated that the government that had promised two crore jobs is snatching peoples’ employment opportunities. “With the agriculture marketing bills turning into acts, the youth engaged in agriculture sector would become unemployed with corporates taking over. Many youth of Punjab are dependent on agriculture in one form or the other. The New Education Policy is also a step towards privatisation,” read the statement. They said the wrong policies of the Modi government had created a huge crisis of unemployment at national level and the country only could overcome the situation if the agriculture bills and NEP were withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jobless-teachers-demand-withdrawal-of-agri-bills-nep/articleshow/78177487.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||BSP set to contest UP bypolls on 8 seats||Lucknow: The BSP has thrown its hat in the ring with UP set to witness bypolls on eight Assembly seats within the next two months. The mini-election is being seen as a reality check by party members for 2022 UP elections. In 2019, shortly after it parted ways with Samajwadi Party, BSP contested its first bypolls in about 10 years. The results came as a huge setback for party chief Mayawati, who was then hoping to trump SP as the chief opposition party in UP as not only did BSP lose its stronghold of Jalalpur with less than 800 votes, but also saw its overall vote share drop. “We are taking this election seriously and the party has already started the process of identifying candidates. The party will be appointing in-charges for all the seats shortly who will be working on ground for campaigning and planning,” said a senior party member. Before 2019, BSP last contested bypolls in 2008. While technically it has nothing to lose in the coming elections as it did not hold any of the vacant seats, but it will be a testing ground for Mayawati’s politics to see whether she continues to retain a hold over Dalits and if she has managed to make any inroads within the Brahmin community, which she has been trying to woo for the past few months through promises like holidays on Parshuram Jayanti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsp-set-to-contest-up-bypolls-on-8-seats/articleshow/78177937.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||MPSC norms for aspirants include Aarogya Setu app, masks and gloves||PUNE: From downloading the-Aarogya Setu app to ensuring a triple layered mask while moving into an examination centre, the Maharashtra Public Services Commission (MPSC) has released a series of standard-operating-procedures (SoPs) that need to be followed by the candidates for all its upcoming competitive examinations. The SoPs cover all that is needed to ensure safety during the examination. A small kit or pouch that contains hand gloves, sanitiser and a mask will also be provided to the students when they enter the exam room. The contents in it need to be used by the students for the entire duration of the exam even if there are two sessions in a day. While leaving the examination centre, the disposable items need to be disposed of in appropriate dustbins marked at these centres. Candidates have to let the examination officials know beforehand about any underlying illness such as a cough, a fever or any other symptoms of Covid-19 that they can recognise in them so that proper provisions can be done for such candidates at the examination centre. Candidates need to keep using the hand sanitiser and also ensure that the environment is kept clean and hygienic. Social distancing needs to be followed while entering the exam centre during the examination and also when going out of the exam centre, and students need to follow all related instructions given at the centre, with utmost sincerity. There is always a chance that the examination centre can change at the last minute if it is situated in a containment zone. Hence, students need to ensure that they keep checking the MPSC website every day. The MPSC would also send an SMS to the candidate’s registered cellphone number intimating students about such changes. Students have also been advised to follow all guidelines issued by centre, state and local administration regarding precautions to be taken during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mpsc-norms-for-candidates-during-exams-covers-covid-19-precautions/articleshow/78176231.cms||Ardhra Nair
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Three held with 12 kg of ‘charas’ in Uttarakhand||PITHORAGARH: In two separate incidents, three persons, including a father and son duo, were arrested with 12 kg of charas on Wednesday. The price of the charas, which was meant for the UP market, would be worth Rs 12 lakh. Jay Datt Melkani, 50, and his son Khasti Datt Melkani, 25, residents of Patalia Bhedapani of Nainital district, were going to Dhari on foot. They were stopped by cops near a primary school bordering Champawat district and the cops recovered charas, according to Lokeswar Singh, the Champawat SP. Police found 7 kg of charas from Jay Datt and 4.5 kg from his son. In another incident in Pati police station of Champawat district, Umesh Chand Badselia, 40, resident of Sunkot village, Nainital's Dhari tehsil, was arrested with 610 gm of charas, the Champawat SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-held-with-12-kg-of-charas-in-ukhand/articleshow/78173771.cms||Prem Punetha
September 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Students told to seek additional entrance test||KOZHIKODE: The students who cannot attend the entrance examination of other universities because of date clash with the Central Universities Common Entrance Examination and Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research entrance test can approach the concerned institutions for conducting another examination. This was suggested by the high court on a petition filed by Muslim Students Federation (MSF) and five students. The entrance examination for the Pondicherry University is on September 18. Haris Beeran, who appeared for the MSF in court, said it would not be possible for the universities to reschedule the examinations in the last minute. “The court said the students who failed to attend the examinations of other universities can approach the institutions to conduct another test,” Beeran said. These exams were scheduled in the months of June and July but postponed because of the Covid situation. “We approached the court after the universities refused to find a solution to the issue, despite repeated pleas. MPs had written many letters to the Union ministers and vice chancellors, but the issue was not addressed,” said P V Ahmed Saju, national vice-president of the MSF. Three entrance examinations falling on the same day was really worrisome for the students, he said. Many students from Kerala, especially from Malabar, prefer Pondicherry university. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/students-told-to-seek-additional-entrance-test/articleshow/78176285.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers feed nation but can’t fix crop price: Punjabi singer Diljit Dosanjh on agriculture bills||BATHINDA: After noted Punjabi singer brothers Manmohan Waris and Kamal Heer raised their voice against the three agriculture marketing ordinances with their song, “Punjabi di kisani,” Punjabi singer-cum-actor Diljit Dosanjh also spoke out against the ordinances. On Wednesday, Dosanjh tweeted, “Kisan bachao desh bachao (Save farmers, save country), we oppose the anti farmer bills.” ਕਿਸਾਨ ਬਚਾਓ ਦੇਸ਼ ਬਚਾਓ 🙏🏾 Kisaan Virodhi Bill Da Asi Sarey Virod Karde Haan ✊🏽 ਹਾਏ ਨੀ! ਇਹ ਪੱਥਰ ਹੋਈਆਂ ਜੀਭਾਂ,ਹਾਏ… https://t.co/0O9C1Njlt6— DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh) 1600307554000He also wrote that the bills did not allow farmers to fix the rate, there is no decision on minimum support price and farmers don’t have storage for crops, therefore, the limit they have is irrelevant. He further stated, “We expect farmers to feed the nation but they can’t decide on the rate. It would have been better if farmers had the right to fix rates of his crop, not any company.” 1. Farmers can’t decide THE RATE 2. There is No Minimum Support Price decided 3. Farmers don’t have storage to… https://t.co/y7PWhwuPUx— DILJIT DOSANJH (@diljitdosanjh) 1600314829000On August 8, Waris released the song, “Achhe dina ne Punjab di kisani dob ti, pakke mull wali saadi jama tut gei umeed, jhone kanak ni lene kahende tod ti khareed, Maru faisle de hadda meharbani dob ti, Achhe dina ne Punjab di kisani dob ti, utte chitte ne Punjab di jawani dob ti.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-feed-nation-but-cant-fix-crop-price-diljit-dosanjh-on-agri-bills/articleshow/78177494.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Thane||Thane: KDMC suspends licences of 2 hospitals run by ‘bogus doctor’||KALYAN: Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation on Thursday suspended the licences of two private hospitals here after MNS leader Rajesh Kadam claimed both were run by a bogus doctor. KDMC on Thursday suspended the licences of Sai Leela hospital in Khadakpada, Kalyan (W), and Mauli hospital in Kalyan (E). Health officer Dr Ashwini Patil said both were registered on names of doctors with KDMC but they received complaints from patients that both were run by ‘Amit Sahu’, who is not a doctor. KDMC issued notices to both but they failed to reply. Kadam said, “We welcome KDMC’s action but the health department must file an FIR against both which are playing with lives of patients.” Dr B B Kulkarni, in whose name Sai Leela hospital is registered with KDMC, said, “We cantnot as we have not received the suspension letter.” Attempts were made to contact Dr Mukul Wani, in whose name Mauli hospital was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kdmc-suspends-licences-of-2-hosps-run-by-bogus-doctor/articleshow/78176304.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 5 pharmacists died on corona duty, families still await relief||LUCKNOW: Pharmacist Rajesh Kumar Verma (50) died on Thursday evening due to Covid-19 at Hind Medical College after a few days of treatment. He was screening Covid suspected patients at the Suratganj community healthcare centre (CHC) of Barabanki. The death of Verma created a flutter in the pharmacist community worried about his family’s survival. Since four pharmacists have lost their lives earlier, the Federation of Govt Pharmacist Association UP wrote to the director general of medical & health on Thursday. An April 11, 2020 government order (GO) said ex gratia sum of Rs 50 lakh will be provided to family of an employee who died of novel coronavirus infection involved in Covid management, prevention and treatment. “Over three-and-a-half months have passed since the first pharmacist in Hathras died after contracting Covid-19 in June. Since then, four more pharmacists have lost their lives to Covid and none received compensation from government,” said president Suneel Kumar Yadav. “These healthcare workers have left behind families who are struggling . We demand they be helped immediately with relief promised and that a timeline be fixed for the compensation procedural work,” added Yadav. When TOI contacted DG medial & health, Major (retd) Dr DS Negi, he said, “All the applications I have received till date have been sent to the insurance company. Sometimes the insurance company has its own queries which cause some delay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-pharmacists-died-on-corona-duty-families-still-await-relief/articleshow/78177952.cms||Yusra Husain
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||CB-CID sleuths get Lankan policeman’s custody for 4 days||Coimbatore: The crime branch-CID sleuths were on Thursday granted the custody of Sri Lankan cop, who was arrested by the Ramanathapuram police for his illegal entry into the country, for four days for questioning to establish his links with the late Lankan don Angoda Lokka, who died in the city recently.Earlier, crime branch-CID deputy superintendent of police O H Raju, who is investigating Lokka’s suspicious death case in the district, was asked to handle the Lankan cop’s case.The Sri Lankan cop, Pradeep Kumar Bandara, is wanted for drug smuggling in Colombo. Bandara’s elder brother was a close aide of Lokka.A police constable attached to the Colombo police force in Sri Lanka, 31-year-old Bandara is said to have ties with drug smugglers. He had allegedly taken away 23kg drugs from the Colombo port and handed them over to his elder brother, who was arrested by the Colombo police recently.Bandara, however, escaped and reached Mandapam in Ramanathapuram district by an illegal ferry and approached a few people to get a mobile phone as his phone was not in a working condition. A fisherman was to receive him at Mandapam on the evening of September 5, but he failed to turn up on time. Local people informed police, who arrested Bandara and lodged him in the Puzhal Central Prison.Director general of police J K Tripathy, meanwhile, ordered the CB-CID police in Ramathapuram to take over the case from the Mandapam police and appointed DSP Raju as the investigation officer.DSP Raju filed a petition before the judicial magistrate court-II in Ramanathapuram, seeking Bandara’s custody for five days. The court on Thursday granted four days of custody and instructed police to produce Bandara before it on Monday. He was subsequently taken to the CB-CID police office in Ramanathapuram for questioning.The CB-CID police team is trying to establish connection, if any, between Angoda Lokka and Bandara.“Bandara is the most wanted person in the Sri Lankan police department in connection with a drug smuggling case. The Sri Lankan police is likely to approach the Tamil Nadu police through diplomatic level soon for his repatriation,” an official said.The CB-CID police team is also trying to identify the fisherman, who offered to help Bandara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cb-cid-sleuths-get-lankan-policemans-custody-for-4-days/articleshow/78177499.cms||A Subburaj
September 18, 2020||Shimla||Ladakh to get all-weather connectivity with two roads from Manali soon||MANALI: While a 14.15km long tunnel beneath Zoji La will provide all-weather road connectivity on Srinagar-Leh highway soon in next few years, Ladakh will get year-round connectivity by two roads from Manali very soon. Additional director general border roads (ADGBR) Anil Kumar, who was visiting Atal tunnel in Rohtang to review the work, said besides making Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway an all-weather road, Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is working on making Manali-Shinkula-Nimu highway double-lane and all-weather. He said DPR of Baralacha pass tunnel is ready and DPR of three other tunnels is being prepared. “Atal tunnel is ready for inauguration. Three more tunnels are proposed to be built on the Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway to provide year-round connectivity. While DPR of tunnel under Baralacha pass has been prepared, DPRs for tunnels below Lachulung-la pass and Taglang-la pass will be made soon. DPR of Shinkula tunnel to make Darcha-Shinkula-Padum-Nimu road all-weather is also being prepared,” he said. He added that development of road network in border areas of Himachal, Ladakh, J&K and Uttarakhand and all the north-west regions is an important aspect. He said an alternate route Darcha-Padum-Nimu is being built to connect Himachal with Ladakh besides existing Manali-Sarchu-Leh road. “Total length of this road will be about 297km and only 35km road is still pending. This road will be made a double-lane road and nearly 90km of the length has already been made double-lane. The tunnel at Shinkula pass is also proposed which will make this road an all-weather highway,” he added. Darcha is now just 100km from Manali via Atal tunnel. The Manali-Darcha-Padum-Nimu road will be about 397km in length. This length will further reduce after Shinkula tunnel. Nimu to Leh is just 35km while Nimu to Kargil is about 185km. The main advantage of this new road will be its location, which is completely inside from international border with both China and Pakistan and has no mountain pass other than Shinkula. The travel time on this highway to reach strategic points of Ladakh will be much less than other two roads. The growing tension at India-China border has forced ministry of defence to strengthen the border road network. For one, Army will not have to store essentials in large quantity if surface transportation through multiple roads will be possible 12 months a year. In case of emergency, the Army will have the option of moving troops and other supplies through any of the three roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ladakh-to-get-all-weather-connectivity-with-2-roads-from-manali-soon/articleshow/78177504.cms||Suresh Sharma
September 18, 2020||Jammu||Ladakh to get all-weather connectivity with two roads from Manali soon||MANALI: While a 14.15km long tunnel beneath Zoji La will provide all-weather road connectivity on Srinagar-Leh highway soon in next few years, Ladakh will get year-round connectivity by two roads from Manali very soon. Additional director general border roads (ADGBR) Anil Kumar, who was visiting Atal tunnel in Rohtang to review the work, said besides making Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway an all-weather road, Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is working on making Manali-Shinkula-Nimu highway double-lane and all-weather. He said DPR of Baralacha pass tunnel is ready and DPR of three other tunnels is being prepared. “Atal tunnel is ready for inauguration. Three more tunnels are proposed to be built on the Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway to provide year-round connectivity. While DPR of tunnel under Baralacha pass has been prepared, DPRs for tunnels below Lachulung-la pass and Taglang-la pass will be made soon. DPR of Shinkula tunnel to make Darcha-Shinkula-Padum-Nimu road all-weather is also being prepared,” he said. He added that development of road network in border areas of Himachal, Ladakh, J&K and Uttarakhand and all the north-west regions is an important aspect. He said an alternate route Darcha-Padum-Nimu is being built to connect Himachal with Ladakh besides existing Manali-Sarchu-Leh road. “Total length of this road will be about 297km and only 35km road is still pending. This road will be made a double-lane road and nearly 90km of the length has already been made double-lane. The tunnel at Shinkula pass is also proposed which will make this road an all-weather highway,” he added. Darcha is now just 100km from Manali via Atal tunnel. The Manali-Darcha-Padum-Nimu road will be about 397km in length. This length will further reduce after Shinkula tunnel. Nimu to Leh is just 35km while Nimu to Kargil is about 185km. The main advantage of this new road will be its location, which is completely inside from international border with both China and Pakistan and has no mountain pass other than Shinkula. The travel time on this highway to reach strategic points of Ladakh will be much less than other two roads. The growing tension at India-China border has forced ministry of defence to strengthen the border road network. For one, Army will not have to store essentials in large quantity if surface transportation through multiple roads will be possible 12 months a year. In case of emergency, the Army will have the option of moving troops and other supplies through any of the three roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/ladakh-to-get-all-weather-connectivity-with-2-roads-from-manali-soon/articleshow/78179542.cms||Suresh Sharma
September 18, 2020||Srinagar||Ladakh to get all-weather connectivity with two roads from Manali soon||MANALI: While a 14.15km long tunnel beneath Zoji La will provide all-weather road connectivity on Srinagar-Leh highway soon in next few years, Ladakh will get year-round connectivity by two roads from Manali very soon. Additional director general border roads (ADGBR) Anil Kumar, who was visiting Atal tunnel in Rohtang to review the work, said besides making Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway an all-weather road, Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is working on making Manali-Shinkula-Nimu highway double-lane and all-weather. He said DPR of Baralacha pass tunnel is ready and DPR of three other tunnels is being prepared. “Atal tunnel is ready for inauguration. Three more tunnels are proposed to be built on the Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway to provide year-round connectivity. While DPR of tunnel under Baralacha pass has been prepared, DPRs for tunnels below Lachulung-la pass and Taglang-la pass will be made soon. DPR of Shinkula tunnel to make Darcha-Shinkula-Padum-Nimu road all-weather is also being prepared,” he said. He added that development of road network in border areas of Himachal, Ladakh, J&K and Uttarakhand and all the north-west regions is an important aspect. He said an alternate route Darcha-Padum-Nimu is being built to connect Himachal with Ladakh besides existing Manali-Sarchu-Leh road. “Total length of this road will be about 297km and only 35km road is still pending. This road will be made a double-lane road and nearly 90km of the length has already been made double-lane. The tunnel at Shinkula pass is also proposed which will make this road an all-weather highway,” he added. Darcha is now just 100km from Manali via Atal tunnel. The Manali-Darcha-Padum-Nimu road will be about 397km in length. This length will further reduce after Shinkula tunnel. Nimu to Leh is just 35km while Nimu to Kargil is about 185km. The main advantage of this new road will be its location, which is completely inside from international border with both China and Pakistan and has no mountain pass other than Shinkula. The travel time on this highway to reach strategic points of Ladakh will be much less than other two roads. The growing tension at India-China border has forced ministry of defence to strengthen the border road network. For one, Army will not have to store essentials in large quantity if surface transportation through multiple roads will be possible 12 months a year. In case of emergency, the Army will have the option of moving troops and other supplies through any of the three roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/ladakh-to-get-all-weather-connectivity-with-2-roads-from-manali-soon/articleshow/78179545.cms||Suresh Sharma
September 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Jind: Farmers bang drums for 12 minutes in protest against agriculture ordinances||JIND: Farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) staged a protest against the three agriculture marketing ordinances brought by the Centre by banging iron drums for 12 minutes at 12:12pm at Uchana town of Jind district on Thursday. Farmers raised slogans against the BJP government and gheraoed deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s office to press their demands. Farm leaders said Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked people to bang thalis and light lamps to eliminate Covid-19 and now, farmers banged drums to persuade the Centre to withdraw the “anti-farmer” ordinances. Talking to media persons, farm leader Phool Singh Sheokand, who reached the dharna spot in Uchana town with other farmers, said that the Centre is trying to destroy farmers and arhtiyas by forcing the three ordinances on them. Sheokand said the ordinances would affect farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and farmers’ land, benefitting private companies. “This is a conspiracy against the farmers’ community, following which the hapless farmers will become weaker while private giants will be strengthened. Farmers want a girdawari for the cotton crop of around 20,000 farmers in Fatehabad, Sirsa, Hisar, Jind and Kaithal, which has been destroyed but the saffron party is busy booking farmers and subjecting them to lathicharge,” he asserted. Azad Palwan, who has been heading the dharna in Uchana for the past few days, said the central government has been trying to break farmers’ backbone by introducing the ordinances which farmers will oppose till the end. We asked the state government to repeal these ordinances in assembly by calling a special session, he maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-bang-drums-for-12-minutes-in-protest-against-agri-ordinances/articleshow/78177502.cms||Vijender Kumar
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow pips Kanpur with highest 12.4% CPR||LUCKNOW: In a fresh assessment of Covid-19 situation in the state since September 1, Lucknow replaced Kanpur as the district with the highest case positivity rate on Thursday. Sources said Lucknow’s case positivity rate (CPR) is 12.4% while that of Kanpur is 10.2%. It was reverse in August. Prayagraj remained on the third place, while Muzaffarnagar and Meerut, moved to fourth and fifth spots, respectively, after witnessing spike in cases in the past week, said additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad. “Hathras, Hamirpur, Baghpat, Mahoba and Shravasti have the lowest case positivity rates,” he added. Despite the surge in cases, Prasad said UP’s CPR has remained under 5%. “The Union health ministry has told states to maintain a CPR of around 5%. UP has been able to maintain the benchmark despite the surge in cases. However the CPR has risen marginally in September — from 4.1 in the first week to 4.7 now,” Prasad said. Meanwhile, 6,318 fresh coronavirus cases were recorded in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 3,36,294. Lucknow and Kanpur accounted for over 13% of the fresh cases. Prasad said there were 68,236 active Covid cases in the state, of whom 36,522 were under home isolation. Prasad added that 4,715 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, taking teh total tally of such cases to 2,63,288 (or 78% of the total cases. However, 81 more deaths took state’s Covid toll to 4,771 in the past 24 hours. Lucknow, Kanpur and Prayagraj accounted for six deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-pips-kanpur-with-highest-12-4-cpr/articleshow/78177956.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant with leg injuries found dead||Coimbatore: The tusker, which was limping after it suffered injuries to its left foreleg, was found dead at the interior jungle of lower slopes of the Nilgiris, about 3.5km from the boundary of the Nellithurai reserve forest on Thursday evening. The crcass was spotted by a team of forest department staff and anti-poaching watchers. The forest department had earlier obtained an order from the chief wildlife warden to tranquilize the tusker for treatment. And the preparatory measures were kept ready including mobilizing two kumki elephants Suyambu and Venkatesh. Forest department officials said the operation could not be carried out as the elephant moved into a hilly terrain, where tranquilization was not advisable due to the risks involved. "The frontline team suspects that the elephant might have slipped into a slushy area due to continuous rain and got injured. It may have failed to get up. The elephant has further slipped for about 15ft from the site of its fall in its attempt to get up and ultimately died,” D Venkatesh, district forest officer, said. Apart from the foot injury, the animal had injuries in its abdomen and shoulder after a fight with another tusker. A forest department official said the postmortem will be carried out at the reserve forest on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-with-leg-injuries-found-dead/articleshow/78177508.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Tearful adieu to martyr||KOLLAM: Hundreds of people thronged the Sooranadu house (Asha Nivas) Alummukku, Vayala near Anchal from Thursday morning to pay their last respects to martyred soldier Lance Naik Aneesh Thomas. He was martyred in a Pakistani shelling at Sunderbani in Noushera sector of Rajouri district in Jammu on Tuesday. By Thursday morning, his mortal remains were brought to Thiruvananthapuram from New Delhi by flight. Minister Kadakampally Surendran and district collector receive the body at the airport. After completing formalities, the body was taken to his native village accompanied by several vehicles. Hundreds of people thronged on both sides of the road to offer floral tributes. The mood was sombre as Thomas’s wife Emily and six-year-old daughter Hanna bid him farewell with their last kisses. Military men who accompanied the body and the police had a tough time controlling the crowd despite the heavy downpour and Covid protocols. MLA Mullakkara Ratnakaran too offered his last respects for the slain soldier. The body was taken to the Marthasmooni Orthodox Church, Mannoor, where the funeral service was held. Indian Army men and state police offered him official honours at the church cemetery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tearful-adieu-to-martyr/articleshow/78176306.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bhopal||MP: For the first time, recoveries breach 2,500-mark in a day||BHOPAL: The number of recoveries crossed the 2,500-mark for the first time in Madhya Pradesh. On Thursday, as many as 2,863 patients were cured of Covid-19. Thursday also marks the first time in over a month and a half that the number of recoveries outnumber the number of fresh infections. The last time this happened was on August 4, when 1,315 people had recovered and only 797 had tested positive. The number of fresh infections on Thursday were 2,391 — taking the Covid tally in the state to 97,906. After five days, the positivity rate in the state was dipped below 10% to reach 9.3%. Report says, 25,596 samples were tested on Thursday. However, Thursday was the eighth consecutive day when over 2,000 new cases were reported in the state. As of now in September, 33,941 new infections have been reported in Madhya Pradesh — which is 34.6% of the total cases so far. Fresh infections were reported from all the 52 districts of the state on Thursday. As per the state health bulletin released by Directorate of Health Services, highest cases were reported in Indore(381), followed by 213 in Bhopal and 201 in Gwalior. Meanwhile, 33 deaths were also reported in the state as per the state health bulletin. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 1,877 in the state. Of these 33 deaths, six were reported in Indore, and five each in Bhopal and Gwalior. On the brighter side, 2,863 people recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new people recovering, the total number of people who have recovered so far reached 74,398.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/for-the-first-time-recoveries-breach-2-5k-mark-in-a-day/articleshow/78176311.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Losses’ may keep private buses off roads in non-rush hours||KOLKATA: Private buses in the city may soon become few and far between in non-peak hours. The number of private buses has already started dropping in the afternoon as well as late evening and now that the possibility of fare revision has become distant, private bus operators are refusing to run half-empty vehicles in non-peak hours. If this plan is indeed carried out, it may lead to a collapse of the public transport system as 70% bus passengers in the city avail of private buses. Bus operators said they were compelled to take this decision as the state did not revise fares and the Centre failed to control the rise in diesel price. TimesViewAdequate public transport should be available throughout the day. There needs to be better planning and coordination between private operators and government agencies. Returning home should not be such an ordeal.With diesel prices not going down and cost of operations spiralling up, bus operators claimed they were incurring losses by running services in non-rush hours. Most buses in the afternoons and late evenings did not have enough passengers to cover operation costs as the non-working population and students, who used to be the bulk of the commuters in the non-peak hours, were no longer travelling, said an operator. “So, the marginal breakeven we achieve during the peak hours is lost to the non-peak hours,” he said. “How can we run buses for 10-15 people when the demand for justified fare revision is not fulfilled? We have been exhausting all resources, yet the government refused to revise fares. So, operators are choosing not to ply buses in the afternoons and late evenings,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, joint council of bus syndicates. Earlier, each bus made five-six round trips a day, but now, the figure has come down to two. “Buses are also linked with suburban railway passengers. As, locals are not running, we are not getting train commuters either. But we are still plying due to the transport department’s threat to cancel permit,” said an operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/losses-may-keep-pvt-buses-off-roads-in-non-rush-hours/articleshow/78176397.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||Man in mid-30s found murdered near city||Vadodara: A decomposed body was found on the outskirts of Dumad village near the city on Thursday morning. Cops suspected that the man likely to be in mid-30s was murdered a couple of days ago. Multiple stabbing wounds were visible on the stomach, chest, and the back of the body. Police said that locals informed them about the body following severe stench emanating from the area. Villagers found the body lying in a puddle surrounded by bushes near the road leading to Dena village. “The decomposed body was worm infested but we have found some clues like a tattoo of lion’s face on the wrist and the footwear which the victim was wearing,” said a police official, adding that they have taken the help of forensic experts to gather more evidence about the man. “We are also checking if any person in Vadodara city or district had gone missing in the past few days. Our network of informers has also been activated to find clues,” the police official added. A offence of murder has been registered at Vadodara taluka police station against an unidentified person. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-in-mid-30s-found-murdered-near-city/articleshow/78174347.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||Tiger attacks three trespassers in Dudhwa||Bareilly: Three people out to collect edible seeds in Bheera range of Dudhwa forests were injured in a tiger attack on Thursday morning. Initially, the victims -- Anil Kumar, Ravi and Vishal, hailing from Mailani area -- claimed that they were attacked by a tiger outside the forest area. However, after preliminary investigation, divisional forest officer Anil Patel said, “Our team found tiger pugmarks, blood and underground seeds at a particular spot inside the reserve forest. The victims were trespassing and compensation in such cases is not provided by the department. However, we have requested the district administration to ensure their treatment. The condition of one of the survivors is critical."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tiger-attacks-three-trespassers-in-dudhwa/articleshow/78171266.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Community spread has begun in Coimbatore, says govt official||COIMBATORE: Covid-19 tally crossed the 24,000-mark in the district on Thursday when 530 people tested positive for the virus. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 24,234, of which 3,602 are active cases. A government official said, “Though we continue to see clusters from certain industries or streets, the truth is community spread has begun.” At least 364 patients were discharged from the treatment facilities on the day, taking the number of recovered patients to 20,264 at a recovery rate of 83.6%. The toll, meanwhile, touched 368, with the state including three more deaths that occurred in the district in the past two days in the bulletin. Among the deceased was the 69-year-old managing director of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy, P R Krishnakumar, who tested positive for the virus on September 7. He was hospitalized on August 29 with fever and breathing difficulty. He had diabetes, cardiac problems and hypertension. He died on Wednesday night. The other two were a 48-year-old woman with type 2 diabetes who was admitted to the ESI Hospital on September 11 and died of pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome on Wednesday evening, and a 76-year-old woman, who was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital with a head injury on September 5. She was tested positive for the virus on September 10 and died of head injury and bronchopneumonia on Tuesday. Most of the new cases were reported from the city corporation limits. At least 12 people were tested positive for Covid-19 from Ramanathapuram, 13 from Singanallur, eight from a battery foundry at Vilankurichi, 10 each from Sowripalayam and Peelamedu, nine from a popular pump manufacturing company at Thudiyalur and eight from HUDCO Colony Town, among other areas. Sources, meanwhile, say many private laboratories are running Covid-19 tests without creating an id for patient on the ICMR portal, from where the government takes the list of positive cases, in a bid to show less number of cases on paper. “Thus, their results don’t get uploaded. If every positive or negative case is not uploaded, the government will not have a record for the same and the number of cases would be fewer on paper,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/community-spread-has-begun-in-district-says-govt-official/articleshow/78177514.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||64 inmates of Balrampur jail test +ve||Lucknow: As many as 64 inmates at Balrampur district jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The district administration said one barrack will be converted into L1 hospital in coordination with chief medical officer (CMO). A health team with four doctors was deputed to screen other inmates. Of those who tested positive, all except one are asymptomatic. All were found positive in antigen test. DG, UP prison headquarters, Anand Kumar said that this result was because of rapid testing in the jails. “We have issued necessary instructions to jail officials pertaining toCovid-19 protocol. The situation was also being monitored by senior jail officials,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/64-inmates-of-balrampur-jail-test-ve/articleshow/78177996.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Auto driver’s two daughters lose Rs 1.9 lakh to cyber fraudster||MUMBAI: An autorickshaw driver’s two daughters were cheated of their savings of nearly Rs 1.9 lakh by a cyber fraudster. Saki Naka police have registered a case under Information Technology Act. The sisters, aged 18 and 23, live with their parents at Saki Naka. The 18-year-old received a phone call around 11.30am from a man who introduced himself as Amit Mishra on September 11. He told her that her bank account would be blocked unless she added a nominee. He asked for her bank details on the pretext of adding a nominee. The girl consulted her older sister, who suggested that he call her directly. Mishra called up the other sister, an account executive with a private company, and convinced her that her account details, card number and one-time password would be needed to add her. The woman fell prey and shared her details. Later that day, she got a call from customer care of her bank, that nearly Rs 1.9 lakh had been debited from her account in two instalments. The woman suspected she was defrauded and immediately called up Mishra but his phone was switched off. She registered a police complaint and investigators are looking for Mishra, which may not be his real name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/auto-drivers-kids-lose-rs1-9l-to-cyber-fraudster/articleshow/78176309.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Allow Queen's Counsel to represent Jadhav: India||NEW DELHI: India confirmed Thursday that it had asked for appointment of a Queen's Counsel (QC), a title awarded to senior barristers for excellence in some Commonwealth countries, as Kulbhushan Jadhav's defence lawyer in the ongoing ICJ-mandated review of his death sentence in Islamabad High Court. TOI had first reported Wednesday that, to break the deadlock over who can represent Jadhav in a Pakistan court, India had proposed appointment of a QC as his lawyer and that senior advocate Harish Salve, who is also QC in the courts of England and Wales, was its obvious choice. The government though, as the MEA said Thursday, is open to enlisting the services of lawyers of other nationalities too provided they are QC too. “Pakistan has not yet addressed the core issues, which includes provision of all documents related to the case, providing unconditional and unimpeded consular access to him and appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s Counsel to ensure free and fair trial," said spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, reiterating that Pakistan had not been able to fulfill its obligations on implementation of the ICJ judgment in letter and spirit. The ICJ had last year asked Pakistan for an effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav's conviction and upheld India's demand for consular access to Jadhav. Pakistan's response on India's demand for a QC to represent Jadhav is still awaited. Islamabad had said earlier that only a lawyer with licence to practice in Pakistan can be Jadhav's lawyer. Pakistan had earlier this week extended for four months the validity of an ordinance which allows Jadhav to file a review petition. India though looks at the ordinance as a red herring meant to create a "mirage of compliance" with the ICJ judgment. For India, the main issue remains unconditional and private access to Jadhav as this, according to Indian officials, is the only way the judgment can be fully and effectively implemented. India believes that consular access to Jadhav has to be "remedial" and private because, unlike regular cases of consular access where the degree of involvement of an accused in criminal acts is unknown, Jadhav has already been convicted by a military court on the basis of his alleged confession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allow-queens-counsel-to-represent-jadhav-india/articleshow/78178461.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC tells govt to act on fixing of college fees||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday directed the state government to take concrete steps to address the issue of fee reduction in private and aided colleges, which are not functioning full-fledged due to lockdown in the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government submitted that it has formed two committees headed by retired high court judge Akshay Mehta, one each for professional and non-professional courses, to address this issue of payment of fees. It said that the reports of these committees are expected within two-three weeks. Upon this submission, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala asked the government to come up with a progress report on this subject and posted further hearing on October 13. This happened in response to a PIL filed by an NGO - An NGO Bridge Forum For All requesting the HC to direct the government to form a policy for all colleges and institutes of higher education to partially waive off tuition or college fees until they remain shut and charge only reasonable fees to students. The colleges should not collect charges for miscellaneous activities, which are not taking place while the campuses are closed. The PIL also urged the court to ensure online education for all students irrespective of payment of tuition fees till the universities resume physical functioning. During the hearing, petitioner’s advocate Ronith Joy insisted that the authorities should be asked to make colleges reduce fee the way the Madras high court has ordered by which 25% waiver in fee has been granted and the payment of the remainder 75% is to be paid in two instalments of 40% and 30% respectively. Earlier, while quashing the state government’s diktat banning private schools from collecting fees during lockdown period, the high court had questioned the state government whether it would apply the same parameters for its medical colleges too. The HC had questioned, “If teaching is a noble and charitable cause as stated in the impugned resolution, why does the State not take steps to waive collection of tuition fees of colleges. Why should the waiver not be for all educational institutions, schools and colleges, both. For instance there are many medical colleges being operated by societies and trusts established by the State. Why should the State not exempt the fees to such medical colleges and other private medical and engineering colleges?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-tells-govt-to-act-on-fixing-of-college-fees/articleshow/78177540.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Couple among four held for bid to murder||Coimbatore: Four people, including a couple, were arrested on Thursday for attempting to murder a 47-year-old man in full public view at RS Puram on Monday night. The incident was recorded on a CCTV camera and the footage had gone viral on social media. Police said, there was a money dispute between the accused and the victim and cited that as a reason for attempt to murder. The RS Puram police identified the accused as M Kavitha, 35, of Vilankurichi Road, her husband Madhan Prabhu, 41, their accomplices S Pradeep Raja, 27, and R Surya, 22, both residents of Sulur. A police officer said it was Kavitha and her husband who hatched the conspiracy with the other two to attempt to murder George Kanmani Noyal alias Joy, an interior decorator from Tatabad. He said Kavitha had borrowed Rs 2 lakh from Joy, who asked her to return the amount. “He was waiting in a car near a restaurant at RS Puram on Monday night. Kavitha and her husband came there on a motorcycle and handed him over the amount. Suddenly, Raja and Surya approached him, pulled him out from the car and stabbed him in full public view.” The four, however, managed to escape without getting caught by the public. George was subsequently admitted to a private hospital, where his condition is said to be stable. Based on his complaint, the RS Puram police registered a case and arrested the four, who were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/couple-among-four-held-for-bid-to-murder/articleshow/78177524.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj hits one-day high of 1,379 cases||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours recorded 1,379 Covid cases - the highest daily tally so far - taking the total to 1.19 lakh. In September, out of 17 days the state has recorded 1,300 plus daily cases 16 times. The new cases in Gujarat include 280 from Surat, 171 from Ahmedabad, 145 from Rajkot, 129 from Jamnagar and 127 from Vadodara. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad reached 34,493, Surat 25,297, Vadodara 10,327, and Rajkot 7,277. The state also recorded deaths of 14 Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,273. The deaths in Gujarat include six from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara, and one each from Banaskantha and Devbhoomi Dwarka. The deaths in Ahmedabad reached 1,772, Surat 711, Vadodara 157, and Rajkot 118. A total of 1,652 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 99,808. The discharges include 290 from Surat, 237 from Rajkot, 224 from Ahmedabad, 120 from Jamnagar and 119 from Vadodara. The share of active cases in the state got reduced to 13.4% of the total cases so far at 16,007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-hits-one-day-high-of-1379-cases/articleshow/78177545.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Son-in-law held in woman’s murder case||Udhagamandalam: Police arrested a 56-year-old man in Gudalur on Thursday in connection with the murder of a woman there on September 13. After four days of the murder that took place at Puduvayal in Gudalur, police arrested K Ramesh, son-in-law of the deceased. K Padmavathi, 65, was found murdered in her neighbour’s house at Puduvayal. According to police, Padmavathi used to rebuke Ramesh as he was not employed and showed no interest in going for any work. In a fit of anger, Ramesh strangled her neck with a cotton towel at a neighbour’s house at Puduvayal on September 13. Padmavathi, a widow used to stay at her neighbour Elsey’s place during nights. Elsey, 55, also a widow, is running an automobile spare parts shop in Puduvayal. A case was registered under sections 454, 511 and 302 of CrPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/son-in-law-held-in-womans-murder-case/articleshow/78177529.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mumbai||Covid death rate drops across all ages in Mumbai, points to better management||MUMBAI: Amid the continued rise in Covid cases in the city, there is a bit of a positive trend emerging. The case fatality rate (CFR, or ratio of deaths to positive patients) across age-groups has seen a decline, with the only exception being the age bracket above 90. While some say an increase in testing could have pulled down the fatality rate, doctors concur that the disease is now managed better than during the peak of May and June. Mumbai’s CFR, which had touched 7% initially, has dropped to less than 5% in September. Within age-groups, 60-69 years has seen a decline in CFR from 16% in April to 12% in July, 11.9% in August and 10% now. This age bracket has contributed to 28% of the city’s 8,227 deaths despite accounting for only 14% cases. For those aged between 50 and 59 too, the CFR has dropped from 10% in April to 6% currently. The age-group to have seen the second highest deaths after the 60s is the 50s, which account for 24% mortalities. CFR is the ratio of coronavirus deaths to the number of patients who have tested positive. An analysis of 8,227 deaths by the corporation revealed the decline in death trend. However, deaths in the age-group of 90-99 seem to be rising consistently. From 17.6% in July, the CFR increased to 19.5% in August and is 19.9% now. In absolute numbers, 438 nonagenarians have tested positive for Covid-19, of which 87 have succumbed. Civic authorities said families with super-senior citizens need to be extra-cautious as most contract the infection from a relative. Former KEM Hospital dean Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the death audit committee, concurred that Mumbai’s CFR has been on the decline despite a rise in cases, and the age-group analysis reflects that. “The weekly mortality numbers for the city have dropped below 2% (1.8%) and it’s a positive sign. It appears that the rise in critical cases is not proportional to the significant spurt in cases (an average of 2,000 daily in September),” he said, adding that physicians feel there is a shift in the virulence of the disease as well. Testing and early care-seeking too have contributed to keeping the critical cases in control. Of the 31,000 active cases in Mumbai, nearly 1,270 are critical, 8,143 symptomatic and 21,475 asymptomatic. Dr Supe said the last analysis of 6,500 deaths had shown that 29% died with 24 hours of admission and 58% within four days. “These numbers have seemingly improved with antigen test now giving results within two hours. That way, the time wasted in waiting for an RT-PCR report is saved,” he added. Dr Tanu Singhal, infectious disease expert with Kokilaben Ambani Hospital, believes that Remdesivir has made a big difference in terms of treatment options for patients. “There is a belief that the virus has become less virulent over time. The bed management has become better too, which ultimately leads to people landing up in the right setting,” she said, adding that doctors also know the disease better than in the early months. A civic official said while the fatality rate has been declining, there are concerns about deaths among the young. In children below 10 years old, there have been 13 deaths, 27 in the 10-19 age-group and 113 among those in their twenties. Dr Supe said that in those under 40, undiagnosed hypothyroidism, diabetes and obesity have been found. “We will be looking at under-30 deaths more closely,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-death-rate-drops-across-all-ages-in-city-points-to-better-mgmt/articleshow/78177998.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Many struggle with LU’s SLATE for online classes||LUCKNOW: The online learning portal of Lucknow University, SLATE, faced several hiccups on the first day of its use on Thursday. Both students and teachers struggled for hours to start with online classes. They could not log into the portal due to technical glitches. Finally, they had to move to video conferencing applications used earlier for online classes. SLATE is the university’s own learning management system that promises to offer more features in comparison with other video conferencing apps for online classes. It comes with options of sharing PowerPoint presentations, making a timetable, making available study material and maintaining attendance online. However, students and teachers could not avail of any of these facilities as the portal failed to identify or register them. “The moment I entered my email address to generate a password to get access to SLATE, the message said ‘email address not in our system’. Even after multiple efforts when I couldn’t log in I had to conduct the class on Zoom application,” said a faculty. “I asked my friends and teacher and they too faced the same problem,” said BSc student Aparna Singh. She added that even those who could connect shared that it took too much time to start or the microphone wouldn’t get connected and on clicking any button, one got logged out. “The portal has to be updated as it is not taking email ids of a number of faculties from various departments such as sociology, philosophy, social work, chemistry and geology, among others,” said a faculty. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said, “A number of departments could easily access SLATE. The problem was only with departments which had not sent details of students and teacher to the administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/many-struggle-with-lus-slate-for-online-classes/articleshow/78178003.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||SI, revenue inspector booked for beating SDM’s orderly while drunk||Pilibhit: A sub-inspector (SI) posted at the Pilibhit reserve police lines and an amin (revenue inspector) of Amaria tehsil were booked on Wednesday night, for allegedly beating the orderly of the Pilibhit (sadar) sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) while they were drunk. The medical examination report of the two accused confirmed the presence of alcohol in the blood of the accused. According to sources, SI Subhash Chaudhary had gone to meet his relative Satish Chadhary, the amin, at his residence in Pilibhit’s Awas Vikas colony. The SDM’s orderly, Lala Ram, who lives next door to the amin, was manhandled by the two after they got drunk. Afterwards, Lala Ram informed SDM Avinash Chandra Maurya about the incident, who immediately conveyed the information to SP Jai Prakash Yadav, demanding action against the two accused. Yadav ordered Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi to take action. Following this, the two accused were taken to district hospital for their medical examination, whose report confirmed both were drunk, said Yadav. Dwivedi said the SI and the amin were booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of IPC. Regarding departmental action against the accused SI, SP Yadav said he was waiting for the SHO’s detailed report on the incident before deciding on further action. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/si-revenue-inspector-booked-for-beating-sdms-orderly-while-drunk/articleshow/78171367.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribals at Kandivazhi get green houses||Coimbatore: A year ago, M Vijaya, a resident of Irular tribal settlement at Kandivazhi near Anaikatti near the city, had a shock of her life when the damaged roof of her house collapsed in the rain. However, as luck would have it, she and her newborn were staying in a room outside and escaped unhurt. Today, she is happy that they have a proper house – Vijaya has got a new concrete house under the chief minister’s solar powered green house scheme. Like her, five other families in her settlement have got newly-built proper houses. Under the scheme, the state provides Rs 2.1 lakh for building houses for people without proper houses. Out of that, Rs 30,000 is meant for setting up solar power facilities. At least 13 of the 25 families at the tribal hamlet have been sanctioned fund for houses, five of which have been completed and inaugurated on Wednesday. Twenty-three-year-old Vijaya says, “After our house was badly damaged in rain last year, we were made to stay in a school at Kondanurpudur. Officials visited us there and took measures to get houses for us. The new houses have been built at the same spot as the old one.” The house of 30-year-old Sindhu Marudhachalam, another resident at the hamlet, was also damaged in heavy rain. Pointing out that the only facility they had in the old house was power supply, she said the new house has separate rooms and tiled kitchen, among other facilities. “So far, we have seen such amenities only on TV.” While their grandparents used to live in thatched huts, residents of the settlement had built cluster houses more than 30 years ago. Some of them were heavily damaged in rain last August and others are leaky. People from the settlement mostly work as daily wagers. Joshua GPN, a social worker who helped the tribal people in the cause, said in addition to the Rs 2.1 lakh, they had to pool in some more money to meet the expenses and seek help from various sources, including firms, in terms of price concessions for building materials. Building a 320sqft house has cost around Rs 4 lakh, he said. “Work order has been given for eight more houses. Construction has to start.” When contacted, district collector K Rajamani said work orders were given for a total of 13 houses, but they were delayed as the tribal people had to put in more funds. “Now, five houses have been built and inaugurated. We are looking for sponsors to pool in funds for the remaining houses. We will start work on that soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribals-at-kandivazhi-get-green-houses/articleshow/78177549.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tea stalls shut shop to evade hefty AMC fines||Ahmedabad: After intensive drives by AMC teams enforcing social distancing rules, most tea stall owners in the city have been keeping their shops closed, fearing sealing and fines. At some places police were seen asking tea stall owners to stay open but ensure there is no crowding. On Thursday, joint enforcement teams (JETs) and AMC solid waste teams were seen in several areas of the city. The teams sealed stalls where the owners refused to cooperate with the AMC teams. At many places, the teams asked the stall owners to close which was promptly done by vendors. Officials said that small eateries and tea stalls are the places where overcrowding usually happen. A tea stall owner near SG Highway said, “We cannot afford hefty fines imposed by the AMC and that too when people violate social distancing norms and not us. How do we do business this way?” Even some roadside cafes stopped serving hot beverages. “We stopped serving hot beverages so that people don’t gather here. We serve other items in cars or at the few tables outside our cafe,” said a cafe owner. Dinesh Mehta, a businessman, said people chat over a cup of tea and finalize deals. Kiran Patel, a resident of Satellite, said, “When I am alone and need a break, I go and sit at a tea stall near my building to relax. A cup of tea comes is a stress buster and closing these is unwarranted. But yes, it is also the responsibility of citizens to ensure that they maintain social distancing.” A senior AMC officer said that many even asked till what time they should keep the stall closed. Some said that they would ensure that the people don’t stand at the stall, take their cups of tea and leave the place immediately. However, we noticed that despite strict implementation, people were not willing to follow the guidelines. The scheduled meeting with the Laari Galla Ladat Samiti president Ashok Punjabi in this connection has been postponed till Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tea-stalls-shut-shop-to-evade-hefty-amc-fines/articleshow/78177543.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stop harassment of doctors: IMA||Ahmedabad: In a letter to Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Thursday, members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Gujarat chapter criticized the allegedly heavy-handed behaviour of some collectors. The members requested government intervention. ‘Doctors - who are treating Covid-19 patients even at the cost of their lives for past six months — are facing coercion and intimidating behaviour by collectors of Bhuj, Gondal, Gandhidham, Gir Somnath, Jamnagar, Botad and Godhra. IMA condemns it in the strictest of words,’ states the letter. The letter added that such behaviour with the doctors is putting lives of the citizens of Gujarat in danger. ‘If such behaviour and activities are not stopped, members of Gujarat chapter of IMA would be forced to protest,’ the letter states. Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA Gujarat chapter, told TOI that they got the complaints that doctors are expected to admit patients at hospitals and work there and also offer their services at government-run hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stop-harassment-of-doctors-ima/articleshow/78177555.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Man duped of Rs 1 crore by son-in-law||LUCKNOW: A man was duped of Rs 1 crore allegedly by his son-in-law The incident was reported in Madiaon on Thursday. The accused had offered attractive profit for investment. Sudhanshu Bharadwaj of Keshavnagar said he gave Rs 1 crore to his son-in-law Vipul Sharma. “A few days after his marriage to my daughter Charu, Vipul told me that he had suffered loss in business and sought monetary help to bail him out. He and his brother Vipin promised that they will give me 20% extra as profit on the investment,” Bharadwaj said in his complaint to police. I signed a deed on May 27, 2019 and transferred the money. On July 17, 2019 I got a cheque of Rs 5 lakh as profit but then they stopped giving me money. When I inquired they threatened me of dire consequences,” Bhardwaj said. SHO Madiaon VP Singh said an FIR of dishonesty and criminal intimidation has been registered against the accused and further probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-duped-of-rs-1cr-by-son-in-law/articleshow/78178008.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five Covid cases recorded at IIM-A||Ahmedabad: Authorities at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) confirmed that two students and three employees tested positive for Covid-19. Sources confirmed that a senior professor – currently in Vadodara – has also tested positive and is staying back till he recovers. “The students have already recovered and have completed their isolation period. They have tested negative. The employees have been quarantined,” stated a response from the premier B-school. The authorities also confirmed that ‘a large proportion’ of the one-year executive MBA course, PGPX , batch is on campus. The authorities said practical aspects of the problem prompted them to allow students on campus. Students were finding it difficult to get accommodation for a few months, the response said. ‘These are individuals with about eight years of work experience who have given up jobs to participate in the programme… During the pandemic, though they had resigned from their jobs, they were forced to continue staying on in rented apartments as they could not shift to the campus,’ the release from IIM-A said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-covid-cases-recorded-at-iim-a/articleshow/78177554.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Scaling up of RT-PCR tests an uphill task||NEW DELHI: Following Delhi High Court’s order to scale up RT-PCR tests for Covid-19, Delhi government is working out the modalities for expanding the use of the test, considered the most reliable for establishing infection. But experts say that increasing the number of RT-PCR tests is fraught with challenges. At present, around 11,000 RT-PCR tests are conducted daily, up from around 5,500 in mid-June. In addition, more than 45,000 of the less dependable rapid antigen tests are also being carried out every day. Delhi currently has the capacity for conducting nearly 15,000 RT-PCR tests daily. Officials said maximising the capacity of all the testing machines over 24 hours has enabled the state government to conduct the 11,000 tests. But there are days when the machines break down. Many lab technicians have not taken a break for 15 days due to the imperatives for daily testing. When some of them fall sick, fewer tests are conducted. Since Covid is a new virus, the private agencies are not interested in developing more labs for fear that they may become redundant once the virus is conquered. On the ground, RT-PCR demands more manpower compared with the rapid antigen test. “RAT does not require high skills because the health workers only have to follow simple techniques to get the results. The results are out within 15-30 minutes,” said a government official. “In contrast, RT-PCR samples cannot be analysed using a RAT-like kit. The samples need to be collected and properly packed and transported to the testing centres. Improper handling of the samples results in inconclusive results.” The key challenges to RT-PCR tests being ramped up as directed by the high court are the laboratories’ limited capacity and inadequate skilled manpower. “There have been a few occasions in the past when a few labs have expressed inability to accept more than a certain number of samples per day due to such limitations,” said the official. RAT has gone up to almost 50,000 a day, while the increase in RT-PCR tests has been slow. Together, the two tests have taken the daily Covid tests being conducted in Delhi to over 60,000. After the AAP government did away with the need for a doctor’s prescription for undergoing Covid tests, more people are undergoing this test. “Since private hospitals charge Rs 24,00 for RT-PCR tests, many people opt to go to government facilities. There are more facilities offering the cheaper and faster rapid antigen testing, so more people opt for RAT,” the official added. The city currently has 64 labs, both private and government, carrying out Covid tests. Delhi government’s largest RT-PCR testing facility at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Vasant Kunj tests over 300 samples a day, with the others also burdened similarly. A government official claimed that even in developed countries, the RT-PCR testing facilities had only increased marginally. It cannot be increased in a big way because the testing facility is not only about creating physical infrastructure and buying instruments, but also about highly specialised human infrastructure. The supply of the microbiologists is limited. “It has been seen across the country that private companies are not interested in converting their testing facilities into Covid testing facilities,” rued the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scaling-up-of-rt-pcr-tests-an-uphill-task/articleshow/78176382.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||GST officials seize incriminating docus from four brick kilns||Coimbatore: A team of 60 GST officers conducted searches in 21 places of four major brick manufacturers in Thadagam and surrounding areas on Thursday. The officials seized incriminating documents and materials exhibiting tax evasion after search. “The tax evasion may run into atleast Rs 10 crore,” said an official. As many as 196 brick kiln units are presently operting at Thadagam and surrounding areas in Coimbatore district. The building bricks attract 5% of GST. “Many brick manufacturers did not maintain invoice for the sales and they involved tax evasion. Based on the intelligence received and developed by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) department, the search was conducted for the four major brick manufacturers,” said the official.GST joint commissioner VK Vamshadhara, issued a press note on Thursday night claiming that the brick kiln units have neither taken registration prescribed under section 22 of the Central GST Act, 2017 nor those that have taken registration have discharged the applicable duty as prescribed under section 9 of the CGST act. The units under the survey have been clandestinely removing the bricks without discharging the applicable tax causing substantial revenue loss to the exchequer.  The quantum of evasion is being ascertained and may run into a few crores. The official added that one of the brick manufacturers owned a construction company, bus services, petrol bunk and he was involved in other business also. “Most of the brick kiln units did not get registration from the GST department. Some of them registered their unit names and were involved in tax evasion. The 60 officers are ascertaining the tax evasion details. If a manufacturer is involved in tax evasion of Rs 2 crore, he has to pay 100 % penalty (Rs 2 crore) and 18 % of interest (Rs 36 lakhs) to the GST department,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gst-officials-seize-incriminating-docus-from-four-brick-kilns/articleshow/78177553.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||500 cartons of illicit liquor worth Rs 55 lakh seized in Moradabad, one arrested||Bareilly: Moradabad police claimed to have seized around 500 cartons of country-made foreign liquor worth around Rs 55 lakh from a truck and arrested an accused near Guretha turn under Pagbara police station limits in Moradabad on Wednesday night. Police said acting on a tip-off, a police team conducted an inspection of vehicles on the outskirts and intercepted a truck. The accused had covered the liquor cartons with fruits, said police. Moradabad superintendent of police Amit Kumar Anand said, “During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they were transporting the liquor to Lucknow after procuring from Haryana. According to the accused, several other people are engaged in supplying illicit liquor to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal.” An FIR was registered against the accused under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Excise Act and effort was on to arrest the kingpin and other members of the gang, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/500-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-worth-rs-55-lakh-seized-in-moradabad-one-arrested/articleshow/78171442.cms||Maria Khan
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||Surat man cheats three on job promises, booked||Vadodara: A man was booked at Navapura police station on Wednesday for cheating three persons of Rs 7 lakh by promising them jobs and permit for working in Canada. Accused Rajendrakumar Prasad, a native of Nadiad, who has settled in Surat had forged job offer letters and visa documents to con Tushar Patel, Mittal Chavda and Harsh Manohar. The trio, who live on RV Desai Road, had contacted Prasad through their friend Bhadresh Pandya, a resident of Sama. After meeting in November last year, Prasad had told them that he will charge Rs 7 lakh for everything and collected Rs 1.5 lakh in advance. A few weeks later, Prasad sent a forged appointment letter to the trio on WhatsApp which they believed to be true and sent Rs 98,500 to him for visa procedures. On December 5, he sent photographs of visa to them and took another Rs 4.5 lakh from the victims. The accused also told the victims that their air tickets have been booked. However, a few days before departure, Prasad informed them that the air tickets have been cancelled. This raised suspicion among the three victims and they started investigating on their own about the appointment letters and visa. When they found out that the appointment letters and visa were forged, they asked Prasad to return their passports and money. Prasad kept dilly dallying but when the complainants kept following up with him, the accused asked them to collect their passports from a photocopy centre in Surat. After he did not return the money and kept giving false promises, the three victims approached police on Wednesday and registered a complaint of cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/surat-man-cheats-three-on-job-promises-booked/articleshow/78174376.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bhopal||Minister’s guards test +ve after CM’s poll meet at Chhatarpur||Bhopal: Two days after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan kicked off Pradyum Singh Lodhi’s election campaign at a crowded public meet in Lidhora village of Chhatarpur district, two of Lodhi’s security guards have tested positive for Coronavirus. The guards were stationed around the dias where Chouhan, his cabinet colleague Gopal Bhargav and Uma Bhart, among others were present. A large number of people in the crowd could be seen without masks, and the villagers sat close to each other on a hot and humid day — violating several of the Covid safety guidelines. A day after the security guards tested positive, Lodhi was in Bhopal on Thursday. Talking to TOI, he said, “Yes, my guards were found positive for Covid-19. But, I have no symptoms and I am alright, which is why I did not get myself tested.” He said he was in Bhopal to attend meetings. Elected as a Congress MLA from Badamalehra seat in Chattarpur, Lodhi later defected to the BJP in July this year. Almost immediately, he was appointed as chairman of MP Civil Supplies Corporation. He is considered close to Uma Bharti, a former MLA from the same constituency. A number of politicians in Bundelkhand have been detected corona positive recently, including Union minister for tourism Prahalad Patel and BSP MLA Rambai. Both of them belong to the neighbouring district of Damoh. With 15 new corona cases in Chhatarpur on Thursday, the total number of cases has reaced 990. As of now there are 204 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ministers-guards-test-ve-after-cms-poll-meet-at-chhatarpur/articleshow/78176399.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Lok Nayak gives kids their own corner||NEW DELHI: Lok Nayak Hospital has upgraded its paediatric ward for Covid-19 patients to make it more child friendly. The ward has been filled with pictures of animals and cartoons and television sets that play animation channels to keep the juniors entertained as they recuperate from the viral infection. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital, said currently 40 children aged between one and 15 were admitted there. “Some of them have recovered, but they have to stay back as their parents, who are also admitted in the hospital, are yet to recuperate from the disease. The children are usually very restless, but we hope to engage them better with these playful activities,” he added. Around seven TV sets have been installed in the children’s ward. Also, the hospital has created a small play area and painting station. The hospital is the largest Covid healthcare facility in the state with 2,000 beds. In the past six months, doctors said, 415 children were admitted there for treatment. “Most children don’t have severe symptoms. But they require isolation and monitoring if they have comorbidities. In some cases, they have to be kept in the isolation ward if their parents are infected and they have no one else at home,” said an official, adding that the hospital had videocalling facilities and when the children cried a lot, the nurses attending to them made them speak to their parents. Paediatricians say children are able to recover faster from the disease and with less severe symptoms possibly because they have strong innate immune response. Also, their respiratory membrane has an excellent regeneration capacity. “Absence of known risk factors, such as diabetes and hypertension, in children also plays a strong role,” said experts. It has been observed that complications due to Covid-19 are maximum among individuals with comorbidities, diabetes being the most common. Diarrhoea and vomiting were two uncommon symptoms seen in such children. A group of researchers from AIIMS and PGIMER Chandigarh recently found this after analysing 27 reports on clinical manifestation of the viral infection in over 4,800 children across the globe. Similar to adults, the most common clinical features were fever and cough. However, their frequency was much lower in children (60-100% in adults versus 40-60% in children), according to the research published in Indian Paediatrics. Also, one-fourth of children were asymptomatic, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lok-nayak-gives-kids-their-own-corner/articleshow/78176426.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist admin to resume public grievances redressal meet||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore district administration has decided to resume public grievance redressal mechanism, but in a decentralised way where people can submit petitions at their village. Collector K Rajamani said that from September 21, public can submit their petitions at their respective village administrative offices. The petitions will be compiled and sent to concerned departments for action.Within 15 days of submitting the petitions, the department to which the issue pertains to will have to give an action taken report to the district collector as well as inform the petitioner. Prior to the lockdown, public grievances redressal meetings were held every Monday at the collectorate where people from across the district would gather and submit their petitions directly to the district collector. In the absence of the collector, other senior officials would receive the petitions. The petitions would largely pertain to requisition for old age pensions, widow pension, name transfer in patta, fresh patta, drinking water connection, laying of roads and removal of encroachment. But the grievances redressal meet was suspended due to the lockdown. “From now on, the petitions can be submitted every Monday in the respective village administrative offices from 10am to 1pm,’’ said collector K Rajamani. Wherever, the posts of VAO was vacant, the VAO from neighbouring locality who holds additional responsibility would collect petition from 2 pm to 5 pm. He said that those requesting for financial assistance under various government schemes like widow pension, old age pension, financial assistance for physically challenged, dole for Sri Lankan refugees need not submit petitions. They can apply through E-seva centres, he said.Other requests like house site patta, educational and agriculture loan and basic amenities can submit petitions. The petitions would be noted down and a receipt would be issued. These petitions would be compiled, sent to special tahsildar who would in turn send them to the respective department for action.“This system would continue till Covid spread comes under control,’’ Rajamani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-admin-to-resume-public-grievances-redressal-meet/articleshow/78177570.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid kites yearn for a coronavirus-free future||KOLKATA: In times of pandemic, Covid-themed kites ruled the skyline of Kolkata on Thursday on the occasion of Vishwakarma puja. While some flew colourful kites with “Go Corona Go” memes, others had photographs of people wearing masks with Apna time aayega — a popular song from the 2019 Bollywood hit ‘Gully Boy’ — being printed on them. Some flew kites with messages spreading awareness on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. “This year’s innovation is Covid-themed kites. Along with traditional kites, those with coronavirus caricatures were sold like hot cakes. Initially, we were selling each kite at Rs 5, but with the rise in demand, we had to get more of these kites at higher prices and sell them each at Rs 10 on Thursday morning,” said Bappa Das, a kite seller in Baghajatin area. Buoyed by a pleasant weather, kite enthusiasts had a field day and some even decorated their cars or the entrance of their houses with Covid-themed kites. “These ‘Go Corona Go’ and ‘Apna Time Ayega’ kites echoed exactly what people have been feeling during these trying times when we want Covid-19 to go away totally and pray for our normal life to return for good,” said Avishek Sen, a techie. Entrepreneur and Jadavpur resident, Sneha Dutta, said she had bought a couple of Covid-themed kites to decorate her car but her cousins and nephews at home loved it and asked for more. “When I went to buy more such kites in the morning, I was surprised to see that the price had doubled due to the rise in demand. Such was the popularity that within a few minutes, the seller had run out of all the stocks,” said Dutta. “The demand is at an all-time high. But due to poor production this year, there is a large demand-supply gap in the city,” said Ajit Datta, owner of the shop, India Kites in Bowbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/writing-on-the-sky-cov-kites-yearn-for-a-virus-free-future/articleshow/78176437.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro hikes e-pass cap at busy stations, cuts limit for Gitanjali and Netaji Bhavan||KOLKATA: Multiple false e-pass bookings have been reportedly preventing actual commuters from availing Metro services ever since they resumed from Monday. To address the issue, Metro Railway on Thursday increased the cap on the number of people allowed to book the passes for entry to the busiest of the 24 stations along the north-south corridor. The e-pass, to be downloaded from https://pathadisha.com/metro, is compulsory to enter a station on the 27km north-south link. “Based on ridership data analysis, a 20% increase has been allowed in the booking limit from stations like Dum Dum, M G Road, Esplanade, Kalighat, Mahanayak Uttam Kumar, Kavi Nazrul and Kavi Subhas,” said Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state government has appointed to develop the “Pathadisha Metro e-pass”. Likewise, the cap for stations like Gitanjali and Netaji Bhavan has been reduced. By allowing more bookings from the busy stations, more genuine riders are accommodated, Chatterjee said. On Monday, even as 53,000 passes were downloaded, only 20,000 rode the Metro. Many complained of not being allotted slots due to false bookings. Things improved on Wednesday when 35,053 rode, even as around 60,000 passes were downloaded. On Thursday 47,000 passes were downloaded while the ridership figure was pegged at nearly 26,000. Chatterjee said, “We started changing the booking caps from Thursday, but the effect of the tweaks in the system will be visible only from Friday. The ridership pattern was different on Thursday as Mahalaya was a holiday.” The increase and decrease in the booking caps have to be dynamic, depending on the footfall at a station in a particular slot. The day’s bookings have been divided into 12 one-hour slots, according to the 8am-8pm service period. Based on the algorithm, around 1,000 commuters are expected to be at Dum Dum between 9am and 10am and only 25 are likely to board from Park Street during the same slot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-hikes-e-pass-cap-at-busy-stns-cuts-limit-for-gitanjali-netaji-bhavan/articleshow/78176411.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Most Covid deaths in Lucknow of advanced stage patients||LUCKNOW: The increase in the number of Covid-19 deaths in the city also bares the fact that nearly 60% of the deceased were those who reached hospital in the last stage of illness. Even on Thursday, as toll reached 560 with six more deaths, two patients, aged 21 and 45 years, were brought to KGMU at an advanced stage. They died of respiratory failure within hours of admission. Doctors said a majority of patients brought in advanced stages were not aware that shortness of breath or breathlessness is a major Covid-19 symptom. It indicates that lungs are not able to function properly due to infection. The condition leads to decline in blood oxygen level that affects other organs, resulting in death, they added. Experts said lack of awareness is because many are still not taking the pandemic seriously, thinking that since recovery rate is high, the disease will not make any significant impact to their lives. Such an attitude has spiked transmission rate, which has led to increase in fatalities. “Most people are not understanding the seriousness; not many are still wearing masks outside,” said Prof SK Das, former head of rheumatology department and ex-faculty of medicine. “Those in the younger age group and those tired of sitting at home are risking their lives knowingly. Anyone, symptomatic or asymptomatic, should know that breathlessness is not the beginning Covid-19, but the sign of an advanced stage,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/most-covid-deaths-in-city-of-advanced-stage-patients/articleshow/78178035.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nagpur||Watch out for early signs to prevent suicides: Expert||Nagpur: World Suicide Prevention Day was observed on September 10. Currently, Suicide Prevention Fortnight is being observed in India. The two weeks aim to increase awareness about suicide prevention in country having the highest number of young population in the world. This year, theme for the awareness campaign is ‘Working together to prevent suicide’. TOI spoke to Dr Akshay Sarode, psychiatrist and district mental health programme officer of Nagpur district, on the issue. He said that suicide rate is increasing day by day and people are suffering from mental illnesses as well. “If help is made available even at the last moment, it’s possible to prevent any suicide. For this, we should know more about early warning signs of suicide,” he said. According to him, talking frequently about death or suicide, feeling of hopelessness, considering self as a burden, withdrawing completely from friends and family are some of the early signs. “Some people start losing interest in all kinds of activities, giving away all the possessions and some start mentioning about final goodbye to their family and friends. When you see these signs, it’s better to take care of that person,” said Dr Sarode. “Always try to keep at least one person with patient for all 24 hours,” he said. According to him, if someone is having suicidal thoughts or facing depression or mental problem at home, take care sharp objects and sleeping pills at home are out of reach of that person. Dr Sarode further said that such people should not stock-up chemicals like disinfectants and sterilizers in bulk quantity at home. “For the person facing mental problem, professional help from psychiatrist or psychologist must be sought at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/watch-out-for-early-signs-to-prevent-suicides-expert/articleshow/78188045.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 18, 2020||Mumbai||Relief for realty business should be less than 50%: Mumbai, Thane civic chiefs||MUMBAI: Municipal commissioners feel some relaxation must be given to the real estate industry, though maybe not 50%, said state urban development secretary Bhushan Gagarani. In July, state government had sought the opinion of commissioners of Mumbai, Thane and Pune on 50% concessions in premiums/levies/ cess, as recommended by the Deepak Parekh committee, appointed by it to revive the industry. Gagarani said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had asked the chief secretary, UDD, and municipal commissioner to give a joint hearing to Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry and arrive at a formula. “The CM wanted to know if government gives some relaxation (during Covid period), how and how much will be passed on to end-consumers,” said Gagarani. CREDAI-MCHI on Wednesday made a presentation before the panel on why 50% concessions were justified. CREDAIMCHI president Deepak Goradia said unless the concessions were given, projects will not be viable and no new projects will start. “Currently, builders who have running projects and who need NOCs for continuing work are paying premiums and levies. There is no other payment as the industry is in a slump due to Covid-19,” he said. He said while workers have started returning, construction will get fully on track only by the year-end or early next year. On passing benefits of concessions in premiums to consumers, real estate industry sources said almost 98% of redevelopment projects are stuck as they are unviable due to high premium and levies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/relief-for-real-estate-industry-but-not-50-mumbai-pune-thane-civic-chiefs/articleshow/78176295.cms||Clara Lewis
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Salaries from savings illegal: Delhi University principals||NEW DELHI: Expressing “hurt” and disappointment with the statement of deputy CM Manish Sisodia on colleges funded by Delhi government not using their funds to pay salaries, the Delhi University Principals’ Association (DUPA) hit back at the government on Thursday saying Sisodia’s suggestion of using the institutional savings to pay salaries was “an illegal idea”. In a statement, DUPA said it was “dismayed by the immature and misleading press statement of the deputy CM, wherein he made unsubstantiated allegations against the administration of Delhi government-funded colleges, charging them with misappropriation of funds and not paying salary from students’ society account.” The principals said the needs of the 12 government-funded colleges stood at Rs 270 crore for the 2020-21. “Ideally, 75% of the grants, that is Rs 202 crore, should have been released before July. But only Rs 37.5 crore have been released. This is a violation of the Pattern of Assistance communicated to us on January 8 by the Directorate of Higher Education,” the principals’ body said. DUPA explained that the government gave grants under two heads: plan and non-plan. “It is clearly mentioned in every sanction letter that funds cannot be transferred from one head to the other, the statement said. Jaswinder Singh, principal, SGTB Khalsa College and president of DUPA, emphasised, “The students’ society fund and development fund are collected by colleges governed by University Grants Commission regulations and are used for organising student activities, never to pay salaries.” The DUPA meeting on Wednesday, attended by over 30 college principals, resolved to meet CM Arvind Kejriwal to express their concern at the government’s view. Poonam Verma, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, was hurt that “our deputy CM comes and praises us in the college and then says that our college is corrupt”. Refuting government allegations about the colleges not holding governing body election and obstructing audits, Singh claimed the “democratic process” of forming GBs would be “completed soon”, while clarifying that “no college has any audit pending”. The six colleges accused to not completing the audit process are Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, SSCBS, Bhagini Nivedita, Aditi Mahavidyalaya, Keshav Mahavidyalaya and Maharshi Valmiki College of Education. However, DU Academic Council member Naveen Gaur contested this, saying that “while Delhi government must release funds unconditionally, all colleges do not get an audit done, contrary to DUPA’s sweeping statement”. In response, a Delhi government official reiterated that some colleges “are depositing their funds in fixed deposits and incessantly demanding money from Delhi government. According to the pattern of assistance, these colleges need to meet all their expenses from the funds they get from various other sources and only in case of shortages after that will they be compensated by Delhi government.” The official said that when the government asked for the accounts related to sources of income, the colleges demurred. “If the colleges do not disclose how they have spent their money, on what basis can the Delhi government release funds?” the official asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/salaries-from-savings-illegal-du-principals/articleshow/78176477.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||UT: 5 die, 288 more down with disease||tnnChandigarh: Five Covid-19 patients died and 288 tested positive in Chandigarh on Thursday.Most of the positive cases were reported from Manimajra, Dhanas, sectors 33, 46,19, 20, 21, and 22. The casualties included an 81-year-old man of Sector 55 with diabetes and hypertension; a 57-year-old diabetic man of Sector 30; a 61-year-old man of Manimajra; an 18-year-old woman of Sector 42, who tested positive posthumously; and a 48-year-old woman of Sector 28.The city’s death toll has risen to 106 and the case count to 9,246. The day also saw 379 patients getting discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-5-die-288-more-down-with-disease/articleshow/78175307.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Four UT police teams on trail of ‘killer’ husband||CHANDIGARH: The UT police has constituted four teams to trace the killer of a 40-year-old woman teacher of a government school. Accused Mandeep Singh, 43, has been on the run since September 15, along with his nine-year-old son, after allegedly killing his wife Jyoti Rani. He is also a government school teacher. Sector 17 SHO Ram Rattan Sharma said while three teams have been raiding the houses of his relatives and friends in different parts of the city, one team is looking for him in and around the city. The accused is using his Maruti Alto car and his mobile phone is switched off. The last location of his phone was traced to Chandigarh. So far, the motive behind killing his wife and trying to kill his elder son by pushing him into a Ludhiana canal is not clear, but preliminary investigations suggest the couple had a strained relationship. Mandeep had left the house, along with his two sons, in his car to pay obeisance at a gurdwara at Doraha near Ludhiana on the morning of September 14. After visiting the gurdwara, he allegedly pushed his elder son into the canal and fled with his younger son. Later, the Ludhiana police rescued the boy. The incident came to light when Ludhiana police, along with the elder son of Mandeep, went to the deceased’s house on Tuesday night and found the house locked from outside. The boy told the police that his father had told them that his mother was inside in home isolation due to Corona infection. But, as a foul smell emanated from the house, the door was opened with the help of local police. They found Jyoti’s body lying on the bed wrapped in a bed sheet. An injury mark behind the victim’s head suggested that she was hit by some iron road or stick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-ut-police-teams-on-trail-of-killer-husband/articleshow/78175296.cms||Pawan Tiwari
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||Passenger from Riyadh held with Rs 2 crore gold biscuits at Lucknow airport||LUCKNOW: In another crackdown on gold smuggling, the customs department of Chaudhary Charan Singh airport (Amausi) caught a passenger with undeclared gold worth Rs 2 crore which he was carrying inside his innerwear. The passenger, a native of Moradabad, landed at Amausi airport from Riyadh in GoAir flight (G8 6451) on Wednesday night along with 33 gold biscuits. Niharika Lakha, the deputy commissioner of customs Lucknow said, “During frisking the metal detector raised alarm around passenger’s abdomen. After a thorough inspection, our team recovered 3.8kg of gold which the passenger had not declared and was allegedly smuggling into the country under his undergarment. The gold biscuits were taped into a black pouch.” “The passenger used to work as carpenter in Riyadh and had returned to India after spending five years there. During interrogation, he claimed that a man contacted him in Riyadh via his acquaintance and offered to pay for his return ticket on condition to smuggle the gold biscuits. Had the passenger been able to pass through security check at Amausi, he would had delivered the gold to another person waiting for him outside airport. The smuggling racket leave no loose ends, hence the passenger was not given any information as who would had contacted him outside airport,” added Lakha. Customs officials claimed, “Majority of gold smuggled into India is done from middle eastern countries. Since the flight operations have resumed, there is a sudden surge in the illegal activities.” “Most of the apprehended passengers are used as couriers to smuggle gold into India. They are lured with free air tickets and some cash. The actual kingpin never comes into light. In rare cases, we are able catch person who is involved in gold smuggling,” added official. The accused was presented before a judicial magistrate on Thursday who sent him into 14-day judicial custody. Commissioner (customs department) Ved Prakash Shukla announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for the team of seven who caught the passenger with 33 gold biscuits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/passenger-from-riyadh-held-with-rs-2cr-gold-biscuits/articleshow/78178036.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 18, 2020||Thane||Relief for realty business should be less than 50%: Mumbai, Thane civic chiefs||MUMBAI: Municipal commissioners feel some relaxation must be given to the real estate industry, though maybe not 50%, said state urban development secretary Bhushan Gagarani. In July, state government had sought the opinion of commissioners of Mumbai, Thane and Pune on 50% concessions in premiums/levies/ cess, as recommended by the Deepak Parekh committee, appointed by it to revive the industry. Gagarani said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had asked the chief secretary, UDD, and municipal commissioner to give a joint hearing to Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry and arrive at a formula. “The CM wanted to know if government gives some relaxation (during Covid period), how and how much will be passed on to end-consumers,” said Gagarani. CREDAI-MCHI on Wednesday made a presentation before the panel on why 50% concessions were justified. CREDAIMCHI president Deepak Goradia said unless the concessions were given, projects will not be viable and no new projects will start. “Currently, builders who have running projects and who need NOCs for continuing work are paying premiums and levies. There is no other payment as the industry is in a slump due to Covid-19,” he said. He said while workers have started returning, construction will get fully on track only by the year-end or early next year. On passing benefits of concessions in premiums to consumers, real estate industry sources said almost 98% of redevelopment projects are stuck as they are unviable due to high premium and levies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/relief-for-real-estate-industry-but-not-50-mumbai-pune-thane-civic-chiefs/articleshow/78181026.cms||Clara Lewis
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Five engg students hurt as car rams divider||Hyderabad: Five engineering students, who were travelling from Mahabubnagar to Nalgonda, met with an accident at Pedda Golkonda on Thursday. All the five students, who were injured, where shifted to hospital. The mishap took place after the driver lost control over the car and ended up hitting the divider. The students were going to their college in Nalgonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-engg-students-hurt-as-car-rams-divider/articleshow/78176482.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Panic as Covid-19 positive bank branch head attends office||MOHALI: Panic gripped the staff of a Mohali branch of Bank of Baroda after they learned that they had been attending meetings taken by Covid-19 positive branch head. The staff, out of fear of being infected, have shot off a letter to their head office, seeking sanitisation of the branch and exemption of employees from coming to office till the head and his second-in-command test negative. Branch manager tested positive on September 15 and thereafter came to the branch, but neither the head office nor any other authority sanitised the branch or ensured that he was put under isolation. The branch was open on Thursday and public dealing was undertaken. The employees, in their complaint, alleged that the manager had been attending the branch from September 11, interacted with some of them and two staff members accompanied him on an inspection. They added that no action was taken by the regional office and branch operated with full staff on Thursday too. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said he was not aware of the matter, but if the branch head tested positive and attended office, defying the pandemic and the Disaster Management Act, he should be prosecuted. He said, “I will get the matter verified and take action as per the law.” However, the corona positive branch head said, “We go by the instructions of our head office and standard operating procedure is to be adopted by them.” Despite repeated attempts, zonal head of BoB Mohan Lal could not be contacted for comments. As per the Union health ministry directions, the entire office building need not be closed if one or two cases are reported and work can resume after it is disinfected as per protocol. The norms of the Disaster Management Act, saying that samples of all employees should be taken and the branch should be completely sanitised were not followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panic-as-covid-19-ve-bank-branch-head-attends-office/articleshow/78175313.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||Panaji to get 310 home toilets, CCP issues work order||PANAJI: In a bid to make the capital city open defecation free (ODF), the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) has issued a work order for the construction of 310 individual toilets for homes. The construction cost of the toilets has been estimated at R 1.6 crore. These will be single seater pour flush water seal latrines, mayor Uday Madkaikar said. The corporation issued the work order and signed the MOU with Sulabh International Social Service organisation for the construction of the toilets. “For the speedy completion of the project, the corporation will provide all necessary support to the Sulabh International Social Service Organisation and ensure that work gets completed within the deadline, which has been set as mid December,” he said. Earlier this year, CCP received cabinet sanction to build the toilets under the 14th Finance Scheme. CCP attributed the delays to the initial estimate not including the floor and wall tiles and to public works department revising its rates. The capital city has missed many deadlines to make the city open defecation free. In September last year Madkaikar said the corporators were pressurised into signing certificates and taking a resolution to declare Panaji ODF. In January the department of urban development rejected the request of the corporation to build the toilets through Sulabh international and stated that the work could be tendered instead. Madkaikar termed the rejection of its request “injustice” stating that all other municipalities were getting the toilets build without a tender through the same organisation. The department had asked CCP for detailed justification for taking up the work through the organisation and not tender it. “Panaji is not ODF,” he had told reporters at the time, adding that people are openly defecating in Miramar and Caranzalem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-to-get-310-home-toilets-ccp-issues-work-order/articleshow/78177573.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||Subsidise pvt hospital charges to mark PM’s birthday: Congress||Margao: Congress on Thursday demanded that the state government immediately either take over private hospitals treating Covid patients or announce subsidised charges for patients in private hospitals “to mark the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” In a press note, state Congress president Girish Chodankar said, “The exorbitant rates fixed by the government for private hospitals (for Covid treatment) ,which are highest in India, are with an intention of making fortunes, pushing its single-point agenda of ‘business from people’s sickness’.” “The BJP government has once again displayed its insensitive nature towards common man and its love for crony capitalists by approving huge charges for Covid treatment in private hospitals,” Chodankar said. Accusing the government of failing to create additional facilities in the last six months, Chodankar said, “This compelled people to go to private hospitals. Now, it’s the duty of the government to ensure that Covid patients are provided health care at affordable rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/subsidise-pvt-hospital-charges-to-mark-pms-birthday-congress/articleshow/78177593.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||Konkani Bhasha Mandal announces 2020 awards||Margao: The Konkani Bhasha Mandal (KBM) has announced the winners of its various 2020 annual awards. Harishchandra Nagvenkar has bagged the service award (seva puraskar) while Dr Prakash Vazrikar has bagged the Serafino Cotta-sponsored Felicio Cardozo memorial teacher award. Juje Piedade Quadros memorial activist award has been awarded to Late Nityanand Naik. Ligorio Furtado Trust award for journalism has been bagged by Jose Salvadore Fernandes while Dinesh Manerkar-sponsored Chandrakant Keni memorial award for best columnist/column writing has been awarded to Ulhas Nayak. Manikrao Ram Prabhu Gaunekar bagged the Dinesh Manerkar-sponsored Ramnath Manerkar memorial award for translation for his book “Shri Ramkrishna Amrutvani.” Anthony Barkur is the recipient of the late Narsinha Damodar Naik award for literature. He bagged the award for his book ‘Mansa’, a collection of short stories. Late Rock Barreto award for literature has been awarded to Shailendra Mehta for his book ‘Sisiphus Tengsher’, a collection of poems. Mario Menezes has bagged the KBM award for literature for his book ‘Shiralo’, a collection of tiatrs. Manoharrai Sardesai children’s literature award has been bagged by Nayana Adarkar for his book ‘Belabaicho Shankar and Other Stories’. The KBM will celebrate its 58th foundation day on September 30 through an online medium for which folklore researcher Dr Jayanti Naik will be the chief guest. However, the winners will be presented the awards “once the Covid-19 pandemic situation is under control”, says a press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/konkani-bhasha-mandal-announces-2020-awards/articleshow/78177575.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||3 die, 278 catch virus in Mohali||TNNMohali: Three people succumbed to the deadly virus and 278 tested positive in Mohali on Thursday.Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the casualties included a 55-year-old man of Kharar with kidney and lung disease; a 60-year-old woman of Badanaa village in Kharar with diabetes and hypertension; and an 80-year-old diabetic man of Desumajra. Of the positive cases, 73 are from Mohali city, 71 from Dhakoli, 26 from Kharar, 69 from Gharuan block, 19 from Kurali, 14 from Derabassi, four from Lalru and two from Boothgarh.The day also saw 236 patients recovering from the disease.The Mohali district case count has now mounted to 7,652, including 2,482 active cases. As many as 5,019 have been cured to date. The toll tally is 151.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-die-278-catch-virus-in-mohali/articleshow/78175316.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Quack held for giving death certificate of man killed by wife, paramour||MUMBAI: A quack who issued the death certificate of a man killed by his wife and her paramour, stating that he died of a heart attack, was arrested by city crime branch. Unit VIII on Thursday arrested Ashok Adhyadige (59), who used to operate a clinic in Malvani, Malad, on charges of murder, and for aiding and abetting an accused in a crime. Maharashtra Medical Council recently told police his registration number was fake. Mahesh Patel, a resident of Malad, had died and his family cremated his body at Malvani Hindu Shamshan. “We got information that he was murdered, so we started a reverse investigation. We got hold of the death certificate from the crematorium, wherein the cause of death was mentioned as a cardio-respiratory attack,” said senior inspector Ajay Joshi. Mahesh and Ujjwala were married for 10 years and had three children. The couple often fought over her illicit relationship with Arup Das. Police detained Ujjwala and Das separately and found discrepancies in their statements when questioned. After two days of interrogation, Das spilled the beans. She put four pills in Mahesh’s breakfast but since they failed to work, she mixed another 10 in his dinner, which made him to sleep on December 21 last year . When she found her husband was still breathing, she called Das, who smothered him to death with a pillow, crime branch said. Das called up Adhyadige, who issued a death certificate stating that Mahesh died of a heart attack. During investigation, police arrested Sagar Sharma who provided Das with sleeping pills. When Sharma learnt about the murder, he threatened Das and demanded Rs20,000, which led to a fight. Ujwala, Das and Sharma made two attempts to kill Mahesh and had rented a tempo, which they planned to run over him and make it look like an accident. The first time, Mahesh was on his bike and Sharma, who was driving the tempo, was unable to keep pace, while the second time, Sharma’s brother was riding pillion, so they cancelled their plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/quack-held-for-giving-death-cert-of-man-killed-by-wife-lover/articleshow/78176300.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Most parents want schools to stay shut in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Parents of several private schools in Delhi are in no mood to send their children to school. Since the decision on students going back to schools depend on the consent of their parents, the Directorate of Education asked schools to ascertain the views of parents through Google Forms as advised by the central government. The response has been a resounding “No”. At Bal Bharti School, Dwarka, 65% of the parents were against sending their children to school, 15% were unsure and just 15% okay with it. At Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, 75% of the parents of students of classes IX to XII said they did not want to send their children to schools. In another private school, in a class of 400 students, parents of a mere 25 students gave the go-ahead. According to an education official, the decision on reopening schools will be taken on Friday. All educational institutions have been shut since March and classes are being conducted online. Delhi has some models of reopening schools. Haryana is trying out the bubble mode of dividing children into colour-code groups that will engage only within that group. Assam government has called students of classes XI and XII for classes three days a week, the students of classes IX and X in the other three days. All schools will be required to have hand washing dispensers on all floors, signages and boxes marked on the ground for physical distancing, and compulsory masks for students and teachers. The cafeteria and other common areas are to be closed. Aadharshila Vidyapeeth in Pitampura plans to have students coming in shifts. Springdales School, Pusa Road, is currently only contemplating having physical interactions for Class XII students. “We will reopen on September 22 with safety and security parameters in place,” said Ameeta Mulla Wattal, Springdales’ principal. “The parents’ opinions will be known by Monday, though we want to first try with only the Class XII students.” Suruchi Gupta, principal, Bal Bharti, Dwarka, said the school plans to call students of classes X and XII from October in groups of 10-12. “By then, the syllabus will be completed, so the plan is to at least get these students to have one-on-one interactions. We held parents’ meetings with medical professionals, but parents are scared,” said Gandhi. The principal of six branches of Bal Bharti will meet on Friday and decide on the reopening and the Covid measures to be taken. However, a teacher of a private school said the parents actually wanted schools to open. “I interact with my students and their parents every day. Initially, the parents were not keen to send their children to school, but now the fatigue of sitting at home has set in, and a majority are keen on schools reopening,” the teacher said. To this, parent Subir Thakur countered, “If anything happens with even one student, who will take responsibility for it? I think schools should first let us know in detail what precautions they are taking to make it easier for us to decide.” Another parent asked, “With most of the cases in Delhi being asymptomatic, how are schools going to ascertain every teacher or student who walk into the school is uninfected? And what about school buses? There are so many issues. Health comes before anything else.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/most-parents-want-schools-to-stay-shut/articleshow/78176489.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Blind RKM teacher lights up Covid path||KOLKATA: Until February this year, Biswajit Ghosh — a completely blind teacher and the principal of Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy in Narendrapur — used to counsel visually impaired persons and their family members from far and wide, guiding them on education, employment, social security and steps to boost self-confidence. But the pandemic and the lockdown changed the scenario and suddenly he and the other counsellors began receiving distress calls about pain, angst and frustration of visually challenged persons from across the state, who had lost their livelihood in the wake of the pandemic, owing to mobility challenges. That is when Ghosh and his NGO — The Society For The Welfare of The Blind — started reaching out to such visually impaired persons across districts helping them with ration, cash transfer and guiding them with new means of livelihood. Till this week, Ghosh and his NGO have helped 650 such individuals across eight districts and he vows to reach out to 350 others in the next two months. For his efforts, he was felicitated in a low key function at Disha Mahanagar in New Town by an eye hospital chain that had been awarding outstanding visually impaired individuals and organisations for the last three years. “I don’t think I have done anything exceptional. Being blind myself I understand the pains of a visually challenged person who suddenly has no means of livelihood and has to entirely depend on other individuals. It’s just a small effort from us to stand by them in this time of emergency,” said Biswajit Ghosh while receiving the cheque of Rs 1 lakh and a memento by HIDCO chairman Debashis Sen in the presence of Dr Debasish Bhattacharya, chairman & managing director, Disha Eye Hospitals. Lauding his efforts, Sen said he would extend all possible help to Ghosh’s NGO in their efforts if they plan to have any activity in New Town. Bhattacharya said: “The pandemic situation has been challenging for all of us. One can very well understand the plight of the visually impaired people during these testing times. It is really encouraging that the society has come forward to help them.” “It’s not much but at least it will help them tide over this crisis. We have a database of such people and are listing fresh ones following a basic verification and reaching out to them with the basic help,” added Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/blind-rkm-teacher-lights-up-covid-path/articleshow/78176483.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 snuffs out Pkl man’s life, 112 test +ve||tnn Panchkula: A man died of Covid-19 and 112 tested positive in Panchkula on Thursday.With this, the district case count stands at 4,608, including 1,215 active ones.The toll tally has climbed to 54.Chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “A 54-year-old resident of Sector 12-A with comorbidities has lost his life. Most of the positive cases were reported from urban areas.”As many as 3,339 patients have recovered so far. A total of 56,760 samples have been taken in the district to date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-snuffs-out-pkl-mans-life-112-test-ve/articleshow/78175333.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||At 1.12%, Chandigarh’s fatality rate is lowest in Tricity||CHANDIGARH: Though fast heading to cross the 10,000-mark of Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh has the lowest fatality rate in Tricity. With 101 deaths against 8,973 positive cases so far (till September 16), the city has 1.12% fatality rate, which is better than the national figure of 1.63%. Mohali has the highest fatality rate of 2% and Panchkula is marginally ahead of Chandigarh at 1.17%. Chandigarh is second in death numbers, as to date it has seen 101 casualties, while Mohali logged the highest of 151 and Panchkula 54. The surge in positive cases in Chandigarh started after an outburst in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B in May. Thereafter, UT continuously saw positive cases and crossed the 9,000-mark by September 17, when 288 fresh cases were reported. It may hit 10,000-mark by the weekend. The recovery rate of Chandigarh is lowest at 63.44% with just 5,683 patients getting cured out of a total of 8,973 positive cases so far. Panchkula has the best recovery rate of 72.46% in Tricity, followed by Mohali at 65.59%. In Chandigarh, 56,490 persons were tested for Covid-19, of which 47,205 tested negative (83.56%) and the reports of 181 are pending. The UT administration claimed that they have been doing extensive sampling to find people hiding and not disclosing their conditions. In Panchkula, 56,760 people have been tested, of which 50,594 were negative (89.13%). As per the data provided by the UT administration, on an average 50 Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Chandigarh daily. In the past 180 days since Chandigarh saw its first positive case, the number has crossed 9,000 cases. At present, Chandigarh has three major micro-containment areas at Sector 13, Manimajra, where maximum cases are surfacing, and Dhanas and Mauli Jagran. Containment zonesChandigarh’s first containment zone was Bapu Dham Colony, which remained under lockdown for over 45 days, starting May 2. The Central government then issued orders to withdraw the red zone and the green zone concept and make micro-containment zones instead of locking down the entire area. Now, the UT administration has created 27 new micro-containment zones in the city, including parts of sectors 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 29, 32, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 46, 47, 52, 63, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran. City saw first case on March 19A 23-year-old woman, who flew back from England, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 19, making her the first confirmed case in Tricity. The patient, a resident of Sector 21, had reported at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, complaining of a cold and fever after landing at the Amritsar airport on March 15. The symptoms subsided, and she recovered from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-1-12-uts-fatality-rate-is-lowest-in-tricity/articleshow/78175326.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 18, 2020||Goa||‘Job crisis needs PM Modi’s urgent attention’||PANAJI: The unemployment crisis in the country has put the future of India’s youth in jeopardy and Prime Minister Narendra Modi needs to ensure that the Centre takes steps to create employment opportunities for Indian youth, Congress said here on Thursday. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Modi should keep his promise to create 2 crore jobs every year so that youth are not left in the lurch. “Unemployment has risen so much today that people are suffering. We urge Modi to create the 12 crore jobs for the last six years and employ all those who lost jobs because of the faulty policies of his government,” said Chodankar as part of a nationwide campaign to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday as National Unemployment Day. The party claimed that in 2020, 21 million salaried Indians lost jobs in five months because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to combat the pandemic. “Faulty economic policies and mishandling of Covid led to the current situation. Of all the problems plaguing India right now, Modiji this one begs your urgent attention,” said Chodankar. Chodankar also said that the NDA government’s decision to implement demonetisation and hastily roll out GST led to a loss of jobs for which youth are suffering in the country. Meanwhile, the party has also urged the state government to temporarily take over private hospitals or announce subsidised charges at private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/job-crisis-needs-pms-urgent-attention/articleshow/78177581.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's IGI gets new terminal for chartered flights||NEW DELHI: A new private jet terminal was made operational at IGI Airport on Thursday. The exclusive terminal for chartered flights launched by Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) was inaugurated by Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who described the occasion as an important milestone. The terminal can cater up to 150 private jet movements on a single day, including code C-type aircraft. Spread over 8 lakh square feet, it also has 57 parking bays for private planes. “With this exclusive terminal, Delhi airport marks another milestone of setting up high-end infrastructure for passengers. The terminal has been built to support the movement and processing of passengers flying through chartered flights,” said a DIAL spokesperson. The facility will offer car parking and a convenient access route towards the city, an official said. It also houses passenger lounges, retail and F&B sections, 24x7 concierge services, common processing area with customs and immigration and immediate access to private jet stands from the terminal, which can handle over 50 passengers every hour. “India’s civil aviation sector is on a steady growth trajectory. It’s all set to emerge stronger in a post-Covid world as more routes are opening and the number of passengers is growing. We expect a bulk of pre-Covid domestic air passengers’ traffic to be back by Diwali. The new terminal is the need of the hour, which will significantly support this growth,” said Puri. GBS Raju, business chairman, GMR Airports (India), said, “This exclusive terminal is a great addition to DIAL’s passenger experience. DIAL acknowledges the tremendous efforts put in by the construction teams to deliver this unique project, despite challenges.” There will also be facilities for the crew members and staff, such as restroom and briefing area, in the new terminal. “Besides, it will have an access control system, Wi-Fi-enabled services, IT system integrated with the overall IGIA platform and perimeter security control system to provide a rich and personalised experience to the passengers,” an airport official added. Watch Delhi's IGI gets new terminal for chartered flights||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-gets-new-terminal-for-chartered-flights/articleshow/78176234.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: 34-year-old dies, uncle hurt as SUV hits earth mover||MOHALI: A 34-year-old man died after his speeding SUV rammed into an earth mover coming from the wrong side on the Zirakpur-Panchkula highway in the early hours of Thursday. Solan resident Ankur Sangal succumbed to his injuries while his maternal uncle, Arvind, is critical, said the police. The cops said the incident took place around 1.30am and both the SUV occupants were rushed to the Sector 6 civil hospital, Panchkula, where the doctors declared Ankur dead within an hour. Arvind was referred to GMCH-32, from where he was taken to Rohtak. The police said the earth mover driver has been identified as Pramod. Investigating officer sub-inspector Satinder Kaur said, “The JCB driver was coming from the wrong side. It is not clear whether he had switched on the lights or not. He will be arrested soon. The duo was going to their house in Solan, Himachal Pradesh, from Ganganagar. Ankur was into import-export business of chocolates and had about three franchises. He is survived by his wife and a six-year-old child.” The cop said the post-mortem was conducted on Thursday and the family also reached from Solan. The accused has been booked at the Dhakoli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/34-yr-old-dies-uncle-hurt-as-suv-hits-earth-mover/articleshow/78175341.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Green tribunal no to Lake Chhath plea||Kolkata: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday dismissed the appeal by the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) for the review of its judgment, banning all social and religious festivities and offerings, including Chhath, at Rabindra Sarobar, a national lake and an eco-sensitive zone. KMDA indicated it would move the Supreme Court to seek a review. The bench of Justice S P Wangdi (judicial member) and Dr Nagin Nanda (expert member) told government counsel Asok Banerjee that considering his seniority, the court did not impose any penalty for non-compliance of the order. The agencies must follow the order, passed on November 15, 2017, without any deviation. In its appeal, KMDA had earlier mentioned that despite their efforts to comply with the NGT order, many devotees broke the wall and barged into the Lake on Chhath Puja to offer prayers. “We are thinking of moving the Supreme Court to review the NGT order,” urban development minister Firhad Hakim told reporters. The petitioner of the case and environment crusader Subhas Datta said, “It is an exemplary order. Rabindra Sarobar is the last bastion of the city’s biodiversity. If we keep allowing such mayhem in the name of religious sentiment and social causes, the doomsday will not be distant.” But Mani Prasad Singh, president of Bihari Samaj, said, “Chhath is the most eco-friendly religious practice.I doubt whether it could ever be communicated to the NGT bench. The government lawyer failed to convey to court that the nuisance created at the Lake were by outsiders, not devotees.”  Power minister and MLA Shobhandeb Chattopadhyay said the government tried to follow the NGT order. “I am a nature lover but have to respect people’s sentiment. I The government will do the right move at right time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-tribunal-no-to-lake-chhath-plea/articleshow/78176504.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Find out who’s investing in microbreweries, says HDK||Bengaluru: Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Thursday said the government must probe Bengaluru’s microbreweries and find out who has invested in them. Speaking to the media, Kumaraswamy said: “Forget casinos and night clubs, which are supposedly run in the Hebbal area and are being currently investigated. Let the government first look into these microbreweries.” Kumaraswamy said several microbreweries in the city have seen a large amount of investments over the last few years, including one on the corner of Vittal Mallya Road. “While I do not say that investors are only politicians, even officials are involved in this. In my opinion, a lot of those who are involved in the government are investing in these breweries,” he said. Kumaraswamy said the background of those who are investing in these microbreweries will throw light on the true culprits behind the drug racket. “Otherwise, the arrest of a few actors will just be eyewash and the matter will be put into cold storage in the next 15 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/find-out-whos-investing-in-microbreweries-says-hdk/articleshow/78176144.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||UP scraps move for detention centre in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: The Yogi Adityanath government on Thursday withdrew its decision to start the state’s first detention centre, which was carved out of Dr Ambedkar SC/ST Hostel in Ghaziabad’s Nandgram. The move came on a day when BSP chief Mayawati, who had built the hostel in 2010-11 during her tenure as chief minister, reacted angrily to the hostel’s transformation, saying the government’s decision showed its “anti-Dalit” working style. “Converting the multi-storey Dr Ambedkar SC/ST student hostel built by the BSP government in Ghaziabad as the first detention centre of UP for ‘illegal foreigners’ is extremely sad and condemnable. This is another proof of the anti-Dalit style of the government. BSP demands that the government immediately withdraws this decision,” Mayawati twee-ted on Thursday, after news reports emerged on Wednesday regarding the detention centre. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey confirmed that the government had taken back its decision. “The hostel will revert to its previous status of a women’s hostel. In case any alternative proposal is sought from the government, we will suggest some other place,” he said. On the renovation done over the past few months, Pandey said it has only improved the condition of the building and would provide better facilities to students. Ruling out any plan to change the building’s use, a senior government spokesperson in Lucknow said it would continue to house SC/ST students. “During the Covid-19 lockdown, the building was temporarily used to house members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who were being kept in isolation,” he said. Earlier in the day, district social welfare officer Sumit Vyas, who had been given the responsibility to make arrangements and was quoted in a newspaper report as saying the construction was almost complete, told TOI he had met with an accident and the charge had been given to another official. Located on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway near Raj Nagar Extension, the Ambedkar hostel, with a capacity to accommodate more than 400 students, had two wings, for male and female students. In 2017, space had been sought from the state government for creating a detention centre in Ghaziabad. The then district magistrate proposed the women’s wing, which was lying vacant after girls raised safety issues and were shifted to another hostel in Sahibabad. The then DM’s proposal was passed by the social welfare department, sources said, adding that an arrangement was made to keep 100 people who had violated visa norms in the open jail. According to a government order, the centre was to be handed over to the police department. A memorandum of understanding would have been signed with the social welfare department and the police department after its completion, said an official. Ghaziabad police chief Kalanidhi Naithani, however, told TOI that the police department has no role to play till a government order is passed. Meanwhile, part of the building continues to house male students. Some of them who read the news reports of the proposed detention centre echoed Mayawati’s concerns. “It is yet another atrocity on the Dalit community. The government is trying to snatch away opportunities from us,” said a hosteller, who studies in a college in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/up-withdraws-move-to-turn-ghaziabad-hostel-into-a-detention-centre/articleshow/78177159.cms||Aditya Dev
September 18, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka onion growers staring at huge losses as Centre bans exports||BELAGAVI: The abrupt decision of the central government prohibiting the export of onions has dealt a severe blow to the farmers of North Karnataka, already reeling under losses owing to the incessant rain in the region that has destroyed the crop across vast tracts of land. Onion cultivators had been hoping to recoup their losses by exporting the bulbs, but the Centre’s directive has dashed their hopes. Notwithstanding the reduced supply, the price of onions has not witnessed a sharp spike on the wholesale market and the APMC mandis, where a quintal of the vegetable is being sold for anywhere between Rs 200 to Rs 2,000. But for the Union government’s ban on export of the vegetable, the price was expected to touch Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,000. Onions are grown across more than three lakh hectares across North Karnataka. In a year when the rainfall is normal, a farmer can reap a harvest more than 800kg of onions in one acre, but the yield has been abysmally low this year owing to torrential showers. Bagalkot farmer Siddalinga B Akkimargi said that, this year, on average, yield per acre slid to 500kg. Akkimargi has invested a whopping Rs 10 lakh for the cultivation of onions on his 30-acre farm. “Owing to the ban, the price of each quintal is bound to slide further, and even in the best-case scenario, if I get Rs 1,500 per quintal, I will left with a loss of more than Rs 6.5 lakh,” said Akkimargi. Ryots demand support priceSuresh Mohite, a supervisor at the Vijayapura APMC mandi, pointed to the sharp decline in the supply of the crop this year compared to 2019. “Last year, nearly 2,000 to 7,000 quintals arrived at the mandi here in September, but this year, only 2,000 quintals of onions have been brought by the farmers. Owing to the shortfall in supply, farmers will get a decent rate for the crop now, but the price is bound to fall soon owing to the ban on export of onions,” Mohite said. Lakshman Gouda, a farmer in Raichur, said that it had been a veritable windfall for onion cultivators last year, with each quintal of the vegetable being sold for Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 at its peak. “But freshly harvested onions are being sold for as low as Rs 200 per quintal. This will plunge farmers in distress,” said Gouda, pressing for the fixing of a support price for the crop. Mallikarjun Satampet, a farmer leader in Yadgir district, where the vegetable is cultivated across more than 10,000 hectares, said that the nosediving of the wholesale prices would crush the small farmers. Maruthi Manpade, a farmer leader from Kalaburagi, slammed the government for neglecting the plight of the farmers in order to keep the constituency of the consumers happy. “Leave alone buying our crop at the minimum support price, the state government has not even initiated the process to fix a support price in accordance with the recommendations of the Swaminathan Report,” Manpade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/onion-growers-staring-at-huge-losses-as-centre-bans-exports/articleshow/78176860.cms||Shreyas HS
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Ministers’ interfering kin bane of Karnataka politics: Experts||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s younger son BY Vijayendra has been often accused by opposition Congress and JD(S) of interfering in the state administration ever since BJP came to power in the state last July. He faced similar allegations when Yediyurappa was at the helm for the first time from 2008 to 2011. Some of his own party MLAs too accused him and other family members of taking control of the state administration, purportedly through a letter to the BJP leadership in Delhi which had been widely shared by Congress functionaries. The BJP top brass in Delhi issued strict instructions not to give opposition parties a chance to point fingers at the government for involving family members. However, Yediyurappa is not the only one to face such allegations. Karnataka politics have always had family involvement, not just sons but daughters, daughters-in-law and even grandchildren. Almost all chief ministers since the 1990s have faced charges of allowing family members interfere in the administration. They include S Bangarappa, whose son Madhu Bangarappa had become the target for opposition parties. Son-in-law of former chief minister SM Krishna, late VG Siddhartha was also accused of interference when Krishna, now with BJP, headed a Congress government from 1999 to 2004. Former chief minister Siddaramaiah was no exception. His son Yatheendra and late son Rakesh were accused of attending official meetings in Mysuru region. His confidant and former IPS officer Kempaiah was called ‘Super home minister’. Deve Gowda, as chief minister (1994-96) faced similar allegations with opposition parties targeting his two sons and daughters-in-law. Former minister HD Revanna was the target of opposition BJP under the previous JDS-Congress coalition government headed by his younger brother HD Kumaraswamy. He was accused of interfering in various ministries including the home department. He was dubbed ‘Super CM’ by his own partymen. Former legislative council chairman B L Shankar said: “Growing interference of family members in administration is a dangerous trend for democracy. No person without authority or posting has any business to interfere in government. It's not only a violation of the Constitution but also the oath of secrecy taken by the chief ministers or ministers.” Deep ImpactPolitics is parochial, hereditary and family obsessed. Allegations of family interference have had far-fetched effect on state politics. In southern and northern states, interference by families have led to the fall of many strong CMs. This invariably distracts democratic political processes and breeds a spoil system and leads to multiple levels of corruption. In cases obvious in Karnataka there are parallel offices operating due to the interference of family members in decision making and in extending favours. It is difficult to stop. Voter resistance can thwart these and party discipline can stop it. But, there’s little hope of it being realised.Prof Harish Ramaswamy | political analystIn the present set-up, Yediyurappa is du jour CM and Vijayendra is de facto CMSiddaramaiah| opposition leader||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ministers-interfering-kin-bane-of-karnataka-politics-experts/articleshow/78175922.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||CM BS Yediyurappa in Delhi to discuss cabinet rejig with BJP brass||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa arrived in New Delhi on Thursday to discuss cabinet expansion with the BJP leadership. During his two-day visit, he’s scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party national president JP Nadda as well as Union ministers to deliberate on the state’s affairs. “I’m in Delhi to meet several union ministers regarding developmental works in Karnataka. At the same time, I will discuss cabinet expansion with party leaders to ascertain their views,” Yediyurappa told reporters. The CM is accompanied by his son and BJP state vice-president BY Vijayendra. Yediyurappa is said to have got an appointment to meet PM Modi at 9am on Friday. The CM, who will camp in the national capital till Saturday, is under pressure to expand the cabinet at the earliest — the exercise has been pending for two months — to appease disgruntled legislators. His visit to Delhi, after a gap of six months, has rekindled hopes among aspiring ministers. According to sources in BJP, Yediyurappa is keen on expanding his cabinet to fill six existing vacancies before the monsoon session begins on September 21, provided he gets a green signal from the party leadership, especially PM Modi. “The CM has gone to Delhi with a resolve to get the high command’s nod as he is under pressure from aspiring ministers. Moreover, talks of him being ignored by the leadership have also irked him,” said a senior MLA from North Karnataka. Yediyurappa is being pressured by MLAs to rejig the cabinet, especially turncoats MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, whom he had promised cabinet berths. Senior BJP legislators Umesh Katti, Murugesh Nirani, CP Yogeshwar and GH Thippareddy are also putting pressure on him. The CM met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday and is slated to visit railway minister Piyush Goel as well. He will perform the ground-breaking ceremony on Friday for construction of a new Karnataka Bhavan building. BSY urges finance min to release grants & duesDuring a meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman late on Thursday, Yediyurappa requested the Centre to accept the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission for a special grant of Rs 5,495 crore for Karnataka on account of reduced devolution in central funds. He also requested release of Rs 1,230 crore performance grant (balance amount) to urban and rural local bodies. The Centre, so far, has released only Rs 869 crore of the Rs 2,100 crore recommended by the commission. Yediyurappa also sought early release of outstanding material dues of Rs 665 crore and unskilled wage dues of Rs 54 crore under the MGNREGA scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cm-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-rejig-with-bjp-brass/articleshow/78175910.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||MMCRI takes up three different Covid studies||Mysuru: After a woman tested negative for Covid in the Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) test at Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) she continued to run a high temperature for the next three days. The case puzzled the authorities of MMCRI, an authorized lab of India Council of Medical Research to conduct Covid tests, as she displayed Covid-19 symptoms. She was then subjected to various medical tests to find out the reason for running a temperature. A CT-scan of her chest revealed pneumonic patches, and thus she was deemed to have Covid-19 pneumonia and was treated for the same, said Dr C P Nanjanraj, dean and director of MMCRI. This was not an isolated case. Many patients with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) are subsequently testing positive for Covid-19. About 10% of such patients have shown negative results in the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and RTPCR, but continue to display Covid-19 symptoms. Even similar findings have been found in other parts of Karnataka. After bringing these cases to the notice of higher-ups in Bengaluru, they were treated for Covid, said Nanjaraj. Nanjaraja, who also heads the department of radiology at MMCRI, says following such cases, the department has taken up three studies of people who test negative for Covid-19 in RTPCR and RAT but still display Covid symptoms, how to find Covid in chest CT scans, and how patients are responding. “Shortly, papers will be released on this score. Perhaps this is the first such study being conducted,” he said. In Covid testing, if a patient tests positive in a RAT, it is a sure case of Covid, but if the test result comes out negative, it doesn’t mean that the patient hasn’t contracted the virus. Then the patient will be subjected to an RT-PCR test, which is considered confirmatory. There are instances wherein patients tested negative in both tests but still display Covid symptoms, as CT scans helped in detecting symptoms. Following this, such individuals were deemed as Covid patients. Nanjaraj explained that the studies may throw more light on the novel coronavirus, the symptoms of Covid-19 and testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mmcri-takes-up-three-different-covid-studies/articleshow/78175231.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||New Town to get tunnel to access cables||Kolkata: Hidco plans to build an underground tunnel for officials and workers to access and maintain utility cables below the surface in New Town. Hidco’s planning department wing will soon float global tenders to engage a consultant for a feasibility study. The idea is to have an integrated underground space so that whenever any of the utility cables needs repairs or inspection, people can access them quickly without digging the ground. “Roads in New Town don’t need to be dug to access the cables as they are buried under the space between pavements and plots. But workers sometimes get confused while idenitfying from all the lines, including that of water, power, telecom and cable TV,” an official said. The tunnel will have access boxes for different utilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-to-get-tunnel-to-access-cables/articleshow/78176501.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||Extend loan moratorium, says Cong||Vasco: The Goa Pradesh Congress Committee’s vice-president Sankalp Amonkar on Thursday demanded that the loan moratorium period be extended and sought waiver of additional interest by nationalised banks, while also seeking reversal by cooperative banks and finance companies for declaring these loans as non-performing assets. Amonkar said that although the RBI came up with a moratorium period of six months it did not offer the clarity on the interest to be charged. “Since September 1, most banks chasing people for repayment. However, while some have given people additional time, but have levied additional interest to a tune of up to Rs 48,000,” he said. “We want that all the four BJP MLAs representing the Mormugao taluka to take up this issue with the government,” Amonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extend-loan-moratorium-says-cong/articleshow/78177583.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||35-year-old man found dead in Vanasthalipuram||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old man’s dead body was found in a decomposed condition at Saheb Nagar in Vanasthalipuram. The body was found close to a drain abutting a graveyard. The police did not find any clues to help identify the deceased. Police registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/35-year-old-man-found-dead-in-vanasthalipuram/articleshow/78176499.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A bus depot to leave you floored||NEW DELHI: Okhla will soon boast of Delhi’s first multilevel bus depot, along with a transit hotel on the top floor. Currently, there are 6,500 buses in the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster scheme fleet with new vehicles being inducted every month. DTC, however, is facing an acute shortage of land to build depots for the new buses. Even cluster scheme buses are provided space at DTC depots. Delhi government is working towards a combined fleet of 11,000 buses and multilevel parking depots are being seen as a solution to the problem. “The number of buses is increasing, but there is a paucity of land for constructing new depots. Delhi government plans to increase parking space through redevelopment of existing DTC bus depots into multilevel ones,” said a government official. The official said 15.2 acres of land is available at the DTC workshop in Okhla, out of which 5 acres are already earmarked for surface parking of cluster scheme buses. “The remaining 10.2 acres is proposed to be developed as a multilevel parking depot with maintenance facilities for 12-metre low-floor standard CNG-run buses,” he added. The plot would be designed according to the provisions of Master Plan for Delhi 2021, which allows 50% ground coverage, floor area ratio of 100 and no limitations on the number of levels of basement, subject to structural safety. The basement of the depot would have electrical and mechanical installations, apart from parking. The ground floor would house refuelling bays, washing bays, sunken pits, brake testers and maintenance bays, apart from time office and watch and ward facilities for staff and bus drivers. A few buses could be parked on the ground floor too. The first, second and third floors would have a combined space of 82,456 square metres, which would be used for parking of buses and allied facilities. The fourth floor is proposed to be utilised for “mixed use”. Based on a techno-economic feasibility that would be carried out later, this floor could have warehouses, storage areas, offices or transit accommodation. According to the master plan provisions, 25% of FAR could be used for passenger accommodation, which could include hotels, night shelter, service apartments, hostels, etc. The multilevel depot is also permitted to have facilities like car parking, soft drink and snacks stall, administrative offices, commercial, social infrastructure, residential and other offices. The depot would also have passenger amenities like cafeteria, waiting rooms, healthcare facilities and ATM. The depot would be built according to green building norms and have rainwater harvesting, wastewater recycling and facilities for electric recharging. There would be CCTV security with a command and control centre for the entire site, apart from emergency and disaster recovery systems, electricity substation and power back-up facilities. In 2016, Delhi Development Authority paved the way for allowing multilevel bus parking by modifying the master plan. DTC’s Seemapuri bus depot was chosen last year for the first such facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-bus-depot-to-leave-you-floored/articleshow/78176528.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: He got brown sugar delivered via drivers, called it prasadam||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly supplying brown sugar to select customers from across Karnataka and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu through courier and bus drivers. Vikram Khileri, a resident of Girinagar who’s from Rajasthan, was picked up after a City Market police laid a trap for him based on credible information. “We ordered two packets of brown sugar through a decoy. Khileri delivered it and we intercepted him near Patnulpet near City Market,” a police officer said. “The suspect was hiding some brown sugar in his helmet when the police party detained him. The team later seized 90 grams of brown sugar, two mobiles and cash worth Rs 6,000 from him,” said Sanjiv M Patil, deputy commissioner of police (west). Preliminary investigation revealed Khileri came from Rajasthan four years ago and settled in Bengaluru as a construction labourer. He got into drug peddling two years ago after he met a peddler in the city who’s also from Rajasthan. “The main peddler switched off his mobile soon after learning about Khileri’s arrest,” an officer said. Police said Khileri used to send brown sugar in envelops to his customers — in Hubballi, Ballari, Hassan, Vijayapura and Coimbatore — through courier. “He often used bus drivers to deliver it and would pay each Rs 100. He would claim he was sending prasadam to his friends,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/he-got-brown-sugar-delivered-via-drivers-called-it-prasadam/articleshow/78176283.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hubballi||CM BS Yediyurappa in Delhi to discuss cabinet rejig with BJP brass||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa arrived in New Delhi on Thursday to discuss cabinet expansion with the BJP leadership. During his two-day visit, he’s scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party national president JP Nadda as well as Union ministers to deliberate on the state’s affairs. “I’m in Delhi to meet several union ministers regarding developmental works in Karnataka. At the same time, I will discuss cabinet expansion with party leaders to ascertain their views,” Yediyurappa told reporters. The CM is accompanied by his son and BJP state vice-president BY Vijayendra. Yediyurappa is said to have got an appointment to meet PM Modi at 9am on Friday. The CM, who will camp in the national capital till Saturday, is under pressure to expand the cabinet at the earliest — the exercise has been pending for two months — to appease disgruntled legislators. His visit to Delhi, after a gap of six months, has rekindled hopes among aspiring ministers. According to sources in BJP, Yediyurappa is keen on expanding his cabinet to fill six existing vacancies before the monsoon session begins on September 21, provided he gets a green signal from the party leadership, especially PM Modi. “The CM has gone to Delhi with a resolve to get the high command’s nod as he is under pressure from aspiring ministers. Moreover, talks of him being ignored by the leadership have also irked him,” said a senior MLA from North Karnataka. Yediyurappa is being pressured by MLAs to rejig the cabinet, especially turncoats MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, whom he had promised cabinet berths. Senior BJP legislators Umesh Katti, Murugesh Nirani, CP Yogeshwar and GH Thippareddy are also putting pressure on him. The CM met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday and is slated to visit railway minister Piyush Goel as well. He will perform the ground-breaking ceremony on Friday for construction of a new Karnataka Bhavan building. BSY urges finance min to release grants & duesDuring a meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman late on Thursday, Yediyurappa requested the Centre to accept the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission for a special grant of Rs 5,495 crore for Karnataka on account of reduced devolution in central funds. He also requested release of Rs 1,230 crore performance grant (balance amount) to urban and rural local bodies. The Centre, so far, has released only Rs 869 crore of the Rs 2,100 crore recommended by the commission. Yediyurappa also sought early release of outstanding material dues of Rs 665 crore and unskilled wage dues of Rs 54 crore under the MGNREGA scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cm-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-rejig-with-bjp-brass/articleshow/78182272.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mangaluru||MAHE students develop web app to create awareness on OSMF||Mangaluru: Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF), a disease associated with consumption of arecanut, remains a lesser known health hazard compared to alcohol and drugs. In order to create awareness on the disease, a group of students of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE ) have developed a web app called Arecanut/ OSMF Awareness app (www.dentaplus.in). “Close to 10 % of the Indian population consumes some form of arecanut on a regular basis, but many are unaware of its harmful effects. Karnataka is the largest producer of arecanut in the country, and about 16% of the population consume arecanut. Consumption of arecanut causes OSMF, some of the symptoms of which include a burning sensation in the mouth, discomfort and difficulty in opening one’s mouth. It can also cause oral cancer in the long run,” MAHE students noted. Group members Dr Priyanka Prasad, alumni MCODS, Viola D’Souza, PhD scholar, PSPH, Manipal, Soural Dandothi, alumni MIT, Dr Gopal Kasat, alumni MCODS and Dr Shriya Verma, alumni MCODS, have launched a comprehensive web app that educates and creates awareness on OSMF. It was launched on September 1. Viola D’Souza said that app also looks to engage its audience to improve their knowledge on the diagnosis, symptoms as well as their treatment options at each stage of OSMF. An individual with OSMF is able to know at which stage of the disease he is in, and what are the options available for treatment. “Awareness on the ill-effects of arecanut consumption is limited. There are no health promotion events or awareness drives about the same. However, the disease is preventable,” stresses Viola explaining why they came up with the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mahe-students-develop-web-app-to-create-awareness-on-osmf/articleshow/78176430.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ORR commute to soon be smooth for bus users and cyclists||BENGALURU: Outer Ring Road (ORR) users may soon have access to better public transport with the bus-priority lane (BPL) nearing completion and government agencies planning other commuter-friendly projects on the stretch. Work on the DULT-designed pop-up bicycle lane recently began on ORR. Apart from this, BMTC is planning to operate buses with front-mounted bicycle racks to encourage cyclists. A Bus Rapid Transit System was conceptualised for ORR in 2012, but it was scrapped for the Metro project, which is now delayed. While BRTS is functioning well in Hubballi-Dharwad, the Centre is yet to approve Bengaluru’s Silk Board – KR Puram – Kempegowda International Airport Metro corridor. “We have finished installation of bollards on an 18-km section between Silk Board and Lowry Junction. The BPL project is nearing completion and the lane will be ready by September 25. We need to install a few more information boards,” said a BBMP official. The pop-up bicycle lane project has also picked up pace. “Road-milling work is in progress between Silk Board and Iblur on the ORR service road. We are in talks with cycle-to-work groups to promote the project,” said DULT commissioner V Manjula. BMTC officials said they are planning to install bicycle racks in 100 buses and 10 are ready. “We are awaiting approval from the Centre to set up the racks, since they are extra fittings. The project will cost around Rs 4,500 and employees of BMTC central workshop are executing the work. A majority of these buses will be deployed on ORR,” said a senior BMTC official. Vishwanath Seetharam, founder secretary of Outer Ring Road Companies Association (ORRCA), said: “BMTC should create awareness among drivers on maintaining lane discipline. It should deploy staff, mainly at Silk Board and Marathahalli, to monitor buses.” He said work from home may continue till December. “Now, around 33% of the employees are working at offices on ORR. But traffic in the city and on the stretch will increase from the first week of January when most offices reopen. Many people may shift from public transport to cars because of the virus scare. We need permanent solutions to address traffic issues.” Many ORR users are disappointed over the inordinate delay in getting the Centre’s approval for the long-pending Metro project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/orr-commute-to-soon-be-smooth-for-bus-users-and-cyclists/articleshow/78175936.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Victim’s kin claim Ashoka gave compensation; he denies it||Ballari: While the police investigation into the death of two persons in a speeding Mercedes car crash on National Highway 50 in February at Mariyammanahalli between Hampi and Bengaluru appears to have hit a dead end, startling information has now come to light. The crash hit the headlines for the alleged involvement of revenue minister R Ashoka’s son Sharat. Ravi Naik, 19, was sipping tea near a stall when the car hit him and he died. Now, Ravi’s father Parashuram Naik, 43, claimed that Ashoka paid Rs 10 lakh as compensation to him. Parashuram said, “About three months ago, Hagaribommanahalli MLA Bhima Naik brokered the negotiation for compensation with the minister. Through Bhima Naik, Ashoka handed over a cheque for Rs 10 lakh which has been encashed. I used most of that money to pay my debts.” Parashuram and Ravi’s relative Bharati Bai said Bhima Naik had promised to take them to Ashoka during negotiations. “We asked Rs 50 lakh as compensation but Bhima Naik unilaterally met Ashoka and came with the money. He has assured us of a meeting with the minister for more money after the Covid situation subsides,” both told TOI. Ashok denied handing over compensation to Parashuram. “When the case is in court, why should I give money to the family? Also, the kin of the victim may get insurance. These claims are false.” Asked why someone would make such claims, he said he has no clue as he has not even seen these family members. When contacted, Bhima Naik said: “I have no idea about these payments and I’ll talk to the police and give updates about the case.” The back story Till two days after the February incident, Ashoka flipped-flopped about Sharat’s presence in the car. Ravi’s close relative Bharati Bai who works as a help at Maitri hospital, Hospet claimed that Sharat was seen at the hospital after the accident. Bharati Bai had said Sharat was brought to the hospital for treatment and later whisked away. Police had arrested Rahul, 29, from Bengaluru and he was granted bail. Police concluded Rahul was at the wheel at the time of the accident and an FIR was filed at Mariyammanahalli police station. They had assured a probe to ascertain Sharat’s role. The investigation is being done by a team headed by a DySP-level officer. Although the chargesheet was filed two months ago, no further arrests were made. Mariyammanahalli police inspector Shivashankar said, “After Rahul, no arrests were made. Even in the chargesheet, no accused were named apart from Rahul. The chargesheet has been produced in a local court in Hospet.” He added that as the chargesheet has been filed, the investigation has almost come to an end. A source in the police said the probe was virtually halted after Rahul’s arrest. Ballari SP Saidulu Adavat said he has recently taken charge and does not have much knowledge about the case. “I’ll collect more information and give an update,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/victims-kin-claim-ashoka-gave-compensation-he-denies-it/articleshow/78194026.cms||Shreyas HS
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||Permits of 9 FPSs cancelled in Anand||Anand: Permits of nine fair price shop in Anand has been cancelled permanently after the owners were found siphoning off food grains and other provisions meant for ration distribution. The shop owners used to sell the siphoned stock in the open market. Anand district supply officer (DSO) Gopal Bamaniya took the decision after a detailed inquiry nailed the shop owners. All the nine shop owners have also been fined Rs 55 lakh for the irregularities. According to the officials, all the nine persons were arrested by the Ahmedabad cybercrime in December last year for making bogus fingerprints of customers who didn’t turn up to buy provisions at their fair price shops in Anand. The accused identified as Joitaram Sargara, Rameshchandra Mohnani, Praful Thakore, Chetan Tulsani, Manhar Solanki, Vinod Vaghela, Dilip Patel, Gangaram Vasava and a manger of co-operative housing society made bogus bills and siphoned off food grains meant for the poor. The Anand administration ordered an inquiry into the fraud later and suspended the permit for three months. They siphoned food grains for poor and sell in the open market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/permits-of-9-fpss-cancelled-in-anand/articleshow/78174700.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 160 fresh cases, 169 discharged in Ambala||TNNAmbala: Two Covid-19 patients died in Ambala on Thursday, taking the death toll to 67.Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “A 71-year-old man of Ambala City with hypertension and heart disease and a 60-year-old diabetic man of Ambala Cantt, who had low oxygen saturation, have passed away. Ambala’s mortality rate is 1.01%.”Ambala reported 160 positive cases on the day, increasing the case tally to 6,550, including 1,298 active ones. Of 160 cases, 80 were from Ambala City, 30 from Chourmastpur, 17 each from Ambala Cantt and Shahzadpur, 10 from Naraingarh, four from Barara and two from Mullana.As many as 169 patients were discharged on the day, taking the recovery count to 5,185.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-deaths-160-fresh-cases-169-discharged-in-ambala/articleshow/78175346.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||CM BS Yediyurappa in Delhi to discuss cabinet rejig with BJP brass||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa arrived in New Delhi on Thursday to discuss cabinet expansion with the BJP leadership. During his two-day visit, he’s scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party national president JP Nadda as well as Union ministers to deliberate on the state’s affairs. “I’m in Delhi to meet several union ministers regarding developmental works in Karnataka. At the same time, I will discuss cabinet expansion with party leaders to ascertain their views,” Yediyurappa told reporters. The CM is accompanied by his son and BJP state vice-president BY Vijayendra. Yediyurappa is said to have got an appointment to meet PM Modi at 9am on Friday. The CM, who will camp in the national capital till Saturday, is under pressure to expand the cabinet at the earliest — the exercise has been pending for two months — to appease disgruntled legislators. His visit to Delhi, after a gap of six months, has rekindled hopes among aspiring ministers. According to sources in BJP, Yediyurappa is keen on expanding his cabinet to fill six existing vacancies before the monsoon session begins on September 21, provided he gets a green signal from the party leadership, especially PM Modi. “The CM has gone to Delhi with a resolve to get the high command’s nod as he is under pressure from aspiring ministers. Moreover, talks of him being ignored by the leadership have also irked him,” said a senior MLA from North Karnataka. Yediyurappa is being pressured by MLAs to rejig the cabinet, especially turncoats MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, whom he had promised cabinet berths. Senior BJP legislators Umesh Katti, Murugesh Nirani, CP Yogeshwar and GH Thippareddy are also putting pressure on him. The CM met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday and is slated to visit railway minister Piyush Goel as well. He will perform the ground-breaking ceremony on Friday for construction of a new Karnataka Bhavan building. BSY urges finance min to release grants & duesDuring a meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman late on Thursday, Yediyurappa requested the Centre to accept the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission for a special grant of Rs 5,495 crore for Karnataka on account of reduced devolution in central funds. He also requested release of Rs 1,230 crore performance grant (balance amount) to urban and rural local bodies. The Centre, so far, has released only Rs 869 crore of the Rs 2,100 crore recommended by the commission. Yediyurappa also sought early release of outstanding material dues of Rs 665 crore and unskilled wage dues of Rs 54 crore under the MGNREGA scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-rejig-with-bjp-brass/articleshow/78182271.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mangaluru||CM BS Yediyurappa in Delhi to discuss cabinet rejig with BJP brass||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa arrived in New Delhi on Thursday to discuss cabinet expansion with the BJP leadership. During his two-day visit, he’s scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party national president JP Nadda as well as Union ministers to deliberate on the state’s affairs. “I’m in Delhi to meet several union ministers regarding developmental works in Karnataka. At the same time, I will discuss cabinet expansion with party leaders to ascertain their views,” Yediyurappa told reporters. The CM is accompanied by his son and BJP state vice-president BY Vijayendra. Yediyurappa is said to have got an appointment to meet PM Modi at 9am on Friday. The CM, who will camp in the national capital till Saturday, is under pressure to expand the cabinet at the earliest — the exercise has been pending for two months — to appease disgruntled legislators. His visit to Delhi, after a gap of six months, has rekindled hopes among aspiring ministers. According to sources in BJP, Yediyurappa is keen on expanding his cabinet to fill six existing vacancies before the monsoon session begins on September 21, provided he gets a green signal from the party leadership, especially PM Modi. “The CM has gone to Delhi with a resolve to get the high command’s nod as he is under pressure from aspiring ministers. Moreover, talks of him being ignored by the leadership have also irked him,” said a senior MLA from North Karnataka. Yediyurappa is being pressured by MLAs to rejig the cabinet, especially turncoats MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, whom he had promised cabinet berths. Senior BJP legislators Umesh Katti, Murugesh Nirani, CP Yogeshwar and GH Thippareddy are also putting pressure on him. The CM met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday and is slated to visit railway minister Piyush Goel as well. He will perform the ground-breaking ceremony on Friday for construction of a new Karnataka Bhavan building. BSY urges finance min to release grants & duesDuring a meeting with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman late on Thursday, Yediyurappa requested the Centre to accept the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission for a special grant of Rs 5,495 crore for Karnataka on account of reduced devolution in central funds. He also requested release of Rs 1,230 crore performance grant (balance amount) to urban and rural local bodies. The Centre, so far, has released only Rs 869 crore of the Rs 2,100 crore recommended by the commission. Yediyurappa also sought early release of outstanding material dues of Rs 665 crore and unskilled wage dues of Rs 54 crore under the MGNREGA scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cm-in-delhi-to-discuss-cabinet-rejig-with-bjp-brass/articleshow/78182273.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||TN, AP poachers hunt for pangolins in Karnataka; scales used in medicine||BENGALURU: After Manipur and Tamil Nadu, inter-state poachers are eyeing pangolins in Karnataka for their scales which are much sought after for Chinese medicine. In a major crackdown, forest officials in Chikkamagaluru district busted a pangolin trade racket and seized 6kg of its scales. Officials said it is just the tip of the iceberg as poaching of this endangered mammal is rampant. They said pangolins were brought from Muthodi forest area, Belur range, and Kalasapura. Wildlife experts said pangolin poaching is more common in Chikkamagaluru and Ballari districts. Poachers from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu lure locals with good money to hunt down the animal. Pangolin is the world’s most-trafficked mammal even though its hunting and trade are banned under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. In recent cases reported in Karnataka, poachers caught pangolins after ‘detecting in them rich minerals that are used in the manufacture of satellites’, said sources. N H Jagannatha, deputy conservator of forests, Chikkamagaluru, said the recent seizure could be a lead to an inter-state and international poaching market. “We were told that pangolin scales had changed hands and it was believed that they would bring prosperity and could be used as medicines. They are also hunted for their meat.” Their scales are in high demand in China and Vietnam. Retired sub-inspector Rama Murthy MS, who worked with the CID forest cell for 24 years, said it is not easy to get to the roots of the trade. “Many a time, we found pangolins were trafficked to other countries as well.” According to Traffic, an NGO which works on wildlife trafficking, 5,772 pangolins were seized during 2009-2017, most of them in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tn-ap-poachers-hunt-for-pangolins-in-karnataka/articleshow/78176000.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Drug racket probe: Sanjjanaa had 9 gadgets, says CCB; this is no evidence, argues her lawyer||BENGALURU: Actor Sanjjanaa Galrani, who has been arrested in the high-profile drug-peddling case, will be produced before the special court for Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Friday. With investigating officers from Central Crime Branch, who arrested Sanjjanna, saying they don’t need her custody any longer as they have finished questioning her, the actor’s judicial custody is likely to be extended. The NDPS court is also taking up Sanjjanaa’s bail petition on Friday. As in the case of her fellow accused and Sandalwood colleague Ragini Dwivedi, police haven’t recovered drugs from Sanjjanaa or her house, which they raided last week. A remand petition that police had earlier filed seeking Sanjjanaa’s custody read: “We seized a gold-coloured iPhone with sim, red iPhone without sim, black iPhone without sim, a purple Samsung phone without sim, a black A6010 mobile without sim, a black hard disk, a blue MacBook Air, a silver coloured iPad and a blue color power bank. Since there were no sim cards in her mobile phones, we need to question her in detail about them.” Sanjjanaa’s advocate Srinivasa Rao, however, pooh-poohed the police claims. “What makes cops think that not having a sim card in mobile phones is an act of drug peddling? Most mobile users will have a handset without sim at home or office. Are they all drug peddlers,” he asked. According to Rao, the remand petition is full of such loopholes. “Sanjjanaa was involved in drug peddling along with other accused. With others, she participated in musical and dance parties at five-star hotels, pubs, farmhouses and indulged in drug racket. They used to procure drugs from Goa, Mumbai, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and foreign countries. Suspects would sell the drugs to businessmen, celebrities, actors, disc jockeys, software engineers and others and earned money illegally,” the remand petition read. Rao countered the allegations, saying: “In the first place, police haven’t found anything from Sanjjanaa or her residence. She was arrested based on hearsay. How will police decide that partygoers indulge in drug peddling? They haven’t shown any drugs recovered from the said parties. So where is the link?” The petition further said, “We want to know from where and whom she purchased drugs. Her peddlers have taken shelter in other states and we wanted to take her to other places for investigation.” Rao wondered when no drugs have been recovered from Sanjjanaa, how could police say she has consumed them and her peddlers are to be tracked. Asserting that the FIR itself is weak as it doesn’t mention anything in specific and police haven’t got any material evidence against Sanjjanaa till now, Rao told TOI: “The current investigation being undertaken by Central Crime Branch into the alleged offences under the NDPS Act is nothing, but building castles in the air. Neither does it have any basis, nor substance. The laws of evidence have been thrown to the wind. Liberty and the right to life with dignity have been taken away by police in the garb of investigation into an uncertain offence. Rule of noise wants to takeover the authority of the courts of law to hold trial and pronounce judgment.” Meanwhile, Sanjjanaa's parents had come to jail but were told that they can't see her as she is in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sanjjanaa-had-9-gadgets-says-ccb-this-is-no-evidence-argues-her-lawyer/articleshow/78176186.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
September 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Marathwada gets season’s quota of rain; more likely||Aurangabad: As the good run of monsoon continues in Marathwada, the region has received season’s quota of rainfall this year. As per experts, the region is upto more rainfall in near future, especially during the withdrawal phase of monsoon. The region has received an average 685mm rainfall since June 1, which accounts for 101% of the rainfall received from June to September every year. “Marathwada had received 81% of the season’s showers during the corresponding period last year,” official data show. Four districts from the region, Aurangabad (137%), Jalna (132%), Hingoli (106%) and Beed (100%) have achieved the benchmark of annual quota, while Latur (90%), Nanded (88%) Parbhani (89%) and Osmanabad (80%) are on the verge of getting their full quota given the forecast of more rainfall in the remaining days of September. Shriniwas Aundhkar, director of city-based APJ Abdul Kalam Astro Space and Science Centre, said weather conditions were favourable for the good run of the monsoon during different phases and the conditions are expected to remain the same during the withdrawal phase. He said La Niña is a weather pattern that occurs in the Pacific Ocean and the Indian Ocean Dipole , which is an imbalance in sea water temperature between east and west. These two factors have produced good rain in Marathwada since June and might produce considerable showers in the withdrawal phase of Monsoon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwada-gets-seasons-quota-of-rain-more-likely/articleshow/78174276.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP questions TRS’s silence on T Liberation Day||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP on Thursday said the TRS government is intentionally not observing the Telangana Liberation Day despite promising to do so during the statehood struggle. Senior party leaders cited political reasons behind TRS’s silence on observing the liberation day. Addressing reporters in Delhi, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said neighbouring Karnataka also observes liberation day. “But in Hyderabad where the Nizams ruled, the day is not observed,” he said. He wondered as to why chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was maintaining a stoic silence now though he had demanded that the day be observed during the statehood stir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-questions-trss-silence-on-t-liberation-day/articleshow/78176535.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Lucknow||BHU prof's study shows why Covid fatality rate is low among Indians||Prayagraj: If you have been thinking why the mortality rate of Covid-19 has been much higher in European countries and in the United States as compared to India and Southeast Asian countries, a research team led by a BHU scientist could have the answer. The team comprising top genetic experts from six institutions, led by Prof Gyaneshwer Chaubey of BHU, analysed complete DNA data of the Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) gene of X chromosome from various continental populations and found that, in fact, it’s our genes that have protected us and helped us battle out the deadly virus saving us from falling prey to it. The results of the team’s analysis have been published in the internationally renowned journal PLOS ONE, released on Thursday. The scientists have provided a possible molecular genetic explanation for why Iranians, Europeans and Americans of European ancestry are at more mortality risk to the novel coronavirus than people in India and East Asia, as reflected in the current global distribution of reported Covid-19 cases per 1,00,000 inhabitants. The international team analysed complete DNA data of the ACE2 gene from various continental populations and found that certain mutations in this gene are helping South Asian and East Asian populations in successfully battling the virus and reducing mortality rate in comparison to USA and Europe. The ACE2 gene is the gateway point of coronavirus and certain genetic mutations of this gene are related to the disease severity, said Prof. Chaubey. “The genetic ancestry of most South Asians can be traced to West Eurasian populations rather than with East Eurasians, whereas for this gene the result is other way round,” said Prof. George van Driem of University of Bern, Switzerland, one of the experts on the team. There have been a few initial studies on the ACE2 gene by other research groups, but all of them looked for the presence or absence of various mutations, whereas, this team used more powerful haplotype-based analysis (the method in which experts break the whole length of DNA into several pieces and make comparisons). In this type of analysis, several DNA fragments are compared rather than few mutations as populations that share more DNA chunks are considered to be more close, said Prof. Chaubey. “The match of DNA fragments of South Asians with East Asians suggests that the entry gate of coronavirus among South Asians will be more similar to that of East Asians rather than that of Europeans or Americans. This also explains the low mortality rate in South Asia,” he added. The second important finding is about two major mutations which are responsible for strengthening the entry point of the coronavirus among South Asians. “Thus, this paper adds important potential implications to understanding the transmission patterns of coronavirus in various populations across the world,” said Anshika Srivastava; the first author of the paper. Rudra Pandey and Prajwal Singh from BHU, Dr. Avinash Rasalkar, Dr. Pankaj Srivastava from Sagar Central University, Dr. Rakesh Tamang from Calcutta University and Dr. Pramod Kumar from National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) were also involved in this research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bhu-profs-study-shows-why-covid-fatality-rate-is-low-among-indians/articleshow/78178043.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Cabinet decision: Speaker and deputy speaker to file their own income tax returns||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet on Thursday passed a proposal under which the speaker and deputy speaker of the state assembly will file their own income tax returns. Earlier in October 2019, the state had given a nod for a similar proposal for the CM and ministers. Till then, Uttarakhand was following an old tradition, followed in UP as well wherein tax of CMs and cabinet ministers was paid from the hill state’s treasury. Sources said that the earlier proposal did not include the post of speaker and deputy speaker, which was added and approved in Thursday’s cabinet meeting. Defence personnel below the JCO rank or their widows would also be exempted from paying house tax, the cabinet decided. The decision will remain applicable in the urban local bodies including municipality, corporation and panchayats. Further, in the wake of losses due to the Covid-19 situation, public transport vehicle owners have been given a three-month relief in payment of vehicle tax. Those exempted include stage and contract carriage buses, taxis, autorickshaws, Vikrams as well as school buses and goods carriers. Earlier, the tax exemption for these vehicles was from April to June which has now been extended from July to September. The move, officials said, would cost Rs 75 crore to the state exchequer. In other decisions, a nod was given to provide land to people, whose land had been acquired at Kedarnath for the shrine town’s redevelopment. The land of people had been acquired in 2013 at Kedarnath for various works related to development, broadening of trek route and reconstruction works. These people had to be provided land at separate locations. The cabinet gave its nod to a proposal through which these people can get the ownership rights, making it possible for the government to provide them land. In welcome news for the 307 junior engineers who were working in the Public Works Department on a contractual basis, the state cabinet decided to raise their monthly honorarium of Rs 15,000 to Rs 24,000. Around 10 ordinances, including the one on wearing a face mask and six on labour reforms, would be tabled in the state assembly in the form of bills. Also, it was decided that Uttarakhand Technical University would be renamed after famed Garhwali warrior, Madho Singh Bhandari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-decision-speaker-and-deputy-speaker-to-file-their-own-income-tax-returns/articleshow/78174058.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 18, 2020||Delhi||No flight risk: Court grants bail to Natasha Narwal||NEW DELHI: Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal was on Thursday granted bail in a case of rioting after a special court designated to hear riot cases said she wasn’t a flight risk and the witnesses were either police officials or protected witnesses. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said the prosecution couldn’t say that she couldn’t be released on bail till all witnesses had been examined. “There is no specific allegation of threat to witnesses, who are, in any case, protected and their identity concealed. She is not a flight risk and the witnesses are either police officials or protected witnesses,” the court stated. From the videos, the court noted that though Narwal was seen to be a part of an unlawful assembly, she wasn’t seen as someone “indulging in or inciting” violence. Narwal’s counsel, Adit S Pujari, contended that his client had connection with the subject matter of the present case, which was related to the death of one Amaan. According to the lawyer, there was no photo or video indicating that she was a part of a violent mob. He said co-accused Devangana Kalita had already been granted bail by the Delhi high court. Meanwhile, the court took cognisance of the chargesheet filed against 15 persons in a riot-related case attracting the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. On Wednesday, Special Cell of Delhi Police had filed a voluminous chargesheet against the accused under various sections of UAPA, Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. All the accused were produced before Karkardooma court when ASJ Rawat took cognisance of all the offences, except for some sections for which sanction are required. The court also directed Delhi Police to supply copies of the chargesheet to the accused persons and posted the matter for September 21. Those named in the chargesheet are ex-AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, ex-Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, Saifi Khalid (activist of United against Hate campaign), Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar and Meeran Haider. Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal are also named in the chargesheet along with Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha. Others charged are Mohd Parvez Ahmed, Mohd Illyas, Shahdab Ahmed, Tasleem Ahmed, Saleem Malik, Mohd Saleem Khan and Athar Khan. Special Cell told the court that while collecting evidence it relied upon CDR and WhatsApp chats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-flight-risk-court-grants-bail-to-narwal/articleshow/78176571.cms||Aamir Khan
September 18, 2020||Aurangabad||22,651 patients recover in Aurangabad dist||Aurangabad: As many as 22,651 patients have recovered from the contagion while 6, 011 are still undergoing treatment at different Covid facilities in the district. Aurangabad district reported 229 fresh Covid-19 patients by Wednesday evening, including 121 from Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) area and 108 from the rural area, taking the total number of cases to 29,495. The cases traced in the AMC area include 11 patients who tested positive at the city's entry points while 97 patients were found by the mobile swab collection squad. A total of 12 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported by Wednesday night. The death toll has risen to 833 in the district.  The GMCH administration informed that by Thursday, it has reported 644 deaths. Currently, 318 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital, of which 200 are in critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/22651-patients-recover-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/78174312.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||YouTube channel operator, 6 others booked for extortion||Hyderabad: Police on Thursday registered a case against a man running a YouTube channel and six others on extortion charges. Earlier, police arrested Iqbal and two of his gang members for kidnapping and assaulting a man running a YouTube channel, identified as Mohammed Azmath, and who was freed by the accused after cops on Wednesday. However, after the arrest, Iqbal told police that Azmath and his associates Saleem, Azhar, Parvez Ahmed and Naveen extorted Rs 15,000 from him on August 5 at Roda Mistry Nagar threatening to inform cops about his PDS rice smuggling activity. “On Tuesday night, Azmath and his associates again intercepted Iqbal’s auto at Roda Mistry Nagar while he was transporting PDS rice to Karnataka and demanded Rs 1 lakh. When Iqbal refused to give him the money, Azmath alerted Bachupally police about the PDS rice smuggling. Our men immediately seized the auto,” Dundigal inspector A Venkatesham said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youtube-channel-operator-6-others-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/78176572.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||ESI hospital’s recovery rate 82.5%, but deaths in younger patients worry docs||Margao: The ESI hospital in Margao, the state’s first dedicated Covid-19 facility, has reported a recovery rate of 82.5% since the infection began, a few notches higher than the state’s overall recovery rate of 78.2%. However, what has turned out to be a cause of concern for health authorities is the rise in number of younger people succumbing to Covid-19 within hours of admission in the hospital. “Apart from deaths in elderly patients with comorbid conditions, we now have deaths occurring among younger people within 24 hours of them getting admitted,” points out Dr Vishwajit Faldesai, the hospital’s medical superintendent. “Had they reported in time, their lives could have been saved. Even well-educated people ignore symptoms and report late.” “People are advised not to take fever or any Covid-19 symptoms lightly, and immediately go for testing,” he said. “If you think you have come in contact with an infected person, go for test only on the fifth day, as there are chances the viral load may not present itself immediately, and the test may return a false negative if done earlier. People with symptoms, however, should go for testing immediately by reporting to the nearest primary health centre.” Of the 1,770 patients admitted in the hospital since it was designated as a Covid hospital in March, 840 have been discharged, while 621 have been transferred to Covid care centres or to home isolation. So far, 127 persons in the hospital have succumbed to the infection, said official statistics. Of these, 30% belonged to the 60-70 age group, closely followed by septuagenarians at 27.5%. The data is till September 15. Salcete has accounted for the highest number of deaths, with 44 people succumbing, followed closely by Mormugao with 41, according to data. Twelve residents of Tiswadi and 10 from Ponda have also died at the ESI hospital while undergoing treatment. With the ESI-Covid hospital now admitting only moderate and severe patients, Faldessai called for enhanced patient awareness to battle the infection. With a spike in number of Covid-19 cases and the state yet to reach its peak, the focus of healthcare authorities is now two-fold — reducing mortalities, and avoiding health complications in recovered Covid patients. Sources said that recovered patients having comorbid conditions are showing up with complications, and that the health department is bracing itself to address the situation. Pointing out that the situation has seen a lot of improvement in terms of food services and hospital hygiene, Faldessai said that “the doctors and nurses are doing everything possible to take good care of the patients”. However, he cautioned against lowering guard. “There’s no substitute to the basics of personal hygiene — social distancing, hand washing, wearing masks and use of sanitisers,” he stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/esi-hospitals-recovery-rate-82-5-but-deaths-in-younger-patients-worry-docs/articleshow/78177596.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Efforts are on to recruit teachers, says MLC Chavan||Aurangabad: MLC Satish Chavan on Thursday said the government was making efforts to speed up the process for allowing recruitment of teachers in senior colleges along with taking steps to release the emoluments of the teachers who worked on hourly basis. Chavan, who represents the Marathwada graduates’ constituency in the state legislative council, said that he had a meeting with minister of higher education Uday Samant where the issue of recruitment of assistant professors and timely payment of emoluments to the teachers working on clock hour basis were raised. “The minister has assured me of taking financial approval for starting the recruitment and addressing the issues of the senior college teachers as soon as the situation normalizes,”Chavan said. He added that since many principals are getting retired the government also needs to take a call on this issue. “I have made a request to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, drawing his attention toward the fact that in the absence of a regular principal the administration of a college stands to get affected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/efforts-are-on-to-recruit-teachers-says-mlc-chavan/articleshow/78174326.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Two drown in quarry at Shamshabad||HYDERABAD: Two youngsters slipped and fell into a quarry filled with water at Kothwalguda in Shamshabad on Thursday morning. RGI Airport police said that the deceased were identified as Mallesh (26), a driver and Jaya Krishna (21), a mason. On Thursday morning, Mallesh and Krishna were travelling on a bike from their home in Shivarampalli, along with a friend, Sidhu, who was riding on another bike. Enroute, both Mallesh and Krishna stopped at Kothwalguda to attend to nature’s call. When they went near the edge of the quarry, Mallesh and Krishna slipped due to the slush after the heavy downpour on Wednesday and fell into the quarry. Sidhu, who was waiting for them at a distance, tried to reach out to them, but in vain. Police said that Mallesh and Krishna did not know how to swim. After Sidhu alerted the police, the police reached the spot and fished out the bodies with the help of swimmers. Due to the heavy rain on Wednesday, the water levels in the quarry rose significantly. Police registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-drown-in-quarry-at-shamshabad/articleshow/78176590.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tighter rules for dairies in offing||NEW DELHI: Running dairies in the capital is going to get tougher as the municipal corporations have announced that a new set of guidelines sent by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) will kick in soon. Half-yearly environmental audits, common treatment facilities for dung and minimum mandated distances from highways, schools and residential units constitute some of the basic features of the new norms. According to the 19th livestock census of India, Delhi had around 2.4 lakh bovines and several lakh tonnes of cow dung and excreta ended up getting washed in clogged drains and landfills sites. “Each animal produces 15-20 kg of dung and 15-20 litres of urine daily. Improper disposal of cow dung not only damages the city’s drainage system, but it also increases emissions in the form of methane, hydrogen sulphide and ammonia. CPCB has framed the guidelines to reduce this pollution load,” said a senior municipal veterinary department official. The new rules prescribe a minimum distance of 200 metres from residential dwellings, 500m from hospitals and schools, 200m from national highways and 100m from state highways to avoid odour nuisance as well as road accidents. “The CPCB regulations also try to protect the groundwater resources by mandating that such establishments should not be opened in floodplains or areas with shallow groundwater levels of 10-12 feet,” the official said. The existing dairies would also have to take a licence under the new rules. The dairies would be divided into five categories. Smaller units of less than 25 animals would form category 1, while category 5 would comprise of dairies with more than 100 animals. While regular inspections have been mandated for the three corporations, DPCC has been tasked to carry out environmental audit of two dairies and two gaushalas in each district every six months to ensure regular monitoring and compliance with the norms. To check water wastage, CPCB has put a maximum limit of 150 litres for each animal daily. It has asked the civic bodies to create cow dung disposal facilities for dairy clusters. “Three methods of disposal have been prescribed in the guidelines, including composting, vermicomposting, biogas plants or dung wood,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tighter-rules-for-dairies-in-offing/articleshow/78176629.cms||Paras Singh
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Three Nirmal boys stuck in surging stream rescued||Hyderabad: Three boys, who were stranded in an overflowing stream in Nirmal, were rescued by villagers on Thursday. Because of the incessant rains, the Degam vagu was overflowing and the boys who had ventured into the stream to play did not expect the surge of water. As the water flow intensified, the boys perched themselves on a small rock in the middle of the stream to save themselves. The villagers brought an earthmover. With the help of a rope, the boys were pulled to safety. In another incident at Shanigrama village in Siddipet district, a youth, Vijay, faced the risk of being washed away in an overflowing stream. Locals arranged a rope and pulled him to safety on Wednesday night. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-nirmal-boys-stuck-in-surging-stream-rescued/articleshow/78176610.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Woman among 2 booked for molesting vendor||AURANGABAD: The Cidco police have registered an offence against a man and his female relative for allegedly molesting a woman vegetable vendor in the city on Wednesday. The police said both the accused man and the 30-year-old complainant were vegetable vendors and were acquainted with each other. The accused had a roadside stall where she wanted to conduct her business. On Wednesday evening, when she approached the accused and his female relative seeking to set up her stall, the duo hurled abuses at her. When she objected, the man hit her with a stone. During the heated argument, the man had allegedly also touched the complainant inappropriately while being assisted by his female relative. Following the complaint, the police have registered an offence against the duo under sections 354 A, (sexual harassment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt)’ 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-among-2-booked-for-molesting-vendor/articleshow/78174321.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmers seek crop damage assessment||Aurangabad: Amid reports of kharif crop damages in parts of Marathwada due to incessant rain, a farmers’ group has sought speedy assessment of the said damages Jayaji Suryawanshi of Annadata, a farmers’ group, said the standing kharif crops in many areas like Aurangabad and Nanded have been damaged. “During the first half of the monsoon, such damages went unnoticed at the official level at some places. We fear similar lapses in the latest incidents of agrarian losses,” he said. Aurangabad deputy collector Sheshrao Sawargaonkar said, “The district administrations have already been asked to deal with cases of agrarian losses, if any, with sensitivity and speed,” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-seek-crop-damage-assessment/articleshow/78174330.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple stranded in flooded river rescued||Hyderabad: The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Thursday rescued a farmer couple who were caught in a flooded Dindi river in Nagarkurnool district. Farmer Venkataramulu and his wife found themselves in a dangerous situation on Wednesday as there was a sudden gush of water in the Dindi river in Achampet. The couple were returning home from work when they got stuck in the river. Nagarkurnool collector L Sharman planned a rescue operation but as it had got dark, a helicopter could not be requisitioned. The NDRF based in AP reached the spot on Wednesday night and carried out the rescue operation which went on till late in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-stranded-in-flooded-river-rescued/articleshow/78176637.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cop risks life, rescues dog stuck in rivulet||HYDERABAD: A home guard, displaying both bravery and presence of mind, rescued a dog caught in a rivulet in spate due to heavy rains in Nagarkurnool on Wednesday. “It happened right in front of my eyes. I saw the dog getting washed away in the flow. It then got stuck in some shrubs. I did not have time to think twice about what to do. I got into the water, balanced myself, and rescued the dog,” 36-year-old Mujeeb ur Rehman told TOI. For the brave act, Mujeeb earned appreciation from district superintendent of police Y Sai Sekhar and Nagarkurnool circle inspector Gandhi Naik. His two children — 11-year-old daughter Sumaiyya and seven-year-old son Yousuf ur Rehman— and wife were also amazed at his act. They had watched his rescue effort on television. “Do you do this also?” they asked him and appreciated his act. Mujeeb ur Rehman was the right man at the right spot and did what he felt was the right thing. As Kesari Samudram rivulet was overflowing, senior police officers deputed Mujeeb Rehman and another police personnel to caution people against getting into the rivulet as it would pose a danger. While they were on it, Mujeeb Rehaman noticed a dog getting washed away around 2.30pm on Wednesday. He immediately got into the rivulet and walked towards the dog, which had got stuck in the bushes. It was not easy considering the water flow, but Mujeeb Rehman balanced himself and pulled the dog out of the bushes. As there was an earth mover nearby, people lowered its arm into the water. Mujeeb placed the dog first in the earth mover bucket and then got into it. The operator moved both of them to safety. Later, the canine was left in Endabetta village near Nagarkurnool town as it was often seen in that village. “What Mujeeb has done shows the humane face of police. We are proud of him,” Nagarkurnool CI Gandhi Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-risks-life-rescues-dog-stuck-in-rivulet/articleshow/78176622.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Flooding blamed on poor road work||Hyderabad: Parts of the city including several main roads were waterlogged on Thursday. Lack of stormwater drains meant rainwater did not drain out after Wednesday’s downpour. Shoddy road restoration works by private agencies was main reason behind roads remaining waterlogged. Drainage facilities such as manholes were closed as contractors laid bitumen on them. “Why are contractors not being penalised? GHMC should release the number of penalties levied on contractors,” said Harish Daga, an activist. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar and GHMC chief engineer Mohammed Ziauddin did not respond to TOI calls. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flooding-blamed-on-poor-road-work/articleshow/78176632.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 18, 2020||Delhi||4,432 fresh Covid cases in Delhi, positivity rate at 7.4%||NEW DELHI: The daily tally of Covid-19 in Delhi continued to be above 4,000 for the 10th day on Thursday, except on Monday when 3,229 cases were reported. As many as 4,432 people have tested positive in the past 24 hours, taking the state’s tally to over 2.34 lakh. The death toll touched 4,877 with 38 fresh fatalities confirmed in the past 24 hours, an official said. This is the highest single-day toll recorded in the past two months, the official added. In the past 17 days, Delhi has recorded 427 deaths due to the virus. In terms of Covid fatalities, the capital ranks fifth among the states, though its population is lesser than Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, where over 5,000 people had died due to the infection. Maharashtra has recorded a maximum of 30,883 deaths, revealed the data shared by the state. According to Delhi government, 60,014 tests were conducted on Wednesday, while the positivity rate stood at 7.4%. The total number of cases was 2,34,701, of which 1,98,103 had either recovered, migrated out or been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 31,721, while the number of containment zones was 1,670. The occupancy of ICU beds, with and without ventilator support, in both public and private hospitals designated for Covid-19 continued to increase. On Thursday, 6,974 of the 14,863 Covid beds were occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds with and without ventilator support stood at 62% and 69%, respectively. Lady Hardinge Medical College, Apollo, Sri Balaji Action, Aakash Healthcare, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute BLK, Holy Family and many other private hospitals didn’t have a single bed vacant for Covid patients requiring ICU support. Meanwhile, to avoid any crisis situation, the health experts stressed on the need to follow social distancing measures and wearing masks in public places. The cases of common flu, typhoid and dengue are also on the rise, the doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4432-fresh-covid-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-at-7-4/articleshow/78178500.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Aurangabad||3 booked for abetting suicide||Aurangabad: Three people, including a woman, have been booked on charges of abetting suicide after they allegedly took Rs 4.20 lakh from a 52-year-old man on the pretext of helping him procure a loan of Rs 25 lakh, but failed to do so. The deceased has been identified as Suresh Patil, a resident of Padampura area. He was employed as a manager with a private company. His family has claimed that Patil had lodged a written complaint with Vedantnagar police station, but the preliminary probe continued for a month without any conclusive result. Following the man’s death, his family threatened of bringing the dead body to the police station, following which an offence of abetment of suicide was registered on Tuesday evening. The accused Sanjay Sable, a resident of Shivrai in Gangapur tehsil of the district, was immediately arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-booked-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/78153229.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Lok Sabha speaker joins Green India initiative||Hyderabad: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla took part in the Green India Challenge initiative of TRS MP Joginpally Santosh Kumar by planting a sapling on the premises of parliament on Thursday. The speaker planted a sapling of ‘rudraksha’ on the occasion of the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Birla, while appreciating Santosh Kumar for initiating the Green India Challenge, urged people to take the campaign seriously and to protect environment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lok-sabha-speaker-joins-green-india-initiative/articleshow/78176643.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Three lakes in Secunderabad may overflow if rains continue||SECUNDERABAD: As the heavy downpour continued on second day on Thursday, over 20 residential colonies abutting the decades-old water bodies like Ramannakunta Lake, Trimulgherry Lake and Hasmathpet Lake, are facing threat of inundation. In fact, hundreds of families, staying near these lakes have been under threat of flooding for years. Confirming the grim situation at water bodies, Secunderabad Cantonment Board’s (SCB) health & sanitation wing officials told TOI that a total of 15 teams are deployed at the water bodies to divert excess water flooding into Ramannakunta and Trimulgherry lakes. Officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) and GHMC are unable to assess the water levels of these water bodies due to the spread of water hyacinth. The SCB maintains two lakes, Ramannakunta lake and Trimulgherry lake, while Hasmathpet lake is maintained by the GHMC. Ramannakunta lake was already stinking due to release of sewage water. The lake may overflow any time if the rains continue. “Making Ramannakunta lake free from polluted water remains a dream because of officials’ apathy,” Sai Ram Prasad, a resident of Soujanya Colony, told TOI. “Work on laying of sewer trunks surrounding the lake to prevent sewage from entering the lake has been on for more than five years.” Similarly, Trimulgherry lake is filled to the brim due to recent rains. “All measures like deploying sanitation workers and the dewatering process have been taken in view of ongoing rains,” said a sanitation official of SCB. Water levels at these two lakes are being monitored round-the-clock, and locals have been alerted, he added. Regarding Hasmathpet lake, the bunds of the lake turned into a dumpyard as locals and sanitation workers throw garbage and construction debris there. “We have warned locals several times not to dump garbage, but all are pleas have fallen on deaf ears,” said a GHMC official. SCB health and sanitation wing senior official, M Devender said, “All drains in Cantonment are overflowing. Residents have been alerted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-lakes-in-secunderabad-may-overflow-if-rains-continue/articleshow/78176640.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Opposition members meet President over northeast Delhi riots probe||NEW DELHI: Some opposition members on Thursday met President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention in ensuring a "credible and unbiased" probe into the Delhi riots by a sitting or retired judge under the Commission of Inquiry Act. Congress MP Ahmed Patel, CPI general secretary D Raja, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK MP Kanimozhi and RJD MP Manoj Jha met the President Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan and submitted a memorandum, expressing concern over the probe into the riots being conducted by the Delhi Police. They alleged that "fabricated charges" are being levelled by the Delhi Police against intellectuals, academics, activists and members of political parties. "There are, however, serious questions about the role played by the Delhi Police during the violence and also the manner in which the police is harassing and attempting to falsely implicate activists and young people who took part in the anti-CAA/NRC/NPR movements as the perpetrators of violence," the memorandum said. It also criticised police for the alleged reference made to Yechury and some others, citing disclosure statements by the accused. "The notable silence in the chargesheet on the role of leaders associated with BJP, who gave inflammatory speeches, raises serious concern about the impartiality of the probe," the memorandum said. "While the Delhi Police has turned a blind eye towards the role of its own personnel and BJP members in the violence, at the same time the probe appears to be pursuing a line of inquiry criminalising the protests against the CAA and portraying them as a conspiracy which resulted in the riots ... The entire investigation appears to be aimed at arriving at a pre-meditated theory about a conspiracy propounded by the home minister in Lok Sabha in March 2020, before any investigation had even begun into the riots," it said. Watch Opposition leaders meet President, raise concern over Delhi riots probe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opposition-members-meet-president-over-delhi-northeast-riots-probe/articleshow/78178503.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||After protest against unemployment, 78 SP workers booked for rioting||Bareilly: A day after their protest against “rising” crime and unemployment, as many as 78 Samajwadi Party workers were booked for allegedly flouting prohibitory orders and also the pandemic protocol in Moradabad on Wednesday. Of them, 28 are named and around 50 unidentified. All of them took out a protest and staged a dharna at collectorate premises on Tuesday. According to police, the protesters not only flouted section 144 of CrPC but also violated basic Covid-19 protocols. The FIR was registered under IPC section 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and also under provisions of Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. SHO of Civil Lines, Nawal Mawah said, “The SP workers gathered in a large number at a public place even as section 144 of CrPC has been imposed in the district due to the pandemic. The agitators also didn’t adhere to the basic guidelines of Covid-19 and flouted physical distancing.” Among those booked are district president Anil Yadav and city president Kapil Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-protest-against-unemployment-78-sp-workers-booked-for-rioting/articleshow/78153280.cms||Maria Khan
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||CM greets Modi on birthday||Hyderabad: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao greeted PM Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday on Thursday. In a letter to the PM, the KCR said he prayed to the god to shower his blessings on Modi to serve the nation for several years. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-greets-modi-on-birthday/articleshow/78176657.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||City remains waterlogged, residents forced to stay indoors||Hyderabad: A day after the city received 11 cm of heavy rainfall, many colonies in Tolichowki, Shaikpet and Attapur continued to be flooded even on Thursday, forcing residents to stay indoors. As rainfall continued to lash parts of the city on Thursday, Tolichowki, Attapur, Shaikpet, Langar Houz and Hakeempet were among the most affected areas. Water turned many bylanes into rivers as it entered basements and ground level of houses. Two to three feet of water damaged vehicles in the area as people struggled to step out of their houses. “We were unable to step out even to get daily items such as milk and vegetables as basements and ground levels were inundated. The water levels only increased by the evening as it started raining again,” said Rafiq Khan, resident of Nadeem Colony in Tolichowki. The situation was much the same in neighbouring colonies such as Surya Colony and Grammar Colony. Due to heavy rains, boulders fell from a hillock on outer ring road main carriageway on the fourth lane (Rajendra Nagar exit-16). The boulders were removed by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) staff. Meanwhile, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s disaster response team too resolved 100 complaints related to waterlogging, fallen trees and branches and road repair by Thursday evening. The rainfall also led to disruption in power and internet supply at many locations causing immense inconvenience to those working from home. “There was no power supply for almost 10 hours in our area. Even after it was back, the internet services were not restored as we were told that underground cables were affected due to heavy rains,” said Mohammed Shakib, a resident of Pahadishareef. Meanwhile, heavy rains continued to wreak havoc in many parts of the city for the second consecutive day on Thursday. As per Telangana State Development Planning Society, till Thursday 7 pm, Balanagar received highest rainfall of 71.5 mm followed by 54.5 mm at Neredmet, 49.8 mm at Fateh Nagar, 49.5 mm at Pedda Amberpet and 48.8 mm at Old Bowenpally. Meteorologists forecast thunderstorm and heavy rainfall in Telangana till September 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-remains-waterlogged-residents-forced-to-stay-indoors/articleshow/78176681.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 18, 2020||Kochi||Cyber security meet begins today||KOCHI: The 12th edition of COCON, the annual cyber security and hacking conference organised by the Kerala Police, will be inaugurated by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday. On the inaugural day, National Security Adviser Ajith Doval would address the meeting on post-Covid cyber security. The conference discusses the latest trends in hacking and security technology. The latest edition, that would see the participation of around 6,000 delegates, is being held virtually this year due to the pandemic situation. Prince Michael of Yugoslavia will deliver the keynote address at the inauguration ceremony which will be held at 9.45am. Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant will speak on contemporary digital security. Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan is slated to talk on privacy challenges. ADGP and Kerala Cyberdome nodal officer Manoj Abraham will welcome the gathering and state police chief Loknath Behera will welcome the chief guests. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the valedictory function on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cyber-security-meet-begins-today/articleshow/78175482.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana better placed to fight Covid-19: Study||HYDERABAD: A new study has placed Telangana in “medium risk” states with regard to Covid-19 based on various socio-economic indices. The state’s risk status indicates it is in a better position to deal with the situation and existing socio-economic conditions were not draining the state. The study, published by Cambridge University Press, was done to explore the impact of socio-economic conditions like literacy, urban and ageing population and presence of slums, healthcare systems and their impact on the infection rate and state’s capacity to deal with the pandemic. Based on various parameters, the study came up with four indices — demographic susceptibility index, socio-economic and disease exposure index, public health resilience index and composite vulnerability Index. In all these indices, Telangana was put in the medium risk group of states, indicating better conditions. Interestingly, the study found a relationship between education and Covid-19 infection. States with high burden of Covid-19 infections have a moderate or high literacy rate. Among demographic factors, age and co-morbidity were pre-existing vulnerabilities, which increase susceptibility to the disease. Among states with a moderate level of Covid-19 positive cases, the percentage of elderly population was either moderate or high. States with a moderate burden of infection had either moderate or high concentration of slum population. Also, states which had moderate to high level of urbanisation, the disease burden was high, it was observed. The study said health infrastructure plays a significant role in dealing with pandemic situation. States with relatively robust healthcare systems were able to carry out a large number of tests and treat Covid-19 patients. Similarly, states with poor health systems fared badly, the study added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-in-medium-risk-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/78176758.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Streets turn battleground as UDF, BJP seek KT Jaleel’s scalp||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state witnessed violent political agitations on the sixth consecutive day demanding the ouster of minister KT Jaleel from the cabinet after he was summoned by ED and NIA as part of their probe in the gold smuggling case. On Thursday, there were five marches to the Secretariat by BJP, Youth League, Youth Congress and KSU. BJP took out two marches, one around 12 noon and the other in the evening. All marches turned violent after protesters tried to surmount the barrier put up by the police. Police had to use force, including water cannon, to disperse the violent mob. Cantonment police registered five separate cases in connection with the marches. Later at 7pm, BJP members moved towards LMS Church in a bid to block Jaleel who was returning from Kochi to his residence. But, police had barricaded LMS Junction restricting the movement of protesters. Around 8.45pm, Jaleel reached home and protesters were forcibly removed from the road by police. Museum police registered a case against BJP members. MLA sustains injuries At Palakkad, MLA VT Balram and Youth Congress members were injured after police resorted to lathicharge. Balram, who sustained a head injury, said he and others were rounded up and beaten up by the police during their march to the collectorate. Police also used water cannons to disperse agitators. Later, Youth Congress took out a march to town police station to protest against police action. A constable was injured in the stone pelting incident. Meanwhile in Kochi, a series of protests erupted near the NIA office while the minister was being questioned by a team of officers on Thursday morning. Police had closed roads leading to the agency office to ensure Jaleel’s security. A heavy contingent of 250 police personnel, including 50 policewomen, were deployed in the area. Police arrested over 100 protestors from Congress, Youth Congress Yuva Morcha and Mahila Morcha on charges of rioting and unlawful assembly besides violation of Covid protocol. A Youth congress activists smashed the window of a police vehicle while being taken away with four others. Police booked them under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. In Kozhikode, four Yuva Morcha workers were injured as police used force to disperse the crowd. Police blocked the march to police chief’s office and used water cannon on protestors who sat down on the road, blocking vehicular traffic. Later, they arrested Yuva Morcha activists including its state general secretary K Ganesh and district president T Rineesh. Police used lathicharge and water cannon to break up the march taken out by MYL to the civil station. Leaders O K Faisal, Shafeeq Arakkinar, AS Khan and others were admitted to hospital. MYL state general secretary PK Firos said government should have the courage to oust the minister instead of unleashing violence on protesters. Clashes in Kottayam, KollamMeanwhile in Kollam, KSU march to the collectorate turned violent and police used water cannons to manage the violent mob that tried to pull down the barricade. However, no one was injured or arrested. In Kottayam, the SP office march taken out by BJP and Yuva Morcha at 11am turned violent. Police had barricaded the area near civil station and protesters tried to knock down the barricades. Ten BJP leaders, including senior leader MK Narayanan Namboothiri, were injured when police resorted to lathicharge. In Idukki, protests were led by Youth Congress and KC(M) Joseph faction in Thodupuzha. Yuva Morcha protested in Kattappana. In Thrissur, Mahila Morcha protesters were stopped 100m away from the commissioner’s office. Two were arrested when they tried to jump over the barricade. No untoward incidents happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/streets-turn-battleground-as-udf-bjp-seek-jaleels-scalp/articleshow/78175501.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MPs protest in Parl seeking GST arrears||Hyderabad: TRS MPs staged a dharna in front of Gandhi statue on the premises of parliament on Thursday demanding that the Centre immediately release the GST arrears of Rs 9,000 crore. TRS floor leader in Lok Sabha Nama Nagewara Rao and Rajya Sabha floor leader K Keshava Rao coordinated with parties like TMC, DMK, AAP, Samajwadi Party and Shiva Sena and staged a dharna. Holding placards, they shouted slogans against the Centre. Nageswara Rao said states had suffered financially during the pandemic. “Instead of supporting the states, the Centre has put a lot of burden on the states.” He said the protest was against the injustice being meted out to the states. The TRS leaders gave an adjournment motion and asked the speaker to give time to debate on the issue. When the Lok Sabha started, Rao insisted that they be allowed to debate on GST. The speaker assured him that he would allow the debate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mps-protest-in-parl-seeking-gst-arrears/articleshow/78176788.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Quran, gold cases: NIA quizzes Kerala mantri||KOCHI: The National Investigation Agency questioned Kerala higher education and minority welfare minister K T Jaleel for eight hours on Thursday regarding the consignment of Qurans brought in through the UAE’s diplomatic baggage and for his alleged links to some of the main accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. Jaleel was questioned about the same issues by the ED last week, especially discrepancies in the documentation and weight of the Quran consignment. On Thursday, the minister was questioned based on statements provided by the gold case accused as well as data recovered from devices belonging to the accused. The NIA had retrieved two terabytes of data from gold case prime accused Sandeep Nair and Swapna Suresh alone, while 4 TB was retrieved overall from five accused people. NIA sleuths remained tight-lipped on whether Jaleel was a suspect or if he would formally be made a witness in the case in the later stages. “I was summoned as a witness in the case. They wanted information to cross-check the statements of the accused in the gold smuggling case. They asked me about my dealings with the UAE consulate as a state minister,” he told a website, “The Federal”, soon after his questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/quran-gold-cases-nia-quizzes-kerala-mantri/articleshow/78178511.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||CBI books two Jaipur firms for sending pop-up messages on PCs||JAIPUR: The CBI on Thursday conducted raids at various parts of the country including Jaipur against companies for sending pop-up messages on PCs with warnings or bogus messages about serious technical problems including malware infections. A CBI spokesperson said a case had been registered against various companies including two companies of Jaipur ( Softwill Infotech Pvt Ltd, Innovana Thinklabs Ltd, Jaipur, and Systweak Software Pvt Ltd, Jaipur). “It was alleged that these companies sent pop-up messages to victims’ personal computers with warnings or bogus messages about serious technical problems including virus infection in their Microsoft Windows systems. Whoever opened the pop-ups were advised to install certain anti-malware or anti-virus softwares, which are essentially PUPs (Potentially Unwanted Programs). The victims were then given the option to activate PUPs,” the official said. He said that the victims were fraudulently influenced in the manner that they fell into the trap to maintain their systems properly. The official said in the complaint it was also alleged that the victims were made to pay online by clicking the link on the interface for resolving a non-existent problem. “These companies used to charge from people to install an anti-virus which never existed,” said an officer. Other than Jaipur, searches were conducted in Delhi, Noida, Mainpuri, Gurugram and Faridabad on the premises of fake companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cbi-books-two-jaipur-firms-for-sending-pop-up-messages-on-pcs/articleshow/78176838.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Parking woes in Jaipur market areas continue||JAIPUR: It is becoming increasingly difficult to get a parking space in Walled City market areas. Though rules allow parking in the market areas for three hours, vehicles are parked the entire day leaving little space for customers. In Johri Market where there are more than 400 shops, the parking space has been sublet to different people. Jaipur Municipal Corporation has given a contract to manage the parking and contractor has further sublet it to other people. A shopkeeper in Johri Market said, “Parking space is divided between people who are allowed to charge independently. Municipal corporation officials have informed us that a contractor is not allowed to sublet the parking, but it is going on right under the nose of authorities. More than 15 people are charging people parking their vehicles independently.” According to rules, a vehicle is allowed to be parked in the market for three hours but with the help of the contractor managing the parking, one can park the vehicles for the entire day on monthly payment. Kailash Mittal, vice-president of Johri Bazaar Market Association said, “None of the contractor wears a uniform and they allow vehicles to be parked in the market for whole day. It prevents customers to park their vehicles leading to revenue losses.” TOI tried to contact Jaipur Municipal Corporation officials for a comment but they were unavailable. Similarly, at Ramleela Maidan parking area, municipal rules stipulate Rs 20 for three hours but the contractor is charging Rs 30 for the first hour and Rs 10 every hour after that. If a businessman wants to park his vehicle in the parking area, he has to give around Rs 150 for nine hours per day, which add up to Rs 4,500 a month. Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh president Subhash Goyal said, “This is a big fraud that is going on the area. Businessmen are being charged extra in Ramleela Maidan parking. This actually promotes businessmen to rather park their vehicles in the market then in the parking lot to avoid paying such hefty amounts. Because in the market they can easily get a space by paying just Rs 1,000 a month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parking-woes-in-walled-city-market-areas-continue/articleshow/78176824.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Builders still flying back workers in bid to finish stalled projects||Bengaluru: Of the passengers that arrived on a flight from Mumbai at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru on Thursday was a motley group of 16 men. At times curious, they mostly looked uneasy. The group, all construction labourers, was clearly overwhelmed. After all, they were not only flying for the first time, but were also returning to the city they had made their home, but had to flee when the pandemic struck and the lockdown was enforced. TOI spoke to the men at KIA and they said their contractor paid the fare of Rs 3,000 per head, all in a bid to complete projects stalled due to lack of workers. “This is the first time we are flying and we were so worried,” said Kishan S, who spoke on behalf of the group. Kishan said he and the others will have to wait for instructions from their manager, before heading to their workplace. “We have no idea what to do after stepping out of the airport. This is not like bus stands or railway stations which we are used to,” he said. His mate, Shomen, said his family was excited knowing he was going to fly. “I am the first person in my family to fly,” he said. Shomen said he and his colleagues had left Bengaluru in late March after construction work ground to a halt. Kishan’s employer, builder Manjunath SK, who has projects in Electronics City, told TOI that he has been spending three times the usual to get labourers back on his sites. “Construction work at all our sites has been halted for the past six months,” Manjunath said. “Fearing an infection, our workers returned to their hometowns and villages. Now we are doing all we can to get them back and get our projects back on the rails.” He said 18 labourers retuned by flight last week and Thursday’s was his second batch of workers. Prasad O Gowda, another builder and contractor, said he too is flying is labourers back from other states. “If interstate buses were running, we would have paid just Rs 700-800 per head, but now we are paying Rs 2700-3000 per head. Flying them is like paying for four people to travel,” Gowda told TOI. Gowda said he had flown 35 of his labourers till now. The last batch of seven labourers arrived on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/builders-still-flying-back-workers-in-bid-to-finish-stalled-projects/articleshow/78175525.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||15 students, staff +ve in Nizam College||Hyderabad: In all, 15 persons, including students and staff of Nizam College tested positive for Covid-19 during the final semester examinations that commenced on September 15. “About 1000 antigen tests were conducted. Seven students boarding in hostels, three foreign students, three local students, and two teachers were positive for Covid-19. We conducted these tests to ensure the safety of all students. We have also sanitized the entire college premises,” said Laxmikanth Rathod, principal Nizam College, who organised these tests with the support of Basheerbagh corporator Mamta Gupta. The Osmania University final semester exams for engineering, pharmacy, hotel management and BCA students had commenced on Thursday. According to OU controller of examinations, Prof Sriram Venkatesh, 98.16 percent of students attended the exam. Of the 6,474 registered candidates, 6,355 attended the examination and 119 skipped it. Due to Covid-19, all the examinations under the OU jurisdiction were conducted for two hours instead of three hours. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-students-staff-ve-in-nizam-college/articleshow/78176835.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt slashes LRS fee, 7 slabs for market value and regularisation||HYDERABAD: With demands from property owners and following an assurance given to legislators in the assembly, the Telangana government on Thursday gave relief to the people by slashing Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) fee. A GO was issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Thursday revising LRS charges. According to the GO, the market value of the plot and regularisation charges were divided into seven slabs instead of earlier four slabs. For regularising plots with market value up to Rs 3,000 per sq yard, the property owners have to pay 20% of basic regularisation charges. Similarly, seven slabs up to 50,000 sq yards with 100% charges were provided like the LRS scheme of 2015. In the GO 131, there were four slabs — 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% for up to Rs 3,000 market value, Rs 3,001 to Rs 5,000, Rs 5001 to Rs 10,000 and Rs 10,001 and above respectively. If 10% open space is not provided in an un-approved layout, pro-rata open space charges at 14% of the plot value prevailing as on date of registration of such plot would be collected instead of the rate prevailing as on August 26, 2020, which was proposed in the GO 131. Officials said LRS charges were earlier steep due to these pro-rata open spaces charges. The government also clarified that in the amended G.O. that the LRS regularization charges include NALA charges also (i.e, conversion charges for agricultural to non- agricultural use) and no separate NALA charges would be required to be paid by the LRS applicants. In the earlier GO, the government can collect conversion charges which were removed in the amended order. The state government had announced the LRS scheme (GO No 131) on August 31 to regularise open plots which came up in unauthorised layouts and registered before August 26, 2020, on payment of regularisation charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-slashes-lrs-fee-7-slabs-for-market-value-and-regularisation/articleshow/78176829.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||Man booked for sexually harassing separated woman, causing miscarriage||Pilibhit: A 30-year-old man — identified himself as a “judicial clerk” — was booked by Neuria police for allegedly sexually harassing a 26-year-old divorced woman and causing miscarriage. The accused married the woman on August 1 allegedly under the pressure of the village panchayat, but after she conceived, he gave her instant talaq just 29 days after their marriage "demanding Rs 5 lakh and a bike in dowry”. In her written complaint filed to police, the woman alleged that she had disclosed to the accused that she was a divorcee and belonged to a poor family, but he forcibly maintained physical relations with her against her will on the pretext of marrying her. The woman alleged that one day, when she was suffering from fever, he deceptively gave her medicine of miscarriage and she aborted. On August 29, the accused shifted her to her parents’ house and then he, along with his parents and two maternal uncles, demanded Rs 5 lakh and a motorcycle in dowry while threatening that he would not take her back home until his demands were fulfilled, she alleged. When she urged him that her father was suffering from paralysis and her family won’t be able to fulfil his demands, he gave her instant triple talaq in presence of her family members, alleged the woman, claiming that the accused was issuing threats to kill her. Neuria police station SHO Jagat Singh said the accused his parents and maternal uncles were booked under section 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act and the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-sexually-harassing-separated-woman-causing-miscarriage/articleshow/78171956.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong deserves credit for Hyd merger: Uttam||Hyderabad: TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Thursday said that TRS, BJP and AIMIM have got nothing to do with Telangana Liberation Day, but have turned it into a communal event. It was only Congress which deserves credit for Hyderabad’s merger, he said, addressing party workers after paying tributes to martyrs of Telangana liberation struggle. He advised party cadre to focus on winning Dubbaka bypoll and GHMC elections. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-deserves-credit-for-hyd-merger-uttam/articleshow/78176882.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||Govt lifts gold loan ban imposed on credit societies||Panaji: The state government on Thursday permitted credit societies in Goa to sanction loans against gold, lifting a ban that was imposed in November 2017. While giving the nod to lift the ban, the government has framed rules for gold loans and has capped the loan amount to Rs 5 lakh or 80% of the gold value. The ban was imposed after several credit cooperative societies and multi-purpose cooperative societies were found lending against gold without specific bye-laws. Several cases of loans being issued against fake gold ornaments were also unearthed, officials said. “The ban was only an interim arrangement to stop the misuse. Gold security is supposed to be the most sound collateral for any advance and such ban cannot be continued permanently which may further hamper the growth of credit societies,” registrar of cooperative societies Vikas Gaunekar said. On June 29, cooperation minister Govind Gaude held a meeting with chairpersons, managing directors and general managers of cooperative societies and agreed to allow cooperative societies to offer gold loans to their customers. Credit societies will be allowed to sanction gold loans as long as they comply with the procedures outlined by the registrar of cooperative societies. To prevent irregularities, credit societies will have to amend their bye laws and bring in norms for loans against gold. “The guidelines by credit societies shall contain the procedure and other modalities for appointment of gold appraiser, authorised officer, loan limit and maximum allocation of resources to be utilised for advancing against gold. The society shall also prescribe the procedure to be followed in the event of fraud or irregularities while advancing such loans with cohesive action plan for recovery,” Gaunekar said. An appraiser certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards will have to value any gold which is being pledged and the gold will have to be sealed and stored in a safe for which necessary infrastructure has to be created. “In case a loan advanced against gold is not paid within the due date, the outstanding loan amount shall be recovered by auctioning the pledged gold after giving 14 days prior notice,” Gaunekar said in the notification permitting credit societies to lend against pledged gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-lifts-gold-loan-ban-imposed-on-credit-societies/articleshow/78177689.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ESI hospital starts functioning as Covid facility||JAIPUR: The state government on Thursday said the ECI Hospital will function as a dedicated Covid-19 facility from Friday, in addition to RUHS and Jaipuria hospitals. Currently, all beds with oxygen support for Covid-19 patients are occupied at Jaipuria Hospital while 75% are full at RUHS Hospital. Since ESI Hospital comes under Centre, the state government was in touch with New Delhi to complete takeover formalities. The hospital has more than 100 beds with oxygen support. In Jaipuria Hospital, the health department has admitted 51 patients and all of them are on oxygen support. The state government is now planning to increase the number of beds in the hospital. A senior health department official said with the addition of the ESI Hospital as a dedicated Covid hospital, it will be benefitting patients who require high-flow oxygen facilities. The health department is taking measures to increase the number of beds with oxygen support to ensure that patienets with difficulty in breathing get immediate treatment. RUHS Hospital has 216 oxygen beds and more than 150 of them are occupied. Out of the 46 ICU beds, more than 40 are occupied and of 41 ventilators, over 25 are currently in use. Out of 586 general beds, 400 were occupied as on Thursday. In Jaipuria Hospital, all the 40 beds with oxygen support and 10 beds with ventilator support remained occupied. Former health minister and BJP leader Kalicharan Saraf appealed to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to take care of Jaipur along with Jodhpur to deal with the pandemic. Saraf said the population of Jaipur is 30 lakh and so far 3.2 lakh have been tested. In Jodhpur, out of 10 lakh population, 3.5 lakh people have been tested, which accounts for 35%. He said the recovery rate in Jaipur was less than the recovery rate in Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/esi-hosp-to-start-functioning-as-covid-facility-from-today/articleshow/78176879.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||‘Jindal never contacted SMS, RUHS for treatment’||Jaipur: Reacting to allegation that former surgeon Dr Dinesh Jindal died due to Covid-19 as he did not get a bed in any dedicated coronavirus hospital, the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College on Thursday said that the deceased’s family never contacted SMS Hospital or RUHS for treatment.A statement issued by SMS Medical College principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari mentioned that Jindal was working in a private hospital after retirement from the SMS Hospital. “He got admitted in the same hospital where he had been working after retirement from SMS Hospital on his own wish. His family never contacted SMS Hospital or RUHS Hospital for admission for treatment. He remained admitted in the same hospital from September 6 to September 8, until he got admitted to a private dedicated Covid-19 hosptial,” reads the statement.It further added that the hospital had received information that he needed plasma therapy on September 8, plasma was provided immediately from the SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jindal-never-contacted-sms-ruhs-for-treatment/articleshow/78176854.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Pakistani ‘madamji’ lures MES cleaner to share Army info||GURGAON/LUCKNOW: A civilian employee of the Military Engineering Services (MES), Jaipur was arrested by Haryana Police’s special task force (STF) in Rewari for allegedly passing on classified information to a Pakistani military intelligence unit after getting honey-trapped on Facebook. The STF said it acted on a specific input from military intelligence (MI) to detain Mahesh Kumar (28) from Dharuhera bus stand on Wednesday. Kumar was about to board a bus for Jaipur when he was nabbed. The STF said it had received an alert that Kumar was in touch with a Pakistani intelligence operative and was passing classified information through WhatsApp and Facebook. Kumar, whose official job description is a cleaner, allegedly took snapshots of classified content in files. He deleted the photos from his phone after sending them to the Pakistani operative, the STF said. Police said Mahesh had received a friend request from an account named Harman Kour run by Pakistani intelligence operatives. Kumar used to address her as “madam ji”, police said, adding Kumar had allegedly received money twice — Rs 5,000 each — over the last 5-6 months from his Pakistani handlers via Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistani-madamji-lures-mes-cleaner-to-share-army-info/articleshow/78178520.cms||Bagish K Jha
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||MSN group rolls out cheapest Favipiravir||Hyderabad: City-based pharma player MSN Group, which had rolled out the world’s cheapest Covid-19 treatment drug Favipiravir last month, on Thursday announced the launch of a 400mg version of its Favipiravir brand Favilow. The company said the 400mg version of the drug, which has been approved by the Indian drug regulator DCGI for treating mild to moderate cases of Covid-19, will help improve patient compliance and experience by reducing the number of tablets that patients need to take per day. While MSN had launched Favilow 200mg at Rs 33 per tablet in mid-August, it has introduced the 400mg version of the drug at Rs 66 per tablet The company also said it has improved the shelf life of Favilow 200 mg from three months to six months to enable pharmacies stock the product longer and ease availability of the medicine to patients. Pointing out that the company had launched the most affordable Favipiravir to reduce the cost burden on patients, MSN Group CMD Dr. MSN Reddy said the higher strength Favilow has now been launched the reduce the daily pill burden for patients. The company said it will be offering free home delivery in over 170 cities for the drug, which is available on prescription. While MSN labs had launched Favilow 200mg at Rs 33 per tablet in mid-August, it has introduced 400mg version of drug at Rs 66 per tablet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/msn-group-rolls-out-cheapest-favipiravir/articleshow/78176897.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Mahalaya brings back weekend feel in Kolkata malls||KOLKATA: It was a weekend feel at the city malls on Thursday as families stepped in for a meal on the occasion of Mahalaya and did some shopping as well although Durga Puja is still over a month away. At Acropolis mall, the surge in footfall was 25%-30% against previous Thursday as Mahalaya heralded the festive season amidst the pandemic. The turnout was particularly good at the food court and restaurants, both for lunch and for dinner. While sales at restaurants was up 30%, that at the food court was up 20%. There was traction in retail as well with apparel and cosmetics sales witnessing a spike. “It is very encouraging to notice people have overcome the Covid scare and embraced festivity. Like last year, we are planning to launch festive offers to draw more shoppers while adhering to safety norms. The sales surge for Durga Puja will happen around two-three weeks later as the festival is still over a month away this year,” said a mall spokesperson. Usually, Mahalaya is the trigger for frenzied shopping every year as Durga Puja is seven days later. At South City mall, the footfall was better than an average weekday but lower than the weekend. “We had a footfall in excess of 20,000, up from the weekday average of 15,000. Footfall wasn’t great in the afternoon but picked up in the evening. The foodcourt filled up soon and buzzed with customers. The zing factor is back at the mall ahead of the festive season,” said the mall spokesperson. The twin City Centres in Salt Lake and New Town, too, recorded high footfalls after 4pm. Most of the restaurants received pre-bookings for the first time in several days. An Ambuja Neotia spokesperson said the food and beverage units at the malls recorded a 25% business growth while sales at anchor stores were at 70% of pre-Covid level. “We are hoping that from November 2020 onwards, retail will start achieving 80% of its business. Patrons have put behind the fear of Covid 19 and we are seeing the families have started visiting the malls, which is a positive move for the retail business,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mahalaya-brings-back-weekend-feel-in-malls/articleshow/78176923.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Bikaner reports its 100th Covid death||JAIPUR: Bikaner reported its 100 Covid-19 death as the state reported its biggest single-day spike of 1,793 new infections on Thursday. Bikaner is at the third place in the list of districts having reported the highest number of Covid deaths. In Jaipur, 305 people have lost their battle to the virus, while in Jodhpur the number of deaths rose to 129 with two more people succumbing to the ailment. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died across the state taking the toll to 1,293. The cumulative total number of infection currently stands at 1,08,494. The state government is taking measures to expand facilities for Covid treatment further depending on the need of patients. “We are daily reviewing the occupancy and availaibility of ventilators, ICUs, beds with oxygen support to ensure that patients get immediate treatment,” Raghu Sharma, health minister, said. In Bikaner, the situation has worsened with 26% deaths in the district taking place this month in addition to reporting the highest case fatality rate of 2.6% in the state. Though Jaipur has reported highest number of Covid deaths in the state in September, the case fatality rate remained at 0.5%.Kota reported its 91st Covid-19 death, Nagaur 45th, Pali 52nd, Sikar 26th, Udaipur 39th, Ajmer 91st, Bikaner 100th, Chittorgarh 13th, Churu 11th, Sriganganagar 10th, Jaipur 305th, Jhunjhunu 8th and two deaths were reported in Jodhpur taking its toll to 129.Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (369), Jodhpur (229), Kota (149), Ajmer (115), Alwar (103), Udaipur (90), Bhilwara (89), Sikar (69), Bikaner (55), Pali (44), Nagaur (42), Sriganganagar (34), Churu (29), Baran (28), Bharatpur (27), Dungarpur (27), Banswara (26), Jalore (26), Jhalawar (24), Dholpur (24), Bundi (23), Hanumangarh (23), Tonk (23), Chittorgarh (22), Sirohi (20), Rajsamand (16), Pratapgarh (14), Jaisalmer (12), Barmer (11), Sawai Madhopur (10), Jhunjhunu (10), Karauli (6) and Dausa (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bikaner-reports-its-100th-covid-death/articleshow/78176908.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Educational institutions on the coast plan virtual convocations||MANGALURU: Convocation ceremonies stir great memories, but students of this ‘pandemic era’ are likely to miss out on them as most premier educational institutions in coastal Karnataka are likely to go the IIT Bombay way for their annual convocation – all virtual and no touch and feel. Nitte (deemed to be University) has already announced its 10th annual convocation will be virtual. Dr Satheesh Kumar Bhandary, vice-chancellor, Nitte, said the varsity usually conducts its convocation on the second Saturday of September every year. “This year it has been delayed due to the pandemic,” Bhandary said. “But we wanted to award degrees to students so they are able to continue with their jobs without hassles. Normal convocations would have thousands of students and dignitaries, but e-convocation will have only about 70-80 people present. The varsity will give out only Ph.D degrees and award 22 gold medalists in person during the ceremony. Besides, the institution has decided to change the convocation ceremony dress code to traditional Indian wear.” The Manipal Academy of Higher Education is also planning an e-convocation. The annual convocation which takes place in November every year stretches three days. Lt Gen (Retd) MD Venkatesh, vice-chancellor, MAHE, said thousands of students and their parents attend convocations every year. They come from various parts of the country and abroad. “It is not possible to conduct a ceremony now due to prevailing conditions and the varsity has proposed an e-convocation. It is in the planning stage,” Venkatesh said. Sources at NIT-K, Surathkal, said the institution is also likely to opt for virtual convocation. Normally, it is held in November every year. “We decided to hold diamond jubilee celebrations and convocation together but it is not possible now,” said an official. However, some engineering colleges are likely to defer the ceremony. Narendra UP, dean (training and placement), MITE, Moodbidri, said it is not right to send off students who have spent four years at the campus without a fitting farewell. “We will likely delay the convocation so that they attend the graduation function in person and take along college memories with them,” he said. Nihal Shetty, former president, NIT-K Students’ Council, said: “It wouldn’t feel the same as physically getting our degrees from the dignitaries in person, but given the circumstances, we would all be happy to actually finally graduate, even if it’s virtually.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/educational-institutions-on-the-coast-plan-virtual-convocations/articleshow/78175574.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu parties flex muscles in assembly in preparation for polls||CHENNAI: With an assembly election around the corner, the ruling AIADMK and the DMK-led opposition used the brief assembly session, convened amid the Covid-19 pandemic, to showcase their political credentials. A belligerent opposition took on the government for its failure to get Neet exemption and “exposed” the government’s stand on the National Education Policy. For its part, the EPS government passed a unanimous bill for 7.5% Neet quota for government students in its bid to regain lost ground to opponents. The three-day session helped the parties wake up from the Covid-induced hibernation and warm up for elections. There was good deal of posturing in the assembly with both chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and opposition leader M K Stalin flexing their muscles on Neet, an issue that’s likely to hold centre stage for a while. Stalin accused the government of lacking commitment in taking up the issue with the Centre while the CM tried to lay the blame for introducing Neet on the erstwhile UPA regime, of which the DMK was a constituent. With the Covid-19 pandemic, Neet and the National Education Policy setting the narrative, Palaniswami and health minister C Vijayabaskar went on combat mode. “The statements of the chief minister and health minister were marked by blatant lies and conveniently hid facts like how the DMK stayed the Neet through legal route until the party was in power and opposed it in the Parliament. We brought out several issues from NEP to scam in PM-Kisan to PMAY to 50% OBC quota in medical admission,” former minister and DMK MLA Thangam Thennarasu said. Even as its attempts to extend the session by seven days failed, the opposition gave more than 30 notices to call the attention of the ministers to urgent matters of public importance, such as reopening of schools, drinking water and ‘lack of support’ to local bodies in Jal Jeevan Mission. With just months to go for polls, the AIADMK announced its intention to seek amendments to the Indian Penal Code to make stringent the punishment for crimes against women and children. “It gave an opportunity to positively talk about the good things we have done in handling Covid pandemic. Passing 19 bills in a day is a record of sorts,” said minister K Pandiarajan. The creation of a new university, Anna University and reconstitution of an existing university as ‘Anna Technological and Research University is a pathbreaking step and a bill to regulate the Public Trusts has far-reaching implications said the minister. The Congress tried to remain relevant by accusing the government of being scared to take on the Centre on Neet and NEP. The notable absentee was AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-parties-flex-muscles-in-assembly-in-prep-for-polls/articleshow/78175575.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notice to state govt on LRS, seeks counter within 2 weeks||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday issued notices to the government and municipal authorities, asking them to explain on a petition filed by the Forum for Good Governance (FGG) questioning the validity of the government’s decision to regularise illegal and unauthorised layouts under the layout regularisation scheme (LRS). A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, however, refused to grant any interim relief at this stage. “We have to first see the counter of the state government,” the judges said while asking advocate general BS Prasad to file the counter within two weeks. When Prasad assured the court that they would file a counter soon, the judges posted the case to October 8 for further hearing. FGG general secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said the decision to bring out a fresh LRS runs contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. “Hence, we are questioning the constitutional validity of this policy as conveyed through GO No. 131 (dated August 31, 2020),” he said in his plea. By collecting money from people, the state government was seeking to affix a stamp of approval on all such illegal layouts,” he contended. Appearing for FGG, senior counsel S Satyam Reddy sought a restraint order from the court to prevent the government from going ahead with the scheme. The petitioner said the government claimed that it wanted to bring all unauthorised layouts in a planned development stream, which runs counter to the idea of planned development. “Layouts that cropped up in conservation zones, waterbodies, etc, will now seek regularisation. The question of planned growth will take a back seat,” he argued. This would further encourage people to raise illegal layouts in the hope that the state government would eventually regularise them as well, he contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-state-govt-on-lrs-seeks-counter-within-2-weeks/articleshow/78176918.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Ex-principal of MKP College seeks court reprieve in fund misuse case||Nainital: The former principal of Dehradun’s MKP College appeared before the Uttarakhand high court on Thursday and claimed that the allegations of financial irregularities against her are baseless. She also requested the court to recall its order dated June 18 which directed the principal secretary of higher education to investigate the allegations of fund misuse against her in four months and take suitable action. Ex-principal Kiran Sood, in her petition, claimed that she did not receive the notice issued by the court in the PIL alleging gross misappropriation of college funds by her and did not get a chance to present her side before the order was passed. “Sood appeared before the court through video-conferencing on Thursday and said that all allegations against her are baseless. She added that she had procured all equipment and gadgets of topmost quality for students and that too without any personal financial gains,” said a counsel present at the hearing. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe said that it will deliver its judgment in the matter on Friday. TOI had earlier reported that a public interest litigation was filed before the Uttarakhand HC alleging gross misappropriation of funds at MKP College under the former principal Kiran Sood. It cited the audit reports of the government and CAG apart from police investigation which prima facie revealed foul play. Hence, the court passed a judgment in June directing the principal secretary of higher education to hear the former principal and secretary of the MKP society, and take action within four months. The principal secretary is yet to initiate steps against the accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-principal-of-mkp-college-seeks-court-reprieve-in-fund-misuse-case/articleshow/78174336.cms||Prashant Jha
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid patient suffers heart attack, recovers||Hyderabad: A 32-year-old Covid-19 positive patient underwent a angioplasty in a city hospital after suffering a heart attack and severe damage to his lungs. The man was rushed to the hospital with symptoms of fever and shortness of breath. While the tests confirmed heart stroke, an angiogram revealed the patient had 100% blockage of two arteries, and a third blood vessel was closed 95%. Additionally, patient tested positive for Covid and had lungs severely infected. “Our first step was to ensure the patient’s blood pressure levels were stabilized for any further assessment or treatment. Pre-procedure was done using an intra-aortic balloon pump and elective intubation of the patient. Post this, the patient was put through multi-vessel percutaneous angioplasty with drug-eluting stents placed in him,” said Dr Anil Krishna, chairman, Medicover Group, who treated him.“In such complex situation, the tolerance levels of the patient are critical, and in this case, this young man showed the heart to pull through the procedures,” he added. The mortality rate in patients with blockade of three heart vessels, plus lungs damaged due to Covid-19 virus is as high as 90%. The man was rushed to the hospital with symptoms of fever and shortness of breath. An angiogram revealed he had 100% blockage of two arteries, and third blood vessel was closed 95%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patient-suffers-heart-attack-recovers/articleshow/78176925.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata restobars plan to cash in on IPL craze||KOLKATA: With IPL set to start from Saturday, bars and restaurants are gearing up to optimize footfall amidst the pandemic. From special offers on liquor during IPL matches to new platters, bars and restaurants have armed themselves with a host of offers. The timing of IPL matches between 7.30pm and 10.30pm, too, are apt for the food and beverage industry, feel restaurant owners. Some cloud kitchens will also offer special starter menus for those who want to enjoy matches at home. The president of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI), Sudesh Poddar, who owns Songhai and Manthan, said innovative offers will be on offer on both liquor and food from Saturday itself. “We shall offer one small drink for every wicket during matches. There will be special menu that goes well with drinks, like Hyderbadi tandoori chicken, dry fish preparations,” he said. Anjan Chaterjee, chairman of Speciality Restaurants, said they had planned offers, which would help greater interface with the game. “We want customers to feel the excitement while watching IPL matches in our bars. For every six, there will be offer related to drink,” he added. According to him, all his restaurants, including bars like Hoppipola, Barishh, Episode, would have different offers, including its fine-dining-cum-bar like Asia Kitchen, Mainland China and Oh! Calcutta. Chatterjee said there will be special offers like Mumbai Indian platter, KKR Platter, CSK platter. Xrong Place, a leading sports bar in south Kolkata, will give special discounts during KKR matches on drinks and food. T S Walia, former president of FHRAI and owner of Xrong Place, said customers wearing KKR T-shirts would get additional discounts. “Being a sports lounge bar, our screen will be one of the biggest. We shall also offer discounts on bills of over Rs 2,000 during IPL matches,” he added. Rahul Khanna, who operates Go Where, a bar-cum-restaurant in Sector V, has also planned some packaged prices for drinks on selected brands of liquors during IPL matches. “We are eagerly waiting for IPL to begin,” he added. Leading bar-cum-restaurants like Irish House is also planning offers for IPL. Binge Baefikar, a cloud kitchen founded by Anisha Mohta, has came out with starters like Basil Googly (Basil Fish Balls), Kohli Shooters (Jalapeño & Cheese Stuffed Mushroom), Munchy De Villiers (Cheese and Masala Popcorn) for IPL. Chapter 2 director Debaditya Chowdhury said: “We are planning to introduce offers on cocktails, beers and starters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-restobars-plan-to-cash-in-on-ipl-craze/articleshow/78176937.cms||Udit Mukherjee
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana death toll tops 1,000, state adds 2,000 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday crossed the 1,000 Covid-19 death count with nine more casualties, even as it reported 2,159 new Covid-19 cases. The first death in the state was reported on March 27, and later the numbers increased in the months of July and August due to an increasing number of cases. The current case fatality rate stands below one percent in the state while the national average stands at 1.6 percent. On the other hand, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 318, followed by Rangareddy (176) and Nalgonda (141), Siddipet (132), Karimnagar (127) Medhcal Malkajgiri (121) districts. The lowest number of cases were reported from Asifabad (13) and Narayanpet (14). Overall, 23,29,316 samples have been tested and the samples tested per million population stands at 62,740, the bulletin said. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,33, 555 while 30,443 are under treatment. In the last 24 hours, 2108 people have recovered, while 53,094 samples were tested. Cumulatively, 23,29,316 samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population stands at 62,740, Occupancy of the beds continues to be low with 17, 842 beds in the government sector being occupied as against 20, 936 beds available. While the toll now stands at 1,005, the overall coronavirus tally rose to 1, 65,003. Authorities said 54% died due to comorbidities, while 46 % succumbed battling Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-death-toll-tops-1k-state-adds-2k-cases/articleshow/78176929.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Three shooters arrested for demanding Rs 1 crore as extortion money from property dealer||HARIDWAR: Haridwar police arrested three sharp shooters on Thursday for their involvement in firing gunshots to demand Rs 1 crore as extortion money from a local property dealer.  The accused belong to Kaleem’s gang, who is currently lodged in Almora’s jail. The police recovered country-made guns from their possession. SHO Jawalapur police station Praveen Koshiyari told TOI, “The firing incident occurred outside property dealer Monu Tyagi’s house in Arya Nagar on September 7 after which a case was registered. Meanwhile, Tyagi received two threat calls for Rs 1 crore as extortion money by Kaleem. A police team with the help of SOG managed to identify the accused — Subham Panwar, resident of Dehradun; Rajat Sati, resident of Chamoli’s Tharli and Nishu Sharma, resident of Haridwar’s Bhimgoda — who were later arrested. Security of the property dealer has been increased and police are trying to take Kaleem’s remand for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-shooters-arrested-for-demanding-rs-1-cr-as-extortion-money-from-property-dealer/articleshow/78174300.cms||MS Nawaz
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 16 held, 20 weapons seized in crime control campaign||JAIPUR: The campaign started by Jaipur police to curb crimes such as murder, robbery and attempt to murder is fetching good results. Almost a week after the campaign AAG (Action Against Gun) was launched, police have so far have seized weapons and arrested at least 16 persons. Till Thursday, more than 20 weapons and nearly 200 cartridges have been seized by police. Police commissioner Anand Srivasatav at a meeting with senior officers of the commissionerate urged them to intensify patrolling and checking of vehicles during late evening and early morning hours. This was mainly aimed at checking the illegal trafficking of countrymade and sophisticated weapons. “This operation is preventive action,” said Srivastav. “We launched operation AAG almost a week ago and so far we have arrested 16 persons with illegal possession of weapons including countrymade pistols, revolvers, rifles and cartridges,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime). Senior police officers said various police stations have been intimated to continue the campaign with extra deployment and arranging patrolling and check points. “So far we have seized more than 20 different weapons including countrymade pistols, rifle, guns and more than 200 cartridges,” said a senior officer. The arrested accused belong to Uttar Pradesh, Bharatpur, Karauli and Jaipur. “Most of the accused aged between 21 years and 26 years were arrested with one or two weapons and some cartridges. Also this campaign is important as festive season is coming,” the officer added. On Thursday, a man identified as Abdul Rashid (55) was arrested from Brahmpuri in the city while he was roaming around with a countrymade pistol and cartridges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-held-20-weapons-seized-in-crime-control-campaign/articleshow/78176927.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||MCEME getsAICTE award||Hyderabad: The Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) in Secunderabad has been conferred the AICTE Utkrisht Sansthan Award 2020 having been adjudged overall second among all technical institutions under AICTE in the country. It won the award for academic excellence and establishing innovative standards of technical education and also effectively contributing to social cause of supporting migrants, organising blood donations camps, providing facilities for establishing quarantine centre and also donation of masks and PPE to Covid-19 warriors. MCEME was also adjudged second in the category of spreading awareness during the Covid-19 situation. MCEME was conferred the AICTE Utkrisht Sansthan award in a virtual ceremony. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mceme-getsaicte-award/articleshow/78176933.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||INS Viraat to set sail on final trip today, to Alang||RAJKOT: The longest serving warship INS Viraat will begin its last journey on Friday from Mumbai to reach Alang in Gujarat’s Bhavnagar where it will be dismantled. The Indian Navy ship decommissioned after 30 years of service in 2017, is expected to reach Alang around Sunday midnight. This is the only warship to have served both the UK and India Navy. Alang-based Shree Ram Group had won the bid for breaking down the historic ship for Rs 38.54 crore. The ship is currently anchored at the naval dockyard in Mumbai from where a tug boat will tow the ship to Alang. Talking to TOI, Mukesh Patel chairman of Shree Ram Group said, “The warship’s steel is of high-grade quality. It also has bulletproof material and non-ferrous steel.” Several motorcycle manufacturing companies are in talks with Shree Ram Group for purchasing steel of INS Viraat, Patel added. In the past also several bike companies had launched limited-edition vehicles with the metal of INS Vikrant and warships of World War II. INS Viraat was originally a British ship and was commissioned in the Royal Navy in 1959. India purchased it in 1986 and was decommissioned in March 2017. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ins-viraat-to-set-sail-on-final-trip-today-to-alang/articleshow/78178524.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||In most Telangana cases, Covid found to be mild: Survey||HYDERABAD: Most Covid-19 cases reported now in Telangana appear to be mild or moderate, if a study of novel coronavirus cases covering 1,500 positive patients at four government health facilities is any indication. A survey, carried out by NGO Helping Hand Foundation, revealed that over 94% cases tested at four PHCs were mild and treated in home isolation, while 38% were symptomatic and 62% asymptomatic. Less than 6% required hospitalisation and none required oxygen in home isolation. The survey pertains to cases reported between August 15 and September 15 in Hyderabad and Rangareddy. The survey, first of its kind at grass roots level, also covered 500 helpline calls received from 11 districts. It showed that the novel coronavirus cases were not as severe during August 15-September 15 as they were during June-July. “Our survey is based on over 2,000 online medical consultations, besides 1,500 cases reported at PHCs. There was also a ground-level study in slums covering a population of five lakhs in Hyderabad. About 500 positive cases from Rangareddy, Karimnagar, Warangal, Adilabad, Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Medak, Siddipet, Mahbubnagar and Khammam were also studied to know the pattern of symptom severity,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, managing trustee of Helping Hand Foundation, which conducted the survey. All 2,000 cases covered in Hyderabad and Rangareddy had tested positive through rapid antigen test and received treatment through the local PHCs. 94% presented with a mild form of disease and did not require hospitalisation and were treated under home isolation. Less than 6% required hospitalisation and not a single case required oxygen therapy in home isolation. Only four deaths were reported in sample of 2,000 cases studied. He said basic first line treatment was given at PHCs through the government medical kit, comprising hydroxychloroquine tablets, antibiotics along with vitamins supplements. About 38% patients were found symptomatic and rest 62% were asymptomatic. “ 58% of the sample was in the age-group of 21-50 years. Men comprised 55% and the rest women. Every positive case was consulted daily for a week to 10 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-most-t-cases-covid-found-to-be-mild-survey/articleshow/78176939.cms||Syed Akbar
September 18, 2020||Chennai||O Panneerselvam, Edappadi K Palaniswami to hold high-level party meeting today||CHENNAI: After a three-day assembly session, the ruling AIADMK is back to business with party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami convening a high-level meeting at the party headquarters on Friday. The leaders are likely to discuss about assembly elections and party affairs, including convening a general council in November.  “The meeting will be attended by ministers and office-bearers of the headquarters, and the secretaries of Chennai party district in the evening,” said a leader. The meeting assumes significance coming as it does in the wake of a poster war over who should be the chief minister candidate for the assembly election.  In August, a group of 14 ministers, emissaries of Palaniswami, tried to negotiate with OPS in a bid to end the debate as to who would steer the government if the AIADMK won the election. OPS, however, stood firm in his stand that the matter could be settled later. The proposed meeting comes close on the heels of reports of Jayalalithaa’s close-aide V K Sasikala’s release from Parapana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, possibly in January 2021.  Reacting to the reports, minister D Jayakumar said, “Her (Sasikala) release will be as per the law. But, her release will have no impact on the AIADMK.”  Party insiders say the Friday meeting is likely to dwell on convening the general council at the earliest and not December, as is the norm. This was essential given the appointments made in the party units recently after large-scale re-organisation in the districts to accommodate disgruntled sections and bring on board all factions, ahead of polls.  The party has also been on an enrollment spree for Ilaignar and Ilampengal Pasarai (youth wing) and the leadership may direct leaders to speed up the process for formation of booth committees. Each booth is expected to see 25 Pasarai members to campaign for the party. “Chennai district may also get split to accommodate more hands since 16 constituencies in the district are handled by five secretaries alone,” said a senior leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ops-eps-to-hold-high-level-party-meeting-today/articleshow/78175601.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||After six months of ‘Covid wait’, global citizens fly from one home to another||KOLKATA: Slumping on a seat outside gate 4A/B of the Kolkata airport’s international departure terminal, waiting anxiously to return to his London home after seven months, 89-year-old Tarapada Singha Roy said that he had learnt the real meaning of frustration for the first time. “By God’s grace, I have had a good life. Retired for the last 25 years and had been enjoying the leisure, travelling around the world with my wife. But these seven months have been frustrating to the core. I had come to Kolkata on January 15 for a two-month stay. But then the pandemic hit and after five unsuccessful attempts, we are finally going home. Even the last journey hasn’t been short of troubles with our flight being delayed by four hours that made us wait at the airport for more than eight hours. But this is nothing compared to what we have had to endure over the last few months. We had to indefinitely extend our stays at relatives’ homes for,” said Roy, a former official at a British multinational firm, settled in London since 1960. Equally exasperated was Baker Street resident Preksha Dugar, who reached the airport at 3am. She was initially excited to board the inaugural flight in three hours. But her excitement fizzled out when she learnt that the flight was delayed by four hours and had to head back home. She came later in the day to take the flight. But among the tales of disappointment there were also those of joy. Software professional Indrani Mukherjee, who returned to Kolkata by the inaugural flight after around a year, said she tried to muster a lot of restraint to not hug her sons who came to the airport to receive her. But when they — Arko and Shauanak — came running to her, she couldn’t hold herself back and cried tears of joy. “I can’t express the feeling. I saw my sons after a year. This is the only positive moment I have had in months,” Mukherjee said, adding that she would return to London by the same direct flight on October 25. Equally excited was Behala resident Saspa Ganguly when she saw her daughter Medha, who returned from London after over a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-six-months-of-covid-wait-global-citizens-fly-from-one-home-to-another/articleshow/78175594.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 18, 2020||Goa||Sawant seeks teachers’ views on new education policy||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday urged teachers in the state to go through the new education policy and submit their suggestions to the committee constituted to study the new policy. He also urged them to discuss the policy at all forums to create awareness about it. Speaking to education stakeholders over reopening of schools, Sawant said after 36 years the country has got a new education policy. He added that even after the government constituted a committee to study the new policy, being teachers, it is their duty to study the policy and give suggestions. Sawant said that if any association did not get representation in the committee then bring it to the notice of the government. He also said that the discussion on the policy should take place in the media and at taluka-level, so that all the stakeholders are involved. “The government cannot form a committee of 100 people but that does not mean it does not want to take people into confidence. We want people to participate in the discussion and it will take another four years to bring this policy into implementation,” the chief minister said. He added that we have to look at this policy for the future of students and the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-seeks-teachers-views-on-new-education-policy/articleshow/78177699.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Reduce rate of power to Rs 5 per unit, demand bizmen||Ludhiana: A day after doubts were raised by city businessmen on the claims of state industry minister Sundar Sham Arora that more than 90% of the industry is working in the state, more businessmen have come forward demanding that the state government should take appropriate measures for the revival of the industry, at least by reducing the rates of power to Rs 5 per unit, which was the election promise of the Congress government. Businessmen have also demanded that a special package for industry should be introduced in the wake of coronavirus as Ludhiana’s industry has suffered a huge blow due to lockdown. Rajkumar Singla, president of the Fasteners Suppliers Association of Ludhiana, said, “We wish that the remarks of industry minister that more than 90% industry in the state is running turn out to be true soon. Harsh reality is that till now the industrial units are not able to cope up with the current situation when some orders have started coming in but there is no labour in the factories.” Singla added that, “If the industry minister is serious about solving the problems of the industry, he should first fulfil the election promise of his government that power will be supplied at Rs 5 per unit to the industry. Ever since the Congress government came to power in Punjab the rates of electricity have risen sharply, thereby making us totally uncompetitive in comparison with the industry of the other states. The government should take urgent notice of this problem or else the industry would be destroyed in the wake of rising losses due to coronavirus.” According to Pankaj Aggarwal, another fastener trader, “Right now, the question is not that how much percentage of total industry is operational in Punjab, but what is the condition of the industry in the state, particularly in Ludhiana and what steps need to be taken for its revival. There are so many problems being faced by the industry at this moment, the major ones include huge shortage of labour, rising rates of raw material and increasing debts. All these coupled with high cost of production are pushing the industry regardless of sector into deep crisis. The onus is now on the industry minister and state government to take notice of our problems and solve these one by one before it is too late. There is a record shut down of factories in Ludhiana, which is the biggest hub of micro small and medium enterprises units in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/reduce-rate-of-power-to-rs-5-per-unit-demand-bizmen/articleshow/78175602.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Empty liquor bottles, plastic waste litter Bengre Beach||Mangaluru: Even as tourist spots are gradually returning to normal, some of the beaches in the city remain defaced by tipplers and others leaving behind trash. Hundreds of empty liquor bottles and tonnes of trash that washed ashore at Bengre in the past few days have turned the area into a dump yard, which is an eyesore. Environmentalists say that in addition to liquor bottles, people also throwing plastic bags, thermocol blocks and other waste materials on to the beach, and thereby polluting the sea. Many organisations were not able to carry out beach cleaning drives recently due to the lockdown, which has worsened the problem. Dinesh Holla, environmentalist and coordinator of Sahyadri Sanchaya, told TOI that polluting the sea will affect the breeding of fish species. “This is the ‘gift’ that people offer nature as a token of gratitude. Those who would like to savour sea fish are themselves polluting the sea by throwing trash. While environmentalists and nature lovers have been holding beach cleaning drives, on the other hand people are defacing the shores and polluting the sea. The more than 1km long stretch of beach at Bengre has been covered with trash, which cannot be cleared easily,” he said. Developed beaches like Panambur and Tannirbavi remain clean since they are being maintained, however, other beaches like Bengre are being polluted, Holla said, adding that Sahyadri Sanchaya has been planning to hold a cleanliness drive at the beach. “It may require at least 500 volunteers to clean the beach at Bengre, where tonnes of waste has accumulated over a kilometre. It is difficult to bring volunteers and conduct a cleanliness drive at present, since the city has been reporting Covid-19 cases every day. However, we have plans to hold a drive jointly in association with the Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mission,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/empty-liquor-bottles-plastic-waste-litter-bengre-beach/articleshow/78176390.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt invites tenders for new sectt complex||Hyderabad: The state government has issued notifications inviting tenders from interested agencies for construction of the new secretariat complex at an estimated cost of Rs 500 crore. The process for submission of tenders will commence from 3 pm onwards on Friday (September 18). The last day for submission of tenders is before 4 pm on October 1. The pre-bid meeting will be held at the office of the engineer-in-chief of Roads and Buildings I Ganapati Reddy, located near Irrum Manzil on September 26. The technical bids will be opened at 4.30 pm on October 1 and the financial bids at 3 pm on October 5. The state government wants the construction of the new secretariat complex completed in 12 months. More details can be had from 3 pm onwards on Friday on www.roadbuild.telangana.gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-invites-tenders-for-new-sectt-complex/articleshow/78176947.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||Rangayana to celebrate founder BV Karanth’s birth anniversary||Mysuru: Mysuru Rangayana is the dream child of Padma Shri BV Karanth. He started this theatre institute, which is also known as a repertory theatre company, in 1989. This year Rangayana will celebrate its founder’s birth anniversary on Saturday as Bharatiya Theatre Music Day. Rangayana wants to celebrate the day across the country as Bharatiya Theatre Music Day to pay respects to the contribution of late B V Karanth to the world of theatre, especially musical theatre. Rangayana is planning to prepare a permanent logo for this celebration, which will be unveiled at the time of the celebration. “It is not Indian Theatre Music Day. We want to call it as Bharatiya Theatre Music Day as the concept of India is very new and the concept of Bharatiya is very vast, and it evolved since time immemorial,” said Rangayana director Addanda Cariappa. “These days need not be notified by the government. It is celebrated by people of like-minded organisations. For example, no one announced March 27 as Theatre Day, but everyone celebrates that date as World Theatre Day. Similarly, Rangayana wants everyone to celebrate September 19 as Bharatiya Theatre Music Day in honour of Karanth who has made immense contributions in the fields of theatre and musical theatre in the country. We want to remember his legacy on this day across the world,” he said. “We have already written to all the state and national institutes, including the National School of Drama (NSD) in this regard. We have requested the organisations, theatre personalities and repertories to mark the day with various events like workshops, symposiums on theatre music, events, felicitation of theatre music personalities and other such initiatives,” he said. In Mysuru, Paramashivan, a veteran theatre music personality of the state, who is associated with the famed Gubbi theatre troupe, will announce the day as Theatre Music Day. “We are creating a logo for this purpose,” he explained. “Our idea is every year, this day shall be celebrated to mark musical theatre across the country,” said Cariappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rangayana-to-celebrate-founder-bv-karanths-birth-anniversary/articleshow/78174130.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 18, 2020||Chennai||GCC ropes in transpeople to keep Thirvottiyur clean||Chennai: To ensure that residents are aware of waste segregation and do their bit to create a cleaner and hygienic locality, Greater Chennai Corporation (North) has inducted 10 transpeople as clean ambassadors under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM). They will now work as clean workers at Ernavoor and visit all homes to raise awareness about the importance of waste segregation. Officials from the corporation said during the lockdown, waste segregation in Thirvottiyur (zone 1), which also has many slums, had become nil and every time a worker went to the houses asking them to segregate wastes, they were turned away by the residents. To stop the situation from worsening, they decided to induct members from the local community to rally support for segregation. “It was during a meeting with the locals that the transpeople came to us and volunteered to help,” said Akash P, regional deputy commissioner Chennai (North). “They were very positive and sincere in contributing so we decided to rope them in,” he said. Earlier, the corporation had roped in transpeople to conduct door-to-door survey for Covid-19 symptoms. “The moment I heard that I have landed myself a job with the corporation, my happiness knew no bounds,” said Thirisha, one of the ten workers, who live at the Tsunami quarters in Ennore. Since she’s been residing at the area for many years, it will not be hard for her to convince people about the initiative, she said. “The aim is to make our zone hygienic and clean. We have started interacting with people already, especially youngsters, to urge them to come forward and help us keep the area clean,” she said. They are NULM workers and can draw a monthly salary of around Rs 10,000. Thirisha said since the lockdown was imposed her along with the other transgenders were struggling to make ends meet. “But now we will have better stability and more respect from people,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gcc-ropes-in-transpeople-to-keep-thirvottiyur-clean/articleshow/78175648.cms||Aditi R
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka monsoon session may to be curtailed to bare necessities||BENGALURU: With the Covid-19 caseload on the rise in the state and several lawmakers contracting the virus, the government is contemplating curtailing the monsoon session of the legislature, which is slated to commence on Monday. While preparations are on for the session, authorities say they will assess the situation over the first two days before taking a call on whether to terminate proceedings. Constitutional obligations demand the gap between two sittings of the house should not be more than six months, but these are extraordinary times. With more than 70 legislators including some ministers testing positive, authorities believe exceptions can be made. JC Madhuswamy, minister for law and parliamentary affairs, said a decision on continuing the session for the full 10 days will be made by the business advisory committee (BAC) that is scheduled to meet during a break in proceedings on Monday. “This is a sensitive issue and involves not only the health of elected representatives but also people who come in contact with them,” said Madhuswamy. “During the BAC meeting, we plan to elicit the opinion of all parties and then decide for how many days the session should be held.” The Telangana legislature session was abruptly adjourned sine die on Wednesday after an MLA and an MLC tested positive. The West Bengal government held a one-day session on September 10 just to comply with constitutional norms. Officials said Karnataka is also contemplating a similar measure. “There should be no compromise on health,” said legislative assembly speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri. “I will discuss this with the government and take a call. We should be prepared to make a quick decision.”  While calling for a session is one thing, ensuring a quorum could be a challenge since many legislators may not turn up. About 40% of the 225 MLAs and 75 MLCs are above 60 years — a vulnerable group — and many are planning to stay away. What has really spooked lawmakers is the spate of infections over the past couple of days. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai and food & civil supplies minister K Gopalaiah tested positive on Wednesday, while chief minister BS Yediyurappa and leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah only recently recovered from the infection. The assembly secretariat has organised Covid tests for everyone attending the session including personal staff of MLAs and MLCs, officers and those from the media from Friday. The tests will be held once in two days, but it remains to be seen if infections are kept in check. “Much depends on the outcome of the first round of tests on Friday and Saturday,” said legislative assembly secretary MK Vishalakshi. “If the situation is not conducive, the session can be wound up after conducting minimum business. But, it is up to the government to take a call.” The government is under pressure to enact as many as 28 bills including 20 ordinances issued in recent months. “We want a thorough debate on bills and ordinances which are contentious,” said former minister and senior Congress member RV Deshpande. “The government should not look to push through bills in a short time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/monsoon-session-may-to-be-curtailed-to-bare-necessities/articleshow/78175605.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||Muda to make linking Aadhaar to property mandatory to regularise tax collection||Mysuru: The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda) has planned to link urban property ownership to Aadhaar in a bid crackdown on benami properties and regularise tax collection. Speaking to reporters at his office on Tuesday, Muda chairman H V Rajiv said the city urban authority has decided to make rainwater harvesting mandatory to all new houses coming up in both private and public layouts. Houses for urban poor The civic body has identified 33 areas in the city to construct houses for the urban poor. As per the plan, one, two and three bedroom houses will be constructed and will be sold at affordable price for urban poor. In its general meeting on September 14, it was also decided to develop new layouts with 50:50 partnerships with land owners including Ballahalli and other new villages, he said. Muda has decided to provide Rs 5 crore for ‘Naada Habba’ Dasara celebrations and to fund the treatment and management care facilities at Vikram Jyesta Covid Care Hospital exclusively opened for corona warriors in city. Rajiv said the agency will distribute 250 Civic amenity sites to eligible organisations involved in development at various parts of the city. A notification will be announced in this regard next week, he added. The urban development authority has also decided to appoint a retired chief engineer Lakshmikanth to study and submit a detailed report to Muda on the development of underground drainage system and drinking water pipelines in all layouts. Online payment of taxes Muda has planned to computerise all its properties and introduce online payment of tax to streamline the administration process. It will also resume its popular Janaspandana programme to redress the public grievances, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-to-make-linking-aadhaar-to-property-mandatory-to-regularise-tax-collection/articleshow/78174345.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||Encroachment drive: Muda recovers corner sites worth Rs 6 crore||Mysuru: In an early morning operation, Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda) officials on Wednesday demolished illegal structures constructed in its corner sites at Devanuru First Stage here. They took back into their possession six plots of different measurements which have a market value of Rs 6 crore, from encroachers. The encroachers had illegally occupied the corner sites in the layout developed for distribution of houses under Ashamandira Scheme and raised sheds, Muda commissioner DB Natesh said. Muda Superintending engineer Shankar, executive engineer MR Panduranga, G Suvarna and others were also present. ‘Public must be alert’ As land sharks have been creating fake documents of Muda sites and selling them to public, Natesh cautioned the public about it. He said a person had placed an advertisement to sell a prime site in TK Layout, which, he said, is Muda property. Natesh asked buyers to be alert, adding that action will be initiated against the person who tried to sell the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/encroachment-drive-muda-recovers-corner-sites-worth-rs-6-crore/articleshow/78174540.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong MLA Talwar raises dairy-shifting issue||Ludhiana: Congress MLA from east constituency Sanjay Talwar has once again raised the issue of shifting of the dairy units from Tajpur road while citing these as the main cause of pollution in Buddha Nullah. On Thursday, he wrote a letter to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and DC Varinder Sharma as both were members of a high-power committee constituted by the government for shifting of dairies outside city limits. He has sought clarification whether dairies are going to be shifted outside city limits or these will remain here only. The MLA claimed that due to dairies the sewerage was also getting choked. The Punjab Energy Development Authority (PEDA) had started the process to install a bio-CNG plant on Tajpur road but since talks started to shift the dairy units outside city, the process came to halt. The Congress MLA claimed that half of the problem of pollution in Buddha Nullah can be resolved if waste coming out of dairy units could be treated properly. He said in East constituency sewerage choking was a major issue and dairy units were one such cause. He requested the high-level committee that there should be a final decision on the issue as already a lot of time had been wasted. He claimed that if dairies were to be shifted, then PEDA should cancel the agreement and if dairies are not going anywhere, then the process to install the bio-CNG plant should be started again because it would take at least two years to establish the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-mla-talwar-raises-dairy-shifting-issue/articleshow/78175618.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra CM proposes development authority for Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday proposed a metropolitan region development authority for Aurangabad on the lines of similar bodies in Mumbai and Pune. Addressing the Marathwada Liberation Day event online from Mumbai, Thackeray said the government was committed towards all-round development of the region. “Metro cities in Maharashtra such as Mumbai and Pune have a dedicated metropolitan region development authority. We will strive to create a similar establishment for Aurangabad for necessary development,” he said. Advocacy group Marathwada Janata Vikas Parishad (MJVP) said setting up the authority was a long-pending demand. “Aurangabad was once known to be the fastest growing city in Asia. The pace of development got arrested in the recent past due to various reasons, including official apathy and political neglect. We hope the new authority will give desired impetus to growth again,” MJVP general secretary Sharad Advant said. Ashish Garde, former president of the Chamber of Marathawada Industries and Agriculture, said, “The new authority, having jurisdiction over Aurangabad Municipal Corporation and other local self-governing bodies, can implement strategic projects, promote new growth centres and pursue fund flow for infrastructure development.” As per the 2011 census, Aurangabad had a population of nearly 11.75 lakh which is likely to have risen to 15 lakh presently. The city has witnessed rapid geographical expansion over the past one decade, calling for planned development. The BJP, however, dubbed the CM’s announcement as a “hollow promise”. “The region needs funds. We were expecting a financial package for Marathwada. Moreover, even while announcing the new authority, Thackeray sounded non-committal and did not give any assurance as such,” BJP spokesperson Shirish Boralkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cm-proposes-development-authority-for-aurangabad/articleshow/78174360.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||No partial reopening of schools in state till October 2, says Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that although 80% of stakeholders have supported the partial reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII from September 21, educational institutions will not resume operations till October 2. Sawant further said that a decision in the matter will be taken after October 2, depending on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Only students of Classes X and XII will be allowed to visit schools in the first phase of the partial reopening plan, the chief minister — who held a virtual meeting with education experts and stakeholders to discuss the National Education Policy 2020 and the resumption of schools — said. Sawant told reporters that teachers are already working from schools, and that students — especially those studying in Classes X and XII — who experience connectivity issues at home, could go to school to seek guidance if their parents and teachers allow it.  “Presently, 70% of schools in Goa have begun virtual classes,” he said. “For those facing connectivity issues, the state government has decided to grant permission to set up mobile towers within eight days,” he said. “If some students still find it difficult to attend online classes and have issues with the syllabus, they could go to school for guidance. This will be applicable only to students of Classes X and XII upon permission from their teachers and parents.” The chief minister also said that the government would not do away with the no-detention policy for the current academic year in wake of the disruption in imparting education caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Science and technology minister Michael Lobo had recently opposed the state government’s plans to partially reopen educational institutions and had urged the chief minister to defer it till Covid-19 infections decreased in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-partial-reopening-of-schools-in-state-till-oct-2-says-sawant/articleshow/78177695.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Man dies while wife gets Rs 14 lakh in 24 hrs from donors to save him||Mangaluru: A woman from Bola village in Udupi district was in tears when she was told by the private hospital authorities that she may require about Rs 5 lakh for the treatment of her husband diagnosed with heart and kidney related ailments. Seeing the plight of the woman, a social worker collected her details and recorded a video of her seeking help and shared it on social media with details of her bank account on Tuesday. Within 24 hours of sharing the video on social media, she received Rs 14 lakh in her account. However, fate had something different in store for her. Her husband breathed his last on Wednesday. Social worker Mohammed Asif, who is the founder of Maimoona Foundation Apathbandhava Psycho Rehabilitation Centre, told TOI that he found Geetha Shetty, a resident of Bola village in Karkala taluk, in distress due to the critical condition of her husband. He was in the ICU of a private hospital in the city on Tuesday. “Her husband Ranjan Shetty, a waiter in a wine shop, was in critical condition and Geetha didn’t have the money required for his treatment. She had already spent nearly Rs 10 lakh for her husband’s treatment earlier. Geetha had only Rs 50,000 that she got after selling jewellery. Following this, I recorded a video of her seeking help and the same was shared on social media with details of her bank account. “Though we had sought Rs 7 lakh, help poured in from donors and the account was credited with Rs 14 lakh within 24 hours. I had shared another video of Geetha thanking donors who transferred Rs 14 lakh to her account. She also had requested people not to send money since her account has more money that the actual requirement. However, Shetty breathed his last at around 7pm on Wednesday,” Asif said. They had already sold their property and were living in a rented house with their nine-year-old son. The money deposited in her account will be used for their future, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-dies-while-wife-gets-rs-14-lakh-in-24-hrs-from-donors-to-save-him/articleshow/78176117.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar police crack whip on cannabis growers||Mysuru: Chamarajanagar district police intensified its crackdown on illegal cannabis cultivation in several villages of Hanur, Kollegal and Yelandur taluks coming under the limits of Male Mahadeshwara Hills and Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Hills range. Sources in Chamarajanagar district police said the department officials had registered 46 cases — highest number for growing marijuana in 2018 — and seized 500 kg of ganja from growers, while 11 cases were registered in 2019 and 120 kg of cannabis seized. As many as 12 cases were registered in 2016 and 20 in 2017. This year, about 10 cases were registered and 150 kg of ganja seized as on September 14. Speaking to TOI, Chamarajanagar SP Divya Sara Thomas said police had been acting tough on cannabis cultivators and is focused on dismantling the supply chain. Officials found the growers had been cultivating cannabis in small plots — ranging from 50 to 300 plants — in forested and hilly tracts. Some growers have been cultivating marijuana as an inter-crop to cover their illegal cultivation. Sleuths of district cyber crime, economic offences and narcotics (CEN) special station and other police station personnel have also identified some supply chains originating in remote forest fringe villages. “As police find it tough to track the illegal cultivation in remote forest fringe villages, the department had sought the help of the forest department officials and public to alert the police to root out the smuggling chain completely. Most of the growers who are poor had chosen the areas sans human inhabitation — far from police and public eyes. Instructions have been given to officials to keep a close vigil in forest fringe village areas on such activities. They have also been asked to coordinate with forest department officials to track such cases”, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cnagar-police-crack-whip-on-cannabis-growers/articleshow/78175999.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Metro hikes e-pass cap at busy stns, cuts limit for Gitanjali, Netaji Bhavan||Kolkata: Multiple false e-pass bookings have been reportedly preventing actual commuters from availing Metro services ever since they resumed from Monday. To address the issue, Metro Railway on Thursday increased the cap on the number of people allowed to book the passes for entry to the busiest of the 24 stations along the north-south corridor.The e-pass, to be downloaded from https://pathadisha.com/metro, is compulsory to enter a station on the 27km north-south link. “Based on ridership data analysis, a 20% increase has been allowed in the booking limit from stations like Dum Dum, M G Road, Esplanade, Kalighat, Mahanayak Uttam Kumar, Kavi Nazrul and Kavi Subhas,” said Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state government has appointed to develop the “Pathadisha Metro e-pass”. Likewise, the cap for stations like Gitanjali and Netaji Bhavan has been reduced.By allowing more bookings from the busy stations, more genuine riders are accommodated, Chatterjee said. On Monday, even as 53,000 passes were downloaded, only 20,000 rode the Metro. Many complained of not being allotted slots due to false bookings. Things improved on Wednesday when 35,053 rode, even as around 60,000 passes were downloaded. On Thursday 47,000 passes were downloaded while the ridership figure was pegged at nearly 26,000.Chatterjee said, “We started changing the booking caps from Thursday, but the effect of the tweaks in the system will be visible only from Friday. The ridership pattern was different on Thursday as Mahalaya was a holiday.” The increase and decrease in the booking caps have to be dynamic, depending on the footfall at a station in a particular slot. The day’s bookings have been divided into 12 one-hour slots, according to the 8am-8pm service period. Based on the algorithm, around 1,000 commuters are expected to be at Dum Dum between 9am and 10am and only 25 are likely to board from Park Street during the same slot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-hikes-e-pass-cap-at-busy-stns-cuts-limit-for-gitanjali-netaji-bhavan/articleshow/78175608.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Industrial areas must have a buffer zone, say experts||Hyderabad: The densely populated industrial areas are leaving residents vulnerable to pollutants. As a major part of the city was engulfed in smog and a chemical-like smell for the last few days, urban planning experts urged a rethink on the location of industries. “Areas which were earlier deserted around industrial areas including Miyapur, Nacharam are now residential hubs. In the 70s, paddy was still being grown here, but with the hectic development, the density of the city has undergone a massive change,” said Babu Rao, former scientist of the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT). Rao said there is a need for caution as typically industrial areas must have a buffer zone to protect the layperson who may not be aware of the impact of emissions and possible leaks from industries – particularly chemical industries located in the city and its surroundings. Experts agree that a buffer, from anywhere between 50 meters for a mechanical, industrial unit to as much as 3 km for a chemical unit, should be created. In the Vizag gas leak in May, the vapour cloud spread to an area covering 3 km. “We do not even know what the health impacts of the release of some chemicals can be on human health. The pharma sector maybe using combinations of chemicals whose impact on human health is unknown,” said Rao. Population density figures sourced from data European Joint Research Centre (EU JRC) of the European Commission and mapped by Pradeep Goud Macharla, show several industrial belts with high population density areas near them such as Jeedimetla, Patancheru and Bollarum. EU JRC sources information from the census among other data points. Raising the issue, Srikanth Peddibhotla, founder of the urban planning platform HappiCities, asked: “Why are polluting industries within ORR forced to relocate outside ORR? Businesses need stable and sensible land use planning to grow. Years of hard work put in to establish industry is disrupted by forcing relocation due to failure of urban planning enforcement.” He said as a society we value lands more than life.  “There is no sensible reason for the land near heavy industrial zones to attract investments for residential layouts and plots and increase in land prices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/industrial-areas-must-have-a-buffer-zone-say-experts/articleshow/78176965.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Son of BJP lawmaker booked for rioting in Haridwar||Haridwar: A case has been registered against Lucky Rathor, son of BJP lawmaker Suresh Rathor from Jawalapur constituency of Haridwar, under section 147 (punishment of rioting), section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. SHO SIDCUL police station Lakhpat Singh Butola told TOI, “Ashwani Chauhan resident of Bhadrabad’s Baungla village complained that he was assaulted by Lucky and others over a car parking dispute on Wednesday. A case has also been registered. However, we received a complaint from the other side too and we are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/son-of-bjp-lawmaker-booked-for-rioting-in-haridwar/articleshow/78174378.cms||MS Nawaz
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Two CMO staffers test Covid +ve||Hyderabad: After assembly was adjourned sine die due to an MLA, assembly staff and cops testing Covid positive, two persons working with CMO tested positive a couple of days ago. One of them had closely moved with CM during the just concluded assembly session. Earlier, nearly 40 persons working with CMO and Pragati Bhavan tested positive. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-cmo-staffers-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78176976.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ludhiana||CM’s claim that Pak will benefit from farmers’ bill embarassing: BJP||Ludhiana: The reaction of chief minister Amarinder Singh on the ordinance for farmers, saying that the Centre should withdraw this bill or else Pakistan will get the benefit in spreading separatism in Punjab is very embarrassing, claimed Parveen Bansal, state vice-president of the BJP. He said that farmers were not only food providers to the country, but they have also made sacrifices for the freedom of the country. And even today the children of farmers are at the forefront in protecting the country's frontiers by joining the Army. In the ongoing conflict with China, the entire country is overwhelmed by the valour of Punjabis in teaching Chinese soldiers a lesson. But Amarinder Singh is not only insulting such patriotic farmers by linking the domestic issue of farmers, like a bill with Pakistan, but also raising doubts about their devotion to the nation. Praveen Bansal said that Union food minister RD Danve has made it clear in the Parliament that the draft of these agriculture bills is made with the consent of the chief ministers of all agricultural states and that included CM of Punjab also. Bansal said that now it had also become clear that Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal praised these ordinances and described them as made by the Manmohan Singh government. Praveen Bansal said that he instigated the farmers that the minimum support price and mandis would be abolished. So the Modi government responded that neither the minimum support price, nor the mandis were going to be closed, even in the future. But still the Congress is instigating the innocent farmers of the country at such a delicate time with their false propaganda. When the country is fighting against an epidemic like Covid-19 on one hand while on the other hand there is a lot of tension on the borders where China can start war any time, Amarinder is linking the peasant movement with Pakistan. Be it the Rafale issue or China or the recently concluded NEET and JEE examination, the Congress has tried to play with the future of millions of youth for its political gains, he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cms-claim-that-pak-will-benefit-from-farmers-bill-embarassing-bjp/articleshow/78175666.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||Hindu Yuva Vahini worker murdered over ‘illicit affair’ in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A Hindu Yuva Vahini worker was killed while he was sleeping on the premises of a hospital in Meerganj tehsil of Bareilly district on Wednesday midnight. Police said that Sanjay Bhadauria was allegedly killed by one Mohammed Imran who was arrested after an encounter on Thursday afternoon. Police said that Bhadauria was murdered over an “illicit relationship” with a woman while his family members refused to comment on it. Bhadauria was the owner of the private hospital where he was killed. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bareilly, Rohit Singh Sajwan, said, “We recovered CCTV footage in which a man was stabbing Bhadauria but the face was not clear. Later the family identified the killer as Imran who was known to the victim. We had deployed police teams in the area and one of the team managed to find Imran but he opened fire at our team and a constable sustained injury. In retaliation, our team also opened fire and Imran was shot in his leg. He surrendered later. During interrogation, he admitted to have killed Bhadauria.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hindu-yuva-vahini-worker-murdered-over-illicit-affair-in-bareilly/articleshow/78174410.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Mayor, DC, MC officials meet over shifting of dairy units||Ludhiana: Mayor Balkar Sandhu conducted a meeting with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, DC Varinder Sharma and other MC officials over the issue of shifting of dairy units to outside MC limits and demarcation of Buddha Nullah. Whereas shifting of dairies will take more time as officials concerned are yet to identify the location for the same, but the survey regarding encroachments along the banks of the nullah is complete and now civic body officials are going to the take report from revenue department so that notices for removal of encroachments could be carried out. In the survey report it has been stated that there are around 625 encroachments on the banks of the drain whereas earlier officials had claimed to have identified around 1,600 encroachments. Now, the revenue department will match the report with their records for reaching a final conclusion. The officials claimed that it will take at least 15 days to complete the process followed by which they will be able to send notices to the encroachers for removing the illegal structures. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that encroachments include those by industryl, religious places and residential houses, which are covering some parts of the drain. He said they would have to match the records for reaching any conclusion. He said they were preparing the drawings for spotting the encroachments. However, mayor Balkar Sandhu said by next week they would definitely decide where they would be shifting the dairy units as villages which they had identified earlier were now part of certain residential schemes, so they would have to look out for more places. Regarding demarcation, he said the survey was complete and now they would begin the next step in removing the illegal structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mayor-dc-mc-officials-meet-over-shifting-of-dairy-units/articleshow/78175708.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Puducherry||Pondy fatality rate 2%, above nat’l avg||Puducherry: The fatality rate of Covid-19 infection in the Union territory of Puducherry has crossed 2%, much higher than the national average (1.6%). Health minister Malladi Krishna Rao’s constituency Yanam, the UT’s enclave in Andhra Pradesh, has the highest fatality rate of 2.6% in the territory, followed by Puducherry headquarters (2%) and Karaikal (1.6%). Mahe, the territory’s enclave in Kerala has not reported any Covid-19 death so far. Thirteen more patients died of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours as of 10am on Thursday, taking death toll to 431 in the territory. The administration has proposed to issue orders under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and 144 of CrPc for people to report as soon as they show symptoms of Covid-19. The move will ensure prosecution of violators and will fix responsibility on family members of patients trying to hide infections. The administration has also proposed to evolve a protocol for clinical intervention to reduce the death rate based on the recommendations of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi approved the proposal to impose a penalty for violation of home quarantine/ isolation. Plans are on to strengthen the ambulance fleet and step up ambulance services to commute patients to screening centres, to convey test results and bring patients to hospitals for treatment. By this weekend, the administration will roll out a Covid management information system developed in consultation with ICMR. The administration will also release the list of patients who died as they reported late leading to delay in admitting them to hospitals and in commencing treatment. The territory reported 323 fresh Covid-19 cases and 330 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, bringing down active cases to 4,744. For the 4,867 tested on Thursday, the test positivity rate was 6.6%. The territory has so far reported 21,428 positive cases. The recovery rate is 75.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-fatality-rate-2-above-natl-avg/articleshow/78175704.cms||Bosco Dominique
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||With only 72 passengers, Kolkata’s direct flight to London has to stop over at Delhi||Kolkata: Kolkata’s 11-year wait for a direct connection to Europe just got longer. The direct Kolkata-London flight that was to take off in the early hours of Thursday was cancelled on Wednesday night after London Heathrow Airport (LHR) allegedly withdrew the landing slot for flight AI-1149. The 72 passengers booked on the flight were first flown to Delhi from where they took the Delhi-London flight AI-111 seven hours behind schedule. Kolkata airport officials said they learnt about the development around 10pm on Wednesday. “Due to last-minute non-availability of a landing/parking slot at Heathrow Airport, which was communicated to us late in the evening of September 16, the flight from Kolkata could not be operated directly. This was something beyond our control as we had been assured of a slot. The flight did depart from Kolkata after a delay as it had to fly via Delhi. The same aircraft with a brief stopover at Delhi left for London as the scheduled Delhi-London VBM flight with passengers joining from Delhi, slots for which were available at Heathrow. We will be in a position to operate the direct flights to London from Kolkata when the slot is restored. Till then, passengers from Kolkata will continue to fly via Delhi,” an Air India spokesperson. Aviation industry veterans said it was unusual for an airport to withdraw the slot for a return flight. Sources said the action could have been triggered by the poor load. Flight AI-1150 from London to Kolkata had flown in with just 14 passengers. “Perhaps, the airport felt it wise to allocate the slot to another carrier that would fly in a couple of hundred passengers,” a veteran captain said. TOI had on Thursday reported the utter confusion at Heathrow over the mandatory Covid-test requirement for passengers flying to Kolkata. A dozen passengers were not allowed to board the flight because they did not have the Covid-negative report. The passengers alleged that they were not informed about the requirement with one even saying he was misguided. AI has denied the allegations. The return leg threw up even more confusion with the airline announcing that the flight would go via Delhi and then pushing back the departure from 6.30am to 10am. Some passengers learnt of the change after reaching the airport. “I haven’t seen such mismanagement. None informed us about the change in schedule. We reached the airport around 1.30am. But on arrival, we learnt the flight would take off at 10am. We had to sit outside the airport for hours till the gates opened for a Dubai-bound flight and then we sat in the security hold area and waited for several hours more. It is so frustrating and exhausting to begin a journey like this,” said Gayatri Sinha Roy (85), who was heading to her home in Central London from a relative’s home in Ballygunge. Flight AI-1150 from London with only 14 passengers on board and 11 crew members reached the airport at 1.30am on Thursday. “We practically had the entire flight to ourselves. Although we were booked on two Economy class tickets, my husband and I could fly while sleeping in separate rows of seats as there were hardly any passengers. Social distancing was not an issue at all and we had one dedicated attendant taking care of us through the flight,” said Anju Shukla, who was stuck at her son’s place in London since February this year. Majority of passengers who missed their flight to Kolkata from London on Wednesday flew to Delhi in a separate repatriation flight on Thursday morning. They said they will stay in quarantine for a week before flying to Kolkata. “We had a hotel room booked for 14 days for our family in New Town. But since we were not allowed to fly without the Covid-negative report, we flew to Delhi,” said Sumanta Sarathi Chakraborty, a software engineer. Around 7.45pm on Thursday evening, a SpiceJet flight from Dubai landed at Kolkata airport with 162 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-only-72-passengers-kolkatas-direct-flight-to-london-has-to-stop-over-at-delhi/articleshow/78175724.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Large hospitals brace for surge from oxygen-starved hubs||PUNE: An erratic supply of medical oxygen in the Pune Metropolitan Region has forced several small hospitals to stop Covid admissions and refer their patients to larger treatment centres. There are about 128 hospitals in the PMR treating patients, but except for about 35 units, most are small and medium-sized hospitals relying on a daily supply of medical oxygen.It’s these units that are reeling under a shortage. “About 60 to 70 of these units in the PMR have now stopped admitting patients due to medical oxygen shortage,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association's Hospital Board of India, Pune branch. And doctors at the larger facilities said the strain from the influx is starting to show. “Patient referrals have increased significantly over the last two weeks,” said Sanjay Pathare, medical director of the Ruby Hall Clinic. Jitendra Oswal, the deputy medical director of Bharati hospital, said, “The huge number of referrals from hospitals facing a shortage of oxygen has put a massive strain on us. There is now a long waiting list, at any given time during the day.” Most of the private hospitals that have stopped admitting patients are on Pune's fringes. An owner of a private hospital in Karvenagar, near the heart of Pune city, said, “Certain small and medium-sized private hospitals that have been running for some years are more resourceful and know more than one oxygen supplier. So they have been managing during the crisis. Newer facilities, however, have hit severe procurement problems.” But even the big units are now scrambling for resources as a surge in patients continues to intensify. Bharati hospital, for example, has two massive tanks holding a total 19,000 litres of liquid oxygen. “Two weeks ago, that storage lasted us a week. Now, it’s over within four to five days,” Oswal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/large-hosps-brace-for-surge-from-oxygen-starved-hubs/articleshow/78177010.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: UGC nod for final-year exams in October||KOLKATA: The state government has finally received the much-awaited nod from the University Grants Commission (UGC) to go ahead with the terminal semester and final-year examinations in October instead of the September-end deadline. However, strict guidelines have been laid down for universities where it has been mentioned in no uncertain terms that the institutions cannot promote students of the terminal semester or final year in disregard of the UGC’s revised guidelines. Accordingly, the examinations in colleges and universities in Bengal will be completed by October 18. “We have also been instructed by the state government to ensure that the results of these examinations are declared at the earliest and preferably by the end of October so that admission for the first year of post-graduation and doctoral programme can start from November 1,” said a vice-chancellor. “Keeping in view the health and safety of students and also in the larger interest of their academic progress, the UGC has decided to accede to the Bengal government’s request,” pointed out a higher education department official. The higher education department had requested UGC through a letter on September 2 to extend the last date of conducting the final year/semester examinations in Bengal till October 18. The government had cited the suggestion from the disaster management department, which had advised not to hold the exams till the end of September given the current pandemic situation in mind. Education secretary Manish Jain had already informed the state university VCs about receiving verbal confirmation from the UGC to go ahead with the dates while the written response was awaited. “The Supreme Court had suggested that the states cannot meet the September deadline set by the UGC and must seek an extension of the deadline. Accordingly, UGC was approached by the state government,” said the VC. Earlier, education minister Partha Chatterjee had said the universities had been given complete freedom to take a call on the modalities and the format of the examinations. Only after receiving the confirmation letter, Calcutta University had gone ahead and announced the dates for holding the tests for the BA and BSc final-year examinations. Jadavpur University examination boards for both science and humanities faculties had resolved not to make any decision on dates before a formal approval from the UGC. “After the minister informed us about a verbal confirmation, we had planned of tentative dates between October 1 and October 10,” a JU official added. The instructions to publish results within October 31 has, however, sent out jitters among teachers and the university heads. With the Puja vacations in October, many pointed out that it is impossible to stick to the deadline. “We have no other choice but to try and complete the examinations within the first 10 days of next month so that maximum time can be kept aside for evaluating the answer scripts,” rued another state university VC. The letter to the state government was sent by secretary Rajnish Jain from UGC on September 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ugc-nod-for-final-yr-exams-in-october/articleshow/78175695.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||HC issues notices to Telangana, Centre on viral load info||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court issued notices to the state and central governments in connection with a petition seeking the medical and health authorities to ascertain the viral load of the patients and incorporate the same in the lab test reports. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy admitted the PIL and issued notices to the state and the Centre. Teegala Ram Prasad, who filed the plea, said all Covid-19 patients do not infect others and that only those who have more viral load would do so. He urged the court to direct the state to provide viral load details to the patients. He said: “This will help the states and their machinery to effectively deal with the virus and in containing its spread.” Ram Prasad said the viral load could be seen in the lab tests through cycle threshold (Ct) values which, he said, would help the administrators if the same details are incorporated in the lab reports furnished to the patients. As of now, these reports are merely informing whether a patient is positive or negative but are not indicating their viral loads or Ct values, he contended. Even for patients, knowing his or her Ct value would prepare them in a better way to fight against the novel coronavirus, Ram Prasad said. “A lesser viral load is incapable of spreading the virus to others. Hence, those persons who tested positive for Covid-19 can still remain confident if their viral load is small,” the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-issues-notices-to-t-centre-on-viral-load-info/articleshow/78177002.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal introduces political map showing Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani in school curriculum||Dehradun/Pithoragarh: Three months after passing an amendment to sanction a new political map that identifies the areas of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakahnd as its own, Nepal has inscribed the changes in its academic curriculum as well. The office of Nepal education minister Giriraj Mani Pokharel confirmed to TOI that the book, ‘Nepalko Bhubhaag Ra Seemasambandhi Swadhyay Samagri (Nepal's geography and territorial boundary)’ has been introduced for higher secondary school students. The preface has been written by Pokharel himself. The book identifies the abovementioned areas of Uttarakhand as Nepal’s territory. A source said it mentions Nepal has a geographical area of 1,47,641.28 sq km, of which 460 sq km is the Kalapani area. As per a source familiar with the development, introduction of the map in school books is “fully legal” because it follows what is a regular course of action. “The government has started the process of issuing the new maps to Nepal embassies and is introducing it in government gazettes as well,” the source added. Many in Nepal, meanwhile, said the need for a resolution is getting more important by the day. “There have been misunderstandings between the two nations over the past few months. However, introducing a new Nepal map is a sovereign decision by the country,” Khadga KC, head of the department of international relations and diplomacy at Tribhuvan University, told TOI. “But I do believe that the issues should be resolved through dialogue and a solution must be found.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-introduces-political-map-showing-limpiyadhura-lipulekh-and-kalapani-in-school-curriculum/articleshow/78174418.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 18, 2020||Pune||426 Pimpri Chinchwad cops turn +ve so far||Pune: A total of 426 personnel from the Pimpri Chinchwad police have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Assistant commissioner of police (Pimpri Chinchwad) RR Patil told TOI that 374 police personnel, including 43 officers, from the Pimpri Chinchwad police had recovered. “Many of them have resumed duty too,” he said. Patil said eight officers, including deputy commissioner of police, were undergoing treatment in Pimpri Chinchwad. Three police officers were on oxygen support. He said a majority of the police personnel started testing positive for Covid-19 as they came in contact with infected people while working on the field. “Despite taking all precautions, our men have been testing positive,” Patil said. Recently, a team of crime branch had gone to Dhule for the recovery of stolen motorcycles. “After they returned, two policemen tested positive for Covid-19,” the officer said. In Maharashtra, more 20,000 police personnel have tested positive Covid-19 so far. The fatality among the state police force has also risen above 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/426-pimpri-chinchwad-cops-turn-ve-so-far/articleshow/78177013.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka tests least among 5 states with 3 lakh+ Covid cases||BENGALURU: More than 1.4 lakh new Covid-19 cases were detected in Karnataka during a 16-day period beginning September 1 and the state tested more than 10.9 lakh samples for the virus during that time. But it still lags on the testing front among the top five states which have a caseload of more than 3 lakh cases. Of these five states, Karnataka tested the least. With the fourth-highest number of cases among these five states, Karnataka trails Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, but is ahead of Uttar Pradesh. However, Uttar Pradesh with the least number of cases has tested the most, followed by Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Karnataka is among the states the Centre has advised to ramp up testing. The state, data shows, had tested more than 10,000 more samples than UP as on May 31, but as of September 16, UP had conducted a staggering 39.5 lakh more tests than Karnataka. The other three states have consistently been ahead of Karnataka, while different states have been ahead of each other at different points in time (see graphic).  In September, Karnataka, on average tested 68,154 samples per day compared to more than 1.5 lakh in UP. The state compares poorly with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu too, both of which have been testing more than 80,000 samples per day. Only Andhra Pradesh, with 67,748 daily tests on average, tested less than Karnataka in September, but the state’s overall testing rate has been much higher. Also, Andhra is the only state among the top five that has a smaller population than Karnataka. However, officials say Karnataka, which has increased its testing capacity, has been testing a huge number of samples each day and that the focus now is on vulnerable populations and areas. In the first week of September, medical education minister K Sudhakar had said that the state aims to achieve a target of 1 lakh daily tests soon. He had even pointed out how from just one testing lab on March 8 when the first case was reported, the state now has more than a 100 labs. Seventeen days on, that target is yet to be achieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/among-5-states-with-high-covid-burden-ktaka-tests-the-least/articleshow/78175722.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||An elephant never forgets: Ask Jasmine about old life||New Delhi: The city’s last captive elephant, Laxmi, who was rehabilitated by wildlife officials, celebrated a year of “freedom” at a rescue centre in Haryana on Friday. The animal, now called Jasmine, has been living at the centre run by Wildlife SOS. She was transported there after being rescued from her owner, who had hidden her on the Yamuna floodplain.Five other captive elephants had been successfully rehabilitated before Laxmi, but the pachyderm was taken away by her mahout before she could be shifted. She was finally rescued from Yamuna Khadar near east Delhi’s Shakarpur on September 18, 2019, taken to Haryana and kept at a rehabilitation facility with the other elephants.Wildlife SOS officials said they organised a special feast consisting of Laxmi’s favourite fruits to celebrate her freedom. She was also taken for a long walk by her caregiver around the 400-acre forested patch.“She was delighted to find a lavish spread of her favourite fruits waiting for her when she returned from the morning stroll. Jasmine’s life was burdened with the overbearing weight of a carrier crushing her spine and her spirits. Now, with the serene surroundings of the jungle and dedicated tending by our caregivers, her health is improving gradually,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, which had helped rescue Laxmi.Satyanarayan added that they were grateful to the Delhi and Haryana forest departments for entrusting them the task of providing Jasmine the necessary veterinary care.The 40-year-old pachyderm was in the capital for over two decades, often giving joyrides or used at events and ceremonies. She was found living in terrible conditions along the Yamuna after Delhi High Court ordered a status report on the condition of captive elephants in the city. The court subsequently issued an order to rehabilitate all six elephants.Geeta Seshamani, co-founder and secretary of Wildlife SOS, said, “It is reassuring to see that our efforts have made a positive difference to her life. Jasmine is enjoying her retirement in a lush green forest surrounded by her herd.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/an-elephant-never-forgets-ask-jasmine-about-old-life/articleshow/78195110.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||When will screens light up? anxiety mounts as mall crowd-puller bleeds||NEW DELHI: Every mall has been devoting more space to a cinema in the last five years, going up, as Abhishek Bansal of Pacific Malls pointed out, from two to three screens to mega- and superplexes with 10-15 screens. This is an indication perhaps that cinema at the mall will continue to pull the crowds despite the popularity of online movies — provided the theatres are permitted to reopen after the closure aimed at containing Covid-19 infection. Bansal explained that movie viewing was a complete entertainment exercise that took in shopping and dining-out with family or friends. Sales at the malls are driven by cinema, and Bansal claimed cinegoers accounted for over 30% of food court sales. Cinema chains across India have appealed to the Centre to allow them to resume business. The appeal states that at the rate of Rs 1,500 crore a month, the cinema exhibition industry estimates losses of Rs 9,000 crore over six months of having remained shut. Cinema halls were better equipped to ensure crowd management in a stringent hygienic environment than air operations, retail, railways, restaurants, metro rails and gyms, all of which were allowed to function, the appeal said. Signed by members of the Multiplex Association of India (MAI), the plea pointed out that many norms prescribed to tackle the corona spread were cinema complex staples, such as ticketed entry, staggered show timings to allow easy entry-exit and availability of ample waiting areas. Alok Tandon, director MAI and CEO Inox, said the impact of remaining closed for more than 180 days was unprecedented. With absolutely no revenues flowing into the system, Tandon talked of the plethora of the challenges facing the cinema exhibition industry. However, he was also optimistic that theatres would script a remarkable turnaround because of the Indian’s inherent love of cinema and the extremely strong foundation of the industry. Amit Sharma of Miraj Cinemas, which has 128 screens across India, had a positive view. He felt that since theatres would be the last ones to reopen, they will be able to implement the best hygiene practices being followed across sectors. Hopeful of reopening from next month, Sharma argued that with even banquet gatherings of 100 people being permitted soon, so there was no reason to keep cinemas closed for too long. He assured of hygiene protocols such as contactless food orders, staff in protective gear, spaced seating in lobby and food areas, blocking online booking of adjoining seats and even prevention of usage of adjoining urinals. Content to exhibit is also a concern. Tandon felt that when theatres reopened, they would have to consider their library and international releases in the first few weeks, as happened in global markets. It would take up to four weeks after resumption for movie producers to market and release films that are in the pipeline currently. “An interesting trend is how producers of regional language movies are opting to release their content in other Indian languages, thus providing exhibitors with more content options,” added Tandon, who said that their persistent focus on screening of alternate content would prove useful in the possibly lean days after reopening. Sharma noted that people watched a lot of global content online during the lockdown and predicted that Israeli, Spanish and Korean content would draw keen interest as Indians had become acquainted with the dramas in these language products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-will-screens-light-up-anxiety-mounts-as-mall-crowd-puller-bleeds/articleshow/78195094.cms||Amin Ali
September 18, 2020||Madurai||Jeyaraj & Beniks deaths: HC denies cop bail, says there’s enough to prove his role||Madurai: Observing that prima facie materials are available to prove that suspended Sathankulam police inspector S Sridhar had instigated his fellow policemen to assault P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, the Madras high court on Thursday dismissed his bail plea. The court was hearing the bail plea of Sridhar, one of the 10 policemen arrested in the twin custodial deaths case. Justice V Bharathidasan observed that it is a case of alleged custodial torture where two precious lives were lost. From the materials available on record, Jeyaraj was taken to the police station by the petitioner, a sub inspector Balakrishnan and a constable Muthuraja. Thereafter, when Beniks came to the police station and inquired about the reason for his father’s arrest, there was a petty quarrel between him and Balakrishnan. The judge said the petitioner came out of his room and directed the police personnel to close the main gate and instigated the other accused to beat Beniks. The judge noted that the materials available on record would show that the petitioner repeatedly instigated the other accused to beat both deceased. “Brutality continued throughout the night,” observed the judge. The judge added that at least eight witnesses spoke of Sridhar’s involvement in the above said occurrence and that the post-mortem report states that the duo died of complications due to blunt injuries sustained. Being a policeman, there is reasonable apprehension that he is likely to tamper with witnesses, especially personnel working in the police station. Furthermore, investigation is yet to be completed and it is in a crucial stage, the judge noted and said he is not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jeyaraj-beniks-deaths-hc-denies-cop-bail-says-theres-enough-to-prove-his-role/articleshow/78177041.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 18, 2020||Nashik||Nafed starts dispatching onions from buffer stock||Nashik: The National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed), a central government agency, has started dispatching onions from its buffer stock to various states as per their requirement. Nafed had procured 95,000 tonne of onions between May and mid-August to create the buffer stock in a bid to tackle onion scarcity and stabilize the price of the produce between August and September. Of the 95,0000 tonne, 90,000 tonne were procured from various places Maharashtra — a large volume was procured from the Nashik district. Currently, Nafed is sending out a few trucks every day from Nashik and other locations in Maharashtra to various states in the county. “We are sending onions to Guwahati, Delhi, Kolkata, Bhuvaneshwar and Gujarat as per the demand,” Nafed sources said, adding that they are daily sending around three-four trucks. Each truck carries 12 tonne of the produce. The supply of onions has fallen in comparison to demand in the domestic market as crops in the south Indian states and Madhya Pradesh have suffered significant damage due to incessant rain. As a result, the average wholesale onion price had increased to Rs 3,000 per quintal. However, the price had dropped to Rs 1,900 per quintal after the Centre banned onion exports on Monday. But the average wholesale onion price has now settled at around Rs 2,400 per quintal after the arrivals dropped in the market as most of the farmers did not bring their produce. However, considering the shortage in the country, Nafed has started dispatching onions from its buffer stock to stabilise the price. The Centre has been procuring onions through Nafed to create a buffer stock under the price stability funds (PSF) to manage the possible scarcity of onions that is usually seen between August and September. Last year, Nafed had procured 57,000 tonne of onions. This year, the Centre had set a target of procuring 1 lakh tonne of onions, but Nafed could procure 95,000 tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nafed-starts-dispatching-onions-from-buffer-stock/articleshow/78177034.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhinagar: Man marries hiding he’s gay, booked||AHMEDABAD: A 32-year-old woman in Gandhinagar on Thursday filed a police complaint of breach of trust against her husband who had allegedly concealed his sexual orientation from her. He had even allegedly tortured and had threatened to kill her if she revealed about his homosexuality. The woman, who works as a librarian at a prominent institute in Ahmedabad and stays in sector 3 in Gandhinagar, lodged her FIR with the women police station in Gandhinagar. In her FIR, the woman says that she was married to a man, a librarian at a college in Navrangpura of Ahmedabad in September 2011 who was also a resident of sector -3 in Gandhinagar, after falling in love with him. The woman states in the FIR that her husband’s behaviour remained good and normal for around a year, but later she became suspicious of his sexual orientation. When she checked his phone and online chats, she found that he had sexual relationships with several men. When she asked him about his sexual orientation, he told her that he was only interested in men and that he had married her just because to have acceptance in the society and also to have an earning woman as his wife. The FIR states that she had tried all means to attract him to her but failed. She said that he was even sacked from his job from the college in Ahmedabad as he was accused of having sexual relationship with other men in the institute only. As he was jobless and stayed at home, he began calling his male friends and even teenage boys at home to fulfil his carnal desires. This did not go down well with his wife who even asked her in-laws to ask the man to shift his sexual preference, but they did not support her. In December 2019, she walked out on her husband as he began thrashing her whenever she raised objection to his sexuality. She stayed with her parents for nine months and then decided to approach the police. She said that as her parents were in the US there had been a delay in filing the complaint. The women police station in Gandhinagar has registered a complaint of breach of trust in this rare case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-marries-hiding-hes-gay-booked/articleshow/78175734.cms||Ashish Chauhan
September 18, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP councillors meet mayor, demand roll back of CLU notices||Ludhiana: The councillors of BJP met mayor Balkar Sandhu on Thursday at his camp office and handed over a memorandum demanding roll back of notices issued to various people for change of land use (CLU) certificates for at least two years. They have demanded that first this issue should be discussed in detail in MC house and then it should be implemented in the city. The BJP leaders demanded that CLU and development charges should be reduced. However, the mayor assured them of conducting a house meeting over this issue. The BJP councillors claimed that already people are passing through financial crisis due to coronavirus and lockdown and at this time the Congress government had started issuing notices for CLU recovery. They claimed that for a long-time the issue of dropping the town planning schemes was pending at government level, so these should be dropped and CLU charges for town planning scheme should be equivalent to charges in non-town planning scheme. In non-town planning scheme areas for commercial property CLU charges are Rs 1,500 per square yards and for industrial property it is only Rs 100 per sq yd. But in town planning scheme areas commercial and industrial properties are kept in one category and building constructed up to 38 feet in height is charged at rate of Rs 5,700 sq per yd and above 38 feet it is Rs 11,400 per sq yd. This is injustice with people living in town planning scheme areas despite the fact that areas are connected with each other. They said if there was a problem in dropping the town planning schemes legally, the CLU charges should be charged on the basis of notification issued on August 22, 2006, according to which charges were Rs 1,500 to 3,000 per sq yd and Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per sq yd. Besides, there is a provision of 10% increase every year, which should not be there. The recovery should be at the basic rates and for industry it should be on the basis of non-scheme areas. They also took up the issue of development charges on residential properties as earlier it was Rs 174 per sq yd, but now it had been revised to Rs 518 per sq yd. This is sheer injustice with people who are constructing houses on 50 sq yd, so these development charges should be exempted for houses built up on 50 sq yd. They claimed that the MC was creating fear among the shopkeepers while serving them notices, so this should be stopped. They said if these demands would not be considered then they would be forced to start a protest against the same. Meanwhile, the mayor said, “I have taken the memorandum and now we will take up this issue in the MC house meeting as soon as Covid-19 spread will come under control.” He said he could not take any such decision over this issue because CLU charges were being calculated and paid through online system, so they would have to approach the local bodies department if they had to revise the rates.  BJP councillors complain against LED streetlights The BJP councillors also took up the issue of non-functional street lights in their respective wards by saying that streetlights remain non-functional and sometimes these are not even switch on. BJP councilor Sunita Rani said these days streetlights were being switched on after 7-7.30pm and switched off even before 6am. But now days have started getting short and it remain dark at that time, so this timing should increase. They also took up the issues of their wards and requested the mayor for resolving these. However, Sandhu claimed that he was helpless because of the agreement signed with the company but they had now decided to appoint persons who would keep a check on non-functional lights and get the company people to remove the snag because unless the company got the complaint in their system, they would not correct it. He said they were going to start this practice, where one person would handle two wards and they would to the councillors’ offices for noting down the complaints and then those complaints would get registered in company portal for rectification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-councillors-meet-mayor-demand-roll-back-of-clu-notices/articleshow/78175733.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Local SAD, BJP leaders maintain distance while raising local issues||Ludhiana: Even as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leadership came out in open against its ally BJP while opposing farm-sector related bills in the ongoing monsoon session in the Parliament, the growing differences between the alliance partners seem to be widening at local level too. That all was not well among local SAD-BJP leaders became apparent as both parties preferred to approach mayor Balkar Sandhu separately for the issues of their respective wards unlike previous occasions when they used to go together. After the Akali councillors met the mayor on September 14, the BJP councillors went to see him on Thursday, raising various issues concerning development works in their respective wards. Though the senior leaders in both parties are denying any such reports of differences, sources revealed that BJP councillors did not go along Akali councillor after senior leaders stopped them. While Akali Dal demanded action against officials and contractors for poor quality of roads, the BJP took up the issue of CLU notices. A few months ago too when the opposition protested against Congress leaders over ration issue and the hooch tragedy, both parties organised protests on different platforms. Though leaders of both parties blamed coronavirus for not doing anything jointly, sources revealed that both party men were trying to raise the public issues for creating a niche among the voters for their respective party. On September 14, the Akali councillors went to meet the mayor for asking them about pending development works for their wards and as per SAD councillors they had invited the BJP councillors as well, but they did not turn up. The senior Akali Dal councillor and leader of opposition in MC house Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “We had gone to meet the mayor because works in our wards are pending for a long time and as per the mayor the civic body has now some funds, so these works could be taken up. I called up the BJP councillors, who asked me to talk to BJP district president Pushpinder Singal first. I asked him to send the councillors and he said he would let me know but he did not call.” He said he again asked the BJP councillors, who said that they were told not to attend the meeting. Dang said, “We will bring this to the notice of our party president Sukhbir Badal,” he added. However, on the other hand, Singal denied that there were any differences with Akali Dal by saying that they did not have time that day as senior leaders had come for certain meetings, so the councillors could not attend the meeting. He said this decision whether to remain in alliance or break it has to come through party high command and not at his level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/local-sad-bjp-leaders-maintain-distance-while-raising-local-issues/articleshow/78175728.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Labs grapple with work load, few technicians||PUNE: Timely delivery of test results is becoming an uphill task for most laboratories, as they grapple with a shortage of technicians amid the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The 402 laboratories in the state testing over 80,000 samples a day are hard pressed to issue the results on time due to the shortage of technicians. Representatives of most laboratories were of the view that many of their technicians have tested positive for the virus, while the volume of their daily work load has increased manifold since the pre-Covid days. They stated that hiring trained technicians overnight was a challenge as well. The importance of the tests has assumed further significance with the state commencing the “My family, my responsibility” initiative — a door-to-door survey to identify people with the risk of contracting the infection. Maharashtra health officials stated that the laboratories have been told to recruit more people to meet the requirements. A representative of a city-based laboratory told TOI that there was a lot of stress on timely submission of reports. State Indian Medical Association President Avinash Bhondwe said more laboratories should be given permission to make the task easy with the existing infrastructure. “I have written to the state government to ease the rules of only sanctioning the laboratories with the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories for the tests,” he said. “The state has over 5,000 laboratories. Giving sanction to more laboratories will definitely ease the pressure on the government and private laboratories that are already conducting the tests. In Pune city too, several laboratories have been issued notices for delayed reports. It’s a cause for concern that many laboratories are giving appointments for tests only after 2-3 days a person approaches,” Bhondwe said. Manish Kolge, a senior physician attached to a nursing home, said the increasing number of health care workers getting infected added to the burden on hospitals. “Hospitals have to pay for PPEs, N95 masks and hand sanitizers, leading to a significant loss of revenues,” he added. Senior epidemiologist Giridhar R Babu said Maharashtra’s high test positivity rate (20%) indicated that the state needed to ensure manifold rise in testing to contain the Covid-19 spread. “High mortality rate indicates several problems, including late detection, delayed referrals and poor health system response,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/labs-grapple-with-work-load-few-technicians/articleshow/78177033.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 18, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus test ratio in PMR reaches 1 lakh per million||PUNE: The Covid-19 testing ratio in the Pune Metropolitan Region has gone up to 1 lakh per million — one of the highest in the country — with more people undergoing both the antigen and RT-PCR tests. “A huge number of tests is required to make ensure timely detection and treatment of the positive cases. This reduces the chance of patients becoming critical and also the death rate,” Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Thursday. The administration is currently conducting around 8,000 tests a day. During the 10-day lockdown in July, the number was around 12,000 tests a day. “The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and local governing bodies are conducting door-to-door survey to check for Covid-19 cases. If any citizen has developed flu-like symptoms, he or she is urged to undergod the test,” a senior PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coronavirus-test-ratio-in-region-reaches-1l/-million/articleshow/78177038.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||ASI killed after one truck rams another in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a freak accident, a truck that had been stopped by an assistant sub-inspector of police was rammed by another truck, sending it careening into the traffic officer and killing him on Wednesday in north Delhi's Dheerpur. This is the third death of a traffic police personnel on duty and the fifth of a police officer in three months. ASI Radhe Shyam, 49, who lived in Rohini and was posted with the traffic police in the Burari circle was on duty on Outer Ring Road at Dheerpur around 4.30pm on Wednesday. A senior police officer disclosed, "Witnesses have told us that the ASI had flagged down a truck. As it slowed down and moved to the side of the road, another truck hit it from behind and sent it careening into the traffic police officer standing in front of it. It was hit with such force that it ran over Radhe Shyam. The critically injured ASI was taken to hospital, but died on the way." Times ViewTraffic policemen being run over by speeding vehicles is a tragedy. Often such accidents are caused by the risky practice of flagging down rash drivers. While this case may be slightly different, the bottom line remains the same. We need more electronic monitoring of vehicles through cameras. Challans can be generated and served to offending drivers without policemen putting their lives on the line.Policemen and people at the spot caught both the truck drivers and took them to the Burari police station. Because the driver of the truck that crashed into the stationary truck, Deepak Shukla of Ghonda in UP, was at fault, he was arrested for rash driving and for causing death due to negligence. "We are checking the CCTV footage of the incident to establish how the accident unfolded," said a police officer, who confirmed the case registration against Shukla. Radhe Shyam is survived by his wife, son and a daughter. His son is a graduate while his daughter is pursuing her studies. Recently, traffic police ASI Mahavir Singh, 51, was similarly mowed down in west Delhi. He was comatose for 11 days before his death. The driver of the car was arrested six days after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/asi-killed-after-one-truck-rams-another-in-delhi/articleshow/78178532.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city soon to get 72 ventilators, says Chhagan Bhujbal||NASHIK: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said Nashik city will soon get 72 ventilators in the government and private healthcare facilities in the next two weeks. Bhujbal said, “It has come forth that less than 10 bed with ventilator are available now as the rest are occupied in the city. We have spoken to the district collector and the Nashik Municipal Corporation Commissioner and sought help to ramp up the number of ventilators in the city.” At present, the number of ventilators was just enough to cater to the current situation but the rising number of cases only underlines the need for more ventilators. There were 133 ventilator beds in the city while the there are 6,097 active cases Bhujbal said about 25 ventilators will be given to Bytco Hospital of Nashik Municipal Corporation and the state government facilities, while another twenty 25 ventilators would be available in the private sector. The rest of the ventilators that are now in possession of government bodies would be activated within 10 days. Speaking on complaints about mismanagement in bed allocation, he said “The administration is taking all measures to ensure the beds are made available but the citizens need to cooperate by getting admitted to the hospital available at that particular moment,” Bhujbal directed the NMC officials to deploy its workforce in every hospital to manage the allocation of beds and get a stock of the situation on daily basis. Collector Suraj Mandhare said the Covid care centre and Dedicated Covid Health Centre would be raised in the rural areas and NMC Commissioner Kailash Jadhav assured of raising another 300-bed DCHC soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-soon-to-get-72-ventilators-says-bhujbal/articleshow/78177050.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 18, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Single-day recoveries top new cases in PMR, 85 dead||PUNE: As many as 4,617 Covid-19 patients recovered in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday as compared to 4,571 cases recorded in the region in the last 24 hours, bringing down its active patient count marginally. With this, the total recoveries in PMR jumped above 1.92 lakh, while its Covid-19 caseload increased above 2.40 lakh, a report released by the district health officer revealed. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations reported more recoveries on Thursday than the new cases. As many as 2,219 patients were discharged in the PMC limits as against 1,964 new cases. In the PCMC limits, as many as 1,199 patients were declared cured in the last 24 hours as against 1,113 new cases. The report said 85 patients succumbed to coronavirus-related complications on Thursday, pushing the death count to 5,451. Among the Thursday’s fatalities, 45 occurred in the PMC limits, while 23 in the rural and Cantonment areas. The PCMC reported 17 deaths due to Covid-19. The region’s tally of active cases was at 42,210 on Thursday night as compared to 42,479 the previous day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/single-day-recoveries-top-new-cases-in-pmr-85-dead/articleshow/78177043.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 18, 2020||Pune||Centre tells Maharashtra govt to ramp up contact tracing rate||PUNE: The Centre has now asked the Maharashtra government to improve contact tracing to further reduce its high positivity rate, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. The state’s positivity rate, or the fraction of tests that come back positive, is currently at 20%. Ideally, it has to be at 5% or below. It tends to reduce as testing increases, for which contact tracing is key. But in many parts, officials have not been able to track down more than 10 contacts per confirmed case. Districts with some of the lowest contact tracing (below 10) are Pune, Thane, Aurangabad, Nashik, Raigad and Solapur. Tope told the TOI that many districts lagging behind in contact tracing are also experiencing delays in test results. Scores of labs, flooded with samples, are churning out results after delays of at least a couple of days. As per state data, at least nine districts have a positivity rate above 25%, which essentially highlights high prevalence of Covid-19 and leaks in containment measures. Health experts called for a state-wide increase in testing. Giridhara Babu, a member of the surveillance team of the Indian Council of Medical Research said, “The state as a whole needs to increase testing and improve early detection. The high positivity rate only reiterates that the testing should increase manyfold.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centre-tells-state-to-ramp-up-contact-tracing-rate/articleshow/78177048.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 18, 2020||Hyderabad||IRDAI panel moots Rs 75,000 cr pandemic pool for India||Hyderabad: To soften the blow of pandemics in the future, the IRDAI working group (WG) has mooted the setting up of a pandemic pool of Rs 75,000 crore by the industry with a substantial government backing. “An ideal size to start the pandemic pool could be designed to cater to approximate 4 crore MSME workers which would lead to a pool capacity of approximately Rs 75,000 crore wherein a capacity of approximate Rs 2,000 crore could be expected from the industry participants and a substantial part coming from government in the form of backstop,” the WG said in its report. The WG added that the backstop would get triggered only in the event a pandemic strikes and the total loss payouts are higher than the capacity garnered by the local insurance/reinsurance and international market. The report has recommended that the pool premium collection can be invested in government securities or specifically designed bonds by Indian government and the premiums accumulated over the years and the investment surplus would help in gradually reducing the government backstop. The WG recommended covering at least 4-5 crore MSME workers in the first phase and sought government support for the same. It suggested that the pandemic pool structure in its first phase should propose a business interruption protection focusing on the salary of employees of MSMEs. “It is hence proposed to have a product which covers basic salary protection of MSME employees covering upto 3 months or pandemic induced lockdown opening up whichever is earlier. In terms of compensation, it is proposed to provide a cover of Rs 6,500 (30-40%) of average minimum wage for maximum of 10 employees in a MSME for a maximum period of 3 months,” it said The payout under pool mechanism is proposed to be triggered after 15 days of lockdown following a pandemic and then for each month till the lockdown lasts or 3 months, whichever is earlier, it said. Currently, India has two pools — Indian Terrorism Risk Insurance Pool (ITRIP) and Indian Nuclear Insurance Pool (INIP) that are administered by GIC Re. The WG has proposed that the pandemic pool also be managed by the same body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irdai-panel-moots-rs-75000-cr-pandemic-pool-for-india/articleshow/78177047.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Unmarried daughter entitled to maintenance from father’||Chandigarh: The Supreme Court (SC) has held that an unmarried Hindu daughter can claim maintenance from her father till she is married, provided she pleads and proves that she is unable to maintain herself. The apex court, however, has made it clear that to claim such right, the daughter has to file her application/suit under Section 20 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act. The SC has also clarified that the maintenance as contemplated under Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 is a larger concept as compared to concept of maintenance under Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code. A three-judge bench, comprising Justice Ashok Bhushan, Justice R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah of the SC, has passed these orders while hearing an appeal filed by Abhilasha, a resident of Rewari district of Haryana. "In classical Hindu Law prior to codification, a Hindu male was always held morally and legally liable to maintain his aged parents, a virtuous wife and infant child. Hindu Law always recognised the liability of father to maintain an unmarried daughter," the bench has held. In its 38-page judgment, the SC has also observed that the laws are nothing but collective consciousness of the community. It is in the interest of the community and social order that women and children who are neglected be maintained and should be provided a forum to obtain urgent relief to enable them to sustain, observed the apex court. The matter had reached the SC in the wake of an appeal filed by Abhilasha, challenging the orders passed by lower court in Rewari and the Punjab and Haryana high court. In this case, the plea filed by the girl -- born in 1987 -- before a Rewari court, seeking maintenance from her father was allowed only till she attained majority in 2005. She, however, wanted continuance of maintenance even after attaining majority. Her appeals, however, had been rejected by the appellate court in Rewari as well as Punjab and Haryana high court, pointing out that she was not entitled to any maintenance from her father under Section 125 of the CrPC as she had attained age of majority. She had approached the SC contending that the HC had committed an error in dismissing her plea. She had relied on provisions of Section 20 of the Hindu Adoptions & Maintenance Act, 1956, which casts obligation on a person to maintain his daughter till she is married. It had been argued that she needs maintenance from her father as she is unemployed. Advocate Deepkaran Dalal, who represented the father, contended that as per Section 125 of the CrPC entitlement to claim maintenance by daughter, who has attained majority is confined to cases where the person by reason of any physical or mental abnormality or injury is unable to maintain herself, but this is not so in this case. After hearing both parties, the apex court had determined that the question to be answered in the present case was as to whether a Hindu unmarried daughter is entitled to claim maintenance from her father only till she attains majority or she can claim maintenance till she is unmarried. The SC, however, upheld the orders passed by the Rewari court and the HC, but asked the girl to seek maintenance under Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unmarried-daughter-entitled-to-maintenance-from-father/articleshow/78177051.cms||Ajay Sura
September 18, 2020||Madurai||Coconut auctions in Madurai fetch better returns for farmers||Madurai: The auctioning of coconuts initiated by the agriculture marketing department has come to the aid of farmers in Madurai district, who have been able to get a decent price for their produce in the last one month.The auction is held in the six regulated markets for agricultural products in Madurai district - Madurai, Usilampatti, Vadipatti, Thirumangalam, Melur and T Kallupatti - on a rotational basis on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The auction has proved beneficial for the farmers, as it does away with the involvement of middlemen.The farmers are asked to bring their produce and stock them in piles. Secretary of the Madurai marketing committee, V Mercy Jeyarani, said that when the farmers sell the coconuts through middlemen they have to add 100 to 150 coconuts to a pile of 1,000 coconuts, to make up for the ones that may have gone bad. “However, in this auction we make them stack the coconuts as per the quality, and auction it accordingly,” she said. Therefore, a pile would have only 1,000 coconuts and not more, so the farmer doesn’t stand to lose, she added.In the Vadipatti market on Wednesday, 22,036 coconuts were sold, where the coconuts fetched an average of Rs 12 apiece. The total sales of Rs 2.7 lakh was handed over to the farmers immediately.The Melur market on Thursday saw the coconuts fetching record prices, when the coconuts sold for an average of Rs 14 apiece. Farmers said that this is the first time that they are getting such a price for their produce and that it is encouraging. “Many a time we are forced to give it to middlemen for prices as low as Rs 6 per coconut, which leads to huge losses,” said S Arumugam, a farmer from Vadipatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/coconut-auctions-in-madurai-fetch-better-returns-for-farmers/articleshow/78177054.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Madurai||Proof of customary divorce is valid in proceedings against bigamy charges: HC||Madurai: Observing that proof of customary divorce is a valid defence in departmental proceedings against bigamy charges, the Madras high court set aside the punishment imposed on a policeman.The court was hearing the petition filed by Sudalaimani who joined service as grade II police constable and was subsequently promoted as head constable in 2008. During his service, the petitioner married Muthammal alias Muthulakshmi in 1996 and has two children. In 2007, the petitioner married Jeevarathinam, a sub inspector of police.A charge-memo was issued to the petitioner over bigamy charges, and after departmental inquiry, he was demoted from head constable to grade one police constable in 2014, citing that he had violated rule 23(1)(b) of the Tamil Nadu Subordinate Police Officers Conduct Rules,1964.Justice R M T Teekaa Raman observed that the core question to be decided in this case is that whether the plea of customary divorce is a valid defence in the departmental proceedings action initiated for bigamy. The judge noted that the statement by the petitioner’s first wife Muthammal assumes significance in view of the certain admissions made by her to the inquiry officer.Muthammal had categorically stated that due to a misunderstanding, a customary divorce was held between them as per the customs prevailing in the community and the same was executed in writing as a marriage dissolution deed in 2003. The judge observed that Muthammal had not filed the complaint against the petitioner and it was Jeevarathinam’s brother who had given the complaint since he had a civil dispute with his mother.The judge observed that disciplinary proceedings initiated for bigamy could have been maintainable even if second marriage is contracted with the knowledge of the first wife and even if third party gives a complaint. However, plea of customary divorce is a valid defence in a departmental proceedings initiated for misconduct of bigamy if the delinquent officer proves the execution of customary divorce, which the petitioner has been able to do so in this case.The court set aside the punishment observing that the authorities had chosen to give a finding that the remarriage of petitioner with Jeevarathinam was not solemnized or registered in a proper manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/proof-of-customary-divorce-is-valid-in-proceedings-against-bigamy-charges-hc/articleshow/78177045.cms||Kaushik Kannan
September 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Sr dy mayor visits animal centre, finds stray dogs in unhygenic condition||Ludhiana: Senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra during a visit to the animal birth control centre near dairy complex on Hambran Road on Thursday, was surprised to see the condition of stray dogs, which were being kept in unhygienic conditions. He also checked the records about how many dogs were sterilised in the past few months, but to his surprise neither in August, nor in September the sterilisation project was carried out properly. Even on Thursday, nine stray dogs were caught for the operation. The staff at the animal birth control centre, however, claimed that earlier the staff had left the work during lockdown and now when the labour had returned, they had been quarantined. Some also fell sick due to typhoid, so work was carried out at a slow pace. The senior deputy mayor asked for the records with regard to the number of dogs sterilised, but he could not get the same. He checked the operation theatre and dog kennel, where a few dogs were being kept. He claimed that there was no hygiene and it was full of foul smell, such that it became unbearable to stand there even for a few minutes. He asked the staff about the reasons for the poor condition of the dog kennel. The senior deputy mayor claimed that stray dogs were not being lifted from his and the adjoining wards of the old city areas and people made complaints in this regard, he had decided to check the centre. Later, he said that he would take up the issue with mayor Balkar Sandhu as well. However, when the senior deputy mayor called up the incharge of the centre, Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla, he reached the spot and informed him that the sterilisation was not on being done due to lockdown and labour shortage. He claimed that in the coming days more dog catchers would join then and they would be able to start the programme again. Moreover, a new building for keeping dogs after operation is also ready and now they can operate more dogs at one time. Apart from this, a building under smart city mission is also going to be completed in few days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sr-dy-mayor-visits-animal-centre-finds-stray-dogs-in-unhygenic-condition/articleshow/78175735.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bareilly||Honour killing: Enraged father kills daughter over ‘love affair’||BAREILLY: In a case of honour killing in UP’s Rampur, a man, who was enraged by his 16-year-old daughter’s “love affair”, allegedly strangled her to death at home on Wednesday. He later reached out to police and surrendered himself. The father, who used to work as a labourer in Chandigarh before the Covid-19 lockdown, claimed that his daughter had fled with "her lover" twice from home. The incident took place in Bharatpur village under Shahabad police station. Police said that the girl's body has been sent for postmortem, and her father has been arrested. An FIR has been registered. Rampur SP Shogun Gautam said, “On Wednesday evening, one Noor Ahmed, a resident of Bharatpur village arrived at the Shahbad police station and told police that he had killed his daughter by strangulating her. He alleged that his daughter had a love affair with a youth in Chandigarh, where the man along with his family had been staying, and that she had fled twice from the house to stay with him.” “He also told police that on Wednesday, his daughter started saying that she wants to go back to Chandigarh again. When she did not listen, he killed her in a fit of rage. According to him, he took the extreme step for the family’s honour,” the SP added. The accused father was working as a labourer in Chandigarh and living with his family there for many years. However, after the lockdown, the family returned to their hometown in Bharatpur village, Rampur. The deceased was the eldest among three siblings and used to help her mother in domestic chores. Shahbad SHO Shiv Charan Singh said, “After the accused surrendered, his wife lodged a complaint based on which, an FIR has been registered under section 300 of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/honour-killing-enraged-father-kills-daughter-over-love-affair/articleshow/78173233.cms||Maria Khan
September 18, 2020||Goa||Most stakeholders support reopening of schools||Panaji: Most stakeholders in the field of education on Thursday said that Classes IX-XII could begin from September 21, even as they expressed concern over ferrying students via Bal Raths and addressed parents’ apprehensions about schools resuming during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic. At least 45 stakeholders participated in a video conference with chief minister Pramod Sawant to discuss the matter. Shiroda MLA Subhash Shirodkar, who is a member of the state-level task force for the National Education Policy, said that although a sizeable number of Covid-19 cases are reported daily in the state, schools from nursery to college level should not remain closed. “I feel that schools should be opened from September 21, particularly Classes IX-XII. Every school has a minimum of six classrooms, so social distancing can be maintained,” Shirodkar said. “Classroom teaching is classroom teaching. Students and parents are eagerly awaiting the opening of schools.” Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training, Nagaraj Honnekeri, said it was necessary to take precautions while also moving forward. “Everyone, including heads of schools and teachers, should be vigilant and keep a check on students coming to school. Classes can be conducted in a staggered manner and I feel that there should be not more than 10 students in each classroom,” he said. Deputy director of education (North zone) Shambhu Ghadi, and Goa Board secretary Bhagirath Shetye, also agreed that classes should resume with the necessary precautions in place. Stating that there would be no problem in restarting schools in rural areas, president of the Primary Teachers’ Association Prakash Gaonkar, pointed out that there are fewer students in such locales, even as he rued that online connectivity, especially in Canacona and Sattari, has been sporadic. Damodar Panchwadkar, who heads the principals’ forum, pitched for the resumption of schools in a phased manner. “First, there should be a staggered start for Classes X and XII. If things go smoothly, Classes IX and XI can then resume,” he said, adding that some PTAs were still not in favour of restarting schools. Representing the Diocesan Society of Education, Fr Jesus Rodrigues said, “We are with the state government over reopening of schools, but in the current scenario of a continued spike in Covid cases, parents are very apprehensive of sending their children to school.” Government representatives should visit each and every institution to ensure that water supply, sanitisers etc are adequately available, only after which schools should be allowed to reopen, Riyaz Ahmed Gudgueri of the All Goa Urdu Teachers’ Association, said. Deepak Khaitan of the All Goa Recognised Unaided Schools Association, and Mariano Valadares of the Goa Headmasters’ Association, supported the partial reopening of schools even as they highlighted the reluctance of many parents over sending their wards for classes. However, president of the All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association Dattatray Naik, was sceptical about schools restarting at this juncture. “When we approach parents, they ask us who will take responsibility (for their wards). If toilet facilities (in schools) itself are not sufficient, how can we hope to enforce social distancing?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-stakeholders-support-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78177703.cms||Murari Shetye
September 18, 2020||Mysuru||Woman thrashes man with footwear in viral video; five arrested||Madikeri: The town police arrested five people, including a woman, on Thursday after a video of a man being thrashed went viral on social media platforms. It was on Wednesday night that the video of a woman and her aides thrashing a man with slippers went viral on social media. Mohammed Mudasir aka Sahil allegedly sent the woman, a resident of Gowli street, Madikeri, lewd messages. Following the incident, Mudasir was taken to Madikeri police station after the woman lodged a complaint. According to the woman’s complaint, Mudasir works at a mobile recharge shop where he allegedly noted down numbers of women and sent them lewd messages. On Wednesday, when Mudasir messaged the woman, she asked him to meet her at a spot in Madikeri at 5.30 pm. And when Mudasir reached the spot, the woman and her acquaintances started thrashing Mudasir with slippers. A video of the incident was shot and uploaded on on social media which went viral. Mudasir on the other hand has filed a counter complaint at the police station stating that the three aides of the woman assaulted him. He has also has named the woman in his complaint. Police have arrested Mudasir, the woman, Srinivas, Umesh and Sathya. Three separate cases for teasing , beating and sending viral messages has been registered under various sections. Police, meanwhile, are also investigating the source of the viral video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-thrashes-man-with-footwear-in-viral-video-five-arrested/articleshow/78174739.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Madurai||Govt officials told to pay Rs 20K for deficiency in service||Tirunelveli: The consumer grievances redressal forum in Tirunelveli district has directed the sub-registrar, tahsildar, corporation assistant commissioner and surveyor to pay Rs 20,000 as compensation to a consumer for deficiency in service by not providing patta transfer and not partitioning a property for which the complainant had paid the fees in September 2015. Forum president K Devadass and members S Sivanmoorthi and M Muthulakshmi also directed the officials concerned to ensure that the patta transfer and sub-division work for which the petitioner approached the forum is done in a month’s time. The compensation includes Rs 15,000 fine and Rs 5,000 for legal expenses. Advocate A Brammanayagam, who appeared for the petitioner Pathumuthu Joharal, 34, of Palayamkottai, said the petitioner paid Rs 23,225 for registering a piece of land in her name at the registrar office in Kokkirakulam, Tirunelveli, on September 4, 2015. She also paid Rs 60 for name transfer but the process got delayed. A year after it was not done, she started legally approaching the issue and at this stage the papers moved from the office of the registrar to the tahsildar. “The papers from the registrar office are to be sent to the taluk office, from where the tahsildar sends it to the assistant commissioner for Palayamkottai in Tirunelveli Corporation. It has to then be sent to the city surveyor. But all these did not take place and the petitioner suffered humiliation at various stages,” the counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-officials-told-to-pay-rs-20k-for-deficiency-in-service/articleshow/78177058.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Contempt plea filed against bank chairman over pension payment||Chandigarh: Disturbed over the “failure” of the State Bank of India (SBI) to give effect to pension payment orders (PPOs) of disabled soldiers issued in consequence of judicial directions, a disabled soldier has taken the unprecedented step of filing a contempt petition against the bank’s chairman. In his plea filed before the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) at Chandigarh to initiate contempt proceedings in the matter, directions have been sought for imprisonment of the chairman or attachment or sale of SBI property. The petitioner in the case, ex-Gunner Mahavir Singh of Mahendragarh in Harayna, was invalided out of the Army on account of schizophrenia and his PPO was issued by the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (PCDA) in 2018 for grant of arrears of disability pension on AFT’s orders. However, he was not paid his arrears despite the PPO having been forwarded by PCDA to the SBI, being the pension disbursing authority (PDA) for the defence ministry. The SBI, however, refused to release the amount to the disabled soldier on the pretext that it had lost the PPO and had requested for another copy from the PCDA. The PCDA later confirmed that the bank had contacted them in January 2020, and action was taken on the bank’s request in February 2020 itself. The soldier has contended in the contempt petition that there is total wilful non-compliance by the SBI in such cases and they do not even care to respond to queries. Giving other examples, the petition cites the case of Major Arun Panda whose war injury pension granted by the court has not been released by SBI despite multiple requests by him and the PCDA. The example of ex-Sepoy Rajinder Singh, another disable soldier, has been given who also didn’t get the amount as per PPO from SBI. Yet another example of a disabled soldier, Naik Ranjit Singh, has been cited who has also not been released his disability benefits despite the Army having written to the bank to honour the instructions issued by the government to the bank. An example of an invalided disabled soldier, Inderjit Singh, has also been provided whose income tax is being deducted by the bank despite the directions of the Union finance ministry not to do so. Sources say that many nationalised banks are the pension disbursing agencies for the MOD but on many occasions they do not give effect to directions and instructions issued by the government or even PPOs issued on court orders. An officer of the defence accounts department, on the condition of anonymity, said that though it was their department which faced all flak but in a number of cases it’s the fault of other agencies. The case has been filed before the AFT Chandigarh with advanced notice to SBI. However, the hearing of the case is yet to be notified in view of restrictive hearing of cases before the tribunal due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/contempt-plea-filed-against-bank-chairman-over-pension-payment/articleshow/78177055.cms||Ajay Sura
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Metro work looks for end of infection tunnel||AHMEDABAD: The first phase of the Ahmedabad Metro connecting Vastral to Thaltej and Vasna APMC to Motera will not add any new links till August next year. In the 40km Phase-1 of the project, only the 6.5km stretch from Apparel Park to Vastral is operational. The operational stretch was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March 2019. This route has been in service since the project was launched in 2015 by Anandiben Patel, the Gujarat chief minister at the time. Sources in the urban development department said that Metro work had slowed down over the years and Covid halted it altogether. The Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC) is currently functioning with only 50% of its labour force. An official said that when ground was broken in Shahpur for the Metro tunnel in the last week of August, labourers had to be flown in from Odisha. Officials said that when the first tunnel from Apparel Park to Kalupur was completed in early 2019, the Metro work was thought to be on track for the APMC-Shreyas stretch. I P Gautam, the MD at the time of the Metro Link Express for Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad (MEGA), had said that work on the APMC-Shreyas stretch would be completed by late 2019. Incidentally, the MEGA later became the GMRC. But now, it appears that the authorities may roll out the second stretch only by August next year. The officials said that the sub-contractor assigned the north-south corridor section (APMC to Motera) had stopped work in December 2018 because the main contractor, IL&FS, had failed to make payments. A senior official said that the IL&FS’s contract was scrapped in January 2019. However, following a representation, the company was again awarded the work in September 2019. The fuss had delayed work for nearly ten months. Amit Gupta, the GMRC chief general manager, said that the Phase-1 of the project in Ahmedabad city will be completed by September 2022. The phase comprises the north-south corridor (Vasna APMC to Motera) and the east-west corridor (Vastral to Thaltej). Gupta said that Phase-2 (the Motera-Mahatma Mandir stretch) in Gandhinagar will be finished by March 2024. As for the delay, Gupta attributed it to the lockdown and labour shortage. He said that the impending work will make up for the delay. A senior officer in the urban development department said that the government wanted work under way on more stretches before the 2020 local body elections. But the delay pulled back the project as a whole. The planning for the Ahmedabad Metro has been brewing since 2005 and was initially conceived to connect Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar in Phase-1 under the MEGA. However, after Gautam was appointed the MEGA MD, the Metro project was divided into two phases. Phase-1 was meant to create links within Ahmedabad and Phase-2 was to connect Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-block-on-metro-track/articleshow/78195206.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 18, 2020||Madurai||Over 6,200 active cases in south TN, 5,176 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: A total of 736 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and eight deaths were reported in the southern districts on Thursday. In the central region, the Covid-19 tally touched 43,589 with fresh daily cases of 667 in the eight districts while five more succumbed to the infection to take the death toll in the region to 621. Four of the deaths in southern districts were in Madurai, two of whom had died seven and 21 days ago in private hospitals. The youngest to die was a 45-year-old man from Tenkasi with diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension who tested positive on September 5, was admitted in the Tirunelveli MCH on Thursday and died in the morning. The two other deaths reported in Madurai are an 82-year-old man who died on Wednesday and a 72-year-old man who died the day he tested positive on Tuesday. A 60-year-old woman from Dindigul admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital on September 9 died on Tuesday. Kanyakumari (118) is the only southern district that crossed 100 cases on Thursday. After recording over 100 cases for two days, Tirunelveli (95) came below the mark on Thursday. Ramanathapuram (30) had the lowest number of cases in the region. The share of the four districts – Thanajvur, Pudukottai, Trichy and Tiruvarur — kept the numbers steady in the central region as in the previous weeks. The region has been adding 1,000 plus cases every two days and saw 37,792 patients being discharged since the outbreak. The number of active cases was 5,176 according to the state bulletin on Thursday. Thanjavur and Nagappattinam had 1,019 and 1,006 active cases respectively. The districts producing high number of cases were attributing it to the increased testing and movement of people after the Unlock 4.0 relaxations. Among the casualties, two patients died of Covid-19 pneumonia despite having no comorbidities. A 49-year-old man from Thanjavur died at a private hospital on September 17 after 13 days of hospitalisation when he developed breathing difficulty. Meanwhile, total deaths in Thanjavur district (138) surpassed those in Trichy (134) which was on top so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-6200-active-cases-in-south-tn-5176-in-central-dists/articleshow/78177063.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||NCL, URDIP employees’ samples for sero analysis||Pune: As many as 400 blood samples were collected from the employees of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) as well as the Unit for Research and Development of Information Products (URDIP) and their family members till Thursday for a serological test aimed at detecting SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Both NCL and URDIP are run by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). The collection of the blood samples began on September 12 and concluded on Thursday. The samples, along with data temperature, height, weight, oxygen level and blood pressure of the participants, will be sent to CSIR- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) for serological analysis. This initiative is a part of the pan-India project, ‘Phenome India’, initiated by CSIR and led by Delhi-based CSIR- IGIB. In a statement issued by NCL, its media adviser Prabhakar Ingle said, “Blood samples were collected from those who were willing to participate.” The statement said large-scale phenome data from longitudinal cohort studies were critical for investigating the cause of disease and to establish links between risk factors and health outcomes. “It can yield a wealth of information in establishing causation and development of diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers, especially for communicable and chronic non-communicable diseases, which is an emerging health crisis in India,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncl-urdip-employees-samples-for-sero-analysis/articleshow/78177059.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi-origin councillor stops drug store opening in Canada||BATHINDA: After people, led by a Punjabi-origin councillor, protested, the application for a proposed cannabis shop in Brampton, a city in Ontario province of Canada, has been rejected. The application has been removed from the official website of the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario (AGCO). AGCO is a provincial regulatory agency that reports to the ministry of the attorney general, and is responsible for the cannabis, alcohol, gaming and horse racing sectors. When the application went into the public notice period from July 17 to August 1, to allow public feedback for opening of cannabis store in a residential neighbourhood with several schools and parks within walking distance, regional councillor Gurpreet Singh Dhillon opposed it. Dhillon also wrote to the attorney general of Ontario as well as encouraged residents who wish to object, to submit an online form against the cannabis retail store application. Those who opposed it also came together and organised a rally. Dhillon said, “This was an initiative undertaken and driven by the residents, and I commend their spirit of activism. This was not a debate on the legality of marijuana, however it was a debate on the appropriateness of the location, and I stood by my constituents.” Community spokesman Jasbir Singh Boparai said, “With four schools close by and the proposed location being in a residential neighbourhood, we wanted to protect our children and ensure the safety of our community. With the residents and the elected officials standing up, this application is no longer active.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pbi-origin-councillor-stops-drug-store-opening-in-canada/articleshow/78177060.cms||Neel Kamal
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Guilty’ staffers to appear at Akal Takht today, vigil stepped up||Amritsar: To avoid any law and order problem at the Golden Temple complex when the incumbent SGPC office-bearers held “guilty” for 328 missing saroops appear before the Akal Takht on September 18 to tender a formal apology, the local administration and SGPC officials on Thursday stepped up vigil in and around the area. A large number of policemen in civil clothes have been deployed in the vicinity of the Akal Takht secretariat and the SGPC has also directed its task force to remain alert. Many Sikh organisations are already sitting on morcha here, demanding information about the missing saroops and action against the culprits. On Tuesday, the SGPC task force and some Nihang Sikhs had got into a scuffle after the former used force to prevent the latter from raising a banner with derogatory remarks against the Sikh body officials. Meanwhile, following a meeting between the agitating Sikh organisations and SGPC officials, the latter removed barricades on the road to Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib on late Wednesday night. “Removing barricades was never a part of our demand. So far, the SGPC has not conceded any of our demands,” professor Baljinder Singh of ‘Hawara panel’ told TOI on Thursday. He said their main demand was registration of police cases against those held guilty in the Ishar Singh investigation report. A delegation of morcha had met the Amritsar commissioner of police on Wednesday, demanding a police case against the “guilty” SGPC employees. Sources said the commissioner turned down their demand, saying the SGPC should file the since the inquiry was conducted on its request. The SGPC had urged the Akal Takht to hold an inquiry into the 328 missing saroops, following which the latter had set up a panel. However, when the report came, the Akal Takht sent the case back to the SGPC for action. “The Akal Takht has to take a decisive action, either to go with the SGPC or the merit of the case,” said Baljinder, who is also in the seven-member committee of Sikh organisations formed for the morcha. Sources did not rule out the possibility of pronouncing religious atonement upon the “guilty” SGPC employees by Sikh high priests, who are also holding a meeting on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/guilty-staffers-to-appear-at-akal-takht-today-vigil-stepped-up/articleshow/78177071.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt announces e-vehicle subsidy||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Thursday announced a new scheme for promotion of electric vehicles (two and three wheelers) on the occasion of completion of eleven years of the climate change department in Gujarat. School (class IX and above) and college students who buy electric two-wheelers will get a government subsidy of Rs 12,000, while rickshaw drivers and self-employed persons who buy electric three-wheelers will get a subsidy of Rs 48,000 per vehicle. CM Vijay Rupani said the state government has set a target of having 10,000 electric two-wheelers and 5,000 electric three-wheelers on the roads in the current fiscal year. He added that the government has resolved to promote e-mobility as a measure to curb pollution caused by fossil fuels. The government also announced that ten public charging stations will be set up in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot to facilitate charging of e-vehicles. A sum of Rs 50 lakh has been earmarked for setting up these charging stations. The event also marked the virtual signing of 10 MoUs between the department of climate change and institutes such as IITs, IIMs, BISAG, Anand Agricultural University and other departments of the government such as GSRTC, Gujarat Gas, GUJCOST, GLPC, the chief town planner, GSTBM and Knowledge Consortium of Gujarat. A compendium titled, “Building a Climate Resilient Gujarat: A Decade of Climate Action and A Road Map for the Future” was also e-released by the CM. The collection is a compilation of various actions of the state government in addressing issues related to climate change, including promotion of renewable sources of energy like solar and wind energy. Officials said Gujarat is the leader in the residential solar rooftop power generation scheme, which has at a subsidized cost, installed solar rooftops at over 1.38 lakh houses in the state with an aggregate capacity of 513MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-announces-e-vehicle-subsidy/articleshow/78175789.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||3 asst directors of education dept promoted||Panaji: The Goa public service commission has promoted three assistant directors of education as deputy directors of education. Assistant director of education Bhagirath Shetye working as secretary Goa board of secondary and higher secondary education has been promoted as deputy director of education (Academic) at the directorate of education, Porvorim. Assistant director of education Sylvia Fernandes on working arrangement in Goa Samagra Shiksha has been promoted as deputy director of adult education at the directorate of education, Porvorim. Assistant director of education of North Educational Zone, Mapusa, Shambhu Ghadi who holds additional charge as nodal officer GSS (Secondary) has been promoted to deputy director vocational education at the directorate of education, Porvorim. Since the promotion is from one Group A post to another Group A post there is no probation period for the officers. They must give their acceptance or refusal within 10 days failing which it will be treated as refusal of promotion and the officer will be debarred for promotion for one year from the state of refusal of promotion or till the next vacancy arises whichever is later without any further intimation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-asst-directors-of-education-dept-promoted/articleshow/78177737.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||NSUI sets up tea and pakora stalls in protest on PM’s b’day||Jaipur: On the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) staged a unique demonstration in front of Rajasthan University in Jaipur on Thursday.Students were holding banners and put up stalls while shouting slogans of ‘give us employment’. Stalls were named as – Vakeel Mungfali Wala, Juton ka Doctor, Engineer Pakode Wala. A banner also mentioned ‘Mann ki baat nhi, karo rozgaar ki baat’. This was done to mock the Modi government for its failure to generate jobs in the country.NSUI state spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said, “This was a symbolic protest against the bad policy of the government in handling the pandemic. We do not have jobs in the current situation. Lakhs of Indian youngsters are passing out of the institutes with degrees, but with no value in the job market. So, we staged this protest in front of the university and tried to give a message that if jobs are not created then educated youth will be forced to sell just pakoras and mungfali.”NSUI members in various parts of the state – Jodhpur, Bundi, Baran and Bikaner — also put up stalls with similar message. Some sold pani puri or omelette, pakoras or tea. The hashtag, ‘National Unemployment Day’ was trending on Twitter since morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nsui-sets-up-tea-and-pakora-stalls-in-protest-on-pms-bday/articleshow/78177094.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak nagar kirtan from Kartarpur Sahib to zero line||Amritsar: For probably the first time, the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) will take out a nagar kirtan from Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib, in Narowal district of Pakistan Punjab to the zero line -- international border at Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district of Indian Punjab -- to mark the ‘jyoti jyot’ (death anniversary) of first Sikh master Guru Nanak Dev. The PSGPC also urged India to resume the Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage via the corridor. PSGPC is observing the Guru’s death anniversary according to the Pal Singh Purewal-authored Nanakshahi Calendar (NC) on September 22, while the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has already marked the religious event on September 12 as per the amended and Akal Takht-approved version of the calendar. While talking to TOI on Thursday, PSGPC president Satwant Singh said the akhand path would begin on September 20 and the bhog would be performed on September 22, following which the nagar kirtan will go up to the zero line, a distance of about 4.5 km. The PSGPC tweeted a video of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib, which has been decked up with lights to observe the death anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. "Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur being redecorated for jyoti jot gurpurab of Baba Guru Nanak Dev Jee ceremonies will start on Sep 20 ...," the tweet mentioned. However, a few Sikh leaders have objected to illumination of the gurdwara on the death anniversary of the Guru. Pakistan Sikh religious leader and human rights activist Radesh Singh Tony tweeted that the gurdwara had been decorated by PSGPC for Guru Nanak Dev’s death anniversary, terming it a “joke by the Pakistani agency”. Jathas of Sikhs from across Pakistan, especially from Lahore, Nankana Sahib and Sindh province, would arrive in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-nagar-kirtan-from-kartarpur-sahib-to-zero-line/articleshow/78177088.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 18, 2020||Madurai||14 firearms dumped near stream in Dindigul dist seized||Madurai: The Dindigul district police have seized 14 country-made firearms near a stream at the foothills of Sirumalai hills on Thursday. A case was registered with the Sanarpatti police and an inquiry is underway to identify the people who had left the firearms here.Police said the firearms were found near Karunthani stream near Thavasimadai village. A team led by deputy superintendent of police, Dindigul rural, Vinoth had been conducting frequent raids at various places to keep a check on the manufacturing and use of unlicensed firearms, police sources said. Fearing being caught during the frequent checks, someone might have dumped the firearms near the stream, police said.Unlicensed firearms usage is high in place like Chinnamalaiyur, Periyamalaiyur, Karanthamalai, Mannavanur, Kookal, Poondi, Thandikudi, K C Patti and Pachalur. They are mostly possessed by farmers to safeguard themselves from wild animals that often enter their agricultural land sitauted adjacent to the forest areas.Dindigul superintendent of police, G Ravali Priya has warned of stringent action against people who possess firearms illegally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-firearms-dumped-near-stream-in-dindigul-dist-seized/articleshow/78177090.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Shortage of special tankers to transport oxygen a worry||PUNE: A dearth of cryogenic tankers in Maharashtra is putting a strain on the supply of liquid oxygen to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Before the pandemic, fewer than 200 cryogenic tankers were adequate to meet the state’s oxygen requirements. The All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association said there was no shortage of oxygen, but the supply chain was hit due to the limited number of tankers. Sources said Pune district has around 36 cryogenic tankers supplying liquid oxygen to hospitals and refillers. A major manufacturer in the state has 68 of Maharashtra’s total tankers. Shortage of special tankers to transport liquid O2 a concernSadashiv Survase, regional joint director (directorate of industries, Pune division), said, “All manufacturing plants are working at 90-95% of their liquid oxygen production capacity. All refillers are also working continuously.” Survase said, “There are two major manufacturing plants in Pune district producing about 230 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day. Besides Pune, there are four major plants in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region — at Raigad, Alibaug, Taloja and Murbad. All these together account for a capacity of producing more than 1,000 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day. So, the demand for about 290-300 tonnes from hospitals in Pune district can be met by these plants.” Survase said the main problem in the oxygen supply chain was tanker rotation because of sudden increase in demand. For instance, if a company had scheduled a particular number of tankers for various trips for an eight-day period, it may now have to arrange an equal number of tankers for a twoday period. “Since March, at least 14 argon and nitrogen tankers in Maharashtra have been converted into tankers to carry liquid oxygen,” he said. Survase said a control room has been set up at the state level to manage districtwise scheduling of oxygen supplies. “This has helped smoothen the operations in the last 4-5 days, with no complaints from hospitals on oxygen supply,” he said. A source in the association said that while supplies to Mumbai and Pune were still being catered to, dispatches to locations such as Sangli, Nanded, Hingoli, Kolhapur, Miraj, Nagpur and other regions of Vidarbha had become a problem. This is because most source plants are located in the Mumbai and Pune regions and the tankers have to cover a long distance to reach faraway places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dearth-of-special-tankers-to-transport-liquid-o2-a-worry/articleshow/78177096.cms||Neha Madaan
September 18, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat govt announces e-vehicle subsidy||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Thursday announced a new scheme for promotion of electric vehicles (two and three wheelers) on the occasion of completion of eleven years of the climate change department in Gujarat. School (class IX and above) and college students who buy electric two-wheelers will get a government subsidy of Rs 12,000, while rickshaw drivers and self-employed persons who buy electric three-wheelers will get a subsidy of Rs 48,000 per vehicle. CM Vijay Rupani said the state government has set a target of having 10,000 electric two-wheelers and 5,000 electric three-wheelers on the roads in the current fiscal year. He added that the government has resolved to promote e-mobility as a measure to curb pollution caused by fossil fuels. The government also announced that ten public charging stations will be set up in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot to facilitate charging of e-vehicles. A sum of Rs 50 lakh has been earmarked for setting up these charging stations. The event also marked the virtual signing of 10 MoUs between the department of climate change and institutes such as IITs, IIMs, BISAG, Anand Agricultural University and other departments of the government such as GSRTC, Gujarat Gas, GUJCOST, GLPC, the chief town planner, GSTBM and Knowledge Consortium of Gujarat. A compendium titled, “Building a Climate Resilient Gujarat: A Decade of Climate Action and A Road Map for the Future” was also e-released by the CM. The collection is a compilation of various actions of the state government in addressing issues related to climate change, including promotion of renewable sources of energy like solar and wind energy. Officials said Gujarat is the leader in the residential solar rooftop power generation scheme, which has at a subsidized cost, installed solar rooftops at over 1.38 lakh houses in the state with an aggregate capacity of 513MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govt-announces-e-vehicle-subsidy/articleshow/78180815.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Man, 20, found hanging, kin allege police torture||MADURAI: A 20-year-old man from Anaikaraipatti village near Peraiyur was found hanging from a tree on Thursday morning. His family members have alleged that he was beaten to death at the police station and hanged to make it look like a suicide. They carried out a protest preventing the police from bringing down the body. District superintendent of police Sujit Kumar said the deceased K Ramesh’s elder brother Idhayakani had eloped with a 17-year-old girl, a relative, on August 23. Based on a complaint from her father, a case was registered with the Saptur police station on August 28. Since then, the police have been summoning Idhayakani’s younger brothers Santhosh and Ramesh as well as mother Pandiammal, but they did not turn up. Meanwhile, a police team consisting of sub-inspector Jayakannan and two constables went to Idhayakani’s house on Wednesday evening, where Pandiammal and Ramesh were present. The SP said they asked them to make themselves available at 10 am on Thursday for an inquiry. On the way back, the police team saw Santhosh. The team took his bike to the station asking him to take it back after appearing for the inquiry. “We came to know that Ramesh was found hanging from a tree in the nearby hillock the next morning,” he said. Family members claimed that Ramesh was taken to the police station at 7 pm along with his bike. While he did not return home the whole night, he was found dead in the morning. They claimed that Ramesh died in police custody. However, Sujit Kumar said they have got a CCTV footage which shows the police team returning only with the bike. Ramesh was nowhere to be seen in the video, he said. The protesting family members demanded Rs 25 lakh compensation, registration of murder case against the SI and constables and action against them under SC/ST act. Since they did not allow the police to bring down the body, Sujit Kumar negotiated with the family members and villagers. Later, a case was registered under IPC section 174 (3)- suspicious death. Autopsy was conducted at the Usilampatti Government Hospital on Thursday afternoon. A revenue divisional officer also conducted an inquiry. A police officer said SI Jayakannan and constables were named in the first information report based on the complaint from Santhosh. However, they were not named as accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-20-found-hanging-kin-allege-police-torture/articleshow/78177095.cms||V Devanathan
September 18, 2020||Thane||Now, Murbad resident faces Shiv Sena wrath for anti-CM remark||MURBAD: A Shiv Sena functionary from Murbad taluka in Thane district manhandled a man for allegedly posting objectionable remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Ram Dhumale manhandled and abused Raju Yadav, and posted a video on social media stating that those who make objectionable remarks against the CM will be treated the same way. Inspector Dattaray Borate said they have not registered a case as no one has complained. Sena members had recently attacked former naval officer Madan Sharma for objectionable comments against the chief minister. Sources said Dhumale, who is Murbad city president of the party, recently learnt about Yadav’s post. In four days, Dhumale learned that Yadav resides at MIDC colony in Murbad, and after tracing his location on Wednesday evening, he went to there with supporters and abused and assaulted him. Dhumale, who demanded an apology, confirmed the assault and said he had posted objectionable remarks against the CM, which no sainiks will tolerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/another-man-assaulted-for-remark-against-cm/articleshow/78176286.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 18, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat govt announces e-vehicle subsidy||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Thursday announced a new scheme for promotion of electric vehicles (two and three wheelers) on the occasion of completion of eleven years of the climate change department in Gujarat. School (class IX and above) and college students who buy electric two-wheelers will get a government subsidy of Rs 12,000, while rickshaw drivers and self-employed persons who buy electric three-wheelers will get a subsidy of Rs 48,000 per vehicle. CM Vijay Rupani said the state government has set a target of having 10,000 electric two-wheelers and 5,000 electric three-wheelers on the roads in the current fiscal year. He added that the government has resolved to promote e-mobility as a measure to curb pollution caused by fossil fuels. The government also announced that ten public charging stations will be set up in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot to facilitate charging of e-vehicles. A sum of Rs 50 lakh has been earmarked for setting up these charging stations. The event also marked the virtual signing of 10 MoUs between the department of climate change and institutes such as IITs, IIMs, BISAG, Anand Agricultural University and other departments of the government such as GSRTC, Gujarat Gas, GUJCOST, GLPC, the chief town planner, GSTBM and Knowledge Consortium of Gujarat. A compendium titled, “Building a Climate Resilient Gujarat: A Decade of Climate Action and A Road Map for the Future” was also e-released by the CM. The collection is a compilation of various actions of the state government in addressing issues related to climate change, including promotion of renewable sources of energy like solar and wind energy. Officials said Gujarat is the leader in the residential solar rooftop power generation scheme, which has at a subsidized cost, installed solar rooftops at over 1.38 lakh houses in the state with an aggregate capacity of 513MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/govt-announces-e-vehicle-subsidy/articleshow/78180817.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Surat||Gujarat govt announces e-vehicle subsidy||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Thursday announced a new scheme for promotion of electric vehicles (two and three wheelers) on the occasion of completion of eleven years of the climate change department in Gujarat. School (class IX and above) and college students who buy electric two-wheelers will get a government subsidy of Rs 12,000, while rickshaw drivers and self-employed persons who buy electric three-wheelers will get a subsidy of Rs 48,000 per vehicle. CM Vijay Rupani said the state government has set a target of having 10,000 electric two-wheelers and 5,000 electric three-wheelers on the roads in the current fiscal year. He added that the government has resolved to promote e-mobility as a measure to curb pollution caused by fossil fuels. The government also announced that ten public charging stations will be set up in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot to facilitate charging of e-vehicles. A sum of Rs 50 lakh has been earmarked for setting up these charging stations. The event also marked the virtual signing of 10 MoUs between the department of climate change and institutes such as IITs, IIMs, BISAG, Anand Agricultural University and other departments of the government such as GSRTC, Gujarat Gas, GUJCOST, GLPC, the chief town planner, GSTBM and Knowledge Consortium of Gujarat. A compendium titled, “Building a Climate Resilient Gujarat: A Decade of Climate Action and A Road Map for the Future” was also e-released by the CM. The collection is a compilation of various actions of the state government in addressing issues related to climate change, including promotion of renewable sources of energy like solar and wind energy. Officials said Gujarat is the leader in the residential solar rooftop power generation scheme, which has at a subsidized cost, installed solar rooftops at over 1.38 lakh houses in the state with an aggregate capacity of 513MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/govt-announces-e-vehicle-subsidy/articleshow/78180818.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Cidco reported highest number of cases in 15 days||NASHIK: Though the Panchavati division has the maximum number of Covid-19 patients among the six divisions of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), the Cidco division has recently emerged as a major hotspot with 3,665 cases being reported in the past 15 days. In all, 14,100 cases have been reported across all divisions in the past 15 days with Cidco leading the chart, followed by Panchavati (3,096) and Nashik Road (2,580. At present, the city has 6,000 active cases, of which, 2,500 are in Cidco division. Pawan Nagar, Old Cidco and Pathardi Phata are among the areas that have emerged as major Covid-19 hotspots in the division. NMC officials said Cidco is one of the densely populated areas in the city and, hence, there has been a spike in the number of cases. “Moreover, a large number of industrial workers and other employees reside in the division. Their movement to their works places in industrial estates and other parts of the city also leads to the spread of the infection,” said NMC officials. “We have increased antigen tests and conducted surveys in the division to find out the suspected cases. This is also another reason for the increase in number of cases,” they added. Of the total cases in Cidco division, Pawan Nagar and Old Cidco have 560 and 471 patients, respectively. Old Cidco hotspot includes areas like Rana Pratap chowk, Shivaji Chowk and Lekha Nagar areas. Pathardi Phata has reported 546 active patients. There are over 39,000 Covid cases across six divisions of the NMC. Of them, 82% have been recovered so far. Over 600 have succumbed to infection in the city till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cidco-reported-highest-number-of-cases-in-15-days/articleshow/78177092.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Locals mistake man as child-lifter||Ahmedabad: Three days after locals of Gandhinagar moved a plea suspecting that a gang of child lifters was on the prowl in the capital town, police have found that there was one man who was asking address from a child. And he was suspected as a child lifter. The locals of sector-5 in Gandhinagar on September 14 submitted a memorandum to Gandhinagar police saying that three such incidents had taken place last week where attempts of child lifting were made. A team of Sector-7 police station inquired into the case and found that a motorcycle-borne man was asking about a particular address to a 13-year-old boy, playing in the ground. The man was assumed as a child-lifter. “We identified the man who told us that he was asking about a temple. The boy corroborated,” said J H Sindhav, inspector of Sector-7 police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/locals-mistake-man-as-child-lifter/articleshow/78175809.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||DPC left with Rs 48cr for Covid mgmt in dist||Nashik: The state government on Thursday granted permission to the district planning committees (DPC) to spend up to 50% of the funds that they received for the fiscal 2020-2021 — to carry out development works under the district annual plan — for Covid-19 management. According to a senior officer from the Nashik district collectorate, on May 4, the state government had announced that it would provide funds only up to 33% of the annual general plan of the respective districts and had asked the DPCs to accordingly chalk out works with respect to that amount. Accordingly, Nashik district was to receive Rs 140 crore from the state government in this fiscal against its district annual plan of Rs 425 crore. As per the new government resolution, the DPC will now have to cut down spending on some more works this year to ensure adequate fund for Covid-19 management. The DPC, Nashik, can now provide Rs 70 crore in all for purchase of medical equipment, medicines, etc required for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Of the Rs 70 crore-corpus, the DPC has already spent Rs 22 crore for the effective management of Covid-19. This means that the DCP is left with only Rs 48 crore for Covid management. It has given funds to the Nashik Municipal Corporation, the Malegaon Municipal Corporation and the Nashik zilla parishad. “The administration will ask the agencies to send in their proposals for the funds required for treatment of Covid -19 patients and the claims will be cleared,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dpc-left-with-rs-48cr-for-covid-mgmt-in-dist/articleshow/78177123.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: CSMT to get railways’ 1st charging station for electric vehicles||MUMBAI: In a first for Indian Railways, Central Railway has given the contract for setting up a charging station at CSMT’s parking lot for electric vehicles. CR chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said railways will earn Rs 1 lakh per annum while promoting green energy in line with the national mission on e-mobility. Senior divisional commercial manager Robin Kalia said, “The project was done in consultation with UNEP and Tata group. We plan charging stations, including battery-swapping facilities, at more stations in Mumbai.” CR also plans electric bicycles and e-rickshaws for last mile connectivity for commuters. The e-bikes will come up at CSMT and Kurla, and e-rickshaws at Bhandup, Mulund and Thane railway stations. Passengers will be able to book e-bikes and erickshaws through mobile apps of the service providers. City agencies are also doing their bit to promote e-vehicles. MMRDA had on August 31 launched e-bikes for last-mile connectivity to Bandra station (Western Railway) and Kurla station (CR) under a public bicycle-sharing (PBS) system. Yulu, which is providing the service, has a slow, small e-scooter rental service, designed for single-user.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/csmt-to-get-charging-station-for-e-vehicles/articleshow/78176289.cms||Manthank Mehta
September 18, 2020||Madurai||Samples tested cut by half in southern dists||Madurai: Across the 10 southern districts of Tamil Nadu, which are showing signs of a declining trend in fresh Covid-19 cases, the average number of samples collected and tested a day has come down compared to last month. From pushing up sample testing to up to 4,000 in some districts in July and August, only around 1,000-2,000 samples are being tested in most districts now. However, health officials maintained that enough testing is being done and that positivity rate is around 10% or less in all these districts. In Madurai and Virudhunagar, when Covid-19 cases peaked to more than 400 new cases a day, the number of samples tested too was pushed up to more than 4,000. Now, with less than 100 new Covid-19 cases, health officials said that around 2,000 samples are being tested and the positivity rate is only around 4-5%. “We are being liberal with tests to cover more population. Thorough contact tracing and identifying hotspots for fever surveillance have greatly helped us to do targeted testing,” said a health official from Virudhunagar district, which has seen clusters, including in factories. In Theni district, which has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the region, currently only around 500-600 samples are being tested daily while the number of new cases a day is just below 100 on an average.  The positivity rate now hovers close to around 10% and above, which is not too different from that in July and August when the district was testing more than 3,500 samples and around 300-400 new cases were being recorded daily. On the other hand, Sivaganga district, with only 266 active Covid-19 cases, despite having the least number of active cases in the region, is testing around 1,000-1,500 samples a day. The positivity rate is only around 3-5%. In Tenkasi as well, around 900-1,000 samples are being tested daily while new cases are around 50-90, with the positivity rate being less than 10%. In Kanyakumari district, which is seeing around 100 new cases daily now, around 1,500 samples are being tested, while the positivity rate is around 7%. Health officials across districts said that those who are symptomatic with influenza-like illness (ILI), primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients, and those with travel history are being tested in a targeted manner. In random testing, pregnant women and high risk populations with co-morbid conditions, including elderly, are being tested. “Testing is being done as per protocol of government wherein we are testing roughly 10 times those testing positive in a day.,” said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/samples-tested-cut-by-half-in-southern-dists/articleshow/78177117.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 18, 2020||Madurai||MKU begins online exams for final sem UG, PG students||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) on Thursday began the final semester exams for UG and PG students through online mode following the state government’s approval to conduct the exams. In online exam mode, the candidate would receive the question paper online and complete the exam in two hours using pen and paper from their homes in the presence of their parents/guardians. The answer scripts would then have to be uploaded through email as PDF file by scanning or sent by offline mode, either by post or direct submission to examination centres within an hour after completion of the exam. Students, who cannot appear for the exam or do not want to take up the exam in such a manner can alternatively take up the supplementary exam to be held later. The online exams will be held between September 17 and 30. Educationists and college principals, had earlier this week questioned the format of the exam as there were more chances of malpractices like copying, consulting with others, referring websites for correct answers etc. MKU vice-chancellor M Krishnan, however, asserted that the decision to conduct the exam in such a manner was taken only after careful consideration. “It was not possible to conduct offline exams as some colleges and MKU campus were being used for Covid-19 care. The alternative was online exams. Several state universities are following this mode of exam. We cannot afford to delay the exams further,” he said. The VC added that all measures have been taken for smooth conduct of the exams. Meanwhile, on Tuesday and Wednesday, following the state government order dated August 26, the results for the April 2020 arrear exams for all UG and PG students were released on the university website https://mkuniversity.ac.in/new/.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-begins-online-exams-for-final-sem-ug-pg-students/articleshow/78177129.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Youth Congress protests against rising unemployment on PM Modi’s birthday||Dehradun: The Youth wing of state Congress unit along with several Congress functionaries protested against rising unemployment in Dehradun on Thursday. The protest was orchestrated on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday which the Congressmen observed as ‘National Unemployment Day’. The Congress leaders wished PM Modi on his birthday but asked him to take steps against rising unemployment and deliver on his promise of providing 2 crore jobs per year which he had made before assuming PM's office in 2014. The party members accused the incumbent government of destroying careers of millions of youths by not providing them with employment opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-congress-protests-against-rising-unemployment-on-pm-modis-birthday/articleshow/78174521.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Study: 74% of organ donations by women; got in 22% cases||Ahmedabad: A study carried out by IKDRC researchers pointed at stark gender disparity in organ donation – while 74.2% of the live organ donations were by women, they only received 21.8% of donated organs. The study ‘Gender Equality in Transplantation – why are donors predominantly women and recipients men?’ by Prof Vivek Kute from Dr HL Trivedi Institute of Transplant Sciences (ITS) at IKDRC, was presented at the 28th International Congress of the Transplant Society that took place from September 13 to 16.“The stark imbalance stems from the popular belief that a male plays role of a breadwinner for the family. If the blood group matches, the entire family expects the wife to be an organ donor,” said Dr Vineet Mishra, director of IKDRC. The study revealed that in couples, 90% of the donors in living kidney transplants are females. The ratio is 70% when parents are donors, 75% when grandparents are donors, 50% when siblings are donors and 40% when children are donors.Statistics revealed that women contribute 69.1% of organs including 74.2% of the living donors. But they overall receive 21.8% of the donated organs. Dr Mishra said that stronger laws and initiatives such as swap transplants can reduce the gender disparity.The study recommended that the solution to gender imbalance is not just education and removal of poverty but a deeper re-assessment of traditional gender roles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/study-74-of-organ-donations-by-women-got-in-22-cases/articleshow/78177736.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: From next year, Class VIII students will not get automatic promotion||JAIPUR: The ‘no detention policy’ till Class VIII has been scrapped. According to the amended Rajasthan Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education, 2019, any student failing in the class VIII board supplementary exam will not be promoted from next year. Earlier, no student was detained till class VIII, but the rule was reversed by the central government in 2019. The Centre claimed that comprehensive evaluation of students was not happening which made it necessary to bring changes. The Union government, however, left it to the states to take a decision. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said, “The amendment has been published in the gazette. We have decided to conduct the board examination in classes V and VIII. Supplementary examination will be conducted within 60 days of the results of classes V and VIII. Any student failing in class V supplementary exam will be promoted, but this will not be applicable in class VIII supplementary examination. No student will be expelled from school before completing elementary education.” This will be applicable from next year as due to pandemic classes V and VIII board examination wasn’t held this year and students were directly promoted. Vice-president of Rajasthan Primary and Secondary Teachers’ Union Vipin Sharma said, “This is a welcome step. Many students in class VIII standard are not able to solve Class V mathematics problems. This decision will check the calibre of students and will motivate them to study harder especially for class X board exam.” Meanwhile, some government teachers were of the view that this may lead to more dropouts. “The sole purpose to promote students till class VIII was that it will help students to study without any demotivation. With this amendment, it will increase dropouts as most of the students in government schools belong to economically weaker sections,” said a government teacher. Currently, around 11.5 lakh students appear for class VIII board examination and around 13 lakh students for class V board examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/from-next-year-class-viii-students-will-not-get-automatic-promotion/articleshow/78179469.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Drip, sprinklers must for new irrigation projects, says CM||Jaipur: Drip and sprinkler irrigation system should be made mandatory for new irrigation projects in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Thursday. “Due to limited availability of water for irrigation and drinking purposes, it is very important that every drop of water is used properly and fuel efficient methods adopted,” he said. The chief minister was holding a review meeting of the water resources department at the chief minister’s residence on Thursday. He directed for the ongoing projects to be completed in a time-bound manner. It was informed that Rajasthan has received 24 per cent more water from Ravi-Beas rivers and nine per cent more water from Sutlej this year, due to which the farmers of north-western Rajasthan and in eastern Rajasthan are getting almost double the quantum of water. It was also informed that DPR for Relining of Ferozepur feeder has been prepared by Punjab and work order has been issued for setting up a real-time monitoring system on Indira Gandhi feeder and Bikaner canal for real-time monitoring of polluted water coming into Rajasthan through canals from Punjab. The chief minister directed the department to coordinate with the Punjab government and take necessary action to obtain water as per the inter-state agreement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drip-sprinklers-must-for-new-irrigation-projects-says-cm/articleshow/78177121.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjar leader condemns Pilot, Kirori Bainsla on MBC quota||Jaipur: Gujjar leader Himmat Singh on Thursday hit out at former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti leader Kirori Singh Bainsla for misleading the people of the community on 5% reservation to the most backward classes (MBCs). He said, Pilot, who never raised the issue of MBC quota as deputy CM, is now writing letter to the CM just to seek the community’s sympathy. “Pilot never spoke in favour of Gujjar reservation when he was the deputy chief minister or the Pradesh Congress chief. Now, he is writing a letter to chief minister on the issue. But, after DOP’s circular on MBC quota, he praised the government. Then, why did he write a letter? He could have waited and ensured reservation for some candidates from the MBC category” Singh said.On the other hand, Bainsla ji is talking about agitation now. Despite having met the chief minister four times in the past 19 months, he couldn’t resolve the issue. The ministerial sub-committee met twice and attended review meetings with higher officials several times, but couldn’t achieve anything. What is the guarantee that you will achieve anything through agitation?” he added.“We have three demands – all the reserved posts (4%) since 2011 must be given admissions, 5% reservation in 15 ongoing admissions and setting up of the Devnarayan board. I appeal to CM to re-constitute the ministerial sub-committee and hold a meeting of ACS and principal secretaries of all departments with five representatives from the community.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjar-leader-condemns-pilot-kirori-bainsla-on-mbc-quota/articleshow/78177131.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||MSRTC buses to ply with full passenger load from Friday||PUNE: The buses of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation would ply with full passenger load from Friday. Making this announcement, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) on Thursday withdrew the 50% cap on the passenger capacity of buses. State transport minister Anil Parab said just like flights, buses also could run with 100% capacity taking precautions. “We suggested the idea to the state government, which was accepted. All precautions, including passengers mandatorily wearing masks during the entire travel time and sanitization of buses before and after each trip, will be followed. All divisions have been notified about it,” Parab told TOI. The MSRTC’s decision to ply buses with full capacity drew flak from some experts and commuters. Kailash Matunge, a businessman, said, “The buses go to different states and districts. I travelled to Mumbai recently and found that no temperature check was being done at the stand. Now with the decision of running buses at full capacity, they are further risking things.” The Pune division of the MSRTC had started checking temperature of passengers at major bus stands like Swargate and Wakdewadi. An official said the practice was stopped because the system was flawed. Sujit Patwardhan, the convener of Parisar, an NGO working in the field of public transport, said the MSRTC move to ply buses with full passenger load was a bad decision during these times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-buses-to-ply-with-full-passenger-load-from-today/articleshow/78177127.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal to mint coins displaying new political map that shows Kalapani as its territory||Pithoragarh: The Nepalese cabinet headed by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has given permission to the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank of the country) to mint new coins of one and two rupees denomination which will display the country’s new political map that shows the Kalapani area of Uttarakhand as part of Nepalese territory. Sources said that information regarding the move was given by Nepalese government spokesperson and foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali on Tuesday. The sources added that in all likelihood, the coins will be in circulation by Dussehra, which is celebrated as a major festival in Nepal. To recall, Nepal had protested the inauguration of the Ghatiyabagar- Lipulekh road in Pithoragarh district by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, alleging that a part of the road passed through Nepalese territory. On June 18, the Nepalese parliament unanimously voted to amend the Constitution to update the country’s new political map that showed Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura areas of Uttarakhand as part of Nepalese territory. The government also announced that this map will henceforth be used in all government documents. Meanwhile, the international bridge between India and Nepal at Dharchula was opened for a short period on Thursday. Officials said that the bridge was opened on the request of a Nepalese student, Pratibha Garviyal, a student of Government Degree College, Haldwani, who had requested Nepalese authorities that she be allowed to attend her exam scheduled on September 18. The officials said that Nepalese authorities had thereafter contacted their Indian counterparts and the bridge was opened at 2 pm for 20 minutes. “Thirty-six persons crossed over to Nepal and 34 came to India, including the student who had made the request,” said AK Shukla, SDM Dharchula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-to-mint-coins-displaying-new-political-map-that-shows-kalapani-as-its-territory/articleshow/78174542.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Teen’s morphed pics uploaded online||Pune: The Chatushrungi police have launched an investigation into a 40-year-old man’s complaint that someone uploaded morphed photographs of his minor daughter (17) to a social media platform. “The incident happened between September 14 and 16. The images were shared widely within a few minutes,” senior police inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police said. During their preliminary investigation, police traced the photographs to an account registered to a man. The complainant further stated that an unidentified person was making video calls to his daughter, asking her to share her photographs, “After the girl refused, the man morphed her photographs and uploaded them to the site,” Shewale said. Police were informed that the suspect used to follow her on the social media platform, and that the girl does not know anyone by that name. “The girl did not respond to the man online and so, he downloaded her photographs from the website, morphed them in an objectionable way and uploaded to the same platform,” Shewale said. “We suspect that the man is a resident of Pune and will soon nab him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teens-morphed-pics-uploaded-online/articleshow/78177141.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Court asks CBI to file case against ex-minister Shourie||Jodhpur: A special court here has asked the CBI to file cases against former Union minister Arun Shourie and the then disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal for selling one of the grandest palace-hotels in Udaipur at a throwaway price.The CBI court observed that Shourie, despite being associated with the news world and having spoken against corruption on many debates and interviews, became part of a deal which caused a loss of a whopping Rs 244 crore to the exchequer.“This proved his double standards on the issue of corruption,” the court said while directing the CBI to file a case against 3 private persons including Ashish Guha, MD of Lazard India Limited, Kantilal Karamsey of Kanti Karamsey & Company and Jyotsana Suri, director of Bharat Hotels Limited along with Shourie and Baijal and ordered to summon all the accused by an arrest warrant.The court gave these directions in a case of corruption in the disinvestment exercise of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel, which was sold barely for Rs 7.52 crore to a private player, Bharat Hotels Limited.Rejecting the closure report by CBI submitted in August 2019, the court had given direction for reinvestigation into the matter and based on the probe report, special CBI judge Puran Kumar Sharma ordered to file a case against the five accused.Pointing to various deficiencies in CBI’s closure report in spite of finding conspiracy in its preliminary inquiry, Sharma said, “Despite having knowledge that the property was sold wrongly, the CBI filed a closure report, which was deplorable.”He also ordered immediate attachment of Laxmi Vilas Palace by the district magistrate of Udaipur and said it will remain under state government’s custody until the matter was disposed of. The CBI had registered a case on August 13, 2014 that some unknown officers from the department of disinvestment in connivance with a private hotelier (Bharat Hotels Limited), renovated and then disinvested/sold the Laxmi Vilas Palace, a unit of ITDC, at a throw away price of Rs 7.52 crore, thereby causing a loss of Rs 143.48 crore to the GoI, as per the valuation by sub-registrar of Udaipur then. Though, it was later valued at Rs 252 crores during CBI investigation.The preliminary investigation validated the accusations and revealed that the then secretary (disinvestment) Baijal abused his position and entered into a conspiracy with Guha, Karamsey and Bharat Hotel Limited.“Kantilal Karamsey & Company, which had been engaged as valuer of the property, was not empanelled as the valuer by the ITDC and during its valuation of the property, it purposefully assessed the value of the land at just Rs 45 per square feet against Rs 500-1000 per square feet price for commercial,” the report said. “Decision of appointing valuer was done by Baijal and Shourie deliberately and with wrong intent and also method of valuation was wrongly adopted in ignorance of various vital facts pertaining to the Laxmi Vilas Palace”, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-asks-cbi-to-file-case-against-ex-minister-shourie/articleshow/78177147.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||Four men attack auto driver, friend over dispute on vehicle damage||Pune: Four persons attacked an autorickshaw driver and his friend with a sickle over a dispute after one of the suspects allegedly threw a stone at the vehicle at Santoshnagar in Katraj on Tuesday night. Senior inspector Vasant Kunvar from the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “Autorickshaw driver Sarfaraz Shaikh (21) from Yeolewadi was chatting with his friend, Abhijit Yelvande, while waiting for passengers when he heard the noise of a stone hitting the hood of his vehicle around 9.30pm.” Kunvar said, “Shaikh spotted four men standing behind his vehicle and confronted them for damaging its hood. A heated altercation followed as both sides started abusing each other. The four men denied having thrown any stone at his vehicle, though no other person was present at the spot other than them. The four then started thrashing Shaikh. One of them pulled out a sickle and assaulted Yelvande on his left hand. The suspects fled soon after.” Kunvar said, “We are working on certain clues to identity, trace and arrest the attackers. Shaikh lodged an FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-men-attack-auto-driver-friend-over-dispute-on-vehicle-damage/articleshow/78177150.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb hits new high of 2,896 cases; 57 dead||Chandigarh: Showing no sign of abating, the Covid-19 tally continues to rise at a rapid pace in Punjab, with the state recording yet another daily highest-ever surge of 2,896 cases on Thursday, while 57 more succumbed to the virus. As many as eight districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Mohali, Gurdaspur, Bathinda and Kapurthala — recorded cases in three figures and accounted for 73.13% (2,118) of the total cases reported in the last 24 hours. To date, 90,032 people have been tested positive in the state, while the virus has killed 2,646 people so far. The health department removed three duplicate death entries in the September 16 tally and 34 duplicate cases. The state’s fatality rate stands at 2.93% and the high death rate is continue in the coming days, as 88 people in critical condition are on ventilator, while 489 patients are on oxygen support. Of the 57 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, 12 died in Ludhiana, nine in Jalandhar, seven in Patiala, six in Fatehgarh Sahib, four in Pathankot and three each in Amritsar, Ferozepur and Sangrur. Two deaths each were reported in Bathinda, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Moga. Of the new cases, the highest 513 were reported in Ludhiana, 357 in Jalandhar and 294 in Patiala. As many as 284 people were found infected in Patiala, 222 in Bathinda, 134 in Gurdaspur and 133 in Kapurthala. Test reports of 96 people came positive in Ferozepur, 77 in Muktsar, 69 in Fazilka, 68 in Faridkot, 65 in Sangrur, 63 in Pathankot, 59 in Ropar, 56 in Nawanshahr, 48 in Hoshiarpur, 44 in Tarn Taran, 42 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 41 in Mansa, 39 in Barnala and 11 in Moga. In all, 2,248 people were also discharged from hospitals after recovery, taking the tally of cured patients to 65,818.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-hits-new-high-of-2896-cases-57-dead/articleshow/78177145.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Pune||RTO initiates action against two ambulances for overcharging||Pune: The Regional Transport Office (RTO), Pune, on Thursday initiated action against two private ambulances for overcharging patients.Both the ambulances had charged between Rs2,500 and Rs7,000 to ferry patients for short distances.RTO sources said that the process of suspension of registration and licences of both the vehicles had been kept on hold and the ambulances allowed to ply considering their dearth in the city amid rising Covid-19 cases.“Based on the information provided to us by the collectorate, two ambulances - one cardiac and another ordinary -- were caught by the flying squad of the RTO. The owners of these vehicles have been issued show cause notices. However, we have not confiscated the ambulances. Action will take place once the Covid situation improves,” an RTO official told TOI.“The Pune RTO has three flying squads which check vehicles in Pune city, Satara Road and Solapur Road. Whenever we receive complaints against ambulances, the squads are informed, and action is taken,” the official said. The RTO in July issued a rate chart for ambulances. A van (Maruti Omni) can charge a maximum of Rs 500 for either a 25km trip or for a drive of two hours. For a Tata Sumo van, the rate for the same duaration is Rs 600.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-initiates-action-against-two-ambulances-for-overcharging/articleshow/78177154.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Guv, CM, state BJP chief wish Modi on his 70th birthday||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje and BJP state president Satish Poonia were among those greeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday. Mishra’s wish said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, wish you a very happy birthday. It is a wish that the resolve of a self-reliant India is fulfilled soon through you. May God keep you healthy and give longevity of life,” he said in the tweet.Gehlot in his message said, “Happy birthday to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. May you be blessed with happiness, good health and long life.” His predecessor Raje while wishing PM Modi in a tweet said, “Happy birthday to the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, who is leading India on the path of progress at an unprecedented pace. May you always be healthy, have longevity of life. I wish India’s pride under your efficient leadership touch infinite heights of the sky.” BJP state president Satish Poonia said, “Hearty congratulations and a very happy birthday to the great Prime Minister Narendra Modi. You are the pride of our country, may God give you good health and longevity of life.” Former deputy CM Sachin Pilot said, “Hearty congratulations and best wishes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-cm-state-bjp-chief-wish-modi-on-his-70th-birthday/articleshow/78177155.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Drug trafficker nabbed near Karnataka||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Wednesday night apprehended an alleged drug trafficker from the Maharashtra-Karnataka border. The man — Afaq Ahmed Umar Karol alias Afaq Bawa alias Asfaq Bawa alias Afat Bawa, a resident of Mazgaon, Mumbai — is believed to be behind several drug shipments that were pushed into Gujarat, including two of mephedrone. He was brought to Ahmedabad on Thursday morning. Senior superintendent of police, crime branch, Deepan Bhadran, said Bawa is a big player and also supplied drugs in Goa and Karnataka. Before mephedrone was included under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) in 2015, Bawa was a principal supplier of the drug. “We have information that his son Fidas is also into the drug trade and we are also looking for him,” added Bhadran. “Three agencies were on the lookout for him as he had emerged as the person for supplying drugs to peddlers. We had an input the Bawa was moving around in the villages on the Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka border. Three teams were on the lookout for him and we nabbed him on Wednesday night from his house in Kurundwad, where he was living with his second wife. On September 12, 2020, crime branch arrested five persons in connection with a drug bust. Assistant sub-inspector of police Firozekhan Baloch, Mohammed Arif Kazi and Imaran Padhiyar were held near CTM Crossroads with 995g of mephedrone, worth Rs 1 crore. The other two — Shezadhussain Tejabwala and Imran Ajmeri — were nabbed from Mumbai as they had sent the consignment through Nagori, Kazi and Padhiyar in a car to Ahmedabad. “In 2019, Shezadhussain and Ajmeri were caught with 1.46kg of mephedrone worth Rs 1.50 crore by crime branch. Both had jumped interim bail in July and taken to trafficking again,” said in-charge assistant commissioner of police J M Yadav. Yadav addded that they have arrested Bawa in the 2019 case, in which 1.46kg of mepehdrone was seized. Mumbai police were also on the lookout for Bawa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drug-trafficker-nabbed-near-karnataka/articleshow/78175814.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard dies in Almora rescue centre||Dehradun: A five-year-old leopard died in Almora rescue centre after battling infection for a brief period of about 10 days on late Tuesday. It was a male leopard that was stuck in the fencing of a farm in Chompu village. Despite many efforts from the veterinary team, it could not be saved. Almost within 10 days of it being brought to the centre it succumbed to injuries. Confirming the death of the leopard, Almora’s DFO KS Rawat said, “It died due to septicaemia. It was already in a bad state when brought to the centre.” Notably, like the Chiriyapur rescue centre, the Almora rescue centre has also run out of space and kept leopards in enclosures one-by-one. There are just five enclosures for leopards while nine are being kept captive. According to senior veterinary doctors, unavailability of space to keep an animal whose undergoing treatment and inadequate treatment also leads to untimely death of felines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-dies-in-almora-rescue-centre/articleshow/78174554.cms||Shivani Azad
September 18, 2020||Nashik||58 deaths in 6 weeks affect Malegaon’s fatality rate||Nashik: The low case fatality rate (CFR) of Covid-19 patients in Malegaon has worsened in the last one-and-half months. While the CFR in July was around 1.7%, the percentage has now shot up to over 3.1%. Of the total 133 deaths that have taken place in Malegaon so far, 75 were reported between April and June. In the last one-and-a-half month, 58 more deaths were registered, including 27 in August and 21 in September. At present, Malegaon has over 600 active cases. Meanwhile, Nashik district administration, Nashik rural police and MMC had been working overtime ever since the infection started spreading in the textile town in early April. A series of measures were put in place to tackle the spread of the infection and bring down the CFR by June. Government authorities based in Malegaon argued that the flow of critical patients from rural Malegaon and from at least four neighbouring talukas has increased. These talukas include Yeola, Nandgaon, Satana and Chandwad.  “There is no Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) in these talukas or in rural Malegaon due to which patients are rushed to DCH in the city. But, despite the best efforts of the doctors, many of these patients succumb to the infection. This is the main reason why Malegaon’s CFR has gone up,” argued officials. According to MMC officials, the bulk of the positive cases are being reported from western part of the city. But, unlike in rural areas, people from the city are coming forward to get themselves tested and treated early and, hence, their recovery rate is high. “As far as Malegaon city is concerned, the recovery rate is over 78% and the doubling rate is 62 days. Our CFR rate will come down if patients outside the city visit the DCH in time,” added MMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/58-deaths-in-6-weeks-affect-malegaons-fatality-rate/articleshow/78177152.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||70 paintings on postcards to mark PM’s birthday||Ahmedabad: City-based painter Aejaz Saiyed has despatched 70 postcards to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his birthday – with each postcard having a picture of the PM painted on it. “It took me about a fortnight to paint every postcard with a picture of the PM. Every picture, painted with acrylic paint, is different from the rest. I thought of doing something different to celebrate the PM’s birthday,” said Saiyed, who has so far made over 350 paintings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Saiyed posted the cards on Wednesday and says the PM should receive them in a day or two. The 61-year-old painter says that he has known the PM for the past 20 years. “I have personally gifted him eight paintings when he was chief minister of Gujarat,” said Saiyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/70-paintings-on-postcards-to-mark-pms-birthday/articleshow/78177739.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||100% houses to get drinking water, says Vijay Rupani||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday claimed that under the ‘Nal Se Jal’ scheme, the state government will supply drinking water to 100 per cent houses, including those in tribal areas of the state. The state government is determined to provide drinking water to an estimated 24 lakh houses covering all tribal areas of Gujarat. “With a view to make the tribal people economically self-dependent, under the ‘Khede Teni Jamin’ (cultivator is the owner) Act the state government has also granted land ownership rights to 1.25 tribal people,” the CM said. Rupani, through a video conference from Gandhinagar, dedicated the Sagbara-Dediyapada group water supply scheme, built at a cost of Rs 308 crore. The scheme is based on water from the Ukai reservoir. The CM stated that the government is committed to ensuring pure drinking water and toilets to all houses in every village of the state and to make Gujarat “hand pump free”. He added that to ensure development of tribal people, the government has set up several medical colleges, Eklavya schools, ashram schools and other facilities in tribal areas and said that decisions have been taken to make tribal people owners of forest products such as minerals. Rupani said that irrigation schemes in Tapi, Umarpada, Dediyapada, Vadrej, Kakrapar, Karjan, Kadhana, Dahod and other places will help the tribal population in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/100-houses-to-get-drinking-water-says-vijay-rupani/articleshow/78177742.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU to hold new admission round for 10k candidates||Ahmedabad: Faced with the challenge of filling up 14,000 seats in commerce colleges that have remained vacant even after three rounds of online admissions, Gujarat University (GU) has decided to conduct another round of online admissions. This round will be held only for the 10,000-odd candidates who could not secure admissions in the earlier rounds as they could not get the colleges of their choices. The admission committee had initiated the process for a total of about 40,000 seats of commerce colleges this year. Of the 36,000 students who successfully registered for the admission, about 26,000 students could secure their admissions. “There are about 10,000 students who have not been admitted because they could not get colleges of their choices. The choice filling exercise will be carried out from September 18 to September 20 on the basis of which the colleges will be allocated on September 23,” said a GU official. Earlier this month, the GU had announced the merit list of third round of admission for commerce courses in which 11,681 candidates were enlisted. When the third round of admission was started, more than 19,000 seats were left vacant. In the case of science colleges, the GU has decided to hold another admission round from September 21. This is done to fill 11,000 seats which remain vacant after completing the two rounds of admission followed by the reshuffling round. The candidates who have passed the supplementary exams will also be allowed to participate in this new round. The process of PIN distribution and registration will begin for such candidates, said sources. Presently, 37 science colleges are affiliated to the GU. There are 13,993 seats available in these colleges of which 3,100 seats have been filled, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-hold-new-admission-round-for-10k-candidates/articleshow/78175843.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Renewable energy can ease discoms’ fin woes: Report||Jaipur: Rajasthan can play a key leadership role in the country’s transition to a low-cost, low-emission, profitable electricity system by shifting to cheaper renewable energy from coal-based power, said Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) report.The report said Rajasthan’s installed renewable energy capacity has reached 9.6 gigawatts (GW) at the end of fiscal year 2019-20. It also added more solar power capacity (1.7GW) in FY 2019-20 than any other Indian state, ahead of Karnataka (1.4GW), the state with the highest installed solar capacity, and Tamil Nadu (1.3GW), it said.“Rajasthan has a bright future as a renewable energy leader in India,” says the report’s author Kashish Shah.“But its power distribution companies (discoms) are among the worst performing in India.”Expensive coal-fired capacity tariffs coupled with huge aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses led to the Rajasthan discoms booking a loss of Rs 6,355 crore in FY2019-20 after accounting for state government subsidies.“A shift to cheaper renewable capacity could help alleviate the discoms’ financial liquidity and cash flow issues,” says Shah.The report said Rajasthan has high solar radiation and wind speeds and an abundance of barren land that makes it suitable for utility solar parks and it is already home to the world’s largest solar park – the 2.25GW Bhadla Solar Park, located in Jodhpur district.“These factors make Rajasthan an attractive destination for domestic and foreign investors looking for opportunities in renewable energy, electricity grid infrastructure and associated manufacturing,” says Shah.Currently Rajasthan depends on electricity purchased from other states given a power deficit during peak daytime hours. With an increase in renewable energy investment, the state could become a net exporter of electricity in the coming decade, according to the report.“The state government should be taking proactive measures to fully utilise Rajasthan’s renewable energy potential and build capacity to transmit power to states with energy deficits.“Revenues from the interstate sale of power would help sustainably grow GDP and improve India’s energy security and load balancing capacity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/renewable-energy-can-ease-discoms-fin-woes-report/articleshow/78177160.cms||Joychen Joseph
September 18, 2020||Chandigarh||HP death toll nears 100, tally now 11,190||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Thursday reported seven Covid deaths and 395 positive cases, pushing the state’s death toll to 96 and case tally to 11,190. A total of 388 patients were also reported recovered, taking the count of cured so far to 6,919. At the day’s end, the state had 4,145 active cases. Among those succumbing to the virus infection, three persons died in Shimla, and one death each was reported from Kullu, Chamba, Kangra and Mandi districts. Of the fresh cases, maximum 82 persons were tested positive in Sirmaur district, 76 in Kangra, 70 in Mandi, 49 in Solan, 38 in Una, 30 in Shimla, 15 in Lahaul-Spiti, 13 in Kullu, 12 in Bilaspur, seven in Chamba and three tested positive in Hamirpur. The patients recovering during the day included 144 in Kangra district, 54 in Chamba, 52 in Una, 42 in Hamirpur, 41 in Kullu, 40 in Solan, 10 persons were declared cured in Sirmaur, three in Bilaspur and one each in Kinnaur and Shimla. Till Thursday evening, Bilaspur had seen 568 Covid-19 cases, of which 205 were active; Chamba recorded 663 cases, of which 93 were active; out of Hamirpur’s total 753 cases, 87 were active, and Kangra had registered 1,735 cases, of which 644 were active. Similarly, Shimla district had recorded total 757 cases, of which 400 were active; Sirmaur had seen 1,415 positive cases, of which 428 were active; out of Solan’s total 2,525 cases, 978 were active; and Una had seen 975 cases, of which 411 were active. Kinnaur had registered total 135 cases until the close of the day, out of which 35 were active; Kullu had seen 416 cases, of which 88 were active; Lahaul-Spiti district had recorded total 90 positive cases, of which 70 were active; and Mandi had recorded total 1,158 cases, of which 706 were active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-death-toll-nears-100-tally-now-11190/articleshow/78177156.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chennai||History-sheeter pushes cops, flees from Chennai hospital||CHENNAI: For patients, doctors and others at Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday afternoon, it appeared like a scene straight out a Kollywood flick: A history-sheeter pushing away two policemen who were his escorts and successfully running away. The escorting law enforcers gave chase, but 40-yerar-old Velraj managed to escape. Based on a complaint lodged by the policemen, the Kilpauk police registered a case and launched a hunt. Investigators are surfing through footage of CCTV cameras along the route through which he ran away. In 2018, a senior officer said, Velraj, alias Sori, of Madurai was arrested with four others for the murder, allegedly due to previous enmity, of a history-sheeter named Sundar in Koyambedu. In December 2019, after coming out on bail, he failed to appear before the magistrate concerned for one of the hearings. “He was absconding since then,” said the officer. A non-bailable warrant was issued and the CMBT police, after persistent efforts, picked him up from a hideout on Wednesday. Around 2.45pm, head constable Saravanan and grade one constable Vanna Muthu took him to the KMCH for the mandatory medical check-up before he could be remaned in judicial custody. After about 30 minutes in the examination room, where was to be subjected to a Covid-19 test as well, he came out running. The two policemen managed to catch him, but he pushed them away and began running. The policemen immediately went in pursuit, but he vanished. Some of the shocked onlookers later told another team of law enforcers that the history-sheeter ran to other side of the road and disappeared through an interior lane. Members of a Koyambedu CMBT police team, which soon joined the search operation, said the two policemen escorting the history-sheeter suffered minor injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/history-sheeter-pushes-cops-flees-from-city-hospital/articleshow/78175839.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 tally crosses 37k-mark in Uttarakhand, 13 new deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand on Thursday recorded 1,192 new cases pushing the Covid-19 tally to 37,139 in the state. The death toll climbed to 460 with the virus claiming 13 lives on the day. Results of 13,598 samples meanwhile are still awaited. Among those who died included people between 35 years and 75 years of age, and an employee of the excise department deployed at Dehradun secretariat. Eight Covid-19 patients died in AIIMS (Rishikesh), two died at Haldwani’s Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital and one at Doon’s Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital. On Thursday, maximum cases were reported from the state capital Dehradun (430) followed by Naintial (203), Haridwar (149) and US Nagar (117). Notably, 533 patients were also cured on Thursday taking the overall recovered patients’ count to 24,810. The recovery percentage of Covid-19 patients in the state stood at 66.80%, and out of the total samples tested so far, only 6.84% turned out to be positive. The state has so far witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in Dehradun (230) followed by Nainital (80), Haridwar (70) and US Nagar (50). Dehardun has the highest number of active cases in the state as well (9,250) followed by Haridwar (7,692), Udham Singh Nagar (6,782) and Nainital (4,719). Districts which recorded the least number of deaths are — Chamoli (0), Rudraprayag (1), Bageshwar, Chamapwat and Tehri, with two deaths each. Districts having the least number of coronavirus cases are — Bageshwar (482), Rudraprayag (542), Champawat (595) and Chamoli (660).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-tally-crosses-37k-mark-in-ukhand-13-new-deaths/articleshow/78174568.cms||Shivani Azad
September 18, 2020||Nashik||Dhule GMCH plans liquid O2 tank of 13,000 litre capacity||Nashik: Dhule-based Shree Bhausaheb Hire Government Medical College Hospital (SBHGMCH) will set up a liquid oxygen tank of 13,000 litre capacity on its premises at a cost of over Rs 72 lakh. “We have received the mandatory nod from Nagpur-based Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO) to install the oxygen tank at the hospital premises couple of days ago. Once this tank is operational, we will not depend on the jumbo oxygen cylinders that we are using at present,” said hospital sources. Once the new tank facility is set up by the end of this month, SBHGMCH authorities will do away with the 700-800 litre capacity jumbo oxygen cylinders that it being used to treat Covid and non-covid patients in the hospital. A Baramati based firm has won the bid to set up the tank and supply the gas. SBHGMCH is the biggest government medical college hospital in North Maharashtra with over 500 beds, of which over 300 beds have been allotted to treat Covid patients, including 100 ICU beds. Patients not just from Dhule district but also from neighbouring districts come to the hospital. “The new facility would be a boon for us as our dependency on jumbo cylinders would be eliminated. We have to engage the workforce to move these cylinders and monitor the decreasing oxygen level for replacement,” said the hospital authorities, adding that the new facility would also ensure that there is no wastage of the gas. The oxygen tank would be connected by pipeline to the centralized oxygen system that the hospital has set up in the wards. Hospital authorities said a proposal has been sent to the Dhule district administration to allow the establishment of an oxygen manufacturing plant at its premises The officials added, “Our hospital wants to reduce dependency on others for oxygen availability since the demand is increasing due to the rise in Covid cases. We want to become self-reliant on the medical oxygen front. We have requested the administration to give approve the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-gmch-plans-liquid-o2-tank-of-13000-litre-capacity/articleshow/78177161.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||No policy to retire old thermal plants, cut discoms’ burden||Jaipur: Despite the discoms shelling out thousands of crores as fixed charges to generation companies, there is no way the government can retire the old thermal plants even if it wants.Fixed cost is the money discoms pay to generators even if they don’t offtake the power contracted through power purchase agreements. Speaking at a webinar, principal secretary of energy department Ajitabh Sharma said there are no policy guidelines by the Centre to retire the old thermal plants.“We have paid huge amounts in the past years as fixed charges to generators. All these add to the burden of the discoms and weigh on general power tariffs. But the decision to retire the thermal plants will have to be taken by the government and there needs to be a policy framework which is not there now,” said Sharma.Renewable energy has become cheaper and the installed capacity is about 45% of the total power generation even though it meets about 14% of the current electricity demand. “Thermal projects are locked in high-cost PPAs before the renewable energy became cheaper. These contracts are sacrosanct, meaning we cannot come out of it, unless there is a new policy,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-policy-to-retire-old-thermal-plants-cut-discoms-burden/articleshow/78177163.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 18, 2020||Goa||Edu officers should monitor if teachers go to school: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday stressed on the need for education officials and managements of schools to keep a check on its teachers if they are implementing the various teaching methods adopted by schools. Speaking to education stakeholders over the reopening of schools, Sawant said, “We say that teachers should go to schools. Do area inspectors (ADEI) keep a check on them or not. Are they checking whether teachers are coming to schools or not in their respective areas? Whether books and worksheets given have reached the students or not. Does anyone keep check of all this?” Sawant said the deputy director of that zone should call for a report to check if primary teachers are coming to schools. “I know that some primary teachers have not gone to schools, despite instrucitons that all teachers should be present in school,” he said. He also said that it is the responsibility of the teachers to follow instructions of the government as they are responsible in shaping the future of a child. Sawant said that the government has not even stopped salaries of teachers on lecture basis. “In schools, how much control can management, headmasters and PTAs have over teachers? Whether it is primary, secondary or high secondary education, the officer concerned must keep track of the teachers,” he added. He also said that “Goa is the only state to provide online education to students”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-officers-should-monitor-if-teachers-go-to-school-cm/articleshow/78177754.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Car plunges into Amanishah nullah, woman, son rescued||Jaipur: A woman and her five-year-old son had a narrow escape when the car she was driving fell into Amanishah nullah on the Jhotwara Road near Bani Park late on Wednesday evening. Police and civil defence team rescued both of them.According to police, the incident took place at 11.45pm on Wednesday when the woman identified as Priyanka Jain was returning from a family function and was going to Vidhyadhar Nagar to her Central Spine situated residence.“As per passersby, who informed the police control room, the car was rashly driven and the driver lost control over the vehicle. The car plunged into the nullah,” said a senior police officer on Thursday.“The car was partially sub-merged in the nullah. Thus, with the help of gadgets and other items, they were rescued,” said the officer.The car was retrieved with the help of crane. “The woman and her son were sent to a nearby hospital due to injuries in the accident. They had minor injuries and were discharged after first aid,” police said.Police added that the woman was returning home by car after attending a family event. “She was accompanied by his son Abhay,” said an officer. Mahendra Sevada, a jawan from the civil defence team, said that the car was badly stuck in the drain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/car-plunges-into-amanishah-nullah-woman-son-rescued/articleshow/78177172.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Work on cancer institute likely to miss February deadline||KOCHI: Even while authorities have set the deadline for completing the work on Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) by February 28, 2021, it seems that it would take at least six more months for the completion of all allied works. According to officials associated with the project, only civil works could be completed by the deadline. It may take 10 to 12 more months to complete mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP) works. “We are planning to increase the workforce. Even if we can adhere to the current schedule of time, we will be able to complete the work of civil structure only by February end,” an official associated with the project said. The tender procedures for MEP works are yet to begin. We are yet to get nod from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Then only, we will be able to start the tender procedures,” the official said. Similarly, many of the medical equipment for the cancer centre will have to be imported. “Most important among the equipment is the radiotherapy machine. The tender for procuring radiotherapy machine can be opened within a week,” a CCRC official said. “When we invited tenders for the first time, two firms attended the tender. When the tender was opened, we could find that only one firm quoted the amount. So, we had to invite fresh tenders,” the official said. “Once the purchase order is placed, it will take at least four months to procure the machine. It will take two months for installation. For procuring other equipment, we will be fixing the specification by next week and submit it to Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd (KMSCL),” the official said. Another time-consuming process is recruitment of staff and it is yet to be started. “We have formed a committee to decide on staff matrix. The committee has almost completed the preparation of the staff matrix. Now, it will have to be approved by the executive committee of CCRC. Then, it will be sent to the government,” sources with CCRC said. Meanwhile, the government had given nod for provisional staff pattern three months ago. At a review meeting convened by district collector S Suhas on Wednesday, instructions had been given to the contractor to rope in more workforce. “As of now, there are around 100 labourers deployed for CCRC work. Around 40 labourers are in quarantine and they will join soon. Measures to bring in 100 more workers from Tamil Nadu are also progressing,” an official associated with the project said. “The total strength of workers will soon be increased to 350,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/work-on-cancer-institute-likely-to-miss-feb-deadline/articleshow/78174589.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 18, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese man on Char Dham road work mauled by leopard in Chamoli||Dehradun: Nainbagh, a 37-year-old man from Nepal, was mauled to death by purportedly a leopard on Wednesday night. He along with his friends were part of the Char Dham road construction work. They had come from Paelali district of Nepal. His friends said that they heard him scream at night. Nainbagh had gone out to attend nature's call. They found Nainbagh’s disfigured body on the rocks in the morning. Officials believe the man was killed by a female leopard. “His hands and other body parts were found scattered. This indicates that probably it was a female leopard who was taking meat for her cubs. The labourer had been working on all-weather Char Dham road. For us, it is a little surprising to see a leopard attack here,” said Nand Ballabh Sharma, DFO of Nanda Devi National Park. Now, worried locals as well as the workers of Char Dham road have urged the forest officials to trap the animal soon. “Their concerns are genuine. So, we have decided to install five CCTV cameras at different places to understand its movement. We will then take steps to set up cages. We cannot trap or kill it right away,” Sharma added. The forest officials said that an initial ex-gratia amount of Rs 1.5 lakh will be released to the family members “once a postmortem is done and we establish some connection with him to Nepal”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-man-on-char-dham-road-work-mauled-by-leopard-in-chamoli/articleshow/78174586.cms||Shivani Azad
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Only 30% property tax collected by Trichy corpn this financial yr||Trichy: Trichy corporation has collected only 30% of the property tax demand meant for the first half of the financial year ending September. Although the civic body’s financial reserves remain critical, it has decided to go easy on commercial establishments in the tax collection drive considering the Covid-19 lockdown impact on traders.Between April and September, the corporation was supposed to collect Rs 53.7 crore as property tax from a total of 2.2 lakh property tax assessments. The total property tax demand in the first half stood at Rs 97.4 crore, including the arrear amount of previous years. Although revenue officials resumed the collection drive from June 1, sources said that the response from locals was poor. Compared to the tax collection drives of the corresponding period in previous years, the current tax collection was way behind. “We expect to collect around 70% of the total property tax demand only by December. Compared to the other cities, our drive yields fairly good results,” a senior corporation official said.Around 60% of the corporation’s revenue through property tax comes from residential buildings and the remaining 40% from commercial. Even entertainment tax and non-tax revenue have taken a beating as commercial establishments operating from civic body’s buildings are closed. “We are not pressurising traders to pay their taxes as they were hit by the pandemic. Despite odds, tax collection is underway by insisting residential properties to pay the taxes,” S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-30-property-tax-collected-by-trichy-corpn-this-financial-yr/articleshow/78177745.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM improved lives of 60 cr citizens: Shah||Gandhinagar: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi improved lives of 60 crore poor people in the country. “What the Congress could not do for the poor in its 70-year rule, Modi did in five years,” Shah said while greeting the PM on his 70th birthday. Shah was attending the ground-breaking ceremony of a water supply project for Gandhinagar, his Lok Sabha constituency, through video-conference. He said people of the country made Modi the PM in 2014 due to several pro-people works he had carried out as chief minister of Gujarat. “After Modi became PM, around 60 crore poor citizens have received electricity and gas connections, toilets, bank accounts and better healthcare under the Prime Minister Jan Arogya scheme,” Shah said while attending the Gujarat government’s event from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-improved-lives-of-60-cr-citizens-shah/articleshow/78177752.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two more bodies found, Chambal boat tragedy toll mounts to 13||KOTA: A day after an overloaded boat capsized in the Chambal River in Khatoli area of Kota in Rajasthan, rescuers fished out two more bodies on Thursday, which took the death toll in the tragedy to 13. Soon after the boat carrying 35 devotees and 18 two-wheelers from various villages in Khatoli area to Kamleshwar Temple at Indergarh in Bundi district capsized, 11 bodies were recovered. Since 22 passengers had swam to safety, rescuers were trying to locate the missing two, who were finally found dead around a kilometre and half from the mishap spot. The 13 deceased included six men, four women and three minor girls. Two bodies, identified as Jyoti (13) and Golma (15), were recovered on Thursday morning from a kilometre and a half away from the spot. The bodies have been handed over to their families after post-mortem. SP (Kota rural) Sharad Choudhary said in order to curb movement of illegal boats in the rivers in Kota and to avert such mishaps in future, a list of boats has been prepared. Only boats with valid licence and fitness certificate from the road transport department would be allowed to operate and others will be seized. Dhariwal to visit mishap site todayUDH minister Shanti Dhariwal and minister incharge of Kota Lalchand Kataria are scheduled to visit the spot on Friday, he said. DSP and circle officer (Itawa) Shubhkaran said the rescue operation was almost completed after a thorough search in an area of 15km in the river. Five persons, identified as Mahendra Meena, Hemraj, Modulal, Vinod along with another person, have been booked for causing death by negligence under Section 304 (A). But they are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-more-bodies-found-chambal-boat-tragedy-toll-mounts-to-13/articleshow/78177169.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||UP may bring ordinance to check conversions||LUCKNOW: Citing the rising number of religious conversions in the name of ‘love jihad’ in UP, the state government is likely to promulgate an ordinance against religious conversions soon. “It’s in the process and Acts and laws of other states are being studied and discussed before UP has its own law against religious conversion,” confirmed a senior officer of the state’s law department. At present, eight states have anti-conversion laws — Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Uttarakhand. Odisha was the first state to enact this law in 1967, followed by Madhya Pradesh in 1968. “UP could soon become the ninth state,” said a law department source. The recent trigger behind the move is a series of cases of ‘love-jihad’, the officer said, adding that 11 such cases are being probed in the Kanpur district alone. Recently, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had raised the issue of religious conversion during his two-day visit to Lucknow. The anti-conversion laws in various states seek to prevent any person from converting or attempting to convert, either directly or otherwise, another person through ‘forcible’ or ‘fraudulent’ means, or by ‘allurement’ or ‘inducement’. “The UP’s law would be quite similar in nature which would make religious conversions a complex and cumbersome procedure,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-may-bring-ordinance-to-check-conversions/articleshow/78178546.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur admn takes over Laxmi Vilas hotel||UDAIPUR: In adherence to the orders of a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Jodhpur, the Udaipur district administration on Thursday commenced the listing of the entire inventories/movable and immovable properties of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel. The CBI court in Jodhpur on Wednesday had ordered the takeover after it found that the hotel, once a property of the Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), was fraudulently disinvested in 2004 by the then NDA government. The court ordered that the property should be attached and returned to the public sector unit ITDC which should run it. As soon as the court’s order was delivered, the local administration led by collector Chetan Ram Deora, zila parishad and Udaipur Municipal Corporation officials went to the hotel and took possession of the hotel. The site verification was done through pictures captured from drone camera and later collated with the khasra number of the site map. On Thursday, the property listing work was commenced under the supervision of a receiver delegate specially appointed for this task. “Four teams, two each from the UMC and the UIT, are engaged in the property listing task. Each team has on average four members who would do intense and detailed listings of all the movable and immovable properties of the Hotel. It may take some three to five days for us to complete the work,” Shailesh Surana, the receiver delegate and ACEO, zila parishad said. Meanwhile, Deora said a detailed report on the assets would be submitted to the CBI court in the coming days. As per the court’s direction on running the hotel by the government, the collector said that a letter has been sent to the Union tourism ministry as well as the Indian Tourism Development Corporation for taking over the responsibility of the hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-admn-takes-over-laxmi-vilas-hotel/articleshow/78177192.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur admn takes over Laxmi Vilas hotel||UDAIPUR: In adherence to the orders of a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Jodhpur, the Udaipur district administration on Thursday commenced the listing of the entire inventories/movable and immovable properties of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel. The CBI court in Jodhpur on Wednesday had ordered the takeover after it found that the hotel, once a property of the Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), was fraudulently disinvested in 2004 by the then NDA government. The court ordered that the property should be attached and returned to the public sector unit ITDC which should run it. As soon as the court’s order was delivered, the local administration led by collector Chetan Ram Deora, zila parishad and Udaipur Municipal Corporation officials went to the hotel and took possession of the hotel. The site verification was done through pictures captured from drone camera and later collated with the khasra number of the site map. On Thursday, the property listing work was commenced under the supervision of a receiver delegate specially appointed for this task. “Four teams, two each from the UMC and the UIT, are engaged in the property listing task. Each team has on average four members who would do intense and detailed listings of all the movable and immovable properties of the Hotel. It may take some three to five days for us to complete the work,” Shailesh Surana, the receiver delegate and ACEO, zila parishad said. Meanwhile, Deora said a detailed report on the assets would be submitted to the CBI court in the coming days. As per the court’s direction on running the hotel by the government, the collector said that a letter has been sent to the Union tourism ministry as well as the Indian Tourism Development Corporation for taking over the responsibility of the hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-admn-takes-over-laxmi-vilas-hotel/articleshow/78186128.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 loan sharks booked||Ahmedabad: A 30-year-old man from Jashodanagar, Jagdish Jethwani, lodged a complaint at Khokhra police station on Wednesday against six persons for threatening him to recover money they had lent him at high interest rate. According to the FIR, the complainant lost money in his business two years ago and had mortgaged his house to Alpesh Thakkar of Ramol for Rs 40 lakh. To release the mortgage, the complainant took Rs 32 lakh from Jayesh Desai of Anandnagar. However, according to the complaint, Desai then took away the mortgage file and demanded Rs 75 lakh with interest from him. To pay interest to Desai, the complainant took loans at 15% monthly interest from several persons. “The complaint used to pay them monthly interest of 15% but as he could not pay the interest recently, the accused threatened to beat him,” said an official of Khokhra police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-loan-sharks-booked/articleshow/78175874.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||NMC to float new bid for construction waste management||Nashik: The civic administration’s bid to appoint a private agency to collect and transport construction debris and recycle the waste has received poor response.  There have been many complaints against construction debris being disposed along the roadsides. Currently, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) does not have a proper system for disposal of construction and demolition waste. Despite lagging behind in this aspect during the cleanliness survey, Nashik city bagged the 11th rank in the country and second in the state among the top clean cities under the Swachh Survekshan 2020.NMC has plans to appoint an agency for collection, transportation, processing and management of construction and demolition waste on design, build, operate and transfer (DBOR) basis. “We had invited bids last month and two agencies had submitted the bids. However, both the agencies could not fulfil the conditions of the bid. Hence, we are simplifying the bid conditions so that maximum agencies can participate in the bidding process,” said NMC officials.“We are in the process of floating a fresh bid. The bid will be floated in a week or two,” added officials.The NMC will provide the land where the contractor can recycle the construction, demolition waste. The construction waste, which is unusable and cannot be recycled, is to be placed at the dumping ground identified by the municipal corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-float-new-bid-for-construction-waste-management/articleshow/78177176.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||82 test +ve, 87 get discharged in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 82 new cases of novel coronavirus on Thursday, even as 87 patients were discharged from treatment centres. The district has recorded 2,678 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 618 are active. While seven patients are being treated at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, the remaining active cases are being treated at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and four Covid care centres in the district. According to Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, the new cases were spread across the district. He said almost 80% of the cases were reported from rural areas. However, 15 people were tested positive for the virus from Ooty town alone. While 80% of the new cases were primary and secondary contacts of earlier patients, the remaining cases had travel history to other districts. Pointing out that in most cases asymptomatic patients were in contact with many people before testing positive for Covid-19, Balusamy said as a result there was a surge in the number of primary and secondary contacts getting tested positive for the virus. Symptomatic patients are identified at fever camps. At least 2,043 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the hill district, where recovery rate stands at 76.2% now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/82-test-ve-87-get-discharged-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/78177197.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: SMS specialists to treat Covid patients for comorbidities||JAIPUR: In a major decision in treating Covid-19 patients, the state government has issued orders to provide the services of specialist doctors to treat the infected who have comorbidities or underlying diseases, which have been the major cause for mortalities. Till now, specialists from specialities such as heart, kidneys, brain and other organs were not directly involved in Covid treatment. But from now on, the infected, admitted to RUHS Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital, will get the services of specialists from SMS Medical College. The decision, taken on Thursday by the health department, is an attempt to prevent Covid deaths and to bring down the mortality rate further by providing comprehensive treatment. Until now, only specialists in medicine and respiratory diseases were involved in treating virus patients. Since over 80% of the Covid patients are dying due to underlying diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and chronic ailments of lungs, heart, brain, kidneys and liver, the SMS Medical College has decided to provide the services of specialists. ‘Specialists for patients at RUHS’At a meeting of SMS Hospital doctors, attended by heads of all departments, unit heads, principal and controller of SMS Medical College Sudhir Bhandari, the medical college was directed to provide specialists based on the need of patients. The meeting was chaired by principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora and attended by principal secretary (medical education) Vaibhav Galriya. “Covid treatment is not just about deputing some doctors, every discipline should chip in. If an infected person has comorbidities, the SMS Hospital doctors will treat them," said a senior health department official. Those seeking treatment at RUHS Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital, two government-run dedicated Covid hospitals, will receive the services of specialists. In an order issued on Wednesday, the health department had put the management of RUHS and Jaipuria under SMS Medical College. “Now, RUHS and Jaipuria will be part of SMS Medical College. The hospitals may be physically apart, but they will now be under the management of SMS till further orders are issued," said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-specialists-to-treat-covid-patients-for-comorbidities/articleshow/78177199.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||ED charges Shabir Shah’s wife in terror-funding case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against Dr Bilquis Shah, wife of Kashmiri separatist leader Shabir Shah, in an alleged terror funding and money laundering case. Shah, who was arrested by ED in 2017, has been accused of receiving more than Rs 2 crore from LeT chief Hafiz Saeed and Pakistani intelligence agency ISI through hawala dealers in Delhi. Last year in March, the ED had attached Shah’s properties located in Rawalpora, Srinagar being held in the name of his wife and daughters. A supplementary chargesheet was filed against his wife on Thursday in the special Patiala House court in Delhi. A prosecution complaint (chargesheet) against Shabir Shah and his associate Aslam Wani was earlier filed in September 2017 where the agency had accused his wife Bilquis Shah for her role in money laundering. The ED said its investigation revealed that Shah was in touch with the global terrorist and Lashkar-e-Taiba chief Hafiz Saeed and received money for carrying out separatist activities in J&K. He used part of the terror funds to acquire various properties through ‘a maze of dubious transactions’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-charges-shabir-shahs-wife-in-terror-funding-case/articleshow/78178548.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||‘Ensure every child in dist gets online lessons||Nashik: Guardian minister for Nashik district Chhagan Bhujbal directed the Nashik zilla parishad (ZP) on Thursday to make efforts to ensure every child. even in the remotest village in the district, benefitted from the online education system. Bhujbal conducted a meeting of the district education coordination committee at the district collectorate. Several party functionaries and ZP officials were also present. An important point that came up for discussion was that there was still a large number of students in many talukas who were not benefitting from online education because of mobile network connectivity issues in the district. Elected representatives attending the meeting demanded that the issue be resolved at the earliest to ensure these children were not deprived of modern education system. Bhujbal was all praise for the ZP teachers who have taken intensive efforts, including personally visiting the children in their houses and imparting lessons while ensuring social distancing among the students, to reach out to the children amid the lockdown and its related restrictions. The other issue that came up was about the damaged classrooms of the ZP schools across the district and the construction of additional classrooms.CEO of Nashik ZP Leena Bansod said that they were planning to use funds from the 15th Finance Commission to construct 327 additional classrooms, repair 1,765 classrooms besides constructing toilets and making provisions for availability of drinking water and eletricity supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ensure-every-child-in-dist-gets-online-lessons/articleshow/78177207.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 18, 2020||Chennai||Concessional fares cost railways Rs 5,475cr, HC told||Chennai: Southern Railway has informed the Madras high court that ticket fare concession to senior citizens was suspended to discourage unnecessary travel in view of the pandemic. It further submitted that between 2016 and 2019, it had incurred Rs 5,475 crore revenue loss providing concessions. Prior to March 20, railways had more than 50 categories of passengers, including persons with disability, 11 categories of patients, youths, farmers, artists, sportspersons, medical professional, senior citizens, awardees, war widows, students and press correspondents, enjoying concessions, said P T Ramkumar, counsel for the railways. In his submissions, representing general manager of Southern Railway, in response to a public interest writ petition filed by A S Mohammed Khader Meeran, the counsel said: “The element of concession extended was varying from 10% to 100% depending upon the category. However, in view of Covid-19, a lot of train services were cancelled across the country and it was decided to grant concessions only for four categories – disabled passengers, 11 categories of patients and students.” This decision was taken in view of a health advisory issued by the Central government due to Covid-19 and to discourage passengers from undertaking non-essential travel, Ramkumar said. The PIL sought a direction to the railways to take steps to restart ticket booking with concession through online portal of IRCTC. As to the demand to reopen online booking for concession tickets under patients’ category, Ramkumar submitted that concessional tickets are issued to 11 categories of patients across the reservation counter on production of original medical certificate. Such tickets can also be purchased by any other person on behalf of the patients on production of the original certificate issued by the doctor of a recognised hospital. Since such verification is a pre-condition, online booking cannot be permitted, he said. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha adjourned the hearing to September 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/concessional-fares-cost-railways-rs-5475cr-hc-told/articleshow/78175906.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Puducherry||5,560 new Covid cases, 59 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases were logged. The state recorded 59 deaths, the second day running they were below 60, taking the cumulative toll to 8,618. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases, eight short of 1,000 and 12 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (283), Tiruvallur (239) and Kancheepuram (187) together reported 709 cases and a dozen deaths. The active cases in the region were 15,194 including 9,874 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together added 942 cases and nine deaths. In the West, Coimbatore reported 530 cases, Salem 291, Tiruppur 191, Dharamapuri 124, and Namakkal 112. Three districts to record cases in two digits were Erode (98), Krishnagiri (85) and Nilgiris (82). The region together reported 13 deaths, highest after the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported three deaths and so did Salem and Tiruppur. Krishnagiri and Namakkal reported two deaths each. Together the zone had 1,513 new cases with 11,995 people still under treatment. The 10 districts in the south together reported 736 cases, while districts in the Central zone together reported 667 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 118, all the other districts in the south reported a two-digit increase -- Tirunelveli 95, Tuticorin 80, Dindigul 78, Madurai 78, Tenkasi 70, Theni 77, Virudhunagar 68, Sivagangai 42, and Ramanathapuram 30. The Central zone reported the least number of fresh and active cases in the state. The region had 5,176 active cases compared to 6,263 in the south. Thanjavur (155), Pudukottai (118), Trichy (115) and Thiruvarur (108) reported cases in three digits, while Nagapattinam (72), Karur (52), Ariyalur (34) and Perambalur (13) reported cases in two digits. The central districts together reported five deaths compared to eight in the south. Seven of the 59 whose deaths were reported on Thursday did not have comorbid conditions. At the end of the day more than 82,000 people were tested using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/5560-new-covid-cases-59-deaths-across-state/articleshow/78178676.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Madurai||5,560 new Covid cases, 59 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases were logged. The state recorded 59 deaths, the second day running they were below 60, taking the cumulative toll to 8,618. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases, eight short of 1,000 and 12 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (283), Tiruvallur (239) and Kancheepuram (187) together reported 709 cases and a dozen deaths. The active cases in the region were 15,194 including 9,874 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together added 942 cases and nine deaths. In the West, Coimbatore reported 530 cases, Salem 291, Tiruppur 191, Dharamapuri 124, and Namakkal 112. Three districts to record cases in two digits were Erode (98), Krishnagiri (85) and Nilgiris (82). The region together reported 13 deaths, highest after the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported three deaths and so did Salem and Tiruppur. Krishnagiri and Namakkal reported two deaths each. Together the zone had 1,513 new cases with 11,995 people still under treatment. The 10 districts in the south together reported 736 cases, while districts in the Central zone together reported 667 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 118, all the other districts in the south reported a two-digit increase -- Tirunelveli 95, Tuticorin 80, Dindigul 78, Madurai 78, Tenkasi 70, Theni 77, Virudhunagar 68, Sivagangai 42, and Ramanathapuram 30. The Central zone reported the least number of fresh and active cases in the state. The region had 5,176 active cases compared to 6,263 in the south. Thanjavur (155), Pudukottai (118), Trichy (115) and Thiruvarur (108) reported cases in three digits, while Nagapattinam (72), Karur (52), Ariyalur (34) and Perambalur (13) reported cases in two digits. The central districts together reported five deaths compared to eight in the south. Seven of the 59 whose deaths were reported on Thursday did not have comorbid conditions. At the end of the day more than 82,000 people were tested using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5560-new-covid-cases-59-deaths-across-state/articleshow/78178679.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Erode||5,560 new Covid cases, 59 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases were logged. The state recorded 59 deaths, the second day running they were below 60, taking the cumulative toll to 8,618. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases, eight short of 1,000 and 12 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (283), Tiruvallur (239) and Kancheepuram (187) together reported 709 cases and a dozen deaths. The active cases in the region were 15,194 including 9,874 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together added 942 cases and nine deaths. In the West, Coimbatore reported 530 cases, Salem 291, Tiruppur 191, Dharamapuri 124, and Namakkal 112. Three districts to record cases in two digits were Erode (98), Krishnagiri (85) and Nilgiris (82). The region together reported 13 deaths, highest after the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported three deaths and so did Salem and Tiruppur. Krishnagiri and Namakkal reported two deaths each. Together the zone had 1,513 new cases with 11,995 people still under treatment. The 10 districts in the south together reported 736 cases, while districts in the Central zone together reported 667 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 118, all the other districts in the south reported a two-digit increase -- Tirunelveli 95, Tuticorin 80, Dindigul 78, Madurai 78, Tenkasi 70, Theni 77, Virudhunagar 68, Sivagangai 42, and Ramanathapuram 30. The Central zone reported the least number of fresh and active cases in the state. The region had 5,176 active cases compared to 6,263 in the south. Thanjavur (155), Pudukottai (118), Trichy (115) and Thiruvarur (108) reported cases in three digits, while Nagapattinam (72), Karur (52), Ariyalur (34) and Perambalur (13) reported cases in two digits. The central districts together reported five deaths compared to eight in the south. Seven of the 59 whose deaths were reported on Thursday did not have comorbid conditions. At the end of the day more than 82,000 people were tested using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/5560-new-covid-cases-59-deaths-across-state/articleshow/78178678.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Salem||5,560 new Covid cases, 59 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases were logged. The state recorded 59 deaths, the second day running they were below 60, taking the cumulative toll to 8,618. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases, eight short of 1,000 and 12 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (283), Tiruvallur (239) and Kancheepuram (187) together reported 709 cases and a dozen deaths. The active cases in the region were 15,194 including 9,874 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together added 942 cases and nine deaths. In the West, Coimbatore reported 530 cases, Salem 291, Tiruppur 191, Dharamapuri 124, and Namakkal 112. Three districts to record cases in two digits were Erode (98), Krishnagiri (85) and Nilgiris (82). The region together reported 13 deaths, highest after the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported three deaths and so did Salem and Tiruppur. Krishnagiri and Namakkal reported two deaths each. Together the zone had 1,513 new cases with 11,995 people still under treatment. The 10 districts in the south together reported 736 cases, while districts in the Central zone together reported 667 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 118, all the other districts in the south reported a two-digit increase -- Tirunelveli 95, Tuticorin 80, Dindigul 78, Madurai 78, Tenkasi 70, Theni 77, Virudhunagar 68, Sivagangai 42, and Ramanathapuram 30. The Central zone reported the least number of fresh and active cases in the state. The region had 5,176 active cases compared to 6,263 in the south. Thanjavur (155), Pudukottai (118), Trichy (115) and Thiruvarur (108) reported cases in three digits, while Nagapattinam (72), Karur (52), Ariyalur (34) and Perambalur (13) reported cases in two digits. The central districts together reported five deaths compared to eight in the south. Seven of the 59 whose deaths were reported on Thursday did not have comorbid conditions. At the end of the day more than 82,000 people were tested using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/5560-new-covid-cases-59-deaths-across-state/articleshow/78178681.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Meerut||UP: Village pradhan candidate boasts of money and gun powers to win panchayat poll, attracts FIR||MEERUT: As village politics heats up in view of the upcoming panchayat elections in UP, a prospective candidate boasted of having enough property to spend “even Rs 1 crore to win the polls”. While addressing villagers in Baghpat’s Hilwadi village, the candidate, Ravinder Kumar, even went to the extent of saying: “If even Rs 1 crore doesn’t work and if one can become pradhan with the power of the bullet, then let me tell you one tamancha costs just Rs 3,000.” A mobile footage of the Kumar’s statement, however, went viral, prompting Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh to order an FIR against him. “We have ordered an FIR against Ravinder for threatening peace in the area,” said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/village-pradhan-candidate-boasts-of-money-gun-powers-to-win-panchayat-poll-attracts-fir/articleshow/78172265.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Drunken brawl ends in murder, 1 arrested||Coimbatore: A tribal man was arrested on Wednesday for murdering an elderly man in a drunken brawl at Vadivelampalayam near Alandurai on Tuesday night. The Alandurai police identified the accused as K Karuppusamy alias Ravi, 24, of Vadivelampalayam. He was a daily wage labourer. An investigation officer said the incident took place when Ravi was returning home from Karunya Nagar, where he had gone to attend a condolence meeting. “On the way, he met R Dharman, 50, of Moolakkadupathi on Vadivelampalayam-Moolakkadu Road on Tuesday night and they consumed alcohol at a vacant place near Vadivelampalayam. The two then fought with each other in an inebriated state and Ravi assaulted Dharman on his head with a torchlight. Dharman suffered head injuries and died on the spot,” the officer said. Ravi, meanwhile, escaped from the place. Dharman was also a daily wage labourer. The Alandurai police registered a case and arrested Ravi on Wednesday. He was later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drunken-brawl-ends-in-murder-1-arrested/articleshow/78177237.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bapunagar cops to set up 70 complaint boxes in locality||Ahmedabad: On Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 70th birthday, Bapunagar police has taken up an initiative to better serve the people. The police station had earlier built a mess, a quarantine ward and library for policemen and residents of the area and now will set up 70 complaint boxes to be kept at various points in its jurisdiction.Inspector Nirav Vyas of Bapunagar police station said during the recent visit of police commissioner Sanjay Srivastav, additional CP Gautam Parmar and deputy commissioner of police, Zone 5, Achal Tyagi, it was decided that police should look for ways and means to make people’s work easy.“We have thus decided to put 70 complaint boxes in the jurisdiction of Bapunagar police station. It will make work easy for senior citizens, women and children who have a complaint but do not want to come to the police station. They can put their complaints in the boxes,” added Vyas.Vyas said sometimes people lodge complaints against anti-social elements. “We arrest them and produce him before the court but they get bail and the person who complained gets into trouble,” he said.Vyas said they will deploye two cops on motorcycle to check the complaint boxes and notes of the area, such as how many tea stalls there are and how many listed criminals live there etc.“This team will visit the area fully equipped for any sort of emergency. Another team will collect complaints from the boxes once a week. We will verify the complaints and take action where needed,” said Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bapunagar-cops-to-set-up-70-complaint-boxes-in-locality/articleshow/78175914.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Trichy||5,560 new Covid cases, 59 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases were logged. The state recorded 59 deaths, the second day running they were below 60, taking the cumulative toll to 8,618. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases, eight short of 1,000 and 12 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (283), Tiruvallur (239) and Kancheepuram (187) together reported 709 cases and a dozen deaths. The active cases in the region were 15,194 including 9,874 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together added 942 cases and nine deaths. In the West, Coimbatore reported 530 cases, Salem 291, Tiruppur 191, Dharamapuri 124, and Namakkal 112. Three districts to record cases in two digits were Erode (98), Krishnagiri (85) and Nilgiris (82). The region together reported 13 deaths, highest after the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported three deaths and so did Salem and Tiruppur. Krishnagiri and Namakkal reported two deaths each. Together the zone had 1,513 new cases with 11,995 people still under treatment. The 10 districts in the south together reported 736 cases, while districts in the Central zone together reported 667 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 118, all the other districts in the south reported a two-digit increase -- Tirunelveli 95, Tuticorin 80, Dindigul 78, Madurai 78, Tenkasi 70, Theni 77, Virudhunagar 68, Sivagangai 42, and Ramanathapuram 30. The Central zone reported the least number of fresh and active cases in the state. The region had 5,176 active cases compared to 6,263 in the south. Thanjavur (155), Pudukottai (118), Trichy (115) and Thiruvarur (108) reported cases in three digits, while Nagapattinam (72), Karur (52), Ariyalur (34) and Perambalur (13) reported cases in two digits. The central districts together reported five deaths compared to eight in the south. Seven of the 59 whose deaths were reported on Thursday did not have comorbid conditions. At the end of the day more than 82,000 people were tested using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5560-new-covid-cases-59-deaths-across-state/articleshow/78178680.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chennai||5,560 new Covid cases, 59 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases were logged. The state recorded 59 deaths, the second day running they were below 60, taking the cumulative toll to 8,618. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases, eight short of 1,000 and 12 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (283), Tiruvallur (239) and Kancheepuram (187) together reported 709 cases and a dozen deaths. The active cases in the region were 15,194 including 9,874 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together added 942 cases and nine deaths. In the West, Coimbatore reported 530 cases, Salem 291, Tiruppur 191, Dharamapuri 124, and Namakkal 112. Three districts to record cases in two digits were Erode (98), Krishnagiri (85) and Nilgiris (82). The region together reported 13 deaths, highest after the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported three deaths and so did Salem and Tiruppur. Krishnagiri and Namakkal reported two deaths each. Together the zone had 1,513 new cases with 11,995 people still under treatment. The 10 districts in the south together reported 736 cases, while districts in the Central zone together reported 667 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 118, all the other districts in the south reported a two-digit increase -- Tirunelveli 95, Tuticorin 80, Dindigul 78, Madurai 78, Tenkasi 70, Theni 77, Virudhunagar 68, Sivagangai 42, and Ramanathapuram 30. The Central zone reported the least number of fresh and active cases in the state. The region had 5,176 active cases compared to 6,263 in the south. Thanjavur (155), Pudukottai (118), Trichy (115) and Thiruvarur (108) reported cases in three digits, while Nagapattinam (72), Karur (52), Ariyalur (34) and Perambalur (13) reported cases in two digits. The central districts together reported five deaths compared to eight in the south. Seven of the 59 whose deaths were reported on Thursday did not have comorbid conditions. At the end of the day more than 82,000 people were tested using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5560-new-covid-cases-59-deaths-across-state/articleshow/78175912.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||5,560 new Covid cases, 59 deaths across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases were logged. The state recorded 59 deaths, the second day running they were below 60, taking the cumulative toll to 8,618. Chennai continued to report the maximum number of fresh cases, eight short of 1,000 and 12 deaths. Neighbouring Chengalpet (283), Tiruvallur (239) and Kancheepuram (187) together reported 709 cases and a dozen deaths. The active cases in the region were 15,194 including 9,874 in Chennai. The seven other northern districts together added 942 cases and nine deaths. In the West, Coimbatore reported 530 cases, Salem 291, Tiruppur 191, Dharamapuri 124, and Namakkal 112. Three districts to record cases in two digits were Erode (98), Krishnagiri (85) and Nilgiris (82). The region together reported 13 deaths, highest after the Chennai region. Coimbatore reported three deaths and so did Salem and Tiruppur. Krishnagiri and Namakkal reported two deaths each. Together the zone had 1,513 new cases with 11,995 people still under treatment. The 10 districts in the south together reported 736 cases, while districts in the Central zone together reported 667 cases. While Kanyakumari reported 118, all the other districts in the south reported a two-digit increase -- Tirunelveli 95, Tuticorin 80, Dindigul 78, Madurai 78, Tenkasi 70, Theni 77, Virudhunagar 68, Sivagangai 42, and Ramanathapuram 30. The Central zone reported the least number of fresh and active cases in the state. The region had 5,176 active cases compared to 6,263 in the south. Thanjavur (155), Pudukottai (118), Trichy (115) and Thiruvarur (108) reported cases in three digits, while Nagapattinam (72), Karur (52), Ariyalur (34) and Perambalur (13) reported cases in two digits. The central districts together reported five deaths compared to eight in the south. Seven of the 59 whose deaths were reported on Thursday did not have comorbid conditions. At the end of the day more than 82,000 people were tested using RT-PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5560-new-covid-cases-59-deaths-across-state/articleshow/78178677.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Goa||As Covid cases cross 5,000, Vishwajit Rane to add another ward||PANAJI: Goa’s mortality count shot up to 327 with eight deaths—two women and six men—on Thursday. The state’s tally of active cases rose to 5,612 with 644 new cases reported. Six mortalities were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and two from the ESI hospital, Margao. Two patients died in less than 12 hours of admission. A 45-year-old man from Canca-Verla, who was rushed to the hospital died within 10 hours. A 60-year-old man from Cansualim, Salcete, who had developed pulmonary edema at the time of hospitalisation, died in less than five hours. After his weekly meeting with the expert committee on Thursday, health minister Vishwajit Rane said a standard operating procedure (SOP) will be developed to ensure that all patients whether mild, moderate or severe, get oxygen on a timely basis. It was also decided that anaesthesia technicians will be deployed to monitor oxygen supply to patients either in ward or remotely. Rane said, “There will be no VIP culture in government hospitals and beds will be made available to patients in need.” With the surge in infections, beds in all Covid facilities are at full capacity. To mitigate demand for more, he said ward 115 under the pulmonary medicine will be ready to treat Covid patients on Tuesday. It was also decided that respective nodal officers at Covid hospitals will be the final authority in deciding discharge of patients. The health minister said that the inspection of the South Goa district hospital which is being converted into a Covid hospital will be conducted on Friday, and will be made operational on Saturday. “Initially it will have 150 beds and later be expanded to 350 beds,” he said. The kits to be provided to Covid patients in home isolation will have a pulse oximeter, doxycycline, vitamin C tablets, zinc tablets, and Ivermectin tablets, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-covid-cases-cross-5k-rane-to-add-another-ward/articleshow/78177760.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||Nashik banks set to meet crop loan disbursal target soon||Nashik: Driven by the increased demand for crop loans, particularly from farmers in the western and the northern regions of Nashik district, the banks in the district have already distributed Rs 2,010 crore, thus achieving 60% of the year’s target.Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare, who conducted a review of bankers, said on Wednesday: “The review shows that the banks were successful in distributing Rs 2,010 crore credit to the farmers from across the district for agricultural purposes after completing the necessary formalities.” A bank official, who attended the review meeting, said there was good demand from farmers across Nashik district. “Most farmers in the western and northern regions of Nashik district grow grapes or other kinds of cash crops. As a result, their demand for loan is during the August-October period,” he said.The loan disbursal target for Nashik district this year is Rs 3,303 crore and the banks have already been able to provide Rs 2,010 crore worth of loans to farmers.By this time last year, the banks had distributed Rs 1,503 crore, or 47% of last year’s target of Rs 3,147.“We congratulate the bankers for having reached out the people. We are confident that the year’s target would be achieved by the end of the kharif period. Last year, the district had exceeded the target and we are sure that this year too we will do the same,” the collector said.The collector has also appealed to the farmers to complete their banking-related formalities. Mandhare has also asked the bankers to organise camps, if needed, so that people do not hesitate to seek loans from the institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-banks-set-to-meet-crop-loan-disbursal-target-soon/articleshow/78177250.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Youth arrested for sexually assaulting 13-year-old girl||Coimbatore: A 20-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday night for sexually assaulting a minor girl. The accused was identified as Prasanth, of Gudalur in the Nilgiris district.Police said Prasanth was employed with a private firm in Tirupur, where he was living in a rental house. He often visited Coimbatore for work and a few months ago he attended a relative’s marriage. “At the function, he met a 13-year-old girl, who was studying in Class IX, and befriended her. They exchanged numbers.”He promised to marry her and asked her to visit Tirupur. The girl went missing from her residence on Tuesday evening and her parents lodged a complaint with the Ramanathapuram (law & order) police, who registered a case.Police traced her whereabouts to Tirupur and rescued her on Wednesday. The girl was handed over to her parents. Prasanth was subsequently arrested and booked under Section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 7 (sexual assault) and 8 (Punishment for sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He was later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-13-year-old-girl/articleshow/78177248.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Trichy||Loan disbursal camp held under PM SVANidhi scheme||Trichy: A special loan disbursal camp was organised by Trichy Corporation to identify beneficiaries under the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme, near Chathiram bus stand in Srirangam zone on Thursday. The scheme would facilitate a sum of Rs 10,000 to registered street vendors in the city to relaunch their business which has been hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. The working capital loan that comes with an interest subsidy of 7% per annum was received well by the vendors in need of financial support to boost their businesses ahead of the Diwali season. The applications were filled up by the officials at the camp and the vendors were told that the banks of the applicants will be conveyed about the loan applications to sanction the funds at the earliest. Earlier, as the street vendors were applying for PM SVANidhi on their own at their respective banks, there were complaints about banks turning them away. “Such camps, if organised again will help the street vendors,” A Ashraf Ali, secretary, Manithaneya Varthagargal Nala Sangam said. Stating that the capital of Rs 10,000 was insufficient, the vendors sought for more financial assistance with a lower interest rate. Vendors, who avail the loan amount will have to repay within a year. “There are 3,940 registered street vendors in corporation’s jurisdiction. Only they can benefit from the scheme,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/loan-disbursal-camp-held-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme/articleshow/78177757.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Nashik||Industrial units in Nashik asked to use nitrogen instead of oxygen||Nashik: The District Industries Centre (DIC), Nashik, has advised the industries to use nitrogen instead of oxygen to continue the manufacturing process, as it is unable to allow the supply of oxygen to the industries due to the rise in demand for medical oxygen.District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has already directed that the supply oxygen to industries be held until the requirement for medical purposes is met. The directive will be in force until further orders.The DIC Nashik had then directed the oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to not supply oxygen to the industries. and Accordingly, the oxygen supply to the industries in Nashik was stopped from September 12.Although local oxygen manufacturers and suppliers have the capacity to deliver 7,000 oxygen cylinders per day, they are able to provide only 4,500 cylinders every day due to the short supply of liquid oxygen. The demand for medical oxygen in the district is about the same amount. “It means, medical oxygen supply and demand is cut-to-cut,” said Satish Bhamre, general manager of DIC Nashik and the incident commandant to monitor oxygen supply to hospitals.“The demand for medical oxygen has increased a lot due to the spike in Covid-19 cases. We have stopped supplying oxygen to the industries to meet the demand from hospitals. We are also trying to increase this daily supply by another 1,000 cylinders. To this end, we are making arrangements for the supply of liquid oxygen from Chakan in Pune and Murbad in Thane,” said Bhamre.One tanker has 10 tonne of liquid oxygen that can produce 1,000 oxygen cylinders, he added. “We also had a meeting with office-bearers of Ambad Industries and Manufacturers’ Association (Aima) who wanted 20% oxygen supply to industries, but we have told them that it is not possible right now. We have told them to use nitrogen instead,” said Bhamre.Aima president Varun Talwar said around 30% of the industries in the district need oxygen for the manufacturing process. “We have been told by the DIC to switch over to nitrogen, but it is not possible due to technical issues,” added Talwar.Before the outbreak, the price of oxygen was Rs 13 per kg and nitrogen was at Rs 15-16 per kg. But the price of oxygen has increased to Rs 20 per kg while the price of nitrogen is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industrial-units-in-nashik-asked-to-use-nitrogen-instead-of-oxygen/articleshow/78177254.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 18, 2020||Coimbatore||People crowd Perur ghat on Mahalaya Amavasya||Coimbatore: Large number of people thronged Perur ghat on Mahalaya Amavasya on Thursday, despite officials instructing them not to gather along the river bank. Since people failed to heed to announcements in public address system to maintain social distancing, they were warned and sent away by police. The district administration had urged people not to gather in places such as Perur ghat to perform rituals along the Noyyal river bank in view of the pandemic. On their part, authorities of Perur Patteeswarar temple, had asked people not to throng the temple or the ghat. However, people came in droves to Perur and gathered near the Noyyal ghat, a traditional place where the rituals are performed for the dead. People thronged the river bank, Vinayaga temple near the ghat and the Amman thoppu area, where they performed the rituals and made offerings to the departed ancestors. After that, they gathered in front of the Vinayaga temple, ignoring social distancing norms. Police personnel, who were deployed to control the crowd, warned people not to throng the temple. When their warnings were not heeded, police sent them away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/people-crowd-perur-ghat-on-mahalaya-amavasya/articleshow/78177257.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP breaches 6 lakh mark with 8,700 new cases, recoveries cross 5 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Thursday crossed six lakh, Covid-19 count after it reported 8,702 new cases, taking the tally to 6, 01,462. As many even as 72 more deaths were reported during the day, pushing the death toll to 5,177. Andhra Pradesh became the second state in the country after Maharashtra to record six-lakh Covid-19 cases. On the brighter side, the number of recoveries in the state crossed five lakhs after 10,712 people were cured from the virus on Thursday. The active Covid-19 cases now stand at 88,197 as the state has been consistently reporting more daily recoveries than the fresh cases. The total recoveries in Andhra stands at 5,08,088 with a recovery rate of 84.47%. As many as 77,492 samples were tested in the state on Thursday, pushing the number of total tests to 48.84 lakh. Andhra ranks fourth in terms of the number of samples tested, behind Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. By Thursday morning, the state had tested 91,468 samples per million persons, more than double the national average of 43,667 tests. The state’s positivity rate stands at 12.31%, above the national average of 8.45%. East Godavari continued to report the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state as the district registered 1,383 new cases on Thursday. Meanwhile, West Godavari district 1,064 cases and Chittoor district reported 905 cases. With 526 new cases, Vizianagaram district crossed 30,000 Covid-19 cases mark to reach 30,029 on Thursday. While Prakasam has the highest number of active cases with 12,411 persons still under treatment in hospitals and home isolation, East Godavari has the highest number of recoveries of 69,939. Of 5,177 casualties in the state, Chittoor accounts for 564, Guntur 481, East and Godavari 472. With the fresh 10 Covid-19 deaths, Prakasam district breached 400 mark to 405. Similarly, the toll in Srikakulam touched 300 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-breaches-6l-mark-with-8-7k-new-cases-recoveries-cross-5l/articleshow/78175946.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Ranchi||Under pressure, Hemant govt holds back land mutation bill||Ranchi: Faced with criticism from within and outside, the state government on Friday did not include the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill 2020 among the five tabled in the assembly for discussion. Parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam tabled the five bills — Jharkhand Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Ordinance 2020, Jharkhand Value Added Tax (Amendment) Ordinance 2020, The Jharkhand Mineral Bearing Lands (Covid-19 Pandemic) Cess Ordinance 2020, Jharkhand Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 and Jharkhand Goods and Services Tax (Exemptions in Provisions) Ordinance 2020 — for discussion and passage on the first day of the five-day monsoon session. The land mutation bill, which was passed by the cabinet on September 8, was held back for further deliberations and discussions, chief minister Hemant Soren said. “The bill will be introduced only after deliberation on all points included,” Soren told journalists in the assembly. The bill was vehemently opposed by Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey and opposition BJP. Tirkey, who joined the Congress party after being expelled from the erstwhile JVM-P, termed the bill as a “black law” and hosted demonstrations across circle offices in Ranchi to seek its rollback. Tirkey had alleged that Section 22 of the bill gives immunity to land revenue officials against wrongdoings. Pointing out that the bill’s Section 9 of chapter seven states that additional collectors have been vested with unlimited power to reject any Jamabandi and claimed that such powers will make the officials misuse it. State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon had initially distanced the party from Tirkey’s stand, claiming that the latter is yet to formally become a Congressman. However, Oraon took a U-turn from his stand after the Congress legislative party meeting held on Thursday evening. Speaking to reporters, Oraon had said, “We agree that there are several gaps in the mutation bill. Though the cabinet has given its clearance, talks will be held with chief minister Hemant Soren and a decision will be taken, keeping the larger interests of the state’s people in mind.” Party insiders claimed Oraon changed his stand as grassroots workers and veterans took to social media to condemn the bill and termed it as “black law”. On Thursday night, a Congress delegation met Soren in this regard. Meanwhile, Alamgir Alam also tabled the first supplementary demand for grants (2020-21) for Rs 2,584.82 crore in the House. BJP legislators huddled into a meeting of its legislative party after the House proceedings were adjourned for the day. After the meeting, the party’s Rajmahal MLA, Anant Ojha, said, “The government is imposing one tax after another through ordinances and bringing in laws such as the mutation bill which will give a free hand to corrupt officials and their corrupt practices. BJP will protest these laws both inside and outside the assembly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/under-pressure-hemant-govt-holds-back-land-mutation-bill/articleshow/78195317.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 18, 2020||India||Cong missing as 8 parties protest over GST dues||NEW DELHI: A mix of regional parties, including UPA partners and those aligned with BJP, held a protest in Parliament complex demanding payment of GST compensation, but the gathering caught the eye because of the absence of Congress. MPs belonging to TRS, Trinamool Congress, DMK, RJD, AAP, NCP, SP and Shiv Sena participated in the protest where they raised slogans “we want compensation of the GST”. Dayanidhi Maran, who belongs to close Congress ally DMK, gave an adjournment notice on the issue in Lok Sabha on Thursday. The absence of Congress from the protest triggered speculation if all was well in the opposition camp. When asked, members of DMK, RJD and other parties expressed ignorance why Congress did not show up. “The protest was coordinated by TMC. We have no clue about it,” a DMK neta said. The development may have its roots in Bengal politics where Congress has appointed a strongly anti-Mamata leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as its president and the latter has announced its intent to go with the Left in the 2021 assembly polls. The Trinamool did a titfor-tat in Delhi by charting out an opposition course bypassing Congress. Trinamool chief whip in Lok Sabha Kalyan Banerjee said: “The Congress cannot team up with BJP in Bengal to attack Mamata Banerjee’s government and then expect cooperation from us in Delhi. All parties strong in a region are comfortable working with each other.” Interestingly, regional parties like TRS, SP and AAP are reluctant to be seen in Congress’s company, and the absence of the lead opposition player ensured their presence and gave a pan-India colour to a protest against the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-missing-as-8-parties-protest-over-gst-dues/articleshow/78178552.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||Process of installing electric vehicle charging infra kicks off in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The process of installing 200 electric vehicle (EV) charging facilities across the city has been started by Delhi government in coordination with other agencies. The first meeting of the charging infrastructure working group of Delhi government, which is chaired by vice-chairperson of Delhi Dialogue & Development Commission (DDC) Jasmine Shah, was held on Thursday. Senior officials of Delhi government, municipal corporations, Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Transport Corporation, etc, participated in it. It was decided that the government agencies would carry out a comprehensive planning exercise in the next two weeks to identify locations for setting up public charging stations. The Delhi EV Policy, 2020, which was notified last month, focuses on speedy rollout of public charging infrastructure as this would help in rapid adoption of EVs. Due to multiplicity of agencies, the task of implementing a coordinated strategy for setting up charging infrastructure has been entrusted to the charging infrastructure working group. “The project is critical to realising chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s vision of making Delhi the EV capital of India and among the top cities globally in terms of EV penetration. Delhi government will soon be rolling out financial incentives promised under the EV policy,” said Shah. With the policy’s emphasis being on mass adoption of EVs in the two-wheeler and three-wheeler segments, the focus of the charging infrastructure would be on setting up a large number of slowcharging stations (3.3 kW each) and limited number of fast chargers (15 kW each) instead of setting up a few expensive fast-charging stations that cater primarily to premium four-wheelers. Availability of land at concessional rates was identified as a major constraint by discoms. It was decided in the meeting that all government agencies should identify concessional locations within their jurisdictions within two weeks for the purpose. Establishing charging facilities in restricted public spaces, such as malls, office complexes, group housing societies, hotels, education institutions, hospitals, etc, was also identified as a priority at the meeting. Given the fact that these premises have high-capacity commercial connections, it was discussed that setting up of a large number of slow-charging points there would be inexpensive and a quick way of setting up thousands of additional charging points in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/process-of-installing-ev-charging-infra-kicks-off-in-delhi/articleshow/78178553.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||CBI books 6 cos for installing malware in garb of anti-virus||NEW DELHI: The CBI has booked six private companies that were allegedly installing a malware on people’s computers in the name of providing anti-virus protection and extorting money from them in lieu of fixing the issue.According to CBI, the accused firms were allegedly generating bogus security issues and flagging them through pop-up messages on systems. The agency also conducted searches at the premises of the companies at 10 locations in Jaipur, Delhi-NCR and Mainpuri. CBI has identified the accused firms as Softwill Infotech Private Limited and Saburi TLC Worldwide Services Private Limited, Innovana Thinklabs Limited and Systweak Software Private Limited, Benovellient Technologies Private Limited and Saburi Global Services Private Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-books-6-cos-for-installing-malware-in-garb-of-anti-virus/articleshow/78178555.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Rs 25,000 crore plan to cut dependence on China for key chemicals||NEW DELHI: With the aim to reduce dependence on China for import of chemicals, the government is planning a production linked incentive scheme to boost local manufacturing of some of the key chemicals used in pharmaceuticals, insecticides and in other critical industrial usage, sources said. In a series of recent meetings, the department of chemicals has identified around 75 critical chemicals and more are likely to be added to the list. The proposal for the incentive scheme includes offering 10% of production value as incentive. According to the proposal, the scheme will have an outlay of Rs 25,000 crore over the next five years. The proposed scheme assumes significance in the wake of the ongoing tension between the two countries — India and China. Read AlsoEye on China, quality curbs on 370 itemsNearly 371 categories of items such as toys, steel bars &amp; tubes, consumer electronics, telecom items, heavy machinery, paper, rubber articles and glass which are largely imported from countries such as China would be brought under the mandatory Indian Standards (IS) regime starting March. This willIndia imports chemicals worth over Rs 1.5 lakh crore, of which around 85-90% comes from China, an official said. These chemicals are used in manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients, insecticides and other industrial processes. “Chemicals are essential products used in many industries including medicines. While we have already started a PLI scheme for manufacturing pharma APIs, we realised that there are some key chemicals – which are still being imported from China – for use in manufacturing these APIs. Hence, the need for complete backward integration to ensure we are not dependent on imports,” a senior official said. Read Also327 items form 3/4th of imports from China, ‘can be alternatively sourced’Just 327 products — ranging from mobile phones and telecom equipment to cameras, solar panels, air-conditioners and penicillin — accounted for nearly three-fourths of the imports from China, a study has estimated. The study points out that it is possible to find alternative sources to get theseThe department of chemicals has also constituted a committee on the matter and the final proposal for the PLI scheme will be soon submitted to the department of expenditure before taking it to the Cabinet. Watch Rs 25,000 crore plan to cut dependence on China for key chemicals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/25k-cr-plan-to-cut-dependence-on-china-for-key-chemicals/articleshow/78178556.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 18, 2020||India||New one-day high of about 99k, Sept count crosses 1.5m||NEW DELHI: India registered another record increase in fresh Covid-19 cases, with nearly 99,000 new infections on Thursday, even as the case count in September so far crossed the 1.5 million mark. As many as 98,795 fresh cases were recorded on Thursday, taking the total caseload to 52,10,317, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. The previous highest daily count was 98,100 recorded a day earlier, as the tally moved even closer to the 1-lakh mark. As many as 1,180 deaths from the virus were reported during the day, the third highest daily toll so far. With this, the total coronavirus toll in the country rose to 84,325. Nearly 19,000 of these have come in the current month alone, accounting for 22% of all deaths since the first fatality on March 12. After crossing 40 lakh on Wednesday, recoveries from the infection rose to 40,99,047 on Thursday while active cases increased to nearly 10,26,000. While Maharashtra reported 24,619 new Covid-19 cases, its second-highest daily surge, at least five states registered their highest single-day spike in infections — Kerala (4,351 new infections), Odisha (4,241), Chhattisgarh (3,809), Punjab (2,896) and Rajasthan (1,7930. The bulk of the day’s Covid-related deaths again came from Maharashtra, which added 468 to its toll. Other states where deaths were high were Karnataka, which recorded 93 fatalities, Uttar Pradesh (81), Andhra Pradesh (72), Bengal (60), Tamil Nadu (59) and Punjab (57). As Maharashtra reported its second-highest daily surge in cases, Mumbai added 2,411 fresh cases, its highest daily count so far. This is the second day in a row when Mumbai has added a record number of cases. The total caseload of the state is now 11,45,840 and that of Mumbai is 1,78,385. The state, for the second day in a row, added over 400 deaths (468). Kerala’s daily count of Covid cases crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time with 4,351 cases being reported on Thursday. Among the new cases, 4,153 were via contact including 72 health workers, 57 had returned from foreign countries and 141 from other states. Ten more Covid deaths were confirmed and 2,737 people recovered from the viral infection. “The huge surge in cases is a matter of concern,” CM Pinarayi Vijayan said. Gujarat in 24 hours recorded 1,379 Covid cases, its highest daily tally, taking the total to 1.19 lakh. Active cases of Covid-19 continued to dip in Tamil Nadu standing at 46,160 on Thursday after 5,560 fresh cases. The state recorded 59 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-one-day-high-of-about-99k-sept-count-crosses-1-5m/articleshow/78178561.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Don’t share fake news that FAU-G was Sushant’s idea: Mum court||MUMBAI: The city civil court on Thursday in an interim order restrained anyone from posting and re-posting tweets, sharing posts and messages as well as videos on social media platforms that are allegedly “false and defamatory” to GOQii Technologies, its founder and CEO Vishal Gondal and Studio nCore Pvt Ltd until further orders. Advocate Amit Vyas, who represented the company, said they filed a ‘John Doe’ suit (defendant or the opposite party is unknown) against unknown persons who, they alleged, were falsely posting messages that online game FAU-G (Fearless and United: Guards) was conceptualised by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Three social media platforms were directed to ensure the court order is effective in India and abroad and report compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-share-fake-news-that-fau-g-was-sushants-idea-mum-court/articleshow/78178568.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Delhi||17-year-old alleges rape in Delhi, three arrested||NEW DELHI: A 17-year old girl alleged that she was gang-raped by three men at an isolated building in northeast Delhi's Harsh Vihar on Wednesday. The minor's brother-in-law, who was accompanying her, tried to save her, but was attacked by the accused with a knife. The accused were later arrested, police said. The incident took place at night when the girl was returning home. The accused first tried to snatch her purse and when she resisted, they, at knifepoint, sexually assaulted her. A medical examination of the girl, however, didn't show signs of rape. The girl's brother-in-law received a minor injury and was discharged from a hospital. Police said a case was registered and the accused, who were also involved in cases of theft and snatching, were arrested. In another incident in north Delhi, a 30-year-old woman alleged that she was raped by her friend at her rented accommodation. The victim told police that the incident occurred on Tuesday night. The accused is currently absconding. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/17-year-old-alleges-rape-in-delhi-three-arrested/articleshow/78178570.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Wishes pour in from all around as Modi turns 70||NEW DELHI: As Narendra Modi turned 70 on Thursday, greetings poured in for the PM from the President, the Vice President and across the political spectrum, including top BJP functionaries, besides several world leaders. BJP is organising a number of events, mainly aimed at public service, across the country to mark the occasion as ‘Sewa Saptah’ while party president J P Nadda released a book “Lord of Records” highlighting 243 “unprecedented” achievements of the Modi government. Wishing the PM, President Ram Nath Kovind said, “... You have presented an ideal in showing commitment to India’s life values and democratic traditions.” Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said Modi has made tireless efforts to take the country to new heights and make India self-reliant. Home minister Amit Shah said under Modi’s leadership, the poor and deprived sections of the society have been given a respectable life. “Birthday greetings to country’s most popular leader PM @narendramodi, who is devoted to the service of the nation and welfare of poor,” he said. Greeting the PM, Congress’s Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Wishing PM Narendra Modi ji a happy birthday.” Russian President Vladimir Putin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Nepal’s PM K P Sharma Oli and Bhutanese PM Lotay Tshering were among the world leaders who extended wishes to Modi. Putin lauded Modi’s personal contribution to the strengthening of bilateral strategic partnership while Oli spoke of continuing to work closely together towards strengthening ties. Merkel too noted that they have succeeded in consolidating Indo-German ties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wishes-pour-in-from-all-around-as-modi-turns-70/articleshow/78178572.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
September 18, 2020||India||Fans of Periyar and Modi wage war on netas’ b’day||CHENNAI: The last few months have been rough for Periyar, the patriarch of the Dravidian movement, in Tamil Nadu. In recent months, he was in the limelight not just in debates over his social reforms, but because his statues were desecrated by fringe Hindutva elements who sought to demean his stature. It was no different on Thursday, which was the 142nd birth anniversary of the Dravidar Kazhagam founder E V Ramasamy or Periyar as he is fondly called. As political parties cutting across ideological lines paid tributes to Periyar and some leaders wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 70th birthday, there was a virtual war on social media to demean both. Dravidian historian K Thirunavukkarasu dubbed the development as distasteful. “Both RSS and Periyar’s Self Respect movement started in 1925. While BJP has taken it to the people and helped Modi to come to power, Periyar, with no political movement, continues to remain a political force. Opinions and ideologies can be discussed and debated. But one should not indulge in demeaning exercises,” he said. Beyond social media, a segment of BJP supporters went to the extent of sporting ‘Bharathiar’ on their T-Shirts to push their support for the Centre’s three-language formula. “Mahakavi Subramania Bharati mastered several languages and encouraged others to learn more languages, despite his love for his mother tongue Tamil. His principles align with our ideology,” said BJP state IT wing president C T R Nirmal Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fans-of-periyar-and-modi-wage-war-on-netas-bday/articleshow/78178573.cms||D Govardan
September 18, 2020||Goa||Tourism minister puts up proposal to cut beach shack licence fees by 50%||Panaji: Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said he has proposed reducing 50% of the licence fees chargeable to beach shacks. The file has been sent to chief minister Pramod Sawant for approval, Ajgaonkar told TOI on Thursday. Earlier this month, the tourism department proposed a new fee structure for all kinds of tourism-related trade activities while introducing draft rules which are open for public suggestions and recommendations till the end of this month. “I’m positive that the chief minister will approve the cuts suggested,” Ajgaonkar said. All tourism-related trades were aghast after the department put the draft rules into the public domain with a significant rise in fee structure of various trades. The body governing shack operators, shack owners’ welfare society (SOWS) had expressed its displeasure over the hike in fee structure, and demanded they be given a concession in view of the pandemic. The SOWS also pointed out that majority operators were unable to recover the operating cost of the last season, as they had to shut operations two-three months earlier than usual. As per the conditions laid down by the tourism department, all beach shacks and the temporary structures must be removed by May 31 that marks the end of the tourist season. During season, about 340-350 shacks are set up along the various beach stretches with over 100 shacks allotted along the Calangute-Candolim stretches alone. A shack operator said that those who are lucky to get a shack allotted close to the entrance of the beach have higher chances of getting more customers than those who are placed at the far end of the beach. “Lot depends on footfalls. If there are no tourists then it doesn’t make sense in starting operations, we need to sustain,” he said, adding that the minimum cost of setting up of a temporary shack is Rs 1.5 to Rs 2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-minister-puts-up-proposal-to-cut-beach-shack-licence-fees-by-50/articleshow/78177528.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 18, 2020||Goa||Scientists visit Kalasa, study Mhadei’s salinity||Keri: On Thursday, two scientists of the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, visited the Kalasa Bhandura project site in Kankumbi, Karnataka, to study the salinity of the Mhadei. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant thanked the Centre, more particularly Shekhawat, for the quick response to the state government’s request. Sawant said that the institute will conduct another such inspection in lean season from March to May . The state government had written to the Union ministry of jalshakti on March 6 expressing apprehensions that the diversion of the Kalasa waters under project would lead to increased salinity in the Mhadei and cause ecological devastation. The scientists, Gopalkrishna and Nitesh Patidar, were accompanied by assistant engineer of the WRD, Dilip Naik. On July 29, in a letter to Sawant, Union minister of jalshakti Gajendrasingh Shekhavat said that the Roorkee-based National Institute of Hydrology has been appointed to examine the salinity issue, a fear raised by Goa in its case against the Kalasa Bhandura project. “Two scientists visited the Kalasa project site and examined the confluence of the Simechi nhay with the Kalasa nallah, and have also seen the Kalasa water flowing in the reverse direction. They will visit various locations where different tributaries of the Mhadei join the Mandovi basin,” Naik told TOI. Karnataka has already submitted a feasibility report of the Kalasa Bhandura project to the Central Water Commission. The projects is under appraisal as per the existing CWC guidelines and directives given by the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal in the award given on August 14, 2018. Goa had pleaded that the proposed diversion of water by Karnataka and Maharashtra would increase the salinity of water and there will be increased tidal base water flow, due to which villagers living on the banks of the Surla river (Kalasa nallah), besides the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, would suffer immensely on account of depletion of river water, and in addition, the source of underground water would also be completely depleted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scientists-visit-kalasa-study-mhadeis-salinity/articleshow/78177537.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 18, 2020||India||Army criteria for women in PC discriminatory, SC told||NEW DELHI: Women officers in the short service commission complained to the Supreme Court on Thursday about the Army’s discriminatory evaluation process in granting them permanent commission, as directed by the apex court in February, but were told by a sympathetic SC to move a writ petition for considering their grievances. Three women lieutenant colonels, through senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, told a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph that though they had put in up to 20 years service, they were being evaluated for suitability on the basis of criteria fixed for male SSC officers who have put in 5-10 years of service. Though the bench said it would be improper to entertain an application by them in a case that was disposed of by the February 17 judgment directing grant of permanent commission to women SSC officers in 10 streams, the applicants could file a writ petition. Justice Chandrachud said, “Women, by the age of 50 years, undergo several biological and hormonal changes and it would be unfair to expect physical fitness levels equivalent to men in the 25-30 years age group”. The three women officers said the procedure for evaluation of women SSC officers for grant of permanent commission notified on August 1 “is nothing but a reproduction of existing procedure for gentlemen officers who are evaluated for similar benefits in their fifth and 10 year of service”. They said this was a breach of the SC’s mandate which had said the permanent commission board evaluation of women SSC officers for grant of PC in 10 streams should be inclusive and not exclusive. They said the criteria notified on August 1 would impact a large number of women officers who had already surpassed the service age of 5-10 years for grant of PC. The petitioner officers are in the service age of 10, 14 and 20 years, thus falling in the age group of 35-50 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-criteria-for-women-in-pc-discriminatory-sc-told/articleshow/78178582.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 18, 2020||India||SC shoots down channel’s argument, stays telecast of show on Muslims||NEW DELHI: Seeking resumption of its Supreme Court stalled programme alleging that Muslims were “infiltrating UPSC”, Sudarshan TV told the SC on Thursday that its serialised investigative documentary was attempting to flag the threat posed to national security by foreign funding from terror linked organisations for the purpose of preparing Muslims for the civil services. Reacting angrily to the alleged “insidious content” of the programme which it said was capable of hurting India’s traditional image as a “melting pot of cultures”, a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had on Tuesday stayed further telecast of the 10-episode programme. Petitioner Firoz Iqbal Khan had sought a ban on the programme terming it as nothing but “hate speech” aimed at causing communal tension and enmity between Hindus and Muslims. The channel said it had used the words “UPSC Jihad” as it became aware through various sources that Zakat Foundation had been receiving funds from various foreignbased terror linked organisations. “It is not that all contributors to Zakat Foundation are terror linked. However, some of the contributors are linked to organisations or are organisations that fund extremist groups. The funds received by Zakat Foundation, in turn, are used to support aspirants for IAS, IPS or UPSC,” the channel said in its affidavit filed through advocate Vishnu Jain. “This is a matter of grave public interest. It is also a matter of national security. ...It is the debate and discussions arising from the subject programme which may cause the government to re-examine its policy with respect to such funding,” it said. It said from 2009 to 2019, 119 Zakat Foundation fellows had joined the civil services as per their website. In 2020 alone, 27 out of 40 Muslim candidates selected by UPSC were products of Zakat Foundation. As per FCRA records available with the home ministry, Zakat Foundation received over Rs 65 lakh in donations from Madina Trust UK and Rs 35 lakh from Muslim Aid (UK) between 2007-19. The petitioner said the programme was based on hearsay and was far from facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-shoots-down-channels-argument-stays-telecast-of-show-on-muslims/articleshow/78178585.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||In blow to Cong, dept led by Ajit Pawar to handle key institute||MUMBAI: The state government on Thursday entrusted the prestigious Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute (Sarthi) and a few key schemes with the planning department led by deputy CM Ajit Pawar. The crucial decision is being viewed as a setback for Congress, since it had thwarted the proposal to entrust Sarthi with Pawar. Sarthi was set up in 2018 for socio-economic and educational development of Marathas, Kunbi-Marathas, Maratha-Kunbis and farmer families. A month ago, when there was a move to shift Sarthi to the planning department, revenue minister and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat had protested. The OBC department on Thursday promulgated a resolution and two schemes — Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Scholarship Scheme and Dr Punjabrao Deshmukh Scheme for hostel students — were given to the planning department||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-blow-to-cong-dept-led-by-ajit-pawar-to-handle-key-institute/articleshow/78178586.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 18, 2020||Goa||Tout, three others assault, loot Bengaluru tourists||CALANGUTE: Three persons were arrested by Calangute police on Wednesday for allegedly looting and assaulting four Bengaluru tourists. Calangute police said Girish Narasimha Shetty, a native of Bengaluru, lodged a complaint that on Tuesday at around 2.30pm he was approached by a tout at the Dolphin Circle in Calangute. The tout, Lalsab Ameen Najab, a resident of Mapusa, offered to arrange accomodation at a place in Porvorim for Shetty and three of his friends. Accordingly, they followed Nadaf, who rode a scooter, in their car to a villa in Porvorim. Once inside the villa, the tourists were allegedly assaulted by three persons, identified as Manish Rauthan, Jaideep Duhal and Anshuman Sharma, who forcibly removed Rs 1,500 cash from their wallets. They also took away an ATM card and tapped Rs 8,000 using a card swipe machine. Police traced three accused to the villa in Porvorim where they were running a ‘wellness spa’, while the tout is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tout-3-others-assault-loot-bluru-tourists/articleshow/78177558.cms||---
September 18, 2020||World||Families of Wuhan Covid victims accuse China of blocking lawsuits||WUHAN : Wuhan pensioner Zhong Hanneng endured every parents worst nightmare when Covid-19 claimed her son in February, and — alongside other bereaved relatives — she wants to sue the local government. The families accuse the Wuhan and Hubei provincial governments of concealing the outbreak when it first emerged late last year, allowing Covid-19 to explode out of control.“They say the epidemic was a natural calamity. But these serious outcomes are man-made,” said Zhong, 67. At least five lawsuits have been filed with the Wuhan Intermediate Court. Plaintiffs are each seeking around two million yuan ($295,000). But they have had their lawsuits abruptly rejected and dozens of others face pressure from authorities not to file, according to people involved. The court staff refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/families-of-wuhan-covid-victims-accuse-china-of-blocking-lawsuits/articleshow/78178597.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Business||Winding up Air India among 4 options suggested for sale by adviser||NEW DELHI: The transaction adviser for Air India’s divestment has suggested four options to the government regarding the struggling airline’s future that range from shutting it down to further reducing the debt of over Rs 23,000 crore that bidders need to take on and letting them choose a level they find viable. It is reliably learnt that the four options suggested by the adviser, Ernst & Young India, to the inter-ministerial group are: 1) Keeping the debt level at Rs 23,286 crore or reducing it further while changing the timelines; 2) Assigning no pre-fixed debt level and letting bidders quote a combined debt and equity value; 3) Government continuing to run AI for 2-3 years; 4) Winding up AI. The options come in the wake of the pandemic-induced sharp downturn in the airline business globally. Govt hopes AI will find bidder as demand for long-haul growsAviation minister H S Puri had recently reiterated in Parliament that the choice “is between privatising or closing down” Air India. Based on the suggestions, the core group of secretaries and the ministerial panel handling the sale of the cashguzzling national carrier will decide the future course of action although it is unclear if the government will be able to decide on the much-delayed privatisation during the current fiscal year. The pandemic has left all global airlines — including those seen as potential bidders for AI — struggling to survive. The fortunes of Indian corporates, including likely bidders, have also taken a sharp downturn and whether they have the appetite for taking on AI remains to be seen. AI has a combined debt-cum-liabilities burden of almost Rs 90,000 crore. At the same time, the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to fuel demand for nonstop long to medium haul travel. To cut down on touch points, people will now be wary of taking connecting flights from the Gulf or Southeast Asia, and will prefer to fly nonstop between India and North America, Europe, Australia and Africa. Due to this reason, the aviation ministry brass has been hopeful that AI will find a bidder this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/winding-up-ai-among-4-options-suggested-for-sale-by-adviser/articleshow/78178606.cms||Saurabh Sinha
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||BJP MP Ashok Gasti dies due to Covid-19 in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Ashok Gasti, who became a member of the Rajya Sabha just two months ago in a surprise nomination by BJP, passed away in Bengaluru late Thursday night, nearly three weeks after he tested positive for Covid-19. The 55-year-old tested positive for Covid late August and he opted for home isolation. Five days later, his condition worsened and he was rushed to Manipal Hospitals in Bengaluru. Comorbidities aggravated his condition, a source in the hospital said. Hospital director Dr Manish Rai said Gasti was brought in with "severe Covid-19 pneumonia" two weeks ago, and he was on life-support system in the intensive care unit. He died around 10.30pm. Leaders from BJP and other parties tweeted their condolences, describing him as a humble worker. Recently nominated to RSGasti, from Lingasugur taluk in Raichur district, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha along with Eranna Kadadi, another grassroots worker of the BJP. Gasti is known for simplicity, living in a rented accommodation and moving about on a scooter. Trivikram Joshi, a BJP worker from Raichur, said he and Gasti started their political innings in 1990. "Gasti was president of Raichur City Yuva Morcha then. He worked for the party in Raichur and rest of Hyderabad-Karnatak region without any expectations until he was pitchforked to the elders' house through the party nomination. He's first from Savita Samaja to hold that position," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-mp-ashok-gasti-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78178610.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Business||Govt to auto cos: Cut costs, huge royalty to parent firms||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday asked carmakers to reduce costs and “huge” royalty payment to their overseas parents as it countered the criticism of high GST rates on the industry. The statement from the finance ministry officials comes two days after Toyota Kirloskar Motor vice-chairman Shekar Viswanathan said the company is holding back expansion in India due to “prohibitive taxes”, only to be countered by his boss and Toyota’s Indian promoter/partner Vikram Kirloskar a few hours later. Viswanathan is a critic of the tax structure and had earlier described the higher levy on hybrid vehicles as “short-sighted and stupid”. After comments by the finance ministry, Toyota again sought to buy peace with the government and said on Thursday that it continues to be “deeply committed to India” and the country’s national objectives. “We have firm belief in the core strength of the country’s economic growth potential and are fully committed for continually working towards contributing to the economic development… Our operations in India are an integral part of our long-term global strategy,” Masakazu Yoshimura, MD of Toyota Kirloskar Motor, said. Yoshimura added, “As part of these efforts, Toyota Group in India is targeting to invest over Rs 2,000 crore in the coming years on technology and electrification, both for the domestic and exports market. We reaffirm that Toyota Kirloskar intends to make all efforts to promote and introduce newer, cleaner and world-class technologies and services in the market.” The revenue department in the finance ministry, however, has decided to step in, seeking to counter Toyota’s claim, arguing that there is “complete certainty” on taxation of the auto sector. It argued that the current GST rates were lower than the combined impact of previous tax regime of VAT and excise duty. It also said levies were higher in several other countries, including Japan, home to Toyota and Suzuki, and the EU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-auto-cos-cut-costs-huge-royalty-to-parent-firms/articleshow/78178611.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ST buses to run at full capacity, experts critical||MUMBAI: From Friday, the 5,500 state transport (ST) buses plying across Maharashtra will run at 100% occupancy. Transport experts, however, panned the decision and said it could be ‘disastrous’ and lead to a spread of Covid across Maharashtra, already the worst-affected state. In Mumbai, the BEST, with its 3,500-strong fleet, will continue to run at 50% occupancy—one passenger for every two seats. Confirming the decision on Thursday, MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe said that online reservations will allow booking of all seats on a bus. MSRTC: 100% occupancy to benefit officegoers from far-flung suburbsConfirming that the state government has allowed 100% occupancy in ST buses from Friday, MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe said: “Passengers will have to comply with rules like wearing a mask and sanitising their hands. Our buses will be sanitised for every journey.” Sources said the MSRTC, which was suffering huge losses with the 50% occupancy rule, had requested the government to allow 100% occupancy as state-operated buses in a few neighbouring states like Gujarat and Karnataka were already doing it. The MSRTC had increased its ridership to five lakh passengers a day after it started inter-district travel from August 20. An official said that with full occupancy in ST buses, the monthly revenue collection is expected to touch Rs 100 crore. The decision will also benefit officegoers from farflung suburbs like Vasai and Kalyan and reduce queues at bus stops, he added. But transport expert Gaurang Vora pointed out: “The basic rule of keeping a distance between two passengers prevents the spread of coronavirus. When the BEST and other city bus undertakings are following this rule, why should state-run buses be allowed 100% occupancy?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-st-buses-to-run-at-full-capacity-experts-critical/articleshow/78178607.cms||Somit Sen
September 18, 2020||Business||Happiest Minds soars, Ashok Soota makes Rs 2.4k crore||BENGALURU: The price of the Happiest Minds stock soared on debut on the stock exchange on Thursday and made promoter Ashok Soota wealthier by over Rs 2,300 crore (more than $300 million). Considering the extent of oversubscription of the IPO (151 times) and the pre-listing grey market trades, the stock was expected to do very well. But it went even beyond most people’s imagination. “Given this kind of a market, we would have been happy with a 50% bump up. This has gone way higher than that,” Soota told TOI on Thursday. The share listed at Rs 351, a premium of 111% over the issue price of Rs 166 — better than the performance of IRCTC and DMart, both of which had risen just over 100% when they listed. It touched a high of Rs 391 and closed at Rs 371, with a market cap of Rs 5,449 crore. The company had given stock options to every employee. So every one would have had reason to celebrate. The biggest beneficiaries are the top executives and the ones who joined the company in few years of its founding in 2011. Vice-chairman designate Joseph Anantharaju’s stock is now worth Rs 44 crore and CFO Venkatraman Narayanan’s is worth Rs 31 crore. The two presidents, Chaluvaiya Ramamohan and Rajiv Shah, hold stock worth Rs 19 crore and Rs 12 crore respectively. The promoter group includes Soota’s two brothers and two sisters, who hold stocks worth between Rs 1 and 3 crore. Another entity, Ashok Soota Medical Research, holds stock worth Rs 666 crore. While Soota held 49% of the pre-issue shares, the entire promoter group held 60%. Soota sold 12% of his shares in the IPO. A JP Morgan fund that held almost 20% of the stake exited fully, taking a total of Rs 448 crore. Asked if he had any regrets that the issue was not priced higher, he said he had no regrets except that many who had subscribed to the issue would not get allotments because of the massive oversubscription. He said he was delighted that all shareholders including employees and those who subscribed to the IPO have benefited. He attributed the good performance to the value proposition of Happiest Minds being a fully digital services-focused company and the fact that IT services’ share prices have been rising sharply after the initial fall soon after the lockdowns. Narayanan, the CFO, attributed it also to the good liquidity in the market and the rise in the company’s ebita margin, to 26%, in the first quarter. Soota, who is 77, had in 2007 taken his previous venture, Mindtree, to a similarly successful IPO. Asked about the repeat performance, he said the key to it is to build a clear differentiator. “If I had tried to do in Happiest Minds what Mindtree was doing, it wouldn’t have worked. We created a very different proposition, of a totally digital, agile company,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/happiest-minds-soars-soota-makes-2-4k-crore/articleshow/78178612.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
September 18, 2020||Gurgaon||MES cleaner gives info on Army to Pakistani ‘madam ji’||GURUGRAM/LUCKNOW: A civilian employee of the Military Engineering Services (MES), Jaipur was arrested by Haryana Police’s special task force (STF) in Rewari for allegedly passing on classified information to a Pakistani military intelligence unit after getting honey-trapped on Facebook. The STF said it acted on a specific input from military intelligence (MI) to detain Mahesh Kumar (28) from Dharuhera bus stand on Wednesday. Kumar was about to board a bus for Jaipur when he was nabbed. The STF said it had received an alert that Kumar was in touch with a Pakistani intelligence operative and was passing classified information through WhatsApp and Facebook. Kumar, whose official job description is a cleaner, allegedly took snapshots of classified content in files. He deleted the photos from his phone after sending them to the Pakistani operative, the STF said. Kumar had shared with his handler the ORBAT – the order of battle – of a Jaipur-based Army brigade, details of some senior officers in Jaipur, location of PCDA, Jaipur, details of MES complaint records, Covid-19 status of Jaipur cantonment and a posting order of civilian MES staff. “We had information from military intelligence. For three days, we kept an eye on him to collect evidence. On Wednesday night, we arrested him and seized his mobile phone,” said DIG (STF) Satheesh Balan, adding the phone has been sent for a forensic analysis while Kumar had been handed over to cops. An original resident of Rewari, Kumar had come home on leave. Police said Mahesh had received friend requests on Facebook from two accounts named Harleen Gill and Harman Kour run by Pakistani intelligence operatives. He received a friend request from Harleen in July 2018. The account was deactivated after a few weeks. In 2019, he received another friend request from Harman. They exchanged numbers and started video chats. Kumar used to address her as “madam ji”, police said, adding Kumar had allegedly received money twice – Rs 5,000 each -- over the last 5-6 months from his Pakistani handlers via Kerala. Military intelligence’s Lucknow unit got information about Kumar’s activity earlier this month and informed Haryana STF. Later, a team from MI Lucknow and MI Jaipur interrogated him. During interrogation, it came to fore that Kumar used to communicate with Harleen through text and audio-video chat on Facebook messenger. The account was being run by a young woman who was based in Pakistan but claimed to be working with the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (PCDA) office in Jalandhar, said MI officers. With Harman, too, Kumar started communicating on Facebook messenger and later graduated to WhatsApp. He was found to have been in touch the woman on at least two WhatsApp numbers. They used to exchange text and audio messages, besides video chat. Lucknow MI first received an input in June this year that a mobile user registered in the name of Mahesh Kumar was sharing sensitive military information with a woman associated with Pakistani MI. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mes-cleaner-gives-info-on-army-to-pakistani-madam-ji/articleshow/78177697.cms||Bagish Jha
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rowdy attacks constable, shot at||BENGALURU: DJ Halli police opened fire at a 30-year-old rowdy-sheeter Prem Kumar after he attacked a constable with a dagger on Thursday morning near LR Bande in east Bengaluru. Police were looking for Kumar, who along with his friend Shiva and others, had attacked three men outside a bar near DJ Halli over a trivial issue on September 8. Shiva, 33, was arrested on Wednesday. Cops received credible information that Kumar was near LR Bande and a team headed by sub-inspector Nagadev Torke rushed to nab him. As constable Ranganath tried to catch Kumar, he attacked him with a dagger. Torke warned Kumar to surrender and opened fire in the air. But Kumar continued to attack Ranganath, prompting Torke to fire at his leg. Police said on September 8 Deepak, Kapil and Suresh were partying in Vinutha bar, where the accused were drinking as well. Both groups got into a fight. Shiva, Kumar and the others assaulted the trio with a knife and machetes before fleeing from the spot. DJ Halli police have taken up a case of attempt to murder against the gang and investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-rowdy-attacks-constable-shot-at/articleshow/78178619.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University for some form of proctoring, device-neutral exam software||MUMBAI: Use some form of proctoring or digital supervision, with or without camera, while conducting final-year university exams. This is one of the Mumbai University (MU) guidelines for deployment of online software for the exams to be held across 750 affiliated colleges for 2.5 lakh students from October 1. The guidelines also specify a software that can be accessed on mobile phones, laptops as well as desktops for the convenience of all students. “The focus is on conducting the exams smoothly and by ensuring there is very little room for malpractice. It is also important to ensure there is no impersonation as students will appear for their exams from home. Colleges cannot insist on devices with cameras at this stage, so they have to deploy software that can have configurable proctoring based on their needs. They can get students’ devices registered before exams, have a registered mail ID, can track IP address, have an OTP system, or even use non-forwardable mails,” said a principal, adding these may not be foolproof but can take care of malpractice to some extent. TimesViewThe Mumbai University needs to look at students with compassion and empathy rather than doubt and distrust. Students, of course, are expected to take the exams with utmost seriousness. But, at the same time, principals and other authorities should take things a little easy and make it as easy as possible for students to take exams in these difficult times. The varsity must not forget that for students as much as for itself, this is an unprecedented situation.While Google Forms is currently trending as the most popular exam tool among colleges, some are using software that can freeze a device’s internet browsers. In cases where continuous proctoring is not available, colleges plan to use plug-ins that will randomly take pictures once exam starts. “If a student is seen looking elsewhere and not at the screen, we may consider that as malpractice,” said another college principal. University guidelines laid down minimum requirements in the software for safety, security and administrative support. They say students should be allowed to resume sessions in case of network failure, the option of locking the application should be available, have randomized display of questions (different questions for different students), and have facelocking if exams are proctored. T A Shiware, appointed as the university advisor for conducting the exams, said, “As a lead college, Wilson, which has other south Mumbai colleges in the cluster, will proctor the exam. A helpline has been set up to address any grievance that students may have. Five servers have been deployed.” Not all colleges are prepared. “Under our cluster, there is already a lot of tension about the finances involved. Most software and plug-ins charge Rs 30-150 per student per exam. A centralized software would have solved our problems,” said a lead college principal. ‘Students will get regular degree certificate without Covid mention’Higher and technical education minister Uday Samant said on Thursday the government will extend all possible cooperation to the universities for conducting final-year exams. He also assured students they will get their regular degree certificates with no mention of Covid-19. In a press meet, Samant said Mumbai University, which has the highest number of final-year candidates, will make all efforts to ensure no student is left out of the exam process. Students who have not filled their exam forms have been given a three-day extension, he said. Samant further said the exams will be conducted in the MCQ format in the online mode, but the university plans to conduct offline exams for students who are unable to appear online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-university-for-some-form-of-proctoring-device-neutral-exam-software/articleshow/78178622.cms||Yogita Rao
September 18, 2020||India||Concessions to senior citizens suspended to stop unnecessary rail travel, HC told||The Southern railway has informed the Madras high court that ticket fare concession to senior citizens was suspended to discourage unnecessary travel in view of the pandemic. It further submitted that between 2016 and 2019, it had incurred Rs 5,475 crore revenue loss providing concessions. “The element of concession extended was varying from 10% to 100% depending upon the category. However, in view of Covid-19, a lot of train services were cancelled ... and it was decided to grant concessions only for four categories – disabled passengers, 11 categories of patients and students,” said counsel for the railways PT Ramkumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/concessions-to-senior-citizens-suspended-to-stop-unnecessary-rail-travel-hc-told/articleshow/78178624.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Book Shourie for 2002 Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel sale: Court to CBI||JODHPUR/UDAIPUR: A special CBI court in Jodhpur said on Thursday that former Union minister Arun Shourie and disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal sold the grand Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur at a throwaway price in 2002. The court also directed the CBI to file a case against Shourie and Baijal and three private persons. It ordered summoning of all the accused by an arrest warrant. The court also ordered immediate attachment of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel by the Udaipur district magistrate and said it will remain under state government’s custody until the matter was disposed of. These directions came in a case of corruption in the disinvestment exercise of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel, which was sold for Rs 7.52 crore to a private player, Bharat Hotels Limited. The court observed that Shourie, despite being associated with the world of news and having spoken against corruption, became part of a corrupt deal which caused a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. “This proved his double standards on the issue of corruption,” the court said. The CBI had registered a case on August 13, 2014, saying that some unknown officers from the department of disinvestment, in connivance with a private hotelier , renovated and then sold the Laxmi Vilas Palace, a unit of ITDC, at a throwaway price of Rs 7.52 crore, thereby causing a loss of Rs 143.48 crore to the government of India, as per the valuation by sub-registrar of Udaipur then. It was later valued at Rs 252 crore during CBI investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/book-shourie-for-2002-laxmi-vilas-palace-hotel-sale-court-to-cbi/articleshow/78178629.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Younger population not as immune as believed||BENGALURU: Close to 700 youngsters under the age of 40 have died of Covid-19 in Karnataka, making up 9% of the deaths so far, reflecting the findings in the west as well that the younger population is not as immune to the disease as thought earlier. The disease, that was believed to be fatal only for the elderly with comorbidities, has killed 16 children under 10 years; 35 aged 11-20; 165 aged 21-30 and 479 aged 31-40. As of September 16, Karnataka’s toll from the disease stood at 7,536; the fatalities jumped in the 40-50 age bracket to 1,057. Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology at Apollo Hospitals, said the initial understanding of Covid-19 came from China and then from Italy where many senior citizens died. “However, when the virus affected the US and the UK, it was quite clear that younger people too were getting affected. Obesity, hypertension and diabetes in the younger population can make them vulnerable. Even if they don’t have comorbidities, people without robust immune reaction also get into trouble,” he said. “Fortunately, we don’t have many children among the affected.” Low fatality rateMehta explained that low immunity and exuberant immune response can both pose challenges in Covid. Which is why presenting early to the healthcare system is important. “Waiting at home until symptoms worsen may lead to the immune system going haywire, leading to further complications.” A total of 2.7 lakh people under 40 have been diagnosed with Covid as of September 16 — making up 56% of the total caseload. Hearteningly, the fatality rate in this age group is barely 0.3%. A 23-year-old diabetic from Bengaluru, who died after contracting the infection on June 12, refused to get admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital while submitting his samples even as his symptoms worsened. When he was confirmed positive two days later, health staff had a tough time in tracing him and bringing him to hospital. He died within hours of admission. Dr S Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences and head of the state’s Covid-19 death audit committee, said Covid-19 fatalities can occur in any age group. “Covid fatalities occur due to the severity of infection. The disease can affect the lungs, neurological system or the kidneys. It can happen to anybody but the process is hastened if a person has comorbidities. It’s not that the severe conditions cannot occur in the younger age group. It depends on the severity of infection, viral load, individual immunity and a lot of other factors,” he said. “There are no specific drugs for SARS-CoV-2 and the treatment given now is empirical therapy. When there is specific treatment available, at any point of time, infection can be controlled. One of the major reasons for deaths is late presentation to the hospitals,” he said. “If there are early signs and symptoms, one can get admitted. The diseases progress rapidly and on the 4th or 5th day, they can develop complications and that can be prevented with early diagnosis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-younger-population-not-as-immune-as-believed/articleshow/78178623.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Separate bins for dry, wet waste in Guntur||Guntur: To make Guntur a clean city, Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) has decided to rope in ragpickers and wastepaper dealers to collect dry garbage from various garbage collection points. GMC has identified several micro-packets to allow garbage collection agents to take away the stock from the GMC points. C Anuradha, commissioner, GMC, directed the municipal health wing to monitor the project. GMC had already directed the sanitation wing to train workers to collect dry and wet waste in separate bins from houses. “We have launched the dry garbage disposal project on a pilot basis in certain areas where the collection of garbage is being done in two separate bins. We will expand the scheme shortly after taking feedback,” said Anuradha. She said that ragpickers would also make some revenue through the project as they would get the stocks without roaming around the city. Although the two-bin system was launched long ago, it did not succeed as residents were not segregating dry and wet waste before disposal. This is prompting the sanitation workers to collect the entire garbage in single bin by mixing everything including the plastic waste. It is becoming extremely difficult for the civic body to segregate dry and wet waste after transporting garbage to dumping yards. It has become a headache for the civic bodies to handle garbage due to lack of technologies. The commissioner appealed to the residents to segregate garbage in two separate bins while handing it over to door-to-door gatherers. She said that the worker would take the garbage to the nearest stock points where dry waste would be given to garbage dealers or ragpickers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/separate-bins-for-dry-wet-waste-in-guntur/articleshow/78175725.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Mum to allow 100% occupancy in govt buses, experts urge caution||MUMBAI: From Friday morning, the 5,500 state transport (ST) buses plying across Maharashtra will have 100% occupancy. Confirming the decision on Thursday to increase passenger carrying capacity from 50% to 100%, Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) managing director Shekhar Channe said that online reservations will allow booking of all seats on a bus. “Passengers will have to comply with rules like wearing a mask and sanitising their hands. Our buses will be sanitised for every journey,” he added. Transport experts, however, are critical of the decision and said it could be ‘disastrous’ and lead to spread of coronavirus across Maharashtra, which is already the the worst affected state in the country. In Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), with its fleet of 3,500 buses, will continue to run with 50% occupancy — one passenger for every two seats. Sources said that the MSRTC, which was suffering huge losses with the 50% occupancy rule, had requested the state government to allow 100% occupancy as stateoperated buses in a few neighbouring states like Gujarat and Karnataka were already doing it. MSRTC had seen increase in ridership to five lakh passengers a day after it started inter-district travel from August 20. An official said that with the full occupancy move, the corporation expects its monthly revenue collection to touch Rs 100 crore. But transport expert Gaurang Vora said, “The basic rule of keeping distance between two passengers is to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. When the BEST and other city bus undertakings are following this rule, why should state-run buses be allowed to have 100% occupancy?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mum-to-allow-100-occupancy-in-govt-buses-experts-urge-caution/articleshow/78178633.cms||Somit Sen
September 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Cabbies, autos hike fares as bus services remain suspended in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Cab operators and auto-rickshaw drivers have increased the fares in the absence of city bus services. While the cab and auto aggregators are charging up to Rs 600 for a ride of less than 10 km distance, individual auto drivers are charging anywhere between Rs 400 to Rs 500. In normal circumstances, the charge for the same ride used to be not more than Rs 250. Though the Union government has relaxed lockdown norms, public transport has not begun in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam where the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) operates city services. After the lockdown norms were eased, the state- run transport corporation has been running some long-distance services in the state. As there is no public transport available in the city presently, people have no option but to take an auto or cab. Taking advantage of the situation, the cab aggregators are charging extra by about 80 to 100% of the normal rates. The APSRTC used to run 450 city services on 110 routes on a daily basis in normal times. The demand for autos and cabs used to be less in the bus routes earlier. But in the absence of city services, all routes in the city have become costly with steep rise in fares of cab aggregators and autos. Though the public movement is less compared to pre-Covid-19 days and many people are preferring their own transport, those who don’t have the facility of private transport facility have to spend extra on their travel. Auto drivers say they had to increase the fare to as they are not finding many rides as in the past. “Earlier I used to get not less than 10 to 15 rides a day but now I am hardly getting five to six rides as people are not coming out unless it is absolutely necessary. We have to manage all our expenses with what we are getting” said Tekumalla Gangadhar, who drives a rented autorickshaw.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cabbies-autos-hike-fares-as-city-bus-services-remain-suspended/articleshow/78175746.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 18, 2020||Noida||Letter to govt: Give us our footpaths back||NOIDA: On the footpaths in Noida as well as other NCR cities, pedestrians have to jostle for space that is rightfully theirs. Encroachment on the sidewalks by shops, hawkers and for vehicle parking remains rampant, forcing people to walk on roads and on to the path of traffic, increasing the risk of accidents. The Confederation of NCR Residents Welfare Associations (CONRWA) has written to Hardeep Puri, the Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), as well as the chief ministers of UP, Delhi, Rajasthan, among others, demanding encroachment-free footpaths. Citing a Supreme Court judgment dated September 2, 2019, where justices Arun Mishra and Deepak Gupta ruled against encroachment on footpaths in Delhi in the name of ramps, beautification and security guard cabins, the residents’ body has asked for the order’s implementation in the entire NCR as well as the entire country. The RWA body categorised the encroachers into three kinds — the most-visible (street vendors/hawkers/makeshift shopkeepers), the party visible (owners of small, medium, and large shops) and most harmful (house/building owner). The third type, according to the RWA body, “invade” the footpaths in front of their houses by gardens, sloping ramps, steps, plantations or mini-parking areas. The CONRWA claimed that the encroachments are dangerous for senior citizens, sick persons, the differently abled, and children. PS Jain, president (CONRWA), said, “The issue of encroachments on footpaths is important and concern for almost every citizen. However, it has remained grossly neglected.” Jain added, “Every person, at some point of the day, is a pedestrian. Law states that pedestrians must walk only on footpaths. When the pavements are encroached upon, damaged or obstructed, a pedestrian is forced to walk on to the roads. Footpaths in cities are largely ‘encroached upon’. Strangely, the civic authorities and traffic police do not care about this issue.” Anil Sharma, general secretary (CONRWA), said that encroachers have no ‘class’ distinction. “From the poor to rich, everyone encroaches upon the footpaths. Nearly all markets in GB Nagar’s residential sectors, homes and other areas have these encroachments. Despite many drives, the encroachments are back. Hence, it’s important to remove them to reclaim space for the pedestrians,” said Sharma. The RWA body has urged the minister to ensure that encroachment details of the NCR be compiled, notices are issued to encroachers as per the directions of the Supreme Court order and a seminar on encroachment-free footpaths (EFF) under the aegis of the NCR planning board in association with CONRWA be organised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/letter-to-govt-give-us-our-footpaths-back/articleshow/78177119.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
September 18, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Daylight robbery case cracked, 5 held||VIJAYAWADA: Police cracked the sensational daylight robbery case and arrested five persons involved in the city on Thursday. The accused were identified as U Nagendra Babu (28), Y Sai Kiran (27), both from Madhura Nagar, B John Wesley (25), J Akhil (22), from Tadepalli, and M Vijay (26) from Vanukuru Village. Addressing a press meet, Vijayawada police commissioner B Srinivasulu said that the five accused wore masks and gloves and barged into ayurvedic doctor Ch Muralidhar’s residence in Mogalrajapuram on Monday and stole gold jewellery worth Rs 50 lakh and cash. The robbers tied up Muralidhar’s wife Swarupa Rani and son Teja Sai before taking the valuables. The commissioner said that one of the accused, M Vijay, happens to be a public relations officer (PRO) at the doctor’s hospital and informed Rani that some of the miscreants were roaming suspiciously before their residence and cautioned her. Srinivasulu said that the Teja Sai first noticed a few of the accused and questioned why they were roaming near their premises. They informed that they were there for some material and were waiting for someone. When he was returning to lock the doors, the accused barged inside and stole Rs 48.5 lakh cash and gold ornaments at knife point. During the investigation, the cops identified M Vijay and happened to have connections with U Nagendra as they both maintained a canteen near the hospital premises. The cops managed to recover Rs 37.25 lakh of which Rs 34.75 lakh stolen amount and 48 grams of gold worth Rs 2.50 lakh from the accused. “There is still Rs 12 lakh that has to be recovered from the accused. Investigation is still underway,” Srinivasulu stated. All the accused were booked for robbery at Machavaram police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/daylight-robbery-case-cracked-5-held/articleshow/78175817.cms||---
September 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai likely to receive light rain in next 48 hours: Weathermen||CHENNAI: After some surprise midnight spells in parts of the city on Wednesday, weathermen have forecast light rain likely in the city for the next 48 hours. With a low pressure area likely to develop over Northeast Bay of Bengal around September 20, weather enthusiasts said there are chances of rainfall till this weekend as the system is likely to bring favourable wind patterns for the convective spells. The regional meteorological centre, Chennai has forecast, “The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Light rain is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 33°C and 27°C in the city for the next 48 hours.” This, according to officials, could be due to the change in wind direction and speed and the resulting convective activity. Localities close to the beach like Mandaveli saw some showers on Wednesday night. Soon it started raining localities in west Chennai like Ambattur and Avadi. Southern suburbs of the city too saw lightning and heavy thundershowers while core city areas like Aminjikarai, Choolaimedu, T Nagar and Nungambakkam saw only lightning and thunder. On Thursday morning ending 8.30am, Meenambakkam registered 19.6mm while Nungambakkam recorded only traces. Weather blogger Pradeep John said many southern suburbs recorded rainfall on Wednesday night due to the wind convergence happening in the interior areas closer to Kancheepuram leaving the city core areas dry. “With low pressure formation, there will be good steering winds pushing the clouds towards the sea. That could bring rainfall,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-likely-to-receive-light-rain-in-next-48-hours-weathermen/articleshow/78178636.cms||---
September 18, 2020||India||Experts from other fields can become astronauts in post-Gaganyaan missions: Programme director||NEW DELHI: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) will sustain the human spaceflight programme beyond the 2022 Gaganyaan mission and “those spaceflight missions will give an opportunity to youth excelling in other specific fields to be astronauts and do research in space”. Dr V R Lalithambika, director, human spaceflight programme, during a special session on Gaganyaan at the International Conference & Exhibition On Space — Ushering The New Era In Indian Space Sector, organised by the CII, said on Thursday, “There has been a tremendous national interest among youths in the Gaganyaan mission. For the first phase of Gaganyaan, people with flying background (four IAF pilots) have to be necessarily chosen. "However, the sustained human spaceflight programme will provide an opportunity for a much larger and more inclusive participation of people who are excelling in specific areas, which are of relevance to sustained human spaceflights.” She also said that like other space agencies that have sustained their human spaceflight missions, India will also need sustained human spaceflight missions post-Gaganyaan in order to “gain substantial benefits for the country from the programme, which will also provide a golden opportunity to our startups and MSMEs.” The senior space scientist said R&D should be done in multiple domains like engineering, human-centric and life sciences. She also said that apart from advanced materials, polymers, optics, robotics and others have immense potential for the industry. Lalithambika said, “In an emerging space scenario, the spaceflight programme can lead to an industry that will employ people for working in space. It will be very expensive, but these emerging space industries would need to produce tremendous value (of products and services) for people working on the Earth, only then they would be able to get a positive return on their investments.” During the session, Unnikrishnan Nair, director, Human Space Flight Centre, said, “For the Gaganyaan mission, of the 28 proposals from industry and academia, six experiments (four biological and two related to fluid and material) have been selected for the two unmanned missions next year.” In order to sustain the spaceflight programme, “we will have a full-fledged campus... We also have international collaborations in a big way and some contracts have been signed with several space agencies like Nasa, CNES (France), Russia, JAXA and Australian space agency, and countries like Germany, Canada and Romania.” “We are also working very seriously on inflatable space habitat (pressurised structures capable of supporting life in outer space) for multiple applications as part of probable habitat in space, moon and other planets,”he said. “Once the short-term mission is over, we will be working on long-term missions in space. AI and robotics will play a big role in such missions and international collaborations will be required,” he said. From such space missions, several spin-off technologies will be developed that will ultimately benefit society. For example, low-cost inflatable space habitat can be used in high-altitude areas for setting up human bases, Nair said. Four satellites ready for launch: Isro director KunhikrishnanIsro has targeted to launch 12 satellites during 2019-2020. “Of them, eight have been launched and four satellites are fully built and ready for launch,” said P Kunhikrishnan, director, UR Rao Satellite Centre, Isro, at the space conference. The four satellites are new-generation communication satellites GISAT-1, GSAT-12R and earth observation (surveillance) satellites Microsat-2A and RISAT-2BR2. While three are ready for shipment, GiSAT-1, whose launch in March was deferred due to a technical reason, is ready for launch. Owing to several Covid-related restrictions in several cities where Isro centres are located, the space agency has been forced to stall its satellite launches. It will resume only when the situation normalises. Kunhikrishnan said India has currently 52 satellites up in the sky. He said the participation of the industry in satellite programmes in future involves a transition from 'build to print' to 'build to specs', which entails migration from the current approach of working with Isro design to independent design and developing innovative products on turnkey basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/experts-from-other-fields-can-become-astronauts-in-post-gaganyaan-missions-programme-director/articleshow/78178639.cms||Surendra Singh
September 18, 2020||Noida||Sapphire buyers flag slow pace of work with NBCC||NOIDA: Buyers of Amrapali Sapphire I on Thursday flagged their concerns with NBCC regarding slow pace of construction work as well as poor construction quality at the housing project site in Noida Sector 45. The state-owned construction firm took over multiple stalled Amrapali projects in the twin cities in July last year on Supreme Court’s orders after the developer’s failure to deliver some 44,000 flats to buyers. The completion deadline offered by NBCC of all the pending flats is 2023. Amrapali Sapphire has a total of 1,033 flats. According to the buyers, the project has 25 flats to be completed and six lifts to be installed across towers. Fire-fighting and power back-up arrangements as well as repair of seepage in shafts also need to be done. “We met with the NBCC top brass on Thursday and highlighted the issues,” Ravi Kant of Sapphire I AOA, said. “We have requested Gupta that the executive director should visit the project site. The chairman has assured us that things would improve and we will wait and watch because we can’t say how they are doing until we see results. At the same time, we don’t want shoddy construction ,” Kant added. When contacted, the NBCC chairman told TOI, “We have received all the concerns of the buyers and each of them will be addressed. The Amrapali buyers have gone through a lot and we understand their basic lack of trust but NBCC is working with full dedication.” “Some issues pointed out by the buyers were finishing related matters. Now these things do not become visible when construction is in progress. We have to wait for the construction to get over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/sapphire-buyers-flag-slow-pace-of-work-with-nbcc/articleshow/78177164.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
September 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Worst-hit to best managed: How Krishna district flattened curve||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna, one of AP’s worst-hit districts initially, has managed to finally bring the Covid-19 outbreak under control. From the top-two worst hit districts in the state, it now has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases: 22,636. Vijayawada city, an urban space that saw a consistent rise in cases initially, now has just 934 active cases. When asked about what helped them contain disease spread, officials point to the extremely planned approach they adopted. The district administration was vigilant about early detection and strictly implemented mask-wearing orders, which led to a fall in new cases in the district, they say. In the months of April and May, Krishna district and especially Vijayawada reported a huge number of cases. The administration was on its toes and the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) implemented a number of innovative measures to contain the spread. These measures were later taken up across the state. One such measure was shifting of rythu bazaars (farmers’ markets) to large grounds and open spaces so as to ensure social distancing. Further, vegetable markets went mobile during the lockdown, going to people’s door-steps allowing them to stay home. Soon after this, VMC started distributing cloth masks for free. While this was later implemented across the state, wearing masks was made mandatory and the rule was vigorously implemented across Vijayawada. Special enforcement teams were deployed across the city that would impose fines for not wearing masks. Further, shelters were arranged for the homeless during the lockdown. Many volunteer organisations came forward to support the civic body’s initiatives. Speaking to TOI, VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said, “The support from the public has made this possible. We are happy that cases have come down. Early detection of cases with health camps on streets helped us detect the maximum number of cases on time. Serious focus was put on contact tracing. We are focussed on early detection and proper treatment.” Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said that efforts of the health, sanitation and revenue departments helped handle the crisis. “The infection rate in the district is very low. Now, we are focussing on rural areas. Around 60% of new cases registered in the district are from rural areas,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/worst-hit-to-best-managed-how-krishna-flattened-curve/articleshow/78175834.cms||Venu Lanka
September 18, 2020||Vijayawada||AP govt sanctions two barrages on Krishna river||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Thursday gave administrative sanction for two barrages on river Krishna in the downstream of Prakasam Barrage. The government also accorded administrative sanction of Rs 204 crore for land acquisition and initial work for the two barrages. The government had proposed two barrages on the river. The first barrage was proposed at Chodavaram village of Penamaluru mandal in Krishna district connecting Ramachandrapuram village of Mangalagiri mandal in Guntur district, 12 km away from the Prakasam Barrage. The second barrage was proposed connecting Bandikollanka village of Mopidevi mandal in Krishna district with Ananthavaram village of Repalle mandal in Guntur district, 62 km in the downstream of Prakasam Barrage. The Chodavaram barrage was estimated to cost Rs 1,215 crore while the Bandikollanka barrage was estimated to cost Rs 1,350 crore. The state government on Thursday gave orders for the release of Rs 102 crore for the Chodavaram barrage and Rs 102 crore for the Bandikollanka barrage. The two barrages were originally planned by the previous TDP government in 2018. However, the barrage initially proposed at Vaikuntapuram in the upstream of Prakasam barrage was now shifted to Bandikollanka in the downstream by the present government. The TDP government had proposed the barrage at Vaikuntapuram to provide drinking water to the proposed Amaravati capital city. With the present government dropping the mega plans of Amaravati, it had shifted the barrage to the downstream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-sanctions-two-barrages-on-krishna/articleshow/78175847.cms||Gopi Dara
September 18, 2020||Vijayawada||ANU VC probables to be finalised today||Amaravati: A three-member search committee led by Y Venkatarami Reddy, former member, UPSC, will meet on Friday to finalise the list of probables for Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) vice-chancellor. The state government is waiting for the committee to finalise the names of three candidates since it wants to send the recommendations for appointment of VCs to all six universities, including Andhra University, Sri Krishna Devaraya University, Sri Venkateswara Universtiy, Rayalaseema University and Dravida university in one go. The other search committees have already submitted the panels to the government. Sources said professor Rangaswamy (Rayalaseema University) and professor Yohan (Andhra University) are strong contenders for the top post. It is said that although Dr A Padmaja has applied, her name is likely to be considered for Dravida University in Kuppam. All the three belong to the SC community. At least two cabinet ministers and a dozen legislators have recommended Dr Nayak, senior faculty in Rayalaseema University, as one of the VCs, including ANU. Dr A Rajasekhar, vice-chancellor in-charge, ANU, is unlikely to get an extension, said sources. Dr Hemachandra Reddy, chairman, the higher education council, is said to be upset with Rajasekhar taking decisions without consulting the council. The social welfare department had initiated a probe into alleged irregularities in filling up the posts in ANU without following the reservation rule under Rajasekhar. Similarly, the assembly speaker’s office had issued notices to the VC on breach of privileges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anu-vc-probables-to-be-finalised-today/articleshow/78175900.cms||Samdani MN
September 18, 2020||Chennai||Pallavaram, Vandalur flyovers open, GST Road travel a breeze||Traffic bottlenecks on GST Road, gateway to the southern districts, could soon be a thing of the past. A flyover in Vandalur and another in Pallavaram, thrown open to the public by chief minister Edappadi K Palanisamy on Thursday, will ensure that. Work on the two flyovers had begun in 2016. The flyover in Vandalur is a two-way stretch and is expected to ease congestion for at least 2km on GST Road. The flyover in Pallavaram, about 1.5km long, is a uni-directional bridge like the one abutting the city's airport. A senior official from the highways department said at least 10,000 vehicles take the stretch during peak hours daily. With the inauguration of the Vandalur flyover, vehicles coming from Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road can turn left and proceed towards Chengalpet or take a U-turn under the flyover and head towards Perungalathur and beyond, he said. On the three-lane Pallavaram flyover, which can carry 5,000 vehicles during peak hours, an official said it will help motorists and vehicle users to avoid three traffic intersection on the GST Road, namely the old English Electric company junction, Sandhai road junction and Kundrathur road junction. The Pallavaram flyover cost `82.76 crore, while the one in Vandalur was constructed for `59 crore, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pallavaram-vandalur-flyovers-open-gst-road-travel-a-breeze/articleshow/78178644.cms||P Oppili
September 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Inter-state bus journeys get cheaper||VISAKHAPATNAM: Want to take an inter-state ride at a pretty low cost? Post-lockdown several transport operators are offering seats on luxury buses at price equal to the per head fuel cost of the sector you would travel. On September 19, a transport operator from Bhubaneswar will operate such a service from Vijayawada to Bhubaneswar and passengers can book seats on this bus for as low as Rs 600, when the normal fare on this sector on luxury buses is around Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,800, depending on the category of the buses. “For years, we used cater to tourists visiting popular destinations in and around Bhubaneswar. Now, tourism has stopped completely and we are offering inter-state transportation to transport labourers who had come back to their home state and want to rejoin work. Since these services are one-way, on the way back we are carrying passengers and charging only per head cost for fuel consumption from them,” said Harihar Patra, owner of the transport agency. Transport operators stated that their business had already seen a paradign shift around three to four years back when radio cab services started offering outstation rentals. Now, even tourists don’t prefer rent-a-car services and opt for app cab services in cities like Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. So these operators are changing the segments of their vehicles and most of these operators don’t have a smaller vehicle than a 15-seater vehicle. “We have a fleet of 44 buses starting from a 15-seater winger. Together we spent a monthly EMI of Rs 25 lakh for these vehicles. With no tourists coming to Visakhapatnam, we are offering services to bring back the labourers from their home states. Even this business became so competitive that we are forced to quote a low rate to get the order. To make up the loss, we are offering seats at a low cost to avoid running the bus empty,” said SKM Raju, a transport operator from the city. Recently, a 15-seater bus went to West Bengal to bring back labourers, who were working in the state, from West Bengal and Odisha. The company approached prospective customers through various means stating that seats were at a very low cost would be available from Visakhapatnam to Kharagpur. The company claimed that the promotion worked as they got eight passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/inter-state-bus-journeys-get-cheaper/articleshow/78175944.cms||Arpit Basu
September 18, 2020||Pune||Wadhawan row cop is Pune police chief||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday appointed controversial IPS official Amitabh Gupta as Pune city police chief in place of K Venkatesham who will be new additional DG operations. Gupta was in a row over granting letter of recommendation to the Wadhwans to travel to Lonavla amid lockdown. In a department probe, he was exonerated. The CM also shifted more than 40 IPS officers in the rank of ADG to superintendent of police. Vinit Agarwalreplace Guptas at Mantralaya as principal secretary, Pimpri-Chinchwad CP Sandeep Bishnoi will be ADG (railways), Vinay Korgaonkar will be new ADG (civil defence), Brijesh Singh will be new IG (administration) in DG office, J Supekar will be additional CP, Pune, Vikram Deshmane will be Thane SP, Sachin Patil is shifted to Nashik as SP, Pravin Munde will be new SP, Jalgaon, Abhinav Deshmukh will be SP, Pune. DCP Ankit Goyal is shifted to Gadchiroli as SP. For the first time over a dozen police superintendents will be in waiting as they’ve been replaced, but are not given new assignments. They include Shivaji Rathod-Thane, Akhilesh Kumar-Jalgaon, Suhail Sharma, Sangli, S Chaitanya, Jalna. ATS head Deven Bharti, who was shifted on September 2, too has not been given new assignment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wadhawan-row-cop-is-pune-police-chief/articleshow/78178635.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
September 18, 2020||Kolkata||Hospitals denying admission is breach of fundamental duty: Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: Calcutta High Court on Wednesday ruled that hospitals refusing to admit Covid patients without a valid reason could be a “culpable breach of the fundamental duty” of a medical institution. Terming it one of the “basic tenets of medical ethics”, the high court said that no hospital could refuse to admit a Covid-19 patient “if beds for such patients are available”. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee was hearing a PIL, which questioned the admission modalities of Covid patients and suspects in hospitals, both government and private. The HC observed that the primary objective of any hospital — government or private — should be to render healthcare to those in need. The court directed the petitioners to move The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) if they had “a concrete instance of any hospital denying admission to a Covid-19 patient despite beds being available.” The health panel, the HC said, would act against erring hospitals as it deems proper. The Bengal government informed the court that it had created a database, in which daily bed availability figures at all Covid facilities of the state were provided daily. This, it said, was accessible to the public. The state said there hasn’t been any instance of a government hospital denying admission to a Covid-19 patient, despite availability of beds. Rupak Barua, president, Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, said all private hospitals were “continuously augmenting the number of beds in order to accommodate Covid patients”, adding, “It might sometimes happen that hospital beds are full, and since Covid patients cannot be admitted with general patients, patients might have been referred to another facility. This is being done after stabilising patients in the emergency wards.” Like government hospitals, private hospitals, too, upload their bed-vacancy status on a daily basis with the health department. WBCERC has served a series of advisories to private hospitals on not refusing Covid patients. In case of unavailability of beds, such patients should be adequately stabilised before shifting. Hospitals have also been told to help such patients get a bed in another hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospitals-denying-admission-is-breach-of-fundamental-duty-hc/articleshow/78177905.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
