September 19, 2020||India||Pakistan rejects India's demand for Queen's counsel to represent Kulbhushan Jadhav||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan on Friday rejected India's demand that an Indian lawyer or a Queen's counsel should be appointed for death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav to ensure a free and fair trial in this country. Foreign Office spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri, replying to a question during a media briefing, said India has been consistently making the "unrealistic demand" of allowing a lawyer from outside Pakistan to represent Jadhav, sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court for alleged spying. “We have informed India that only those lawyers are allowed to appear in Pakistani courts who have a license to practice law in Pakistan. This is in line with international legal practice. There can be no change in this position,” he said. Queen's Counsel is a barrister or advocate, appointed Counsel to the UK Crown on the recommendation of the Lord Chancellor. Earlier this month, the Islamabad High Court in Pakistan directed the federal government to give India another chance to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav and adjourned hearing for a month. Pakistan's Parliament on Tuesday extended for four months an ordinance that allowed Jadhav to file an appeal against his conviction in a high court as required by the International Court of Justice (ICJ). Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the government of Pakistan has not been able to fulfil its obligations on implementation of the ICJ judgment in letter and spirit. "It has not yet addressed the core issues, which include provision of all documents related to the case, providing unconditional and unimpeded consular access to Kulbhusan Jadhav and appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen's counsel to ensure a free and fair trial," he said at an online media briefing on Thursday. In 2017, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence handed to him by a military court. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. India has slammed Pakistan for adopting a "farcical" approach in denying available legal remedies to Jadhav against his death sentence in contravention of the ICJ order. Fifty-year-old retired Indian Navy officer Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. To a question about elevating Gilgit-Baltistan's status to that of a full-fledged province, the Foreign Office spokesperson said that reforms in GB were an ongoing process that include political, administrative and economic reforms. “It (granting status of a province) has been a long-standing demand of the people of Giligit Baltistan. These reforms will continue in line with the needs of the people of Gilgit Baltistan," he said. India has clearly conveyed to Pakistan that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of the country by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession. Watch Kulbhushan Jadhav case: Pak rejects India's demand for Queen's counsel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-rejects-indias-demand-for-queens-counsel-to-represent-kulbhushan-jadhav/articleshow/78195363.cms||---
September 19, 2020||World||Assange lawyer says Trump offered deal to avoid extradition||LONDON: A lawyer for WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has told a London court that her client was indirectly offered a "win-win'' deal by President Donald Trump that would see him avoid extradition to the US if he revealed the source of a leak of documents from the Democratic Party before the 2016 election. Assange, who didn't reveal the source of the leak of the Democratic National Committee emails, is fighting efforts by the U.S. to extradite him to face an array of charges related to his work at WikiLeaks. Jennifer Robinson, who has represented WikiLeaks for a decade, relayed to the court Friday via a written statement that her client had been made an offer at a meeting on Aug. 15, 2017, with former Republican Congressman Dana Rohrabacher and Trump associate Charles Johnson. In her statement that was read out at London's Criminal Court, Robinson said the pair ``wanted us to believe they were acting on behalf of the president'' and that they had stated that Trump was ``aware of and had approved of them coming to meet'' with Assange to discuss the proposal. She also said the pair said they would have an audience with the president to discuss the matter on their return to Washington. Robinson said that Rohrabacher had said he had come to London to talk to Assange at his then-refuge at the Ecuadorian Embassy about ``what might be necessary to get him out,'' presenting him with a ``win-win situation'' that would allow him to leave the embassy and ``get on with his life`` without fear of being extradited to the U.S. ``The proposal put forward by Congressman Rohrabacher was that Assange identify the source for the 2016 election publications in return for some kind of pardon, assurance or agreement which would both benefit President Trump politically and prevent U.S. indictment and extradition,`` Robinson said. Any information on the source of the link would be of ``interest, value and assistance'' to Trump, the pair said, according to Robinson. Robinson said that Rohrabacher explained at the meeting that he wanted to resolve the ongoing speculation about Russian involvement in the leaks. Russia has been widely blamed to have been behind the email theft. At the time of the meeting, special counsel Robert Mueller was investigating alleged ties between Russia and Trump's 2016 election campaign. Assange didn't reveal the source of the leak of the Democratic National Committee emails, which were published by WikiLeaks, among others, in 2016 in the run-up to the election. They are considered to have damaged Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign against Trump. Rohrabacher, who lost his seat in the 2018 midterm elections, has previously said he never spoke with Trump about Assange and wasn't directed by the president or anyone else connected with him to meet with Assange. James Lewis, a lawyer acting on behalf of the U.S. government, said it wasn't contesting that ``these things'' were said. ``We obviously do not accept the truth of what was said by others,'' he said. U.S. prosecutors have indicted the 49-year-old Assange on 17 espionage charges, and one of computer misuse, over WikiLeaks' publication of secret U.S. military documents a decade ago, largely around the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq a decade ago. The charges carry a maximum sentence of 175 years in prison. Assange's lawyers say the prosecution is politically motivated and that he won't receive a fair trial in the United States. They also argue that Assange was acting as a journalist entitled to First Amendment protection. Assange has been in a British prison since his ejection from the Ecuadorian Embassy in London in April 2019. He had been granted asylum by Ecuador in 2012 over fears he would face possible extradition to the U.S. related to his work with WikiLeaks. The extradition hearing is due to last until early October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/assange-lawyer-says-trump-offered-deal-to-avoid-extradition/articleshow/78195622.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Business||How cheap oil is helping government battle Covid headwinds||NEW DELHI: The historic oil price crash in April and a protracted spell of subdued market reduced India’s oil import bill since January by 40%, giving the cash-strapped government some headroom as it battles Covid-induced headwinds. India paid Rs 2.6 lakh crore for 115.5 million tonne (mt) of oil imported in the January-July period against Rs 4.2 lakh crore for 130.8 mt in the same period of 2019. In dollar terms, the bill stood at $35.4 billion against $61.3 billion in the previous corresponding period, Parliament data shows. Read AlsoOil prices dive, hit lowest since June on Saudi price cut, Covid flare-upsOil futures tumbled on Tuesday, with Brent dropping below $40 a barrel for the first time since June and US crude off more than 8%, after Saudi Arabia cut its October selling prices and there was a flare-up of coronavirus cases around the world.During the April-July period, or the first four months of the current financial year, the bill stood at Rs 93,466 crore, or 62% lower than Rs 2.51 lakh crore in the comparative period of 2019. In dollar terms, the bill stood at $12.4 billion, marking a saving of 65.7%. To put things in perspective, the Rs 1.6 lakh crore saving in the January-July oil import bill is the same as the Rs 1.7 lakh crore tab for the Covid relief package announced for the poor in March. Surely, the government does not buy oil. But cheaper oil has a positive impact on macroeconomic parameters, which reduces drag on government finances and frees up resources for welfare. A recent Barclays note saw every $10/barrel decline in oil price lowering India’s current account trade by $8.5 billion, or shaving 30 bp from current account deficit (%GDP) in 2020-21, which keeps the rupee healthy and lifts purchasing power. Now consider: the price crash has erased LPG subsidy and will lower fertiliser subsidy. This means the government will not have to spend all of the Rs 37,256 crore budgeted for LPG subsidy or Rs 71,309 crore for fertiliser subsidy. The unspent money, for example, can be spent on healthcare. Cheaper oil allowed fuel tax to be raised for additional revenue without hurting consumers. Excise duty on petrol and diesel was raised by Rs 3 a litre in March when prices began sliding. It was again increased by Rs 10 per litre on petrol and Rs 13 on diesel in May when consumption was still at 50%. But the move is paying off as sales near pre-Covid levels. In addition, the government used the opportunity to fill the strategic reserve by buying 16.7 million tonne of cheap oil for $19 per barrel in April-May against $60 per barrel price in January, saving $685.11 million, or Rs 5,069 crore, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Lok Sabha recently. Admittedly, lower import volumes, prompted by consumption halving because of the countrywide lockdown from March 25 to stem the pandemic, contributed to a lower bill. Import volumes between January and July stood at 115.5 million tonne, down 11.6% from a year ago. The fall was sharper during the April-July period, or 23.6% lower than the previous comparative period. Read AlsoState refiners halt oil imports from Chinese companies: ReportIndian state refiners have stopped buying crude oil from China-linked companies, three sources said, after New Delhi's recent regulation aimed at restricting imports from countries that it shares a border with. The new regulation, put in place on July 23, comes after a border clash between India andUS benchmark WTI (West Texas Intermediate) crude slipped into negative for the first time in history of oil trading on April 20 and global benchmark Brent slipped below $20/barrel as demand crashed due to lockdowns shuttering economic activities across the world. Then Indian Basket too slumped to $19.9/barrel on cue and has averaged $41 in the January-July period against $65 in the year-ago period Watch How cheap oil is helped the government battle Covid headwinds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-cheap-oil-is-helping-government-battle-covid-headwinds/articleshow/78195870.cms||Sanjay Dutta
September 19, 2020||World||Trump says he expects to have coronavirus vaccine for every American by April||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said on Friday he expects to have available enough doses of a coronavirus vaccine for every American by April. "Hundreds of millions of doses will be available every month, and we expect to have enough vaccines for every American by April," Trump told a news conference. He said distribution of a vaccine will begin within 24 hours of it being approved by federal health regulators. "In a short time we'll have a safe and effective vaccine and we'll defeat the virus," Trump said. He has previously said a vaccine could be approved in October, an ambitious timeline that some experts have said is unlikely to be met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-he-expects-to-have-coronavirus-vaccine-for-every-american-by-april/articleshow/78196544.cms||---
September 19, 2020||India||PM Modi goes on offensive against opposition, calls agri bills ‘pro-farmer’||NEW DELHI: A day after BJP’s oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal pulled out of the Modi government to protest against the legislations meant to restructure agricultural trade, and amid continuing opposition from Congress and some other parties, PM Narendra Modi went on the offensive on Friday and called the bills a “historic” pro-farmer measure and dismissed the resistance as having been engineered by “middlemen”. He also assured farmers procurement of their produce under the minimum support price (MSP) regime would continue. Read AlsoHow can I support govt at the cost of people, asks HarsimratShiromani Akali Dal’s Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who resigned on Thursday from the Union cabinet as food processing minister, said on Friday that she took the decision only after she and representatives from the centre “failed to convince stakeholders, including farmers and middlemen, that“Yesterday was a historic day for the country in the field of agricultural reforms. The agricultural reform bills have been passed which has liberated our farmers from many restrictions,” Modi said while addressing a virtual meeting after launching railway projects for poll-bound Bihar. “Middlemen used to take a major part of farmers’ profits. The bill will prove to be protective cover for farmers,” he added. His remarks came after he forwarded the resignation of Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal as minister for food processing and amid Congress’s effort to step up its opposition to the troika of bills meant to reform trade in farm produce. Congress called protests against the bills a “Mahabharata” for farmers and dubbed the Modi government as the “Kauravas”. It also sought to enlist allies by appealing to BJP’s coalition partners in Bihar and Haryana, JD(U) and JJP respectively, as well as regional formations YSRCP, TRS and AIADMK. “This is Mahabharat in which BJP is in the role of Kauravas who are anti-farmer and facing them are Pandavas in the form of farmers and farm labourers. Congress is with the Pandavas. Now, all the BJP allies who are enjoying power will have to decide if they stand with farmers or with Kauravas,” party spokesperson R S Surjewala said. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh claimed the legislations would lead to growing angst among people in the border state, “thus giving Pakistan the opportunity to stoke more fires”. He added that Delhi must rethink its “anti-farmer” move as it would undo the sacrifices made by Punjab and its farmers over the last 65 years to make India self-sufficient in food. Harsimrat Badal justified her walkout and claimed that BJP had disregarded SAD's demand for sounding out allies on the farm bills. “I kept on protesting ever since these ordinances were circulated for comments in the cabinet. I was acting like a bridge between farmers and the government to clear all doubts and fears of farmers. I kept on pleading that the government should not bring these bills until all apprehensions and fears of farmers are cleared,” she said. “I feel very saddened about the fact that my voice was not heard in the cabinet and the government did not send it to a parliamentary select committee for consultations with all stakeholders, including farmers. If my voice had been heard, farmers would not have come out on roads to protest,” she added. The day also witnessed BSP chief Mayawati opposing the bills as “anti-farmer”. “Two bills related to farmers were passed by Parliament yesterday without removing their doubts. BSP does not approve of this. What does the farmer of the country want? It would be better if the central government pays attention in this regard,” she tweeted. Modi and BJP, however, remained unfazed, with the PM recalling Congress's support to very same measures that his government has taken, and accusing it of opportunism. “There are parties, who ruled the country for decades, who are trying to misguide farmers. These parties had made electoral promises, these reforms were part of their manifesto but when the NDA has done it, they are opposing it,” the PM said, referring to Congress. Modi asked farmers to beware of the lies being spread on behalf of middlemen. BJP got assistance from its Haryana ally JJP which, defying the widely held expectation, refused to join the Akalis in opposing the three legislations. The party's stand, announced by its leader Ajay Chautala, is significant because the Haryana outfit, just like the Akalis, draws its political sustenance from farmers. Other BJP leaders, including party chief J P Nadda and home minister Amit Shah, remained on the offensive, standing by the legislations and attacking Congress. Protests against the bills, which, put together, seek to liberalise farm trade by ending the monopoly of "mandis" and curbing the role of "arhatiyas" (middlemen), have so far been confined to the procurement zones of Punjab, Haryana and parts of western UP. They are unlikely to spread far and wide because of the meagre number of farmers who can produce marketable surplus. Yet, aggressive protests in the capital’s neighbourhood would be bad optics for the government, especially at a time when it is grappling with the triple challenges of Covid-19, China's aggression on the border and a contracting economy. The government does seem to be alive to the risk and has moved in aggressively to rebut the suggestion that the reforms will mark an end of the minimum support price (MSP) regime. However, it is determined to stick to the course and aggressively take on the challengers. Watch PM Narendra Modi hails the passage of agriculture reform bills in Lok Sabha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-goes-on-offensive-against-opposition-calls-agri-bills-pro-farmer/articleshow/78196662.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Business||Row erupts as Google drops Paytm from app store, then brings it back||High drama unfolded on Friday afternoon as search engine giant Google removed mobile payment application Paytm from its Play Store, citing breach of its gambling restrictions, before bringing it back again by evening. Paytm's fantasy gaming application was also removed ahead of the start of the Indian Premier League (IPL) on Saturday, and was not back till the filing of this report. The removal of Paytm’s application, which takes away the ability to get new users, elicited widespread disapproval among India’s startup ecosystem as the US-based technology giant’s unit Google Pay competes with it in India. Paytm’s founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma — who said Google was acting like “judge, jury and executioner” — told TOI the company was notified in the morning that the app was being taken down due to a cricket sticker promo on payments it was running. In the promo, a user who collects five stickers is entitled to a cashback. Many such schemes run across other payment platforms as well. It had also received warnings for promoting Paytm First Games, a sports fantasy platform, on its main application thrice. As Paytm’s app was taken down, Google, without naming Paytm, said in a blog post that it doesn’t allow online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting. “This includes if an app leads consumers to an external website that allows them to participate in paid tournaments to win real money or cash prizes, it is a violation of our policies,” the US-based internet search giant said. Other online fantasy platforms like Dream11, MPL and My11Circle have also not been available on Google’s Play Store for the last couple of years due to its policy. Read AlsoGoogle’s action abuse of monopoly: Vijay ShekharNEW DELHI: Vijay Shekhar Sharma, the founder of Paytm, is livid after Google pulled down the popular payments app from its play store (it has been restored since), and accused the American tech giant of “abusing its monopoly” to unfairly gain customers for its own payments business. He said hisSources said Google’s action was led by Paytm promoting its fantasy gaming unit though its main app. “They (Paytm) were promoting links of Paytm First Games within the main Paytm app. If you click on it, it will take you to the fantasy gaming platform of Paytm, which includes betting. That’s not allowed as per Play Store policy. That's why the app had to be taken down," a person close to the development said. While betting is not allowed in India, various state high courts have called fantasy sports a game of “skill” and not of “chance”, making it legal as of now. But even as Google does not allow fantasy gaming apps on its app store, these platforms are allowed to advertise on its search engine, which several experts have pointed out as contradictory policy. “An undetermined implication would be the compliance of its policies by sports fantasy apps like Dream 11 and MPL that are not directly available on the Google Play Store platform but feature in advertisements and inducing similar effect on its user, eventually leading to a violation of its gambling policies. Therefore, Google may be required to fine-tune its policies so as to address implications of apps directly placed on their platform and the content available therein,” said Sonam Chandwani, managing partner at KS Legal & Associates. The development for Paytm First Games came at a critical time as it has outlined a Rs 300-crore marketing and advertising budget for the next 12 months, starting with IPL. Removal from Google Play Store blocks its main channel to acquire new customers. Many in the startup ecosystem have questioned if Google’s moves are indicative of misusing its influence on India’s internet economy. Unlike markets like the US where Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS have equal market share, in India the former rules with 90-95% share of smartphones. Earlier this year, another payments application Mobikwik was removed from the Google Play Store for advertising contact tracing app Aarogya Setu which it said was mandated by RBI. The app came back in a day. Entrepreneurs said that while Google has the right to have its policies, the implementation and how it deals with non-compliance could be better. “The action of taking off the app is quite abrupt. There is typically no warning. If you are Paytm, then you are back up in a few hours; if you are a lesser-known app, it takes a few days. Google also needs to develop local teams with a clear understanding of the Indian context. Right now it appears that this is being done through a global team,” said Subramanya SV, co-founder of investment management app Fisdom. Watch Paytm back on Google Play Store: What led to removal of app||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/row-erupts-as-google-drops-paytm-from-app-store-then-brings-it-back/articleshow/78196850.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 19, 2020||India||60% Indian kids go to school on foot: Survey||Around 60% of students in India go to their schools on foot with the number being significantly higher in rural areas and for primary and upper primary students. Overall, more girls walk to school (62%) than boys (57.9%). The second most preferred mode of travel is public transport (12.4%), followed by bicycle (11.3%), according to the National Statistical Organisation’s (NSO) latest report on education. The report says three-fourth of the primary and upper-primary students travel by foot, which comes down significantly in the secondary and above levels. Bicycles are a mode of transport for more than one fourth of students in secondary and senior secondary schools. Distance of the institute from home, as seen during the survey, seems to be in sync with the mode of travel as 77% of the households have a pre-primary school within 2 km, 83.4% for primary and 75.3% for upper-primary, the levels where majority of the students travel on foot. It reveals that while 61.4% male students from rural areas travel on foot, it is 49.4% for urban areas. In case of girls, it is 66.5% for rural areas and 50.8% for urban. For public transport, the survey included buses, trams, trains, metro trains and ferries and not taxicab, carpooling, or hired buses. While use of bicycles is significantly higher among rural students (12.6%) as compared to 7.6% in urban areas, the survey found over 12% of urban students travel to schools by transport provided by the employers of their parents. The figure is 4% for rural students. The report on “Household Social Consumption: Education”, surveyed 1.13 lakh households spread over 8,000 villages and 6,000 urban blocks between July, 2017 and June 2018. It involved 1.52 lakh students across different levels of study. As per distribution of students by distance to educational institution, it finds that as the level of schooling goes up, number of schools in close proximity decreases. For example, while for 70.4% of the households have a school till upper-primary classes within one km range, it falls to 36.2% for secondary level and further to 22.2% for senior secondary level. Watch Around 60% of students in India go to their schools on foot, says survey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/60-indian-kids-go-to-school-on-foot-survey/articleshow/78196951.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
September 19, 2020||India||Ragpicker spends Rs 10 lakh to erect his own statue||SALEM: Call it the revenge of a ragpicker. When a 60-year-old man who had spent all his life unknown and uncared for decided to square up, he gave life his answer in style --- five-foot-tall and cast in stone. A Nallathambi of Atthanurpatty village in Salem district of Tamil Nadu, who earns a living by picking discarded bottles on the streets, spent his entire life’s saving of Rs 10 lakh to buy a piece of land to erect his own statue. “When I was young, I wanted to make a name for myself. I wanted a statue of my own. I have fulfilled my dream now,” said the man who walked away from his family 20 years ago. Nallathambi, a mason who quit his profession after it became too demanding years back, left Anaimedu village in Salem district and came to Atthanurpatty after a domestic dispute. His wife and children still live in his native village. With all the money he had saved right from his days as a mason, Nallathambi, who earns between Rs 250 and Rs 300 every day now, purchased two plots (1200sqft each) on Vazhapadi-Belur village road. He approached a local sculptor and paid him Rs 1 lakh to get a life-size statue ready. “He did not want to share his money with anyone, not even his family. He wanted to spend it entirely on fulfilling his dream. I helped him in that,” said K Manickam, 55, an acquaintance of Nallathambi. Nallathambi erected the statue on his own on his land on Sunday, complete with a pedestal and a concrete canopy. Though curious onlookers have already started flocking the place, the man who had given life to his dream is planning a grand, formal unveiling of the statue soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ragpicker-spends-rs-10-lakh-to-erect-his-own-statue/articleshow/78197265.cms||Senthil Kumaran
September 19, 2020||India||14-year-old among 2 killed in Bengal village violence||KESHPUR: A 14-year-old boy and a Trinamool-run panchayat member’s elder brother were killed as violence erupted at a Keshpur village in Paschim Midnapore district of West Bengal on Thursday night. The marauders indiscriminately threw bombs and ransacked houses, during which the minor boy’s elder sister sustained critical splinter injuries. Ten people have been detained in connection with the violence. The Kotwali police also rounded up a house owner from Midnapore town, who had allegedly given shelter to one of the accused. Locals said Nasim Hossain Sheikh (45), who was killed, had no connection with local politics. He had moved out of his village many years ago and was settled in Mumbai as a zari trader. “Nasim was my elder brother. He returned home due to the lockdown and planned to leave for Mumbai on Friday,” said panchayat member Sheikh Selim. The attackers targeted Selim’s house, one-and-a-half kilometre from Keshpur police station, at 8pm on Thursday. They threw bombs indiscriminately while entering the village. Some villagers said they also opened fire in a bid to kill Selim. Instead, Selim’s elder brother and the minor boy from the neighbourhood, Sheikh Mazahar, were killed. While Midnapore police are yet to find out the reasons behind the violence, locals pointed to two factors — a land-related family feud and political rivalry — that might have been the trigger. According to them, Selim was in a land dispute with his uncle Sheikh Intehar, who is also from Trinamool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/14-year-old-among-2-killed-in-bengal-village-violence/articleshow/78197273.cms||Sujoy Khanra
September 19, 2020||India||450 jobless Indian workers forced to beg in Saudi, shifted to detention centres||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and no jobs to survive, 450 Indian workers in Saudi Arabia are out on the road, begging. Work permits of most of these workers from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Kashmir, Bihar, Delhi, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Haryana, Punjab, and Maharashtra, had expired, forcing them to beg. In videos that have gone viral, the workers said their only crime was begging after Saudi authorities identified them by going to their rented rooms and shifted them to the Shumaisi detention centre in Jeddah. Among the workers at the detention centres include 39 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from Bihar, five from Telangana, four each from Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka, and one from Andhra Pradesh. Many workers, who broke down, said they were caught in a hopeless situation. “We have not committed any crime. We were forced to beg because of our situation as we lost our jobs. Now, we are languishing in the detention centres,” a worker complained. Another said they were going through intolerable levels of hardship for more than four months. “We have seen workers from Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia and Sri Lanka being helped by the authorities of their countries and sent back to their respective countries. However, we are stuck here,” a worker rued. Social worker and MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan said the local authorities shifted the workers to the detention centres after ascertaining that they had been overstaying. “Those who did not have the ‘aqama’ (work permit) were later taken to the detention centres,” Amjed, who is in touch with the workers, told TOI. “My brother passed away and my mother is critical. I want to be sent back to India,” a worker said in a video appeal. Amjed has written to Prime minister Narendra Modi, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Indian ambassador to Saudi Arabia Ausaf Sayeed, brought to their notice the plight of the 450 Indian workers and urged the Centre to help the workers’ return to India. When TOI contacted the Consulate General of India (CGI), Jeddah, to know if the workers were being helped to return to India, there was no response yet. On September 17, the Pravasi Bhartiya Sahayta Kendra (PBSK), a helpline of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), responded to Amjed Ullah Khan on Twitter and sought details of all the emigrants, their contact numbers and also contact numbers of their families so that they could be helped. While 2.4 lakh Indian nationals had reportedly registered to return to India, only 40,000 have been able to come back. Watch 450 Indians stranded in Saudi Arabian jail waiting for repatriation: MBT spokesperson Amjad Ullah Khan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/450-jobless-indian-workers-forced-to-beg-in-saudi-shifted-to-detention-centres/articleshow/78197281.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 19, 2020||India||Covid effect: Over 1,000 schools up for sale across India||HYDERABAD: Over 1,000 KG-Class 12 schools in the country are up for sale, hoping to pool in an investment of close to Rs 7,500 crore (roughly $1 billion) in the next two-three years, with the Covid-19 wave hitting India’s education sector hard. Mostly on offer are private budget schools with an annual fee cap of Rs 50,000, shows data compiled by Cerestra Ventures, market leaders in the education infrastructure sector. About 80% of school education in India is catered to by this category of institutes. “Many state governments have put caps on fee collection even as schools are expected to pay salaries to teachers apart from bearing other overhead costs. This has made staying afloat a struggle for these institutions,” said Vishal Goel, partner, Cerestra. One large school chain had to slash non-teaching staff salaries by up to 70%, he added. “Even funding has become difficult to come through with financial institutions hesitant on lending, owing to lack of clarity over how the situation will pan out. That has added to their woes,” he added. Goel’s company has an expansive portfolio 30 to 40 KG-Class 12 schools that it is eyeing to acquire at an estimated investment of roughly Rs 1,400 crore. Also scouting for quality assets are established education companies with “strong strategic interest”, said Prajodh Rajan, co-founder and group CEO of EuroKids International. The chain, which currently has 30+ KG-Class 12 schools in India, is also aggressively on the lookout. “In many cases, these schools have taken a hit because its promoters have a diversified portfolio — such as real estate — and the adverse impact on their other businesses has had an effect on the balance sheet of the schools,” added Rajan. Between Karnataka, Maharashtra and Telangana there are at least 20 to 25 schools that are looking for prospective buyers, said Rakesh Gupta, managing partner of LoEstro Advisors. The company had facilitated one of the biggest school acquisitions of 2019 — of Oakridge International by Hong Kong-based Nord Anglia Education. The Indian chain, with branches in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru and Mohali, was reportedly bought for Rs 1,600 crore. Now, given the slump, investors foresee a 30-40% drop in the cost of acquisitions. But will this trend increase the cost of education? “I do not think so. Though reopening a school might involve some added costs, everybody in the sector is sensitive towards students. I do not see fee structures crossing a certain limit,” said Rajan. The acquisitions might bring more stability to India’s education, feels RMC Reddy, managing director and CEO of Schoolnet India Limited, a pioneer in education technology. “Since these financial institutions and school chains have deeper pockets, it will also help reduce the technological divide that currently runs deep between premier schools and budget private schools,” he said. Watch Covid-19 effect: Over 1,000 schools up for sale across India, hoping to pool in an investment of close to Rs 7,500 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-effect-over-1000-schools-up-for-sale-across-india/articleshow/78197285.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
September 19, 2020||India||'Log in & learn' enrolments see monster jump in India||MUMBAI: The Enter key on the touchpad was never deemed so powerful. The once-casual click has become the gateway to lecture halls for millions of students and workers in India whose learning was disrupted during the Covid-19 pandemic. Universities have integrated online platforms into their curricula and asked students, whether in Kota or Kharagpur, to log into lectures being streamed from America or Africa. For learners, the shift was sudden, but numbers suggest, remote learning has spread in no time. Little wonder then that, Coursera added over 3.6 million learners in India since March compared to 1.4 million in all of 2019, EdX doubled its learner base to 3.2 million and LinkedIn reported an increase of 245% in the number of hours spent on learning from July 2019 to June 2020, compared to the same period a year before. India’s own MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) on the Swayam platform also saw an increase in traffic as the All India Council for Technical Education asked colleges and universities to permit credit transfers to the extent of 20% in every semester to online courses. The pandemic also saw some shifts in learning preference. Indians who were largely opting for courses in computer science and data analysis started looking at the large course catalogue to join other interesting classrooms. “Enrollment in public health content increased by 4,386% year-on-year from India. Over the past few months, Coursera launched seven Covid-19 related courses. In fact, since going live on May 10, Johns Hopkins University course ‘Covid-19 Contact Tracing’ already has 579,000+ enrollments, making it the most popular course launched on Coursera in 2020 so far. And with 53600+ enrollments, it’s the 2nd most popular in India,” said Raghav Gupta, managing director, India and APAC, Coursera.  The trend was similar elsewhere. “Harvard and EdX, launched a free online course designed to train frontline medical professionals to operate the mechanical ventilators needed to treat Covid-19 patients. The first month saw 1 million learners sign up to take the course online. Also, we saw a steep surge in completion rates, both for the audit and certification tracks,” said Amit Goyal, edX head, India and South East Asia. The course was put together quickly for frontline workers, as the makers believed that while a lot of doctors gain experience on looking after ventilated patients during their residencies, these are usually rather brief. At the same time, LinkedIn reported that job postings for both Python and Program Management, very popular skills, went down during Covid (comparing March-June vs. the previous 5 months), not unexpected given the broader economic trends. “The work environment is evolving at a fast pace, and organizations are prioritizing reskilling their workforce to stay in business. While hard skills such as Python will always be in demand, professionals are striving to achieve skills diversity -- and transferable skills and soft skills such as time management, communication, and strategic thinking have become necessities in today's remote workplace. Companies will value people with soft skills and the ability to evolve equally in this challenging environment,” said Ruchee Anand, Director, LinkedIn Talent and Learning Solutions, India. Entering a classroom by logging in from the safety of their homes came with several other benefits: learning at one’s own pace, piecing a modular degree together, attending classes from around the world and accessing blue-chip faculty and upskilling to be more employable or productive. That may accelerate the pace in years to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/log-in-learn-enrolments-see-monster-jump-in-india/articleshow/78197292.cms||Hemali Chhapia
September 19, 2020||India||Censoring pre-telecast TV content may take us down slippery slope: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday said while it was duty bound to step in to protect the right to dignity of a community and stop a telecast which attempted to malign the Muslim community as a whole by insinuating that they were infiltrating the civil services, it could not act as a PIL-activated censor board for TV programmes. "We are conscious of the fact that pre-publication restraint is an extreme recourse for the Supreme Court. This could take us on a slippery slope for there are 900 high court judges and over 20,000 judicial officers, who could emulate the SC and start granting injunction on programmes telecast by TV channels across the country, even for panchayat stage elections. We are wary of opening a clampdown front," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph said. "We are wary of playing the role of a censor and the country has moved far from the Emergency era. We do not want to come in the way of a mosaic of journalistic ideas going to market. But we also have a constitutional duty to protect human dignity which is as important as the right to free speech. We are here to protect the cohesiveness of cultures and prevent stereotyping of communities," the bench added. It said the way forward was to give teeth to self-regulatory mechanisms. The remark came during a hearing where the court sought to balance its constitutional mandate as the protector of free speech with the obligation to uphold the dignity of individuals and communities while being wary of arrogating unto itself the role of a super censor. As it included "dignity" of individuals and communities among the "reasonable " grounds for curbing freedom of expression, the court also appeared concerned about the effectiveness of the self-regulatory mechanism for electronic media and asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, and advocate Nisha Bhambani of National Broadcasters Association to suggest by Monday how to strengthen the industry’s voluntary restraints. "NBA cannot take action against TV channels which are not its members, as is the case with Sudarshan TV. The maximum penalty of Rs 1 lakh on an offending TV channel is a pittance in the present day and time. We must find a way forward to have an effective self-regulatory mechanism," it said. Mehta informed the court that the government had framed a new legislation providing for five types of penalties, including suspension of a TV channel’s broadcasting licence for violating the programme code, and has invited suggestions from stakeholders as well as the public before finalising the bill for introduction in Parliament. The bench gave reasons for taking the extreme step of stopping telecast of Sudarshan TV's 'Bindas Bol' programme on alleged infiltration of the central services by members of the Muslim community. The judges said the channel sought to implicate the entire community and pointed to offensive graphics, background videos and scornful live chats linked to the programme which appeared to vilify the Muslim community. It said it would consider lifting the ban if Sudarshan TV voluntarily filed an affidavit by Monday detailing changes it would carry out to make the programme an investigative report. The channel agreed. Appearing for the channel, senior advocate Shyam Divan said the constitutional courts, which always protected the right to free speech to the fullest, would chart a dangerous course by resorting to pre-telecast ban. "There is enough regulatory mechanism available, in law and otherwise, for those aggrieved to seek redress against an offending programme. No one has challenged the facts and statistics presented in the programme," he said. "Pulling out one sentence from here and there and then terming the whole programme to be maligning a community would be the antithesis of free speech. If there was a view that Muslims should endeavour to capture the civil services, then there could be a counter view too. The programme was based on facts about terror related foreign organisations funding Zakat Foundation which footed the fees for coaching of Muslim students for civil services. The channel has clarified that it has no objection to meritorious students from any community getting into civil services. We are also not saying all the funds are terror linked. But surely the facts have not been challenged and it is a national security issue," Divan said. The bench pointed out the offending graphics and background videos of the programme as well as hate comments through the live chat sessions linked to the broadcast. "You have every right to investigate the funding of Zakat Foundation and present it to the public. But the problem arises when you implicate the whole community. Can we allow you to go to this extent to target a whole community and accuse them of infiltrating the civil services? What happens when you brand an entire community with divisive propaganda is that you alienate the good people in the community," it said. Arguments will continue on Monday after the channel files an affidavit detailing the corrections it will carry out in its episodes to be telecast in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/censoring-pre-telecast-tv-content-may-take-us-down-slippery-slope-sc/articleshow/78197345.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 19, 2020||Patna||Villagers build bridge in Gaya on their own||GAYA: For nearly 30 years, it was a bridge too far the villagers of Budhaul, till they decided to take things into their own hands, literally. The construction work on the bridge over Mangura river had started in 1991. The piling work had been done, but over the years it got stuck in bureaucratic red tape. In August, a mahapanchayat meeting of several villages in Wazirganj block was called and it was decided that villagers would do ‘shramdaan’ to complete the remaining work on the bridge. Several villagers told this newspaper that tired of facing problems crossing the river every year during the rainy season, they decided to complete the bridge themselves. Block development officer (BDO) Wazirganj Anand Prakash confirmed that villagers have completed the 110 feet long and 12 ft wide bridge through shramdaan. “Administrative sanction for the work would have been required only when government fund was involved, but the work has been done with voluntary labour and using mutual donation,” Prakash said, adding he visited the site to inspect the work done by the villagers. The bridge connects Budhaul in Wazirganj block with Madardih in Atri block, both in Gaya district. It will now cut the 15 km distance between these two villages to just one kilometre. Villagers of Aaropur, Barbigha, Sundarpur, Babhani, Dhaveganj, Bahalpur and others will also benefit from the bridge. Lakshmikant Pyarelal, mukhia of Amaithi panchayat under which Budhaul village falls, confirmed that local villagers completed the bridge through shramdaan. “As the bridge is complete now, it will become convenient to cross the river. It would save time and energy to cover such a long distance,” the mukhia said. According to local villagers, the work started on August 30. “A meeting of the mahapanchayat was called where it was resolved to arrange construction materials like bricks, sand, cement, stone chips through mutual donation. The villagers started work on August 30,” said a villager Bharat Singh Bharti. “More than 100 people of nearby villages contributed their labour voluntarily. They erected thick cemented brick wall over the existing incomplete pillars that would support the casting structure. Then casting work was completed,” he added. Another resident said, “As casting work is complete the bridge is now open for pedestrians. Once the shuttering (bamboo and wooden beam support below the casting work) is removed, the vehicular movement would start.” Watch Villagers unite in Gaya, construct decades old incomplete bridge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/villagers-build-bridge-in-gaya-on-their-own/articleshow/78196331.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Rs 12.5 lakh stolen from ATM kiosk in Mysuru||MYSURU: Thieves managed to bypass security measures at an ATM kiosk in the Hootagalli Industrial Area, and made away with Rs 12.5 lakh in cash in the wee hours of Friday. The thieves blinded the closed circuit television (CCTV) camera by spraying paint on its lens, and proceeded to break open the cash machine with a gas cutter and crowbar. The HDFC Bank ATM kiosk in question was without a security guard, police said. Cops blamed the lackadaisical attitude of the bank authorities, who did not ensure adequate security at the kiosk, for the theft. Vijayanagar police, who are investigating the incident, said that the theft occurred around 2am on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rs-12-5-lakh-stolen-from-atm-kiosk-in-mysuru/articleshow/78192757.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Alarm as doc tests Covid positive for second time||PATNA: After Bengaluru, Noida and Mumbai, one case of coronavirus reinfection was reported in Patna the other day. A 33-year-old doctor of All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time on September 14. She is currently in home isolation with throat pain. The doctor, a woman, was earlier tested positive for the virus on July 24 and her swab samples came negative on August 7. The virus struck her again after nearly 45 days. Doctors at AIIMS-Patna said the victim had no history of comorbidities and she showed mild symptoms of Covid. “I am feeling better now. My swab sample will again be tested after 14 days. I will also check my antibody level after recovery,” she said. “When I was tested positive for the first time in July, I was having symptoms like throat pain and weakness. This time, I’m not experiencing fatigue and weakness. Since I have no symptom, I am taking multi-vitamin tablets,” she added. Health experts said different strains of SARS-CoV2 virus and low antibody level are primarily responsible for Covid reinfection. According to AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar, there are possibilities that the antibodies had not developed in the patient after she recovered from the virus. “During the immunoglobulin G (IgG) Elisa test (antibody test) before blood plasma donation, we have seen that out of 400 recovered patients, 22% have no or less than adequate required antibody,” he added. Dr Ajay Kumar Singh of NMCH-Patna said there might be two reasons for Covid reinfection. “First, the doctors are not sure how much antibody is required to protect an individual from reinfection. The person might not have good amount of antibodies to neutralise the virus. Secondly, some patients have no antibody even after recovery,” he said. According to a study published in Springer Nature, a publishing house, if people infected with SARS-CoV-2 show immune response, it prevents reinfections. The durability of this protection is unclear and a documented case of reinfection would signal that immunity can wane. Another study published in Nature Medicine suggests that antibodies formed against SARS-CoV-2 begin to decrease in number, just two-three months after infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/alarm-as-doc-tests-covid-positive-for-second-time/articleshow/78192555.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 19, 2020||Patna||Life back to ‘normal’ in city amid pandemic||PATNA: A week after civic activities in the city resumed under Unlock 4.0, life seems to be limping back to normal for people. Gyms, malls and restaurants – shut for five months due to Covid-19 – are witnessing a steady increase in customer footfall. Tapan Nath, manager at a clothing retail chain near Exhibition Road, said customers have started turning up in good numbers ahead of the festive season. “The response has been good after the announcement of Unlock 4.0 last week. Our average customer footfall is around 350 per day. We are also ready with new stock for Durga Puja,” he said. Restaurants and eateries have also started operating in full capacity with safety measures in place. Foodies are seen lining up near food stalls at Maurya Lok. Yasheel Anand Singh, owner of a café cum restaurant on Boring Road, said even though life is returning to normal despite pandemic, the losses incurred during the past five months would take at least a year to recover. Nonetheless, Singh is happy with the response so far. “The response in the past one week has been great. As a matter of fact, customers are not fearful at all,” he said. Fitness enthusiasts have also started returning to gyms. Sunny Kumar Gupta, manager at an upscale gym on Boring Road, said while on the first day of enforcement Unlock 4.0, only 20 to 25 people showed up, the number increased thereafter. “At least 70 people visit the gym per day now. We have allotted slots on an hourly basis to avoid overcrowding. Only 30 people are allowed inside the gym at once,” he said. With the reopening of Patna zoo and parks in the city, people can be seen taking a leisurely walk under the cloudy sky. “I used to meet my retired friends in this park almost every day before lockdown. We would discuss politics incessantly. I am glad to resume my morning and evening strolls with my friends,” said a senior citizen and Patel Nagar resident Ram Narayan. Meanwhile, with religious places opening their gates for devotees, vendors and makeshift shops selling garlands, holy offerings and ‘puja samagri’ are back to business. The livelihood of thousands of street vendors is slowly getting back on track. Chandan Kumar, who sells garlands near Mahavir Mandir on Station Road, said people are coming to the temple in good numbers. “Many people are coming to offer ‘prasad’ and do puja at the temple. I am hopeful that things will change in the days to come,” he said. The lanes of Harmandir Ji Gali near Takhat Shri Harimandir Ji Gurdwara at Patna Sahib are also bustling with life. “It feels so good to meet my regular customers after a long time. My business has also picked up pace. We are taking all necessary precautions to keep Covid at bay,” said Gurjeet Singh, owner of a turban shop at Harimandir Ji Gali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/life-back-to-normal-in-city-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78192657.cms||Arunima Lal
September 19, 2020||Patna||HC to function with 22 judges||PATNA: The bench strength of Patna high court is set to come down to 22 with Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh, the senior most judge, superannuating on October 2. The sanctioned strength of the high court is 53 judges, but it has been functioning with depleted strength for last several months. After Justice Singh, Justice Hemant Kumar Srivastava will superannuate on February 1 next year. With the Supreme Court collegium returning all 23 names, recommended recently for elevation to Patna high court judgeship, the hope of appointment of new judges has diminished further. Of the 23 shortlisted names, 15 were lawyers of high court and the rest lower court judges. The last time the Patna high court got new judges was almost one-and-a-half years back when Justice Anjani Kumar Sharan, Justice Anil Kumar Sinha, Justice Prabhat Kumar Singh and Justice Partha Sarthy were elevated to higher judiciary from bar by Supreme Court collegium headed by the then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi. High court senior advocate Yogesh Chandra Verma, who is also the chairman of the coordination committee of all three lawyer associations of Patna high court, said it is for the first time that names of all lawyers recommended by Patna high court collegium were outrightly rejected by the SC collegium. “This is an exceptional case. It had never happened in the past,” he said, adding vacant positions of judges in high court should be filled without any further delay. “Strong political and administrative will is required to do so. Several cases are pending for disposal at the high court and Covid-19 pandemic has further aggravated the situation,” he added. Verma heaped praises on Patna high court Chief Justice Sanjay Karol for making technological advancements by introducing videoconferencing facility and e-filing, which enabled filing of large number of cases and their disposal even during pandemic. “We have high hopes from him in resolving all these issues,” he said. Meanwhile, high court advocate Dinesh, who was first to raise voice against recommendation of 15 names of lawyers for elevation in higher judiciary on the ground of casteism, said social justice should be ensured while making the recommendations for judgeship. “There are meritorious lawyers in every caste and they are practising in high court. They should also be elevated to the bar,” he said. It was Dinesh who had moved the high court and Supreme Court, appealing against the list of recommended lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-to-function-with-22-judges/articleshow/78193107.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||New Beary script will not be imposed: Academy||Mangaluru: Even as the introduction of a script for the 1,000-year-old Beary language has evoked differing opinions from the community, the Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy has clarified that it will not impose the same forcefully. Beary is the mother tongue for nearly 20 lakh people across the world, according to Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy. To popularize the language globally, the academy introduced a new script, which has triggered an online debate among the Beary speaking community. While one section wants the community to use the new script for Beary language, many have raised objections and they want to continue with Kannada script. Academy chairman Rahim Uchil told TOI the new script will not be imposed forcefully. “The academy, which is functioning for the promotion of Beary language, has introduced the new script through a team involving researchers, linguists and technical experts. We will popularize the script through study materials in the second phase. A large number of Beary speaking community members have started writing poems using the new script and sharing the same of social media. At present, all Beary literary activities are centred around Kannada script. The academy will continue to promote Beary literary activities in Kannada script in future too. We will not impose the new script on anyone forcefully,” Uchil said. “We have created the script considering all aspects including making it synchronous with the Unicode technology. The academy has been putting efforts to introduce Beary as a third language for students from Class VI in Karnataka. Once the language is approved as a third language in schools, it will be taught in Kannada script. Later, the new Beary script will be taught to students in a phased manner. Students also will not be forced to use the new script in the curriculum,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/new-beary-script-will-not-be-imposed-academy/articleshow/78192803.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Man bludgeoned to death in Rajkot||Rajkot: A 27-year-old man was bludgeoned to death in Virada Vajadi village on Kalawad Road on the outskirts of Rajkot on Thursday night. Police said the deceased, Mohemmed Saiyed, was killed by unidentified assailants whose numbers also could not be ascertained. “After having his dinner with his wife Rozina Khatun and children — daughter Gudia (5) and son Bholu (8) —, Saiyed went to sleep at his cycle repairing shop. When his family members woke up on Friday morning, they saw Saiyed lying on the cot with his head bleeding profusely. He had been killed on the spot,” said R S Thakar, inspector with University police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-bludgeoned-to-death-in-rajkot/articleshow/78193954.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Findings of CUSB figure in film on climate change||PATNA: The findings of ongoing researches at the Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) figure prominently in a film on climate change being produced by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting. According to CUSB PRO Md Mudassir Alam, the data generated by the faculty members from these studies are proving to be significant indicators of climatic variations in the eastern region and, hence, the same are being closely monitored by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Giving details of these studies, Alam said CUSB’s environmental science department has carried out at least three research projects, including south monsoon rainfall in warmer climate, drought conditions in eastern Gangetic plain and cyclonic disturbances over the Bay of Bengal under National Mission of Strategic Knowledge of Climate Change sponsored by the Union ministry of science and technology, the results of which have assumed national importance in the field of climate change. Elaborating the findings, CUSB’s school of environmental science faculty and principal investigator of these research projects Pradhan Parth Sarthi said the research findings have also been shared for a report on the assessment of climate change studies being prepared under climate change programme of science and technology department at the request of parliamentary standing committee on science and technology and environment and forests. Parth Sarthi, a steering committee member of the state action plan on climate change, government of Bihar and state president of Indian Meteorological Society, said a significant decreasing trend in monsoon rainfall in the last few decades over Bihar has widely influenced the drought conditions in the state. The drought would have a large impact on agriculture production, hydrological set up, the environmental degradation, human health and socio-economic changes, including food crisis. The changing pattern of summer monsoon rainfall over the eastern Gangetic plains has triggered recurring flood and drought conditions in the state and this is a clear indication of rapid climate change in the region, he said. These findings have also been published in the recent issue of the International Journal of Pure and Applied Geophysics. Parth Sarthi and his team have been working on different aspects of monsoon modelling and variability, seasonal prediction of Indian monsoon and climate change in different projects funded by the department of science and technology, government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/findings-of-cusb-figure-in-film-on-climate-change/articleshow/78193134.cms||B K Mishra
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Renewing liquor permit now costs Rs 13,000 more||AHMEDABAD: In March, a city-based liquor permit holder paid Rs 6,000 to the ‘Patient Welfare Fund’ at Civil Hospital for the renewal of his permit. In August, permit holder Shashank Mehra was shocked when he was told to cough up Rs 19,000 to renew his permit. “I was given a receipt with a ‘renewal charge’ of Rs 19,000. In four months, the renewal charge has been increased by Rs 13,000. This is exhorbitant,” said Mehra. “I am told the amount is decided by the Rogi Kalyan Samiti (Patient Welfare Fund) at the hospital level. But it has been increased by three times.” Insiders are calling it the ‘Covid cess’ to deter permit holders from thronging hospitals for renewals during this pandemic but the fact is that permit holders now must pay Rs 19,000 to the patient welfare fund to get theri permits renewed. Needless to say, the increase has hit permit holders hard as the majority are already up in arms against the long process to get a permit and the ever-rising liquor prices. A permit holder told TOI that for every Rs 1,000 they spend at permit shops, they pay Rs 650 in taxes. “This doesn’t include special fees, which vary for different types of liquor,” said the Satellite resident. Permit holders say the fee for renewal of liquor permits is now Rs 29,000. Apart from Rs 19,000 charged at Civil, Rs 10,000 has to be deposited with the state prohibition and excise department. This includes Rs 2,000 as processing charges and health check-up charge and Rs 2,000 annually for renewal fees. Sunil Kumar, director of the state prohibition and excise department, said the extra fee has not been imposed from their side. “At a time when people are reeling from financial troubles amid a pandemic, our job is to make the process of renewing permits hassle-free and economical. Any additional charge imposed by us would come through a policy change and has to be duly notified,” he said. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said the revised fee was decided by the Patient Welfare Committee. An official told TOI that Civil Hospital saw a flood of applications after the lockdown was eased in May. “The increased fee will hopefully deter applicants. The money goes for the welfare of the needy patients,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/renewing-liquor-permit-now-costs-rs-13000-more/articleshow/78195313.cms||Niyati Parikh
September 19, 2020||Patna||Kaimur wildlife sanctuary can be a tiger reserve: Rudy||PATNA: Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy has proposed in Lok Sabha that Kaimur wildlife sanctuary should either be developed as a national park or as the second tiger reserve in Bihar. Participating in the ongoing monsoon session of the Lok Sabha, Rudy said the tiger count has increased from 2,000 to 3,000 in the country, including 41 in Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR). Rudy said Kaimur forests are surrounded by forest areas of three neighbouring states –Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP). “It has the potential to be developed as a tiger reserve. In 1995, one tiger was spotted in Kaimur and recently, another big cat was sighted in the wildlife sanctuary. “It would be the country’s largest tiger reserve in terms of area,” he said. After seeing the rise in tiger count in VTR, the state government has decided to conduct a survey of Kaimur wildlife sanctuary to see whether it would be appropriate habitat for tigers or not. Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary of environment, forests and climate change department, said Kaimur wildlife sanctuary has the potential of becoming a tiger reserve because it is connected with other tiger reserves of UP and MP through the corridor. “We are already working in this direction. The department is doing a survey to ascertain the status of the natural habitat for tiger,” he said. The department has given Kaimur wildlife sanctuary survey work to Wildlife Trust of India. Singh said the survey is likely to begin from November or December this year. “Kaimur is already notified as a sanctuary under the Wildlife Protection Act. Once tigers or pug marks of tigers are found, the National Tiger Conservation Authority will recognise it as tiger reserve. One tiger was spotted in March this year,” the principal secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kaimur-wildlife-sanctuary-can-be-a-tiger-reserve-rudy/articleshow/78195055.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Three detained with 5kg charas worth Rs 7.5L in Mundra||Rajkot: From the drug haul of charas worth crores of rupees found off the coast of Jakhau and Narayan Sarovar in Kutch by Indian coast guard, BSF, Indian Navy and other security agencies in the past one year, a fisherman chanced upon five packets of charas lying abandoned on the sea coast. However, before he could sell them, he was detained along with two of his accomplices in Mundra on Thursday night. Police said the accused, Ramji Koli (40), Praful Bariya (31) and Naresh Shah (42), were caught with five kg charas (hash) worth Rs 7.50 lakh. “It was Koli who had found the charas packets lying abandoned on the coast of Jakhau. As more and more charas packets were being found by the police, Indian coast guard, BSF and other security agencies, Koli decided to remain inactive. However, when the dust settled over the drug haul, he decided to come out and sell the packets,” said A R Zala, inspector with Bhuj special operation group. Koli then contacted Shah, a property broker in Gandhidham. Shah contacted Bariya who had shown interest in buying the packets. Shah told Koli to meet Bariya. It was while Koli was handing over the packets to Bariya, both of them were caught by the police which had received a tip-off about this drug deal. During their interrogation, Koli and Bariya revealed the name of Shah, subsequent of which Shah, too, was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-detained-with-5kg-charas-worth-rs-7-5l-in-mundra/articleshow/78194148.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||New liquid oxygen tank to be installed||Rajkot: The Rajkot Civil Hospital will install an additional oxygen tank to ensure there is no shortage for critical patients as the number of Covid-19 continue to rage in the city.In a statement Rajkot PDU Hospital said they have one oxygen tank of 11,000 litre capacity per day and four tanks of 950 litre capacity each. The proposed liquid oxygen tank will have a capacity of 20,000 litre per day.The hospital claimed they have sufficient supply of oxygen to treat Covid patients and have 60 D-type cylinders for supply. Hospitals in Rajkot district require nearly 37 kilo litres of oxygen daily in the present pandemic situation.Meanwhile, a team of Rajkot collectorate and Foods and Drugs Control Administration conducted a survey of five oxygen cylinder manufacturing units in Shapar-Veraval industrial area. The survey was done to ensure enough availability of oxygen following the notification by collector. The notification states that the manufacturing units have to reserve certain volume of oxygen for supply to various hospitals. Rajkot’s private hospital had faced oxygen shortage last week and the collector had ordered the civil hospital to provide the supply. The oxygen cylinders manufacturers at Shapar-Veraval also sell to hospitals in Jamnagar and Junagadh districts. In-charge collector AR Ranavasiya said, “It was a routine checking to ensure that hospitals get sufficient oxygen supply.” “The department collects daily production data of oxygen. Officers visit production units regularly to collect data about the quantity of production and the volumes channelised for distribution for medical and industrial purposes,” said Dr HG Koshia, commissioner, FDCA, Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/new-liquid-oxygen-tank-to-be-installed/articleshow/78194012.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Patna HC asks Bihar govt to look into rate factor||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday orally directed the state health department to look into the rate factor as far as RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 is concerned. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar reacted after it was submitted before court that rate for RT-PCR tests is less in many other states when compared to Bihar. The bench was hearing a batch of PILs filed by Shivani Kaushik, Dinesh Kumar Singh, Aditi Hansaria, Ashish Sinha, Kishore Kunal and Abhinay Priyadarshi, who had urged the court to ask the authorities concerned to provide financial incentives to doctors and police personnel, who are on the frontline in fight against Covid-19. Counsel Nikhil Kumar Agrawal, who represented petitioner Hansaria, had raised the issue of RT-PCR test, saying it costs around Rs 2,600 in Bihar against Rs 1,000 in Delhi, Rs 1,200 in Rajasthan and Rs 1,500 in Uttar Pradesh. The bench, after hearing Agrawal’s submission, orally directed the health department principal secretary to look into the matter. The principal secretary was present during the court hearing via videoconferencing. Meanwhile, advocate general Lalit Kishore, while apprising the high court about Covid-19 fight in the state, said the necessary necessary steps were being taken by the state government to contain spread of the virus. Kishore also informed the court that the state government has realised more than Rs 1 crore as fine from common people for not wearing mask. The court has fixed September 21 as the next date of hearing in the matter when the health department will apprise it about availability of x-ray, CT scan and MRI machines in all government colleges and hospitals in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/high-court-asks-state-govt-to-look-into-rate-factor/articleshow/78193318.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM to open mega screen at Gandhi Maidan today||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar will inaugurate a 75x42 feet mega screen installed at Gandhi Maidan by the Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL) via videoconferencing on Saturday. Developed at a cost of Rs 6.98 crore, it will be used to broadcast films, documentaries and sports events under an open sky for more than 5,000 people. The CM will also lay the foundation for the construction of an integrated control and command centre (ICCC) on the premises of the Patna police headquarters. The multi-storey building, which has been built at a cost of Rs 13.16 crore, will accommodate the office of the PSCL. PSCL public relations officer (PRO) Harshita told this newspaper on Friday, “Initially, we will only broadcast informative content of the information and public relations department. After a few months, we will play Hindi movies and organize film festivals. We are also in talks with stakeholders for live broadcasting of sports events.” She added, “We will rope in production houses to prepare content that promotes the culture and tourism of Bihar. Videos, showcasing festivals like Chhath Puja and tourist spots, will also be played on the mega screen. A roster will be prepared according to which the films and documentaries will be telecast.” A control room has been installed near gates 3 and 4 in Gandhi Maidan from where video broadcasting will be controlled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-open-mega-screen-at-gandhi-maidan-today/articleshow/78193336.cms||Arunima Lal
September 19, 2020||Patna||Nagpur woman alleges confinement by in-laws at Patna home||PATNA: A 34-year-old Nagpur woman married to a Patna resident has alleged that she and her one-month-old baby were confined to a room by her husband and in-laws at their home in Kadamkuan area. Sonia Datta told TOI over the phone on Friday that she was confined to an upstairs room despite repeatedly asking to be sent home to Nagpur. She alleged that she was allowed to leave with her sister and a relative, who had driven down from Nagpur to Patna, only after she was forced to sign divorce papers. “I have been wanting to go home for the past several months ever since my husband Vinayak Singh sent me to Patna from Bengaluru for a week in March after which lockdown got enforced. My sister and her brother-in-law had reached Patna from Nagpur on Thursday to take me back but I was not allowed to go and was confined,” she said, adding, they met each other while working in Bengaluru and got married in August last year. She said her husband is an engineer and works at an online investment firm, while she is a pharmacologist working with Accenture in Bangalore and is currently on maternity leave. Sonia said her husband’s mother is a gynaecologist and father is a paediatrician in Patna. Sonia said initially on Thursday, her husband put the condition that she could go home if she gives the undertaking that she would be solely responsible if anything happened to their infant baby boy who was born on August 20. “When I agreed to sign the undertaking, he put the condition that I can go only after signing divorce papers,” Sonia said. She added her husband and in-laws allowed her to go with her elder sister Bani Datta on Friday evening only after she signed the divorce papers. “My husband used to threaten to divorce me even over our different political views. I used to watch some specific news channels as per my views which he opposed. He used to threaten and abuse me on such petty issues,” she said. The woman’s husband, 33-year-old Vinayak Singh, however, said he did not allow Sonia to go just because of Covid-19 pandemic. “She went just to satisfy her ego and after getting influenced by her elder sister who is unemployed and has nothing to do. Our family’s scion went away. I will just forget the entire thing assuming it was a bad dream,” he said adding, he was an IIT graduate. Sonia’s elder sister alleged she along with her brother-in-law Dev Yadav were also illegally confined by Sonia’s husband and in-laws inside their home under in Kadamkuan on Thursday for a few hours after they reached Patna to take her back. “Police had reached the spot on Thursday as well as on Friday. We submitted a written application at Kadamkuan police station informing police about everything that has happened with us since Thursday morning after they allowed Sonia to come with us,” she said. Kadamkuan SHO Nishikant Nishi said Sonia has left with her sister, but denied that the Nagpur family submitted any written complaint. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said Sonia had contacted him on Thursday. “Police is trying to get the issue resolved mutually between two families as it a dispute between husband and wife. Father’s claim is also genuine that anything could happen to the infant. At present police is not intervening much in it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nagpur-woman-alleges-in-laws-confined-her-at-patna-home-with-newborn/articleshow/78195105.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 19, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav slams Bihar govt over bridge collapse||PATNA: The leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on Friday hit out at the state government after a portion of the bridge almost ready for inauguration was washed away in the current of Kankai river under Dighabank block of Kishanganj district on Thursday. The bridge is being constructed at the cost of Rs1.42 crore. He also alleged that not even half of the interstate bus terminus (ISBT) in Patna inaugurated by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday was completed. “A bridge is constructed after spending crores. But here, bridges get washed away either before inauguration or on the day of inauguration. There are several such incidents of bridges, dams, embankments and roads in Bihar having been caved in. Still no inquiry has been set up or action taken against any official,” he said and alleged corruption in government projects. On ISBT, Tejashwi said, “Only 40-45% of the work has been done, but the CM inaugurated the ISBT today.” When asked about LJP’s stand in NDA, he replied, “I will not comment much on this.” But simultaneously, he took a jibe at LJP’s demand over the seats and series of meetings held recently. “I don’t know what was the importance of those meetings, whether to increase or decrease their value,” he said. Tejashwi again dared BJP to contest alone and said, “The biggest political party in the world, which talks of making India as well as Bihar ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-dependent), is hanging around JD(U).” Hitting back at Tejashwi, JD(U) state spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said the RJD leader was trying to keep himself in the limelight by raising different issues. He said Kishanganj bridge issue was being investigated. “Since he (Tejashwi) is not aware of what real development means, he keeps uttering all these words. And we do not expect him to even praise us. Kosi Rail Mahasetu inaugurated today has reduced around 300km distance to 22km. As far as ISBT is concerned, people are smart enough and they will not get swayed by the rumours he is spreading,” he said. JD (U) another spokesperson Arvind Nishad said in the past 15 years under CM Nitish, 6047 bridges have been constructed in Bihar, including 18 mega bridges. “But Tejashwi’s politics is based on negativities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-targets-govt-as-bridge-washed-away-in-kishanganj/articleshow/78194736.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Dose of discipline keeps Gandhi Hospital doctors Covid-free||HYDERABAD: As the only government-run hospital in the state having dedicated its services entirely to treating Covid-19 patients for the past six months, Gandhi Hospital has arguably faced pressures no other such hospital in the country has. Unlike other Covid-dedicated hospitals in the country, Gandhi Hospital, with over 1,300 doctors looking after 1,890 beds meant only for Covid-19 patients, has managed to keep its staff safe from the virus, with only 20 doctors getting infected since the first case was admitted on March 2. The hospital has since treated 30,000 Covid-19 patients.. Even as the first coronavirus case was reported in the state, the government took a call to dedicate Gandhi Hospital’s services to fighting the virus. The most critical Covid-19 cases in the state have been admitted to the hospital. Gandhi Hospital has one of the highest number of ICU beds in the country for Covid–19 patients (469 of the 500 ICU beds are currently occupied). “Apart from the 1,300 doctors who are only on Covid-19 duty, we have a total of 3,000 health care workers in all departments. Till now, 48 of them have been infected and only 20 of them are doctors. All of them have recovered well,” Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao told TOI. Rao who has not taken a single day off since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, said that one of the main reasons for the low infection in the hospital among the doctors was discipline. “We have given good quality personal protection kits, each doctor wears gloves, face shield and all regular norms are followed strictly,” he explained. Hospital has internal welfare committee and roster committee to look after the duty charts during Covid- 19. Doctors at the hospital work six to 19 hours at a stretch. “Doctors take turns to quarantine regularly for a few days, and come back to duty. There is regular usage of HCQ tablets. We take extreme care,” Dr Vinay Sekhar, head of general medicine, Gandhi Hospital said. In Telangana, more than 3,000 health care workers were infected and about 200 of them are doctors. The biggest Covid-19 centre in Telangana has reported few infections. “It really speaks well and presents a positive picture before the people who panic about infection. If doctors in wards have managed well, the public can also stay safe with caution,” Dr Surendra Mohan, Hyderabad branch secretary of Indian Medical Association said. Over 500 doctors have succumbed to the infection in the country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-hosp-keeps-infection-among-docs-in-check/articleshow/78193887.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||2,000 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday reported 2,043 new Covid-19 positive cases and 11 deaths, taking the total caseload to over 1.67 lakh across the state. While the death toll rose to 1,016 total deaths, out of the total infections, over 1.35 lakh people have so far recovered after testing positive, while 30,673 people are under treatment. The health department urged people to maintain social distancing norms should be continued with extra caution for children below 10 years and elderly. They have been advised not to go out, except emergency. A total of 1802 patients have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said. Telangana’s recovery rate rose to 81 percent against the country’s recovery rate of 78 percent and its case fatalities rate continued to stay below one percent. Greater Hyderabad with 314 cases led the Covid-19 count in the districts, while six other districts had more than 100 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2000-new-cases-11-deaths-in-t/articleshow/78193894.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Two ambulance drivers detained for making video viral||RAJKOT: Two people working with a private ambulance service were detained for allegedly circulating the video of civil hospital staffers manhandling a Covid-19 patient who reportedly had suffered from delirium. Pradyuman Nagar police detained ambulance driver Nitin Gohel and his colleague Raju Goswami following a probe ordered into the September 9 incident. The video had gone viral on September 12. In it’s application to the police on Thursday, the civil hospital stated that the video of staff ‘restraining’ a patient was illegally recorded and circulated with an intention to show that he was being manhandled, which was not the case. Police said the video was shot by a woman peon of the hospital on September 9. Gohel obtained the video from this peon and sent to Goswami. Goswami allegedly made this video viral. LI Chavda, police inspector of Pradyuman Nagar police station said, “We detained both under CrPC 151 ( arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences). They were released after signing a bond in the presence of mamlatdar with assurance that they won’t indulge in such activity in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-ambulance-drivers-detained-for-making-video-viral/articleshow/78194270.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot Civil hospital forgets postmortem of accident victim||RAJKOT: A 70-year-old accident victim’s grieving family in Gondal were subjected to more trauma after they were asked to bring his body to the Rajkot Civil Hospital allegedly because doctors there forgot to conduct his postmortem. The furious family members of Batuk Kandoria, who died in a road accident on September 12 in Gondal town, had a heated altercation with the staff at the hospital on Friday. After Kandoria succumbed at the civil hospital at around 5am on Friday, his body was handed over to the family who took it to Gondal, 40 km from Rajkot. Babu Kandoria, younger brother of the deceased told TOI: “We completed all the post-death rituals at home. Just as we were about to start for the crematorium, I got a call from hospital saying that we are required to take my brother’s body back Rajkot civil hospital.” “The person who called me said they had forgotten to perform the mandatory postmortem,” Babu said. At around 10:30am, the deceased’s kin again travelled to Rajkot with his body for the procedure. Finally, it was handed over to them again at 2:30pm. Dr. Pankaj Buch, medical superintendent of the civil hospital, could not be contacted for comments despite several attempts. “Had there been even half an hour’s delay in calling us, how would they have conducted the postmortem?” Babu asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-civil-hospital-forgets-postmortem-of-accident-victim/articleshow/78193898.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Allahabad||Truck driver kills wife and younger son in UP||PRAYAGRAJ: A man allegedly axed his wife and younger son to death at Barokhar village under the limits of Koraon police station late on Thursday night. SP (Crime) Ashutosh Mishra said that a truck driver, identified as Pushpraj Singh (35), was living with his wife Sunita (32) and two sons — Ratan (10) and Raj (7) — at Barokhar village. The SP further added that the truck driver, after having a tiff with his wife over some domestic issue, allegedly attacked her and their two sons with an axe inside the house and left them critically injured. Hearing their cries, the locals rushed to the spot and found all the three lying bleeding on the floor. The accused truck driver managed to give a slip to the locals. Upon being alerted, the local police rushed the spot and brought all the three injured persons at a local hospital for treatment where doctors declared the younger son Raj) dead on arrival.b Police said the wife of the truck driver also succumbed to her injuries on Friday morning. The condition of elder son Ratan was stated to be critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/truck-driver-kills-wife-younger-son/articleshow/78195929.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Business||Former Tata exec Rajiv Dube returns from Birla co||MUMBAI: Rajiv Dube, who was the face of Ratan Tata’s passenger car operations before he joined Kumar Mangalam Birla’s group in 2010, is back at the Tata conglomerate. The 58-year-old has been appointed as a director of Tata Chemicals, strengthening its board to eight members. Tata Chemicals said its board has approved the appointment of Dube as an independent director for five years from Friday till September 17, 2025. Dube was also considered for the CEO’s position at Tata Trusts after R Venkataramanan’s controversial departure from the philanthropic organisation last year. An engineer and a post-graduate in business management, Dube started his career on the shop floor of Tata Motors’ Jamshedpur facility in 1983. He was instrumental in building the company’s passenger car unit (a business dear to Ratan Tata’s heart) from scratch in 1998. In 2010, he joined the board of the Aditya Birla conglomerate as an executive director, on which he remained for nearly 9 years. Currently, he is an advisory board member at the Deakin Business School in Melbourne. The industry veteran’s appointment at Tata Chemicals is subject to shareholders’ approval at the company’s annual general meeting to be held next year. Dube is the fourth independent director at Tata Chemicals, which is chaired by Tata Sons director Bhaskar Bhat. Tata Chemicals is one of the key listed companies whose board is led by a Tata Sons director and not by its chairman N Chandrasekaran. In the past, the company’s chairman was the same as the chairman of Tata Sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/former-tata-exec-rajiv-dube-returns-from-birla-co/articleshow/78195209.cms||Reeba Zachariah
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Renovation of Ranganatha Swamy temple to be complete by November||Mysuru: The renovation of the over 500-year-old Sri Ranganatha Swamy temple in BR Hills, which is part of BR Hills Tiger Reserve in Chamarajnagar district, will be completed in November. The temple, which had been closed for devotees since March 2017, will be opened this year-end, said Muzarai department officials. The works were taken up following public outcry after the temple appeared to be crumbling. Officials said over 90 per cent works have been completed. The department of archaeology and museums, which took up the work at a cost of Rs 2.4 crore, replaced pillars, repaired the sanctum sanctorum and changed the flooring. It is also renovating a guest house. The department of tourism, public works and other departments have contributed funds for different phases of the works. The temple was renovated under the guidance of temple architects from Tamil Nadu. Damaged stones, pillars and beams have been replaced. Three gopuras have been built along with granite flooring. Work on construction of the kitchen and mantapa on the temple premises is in progress. Temple executive officer D Satish told STOI that recently deputy commissioner Dr MR Ravi visited the temple to review the progress of work instructed them to expedite pending works including electrification, construction of steps from Rajagopura and erecting railings. “As authorities have decided to conduct mass feeding daily, the deputy commissioner had also asked to submit an estimate proposal for construction of a full-fledged ‘anna dasoha bhavan’, an action plan for construction of compound around the temple, development of park behind the temple, installation of watch towers, water taps, complete all painting and all remaining works,” he said The DC had set the deadline for completion of all works by end of November and allow devotees to have the lord’s darshan, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/renovation-of-ranganatha-swamy-temple-to-be-complete-by-november/articleshow/78209616.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Patna University to have 2 research centres soon||PATNA: Even as establishment of two advanced research centres of societal importance on the Patna University (PU) campus has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic, fresh move has been initiated by the authorities concerned for expediting the state government’s ambitious scheme at the earliest. The research centres being set up in PU include the much-publicised Dolphin Research Centre and the Centre for Advanced Seismological Research Centre. Proposals for setting up both these centres were approved by the PU syndicate more than a couple of years back and MoUs between PU and the departments concerned of the state government were also signed subsequently. While a plot of 2.5 acres of land at Rani Ghat in front of Patna Law College has already been earmarked for the Dolphin Research Centre, the building for housing the Centre for Seismological Research has almost been completed on Patna Science College grounds. Interacting with PM Narendra Modi through videoconferencing the other day, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had asserted that the government is working hard to set up Asia’s first Dolphin Research Centre in PU with an expenditure of Rs 32 crore. Besides, the entire stretch between Sultanganj and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district has already been declared as Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary, he added. ‘Dolphin Man’ R K Sinha, the vice-chancellor of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University at Katra in Jammu and Kashmir, had initiated the move for the establishment of Dolphin Research Centre which was finally accepted by the Planning Commission in February 2012. He said CM Nitish Kumar was supposed to lay the foundation for this centre on October 5 (which is observed as National Dolphin Day) last year, but it did not materialise due to severe waterlogging in the city. Sinha expressed the hope that if the code of conduct was not imposed by October 5, the foundation laying ceremony might well materialise this year. In any case, the work is likely to be taken up soon, he added. So far as the establishment of seismic research centre is concerned, Bihar State Disaster Management Authority (BSDMA) vice-chairman Vyas Ji said the building for housing the centre (presently called Bihar State Telemetric Network Station) has almost been completed. But necessary instruments like seismographs were not being installed in absence of a full-fledged director. The term of former director has expired and the post has already been advertised, but the appointment has not been made so far, he said. Giving details of this centre, the vice-chairman pointed out that besides the main telemetric network being set up at Patna Science College, 10 other telemetric stations would come up at different places, including Motihari, Siwan, Chhapra, Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Samastipur, Saharsa, Munger and Purnia. All these telemetric stations would have sensitive seismographs to record earthquake waves. These stations would transmit seismological data directly to the satellites round the clock, which will be received by the central station at Patna, Vyas Ji added. PU geology department head Atul Aditya Pandey said the teachers of the department would monitor the data regularly. “Detailed research on seismology, including micro-zonation of the earthquake vulnerable regions, would be carried out at the centre. Bihar falls under zones IV and V of the earthquake intensity zones,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-university-to-have-2-research-centres-soon/articleshow/78192815.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Obese people, diabetics at high risk of mortality from Covid-19: Doctors||PATNA: With a consistent rise in the number of coronavirus cases in the state capital, health experts have urged people with comorbidities to make lifestyle changes in order to minimize the risk of infection. Multiple studies have found that Covid-19 patients with existing medical conditions like hypertension, obesity and diabetes are more likely to develop severe illnesses. According to the president of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics-Bihar, Dr Arun Shah, obese patients are at a high risk of mortality from the Covid-19 infection. “Compared to healthy individuals, people with obesity are 113% more likely to require hospitalization in case they get infected. Also, they are 74% more likely to be admitted to the ICU and 48% more likely to die,” Dr Shah told this newspaper. He added, “Due to obesity, the lining of the blood vessels called endothelial cells do not function well. As a result, their blood is thicker than that of normal individuals and can lead to thrombosis or clot in a major organ like kidney, heart or lungs.” Various studies have established that obesity is associated with comorbidities like hypertension, coronary artery disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Talking about the risk factors associated with diabetics, Dr Samarendra Jha, assistant professor at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), said, “The compromised immune response in diabetics often leads to inflammation which is responsible for fluid accumulation in lungs. There are also chances of a secondary infection in diabetics if they catch Covid-19.” Dr Jha also stated that the line of treatment followed in Covid-19 could harm borderline diabetics. “A common side-effect of Corticosteroid, the most widely administered drug to corona patients, is that it leads to a rise in blood sugar levels. Hence, even if the patient is borderline diabetic, it will aggravate the problem and lower his immunity,” he said. However, not all patients with comorbidities develop severe complications. Health experts have claimed that with proper management and lifestyle changes such as timely medication, diet control, exercise and adequate rest, one can minimize the risks. Rajendra Nagar resident, Vibhuti Narayan Singh, who recovered from Covid-19 in August, has diabetes and hypertension. “Although I had comorbidities, I took proper medication and exercised regularly. I had moderate symptoms, but it took me three weeks to recover completely,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/obese-people-diabetics-at-high-risk-of-mortality-from-covid-19-doctors/articleshow/78192571.cms||Arunima Lal
September 19, 2020||Patna||Patliputra Junction gets new pair of escalators||PATNA: BJP MP from Patliputra Ram Kripal Yadav inaugurated a pair of escalators at the Patliputra Junction here through videoconferencing on Thursday. He also inaugurated train indication board, coach indication board and coach guidance mechanism at the junction. Speaking on the occasion, Ram Kripal said these facilities would prove a boon for the passengers either boarding or alighting from trains at this junction. “Senior citizens, women and sick people would find it more convenient to move with luggage from one platform to another with the help of escalators,” he said. According to Danapur DRM Sunil Kumar, railways has developed Patliputra Junction as the third terminal after Patna Junction and Rajendra Nagar Terminal to cope with huge flow of traffic as well as decongest the passengers’ rush from these two main stations of the Danapur division. “Patliputra Junction is being developed with all kinds of modern amenities required for passengers at a time when several pairs of long distance mail and express trains are either originating from here or passing through it,” he said, adding railways has worked out a blueprint to develop Patliputra as a double-storey station in future. Meanwhile, 100-foot-high national flags were inaugurated on the premises of Lakhisarai, Jehanabad and Biharsharif railway stations by Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Jehanabad MP Chandeshwar Prasad and Nalanda MP Kaushlendra Prasad, respectively. Prasad also inaugurated a newly-built foot over bridge at Jehanabad Court station. Meanwhile , railways has decided to extend run of at least seven pairs of interstate special trains till September 30 with a view to facilitating local people to move easily from one place to another at a time when all local passenger trains, MEMUs and DEMUs remain cancelled due to Covid pandemic. These interstate passenger trains are Saharsa-Patna special (02567/02568), Katihar-Patna special (05713/05714), Patna-Bhabuha special (03243/03244), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Jayanagar special (03225/03226), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Saharsa special (03227/03228) and Saharsa-Patliputra Junction special (03205/03206).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patliputra-junction-gets-new-pair-of-escalators/articleshow/78192890.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||14 new VCs, pro-VCs likely in a week||PATNA: At least 14 new vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors are likely to be appointed in different universities this week. Sources said CM Nitish Kumar has been invited by the Raj Bhavan to hold consultations with governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan to finalise the appointment of VCs and pro-VCs in different universities from the lists submitted by the search committees. The CM is likely to meet the governor in this regard very soon, the sources added. Two separate search committees, headed by Mahatma Gandhi Gramodaya Vishwavidyalaya VC Naresh Chandra Gauta and Lucknow-based A P J Abdul Kalam Technical University VC Vinay Kumar Pathak, interacted with the shortlisted applicants for the posts of VCs and pro-VCs at Raj Bhavan here from September 3 to 9 and submitted separate panels of three to five names for both the offices to the chancellor’s secretariat. The interaction for the selection of VC of L N Mithila University (LNMU) was held on June 23 and the panel prepared by the search committee was also submitted to the chancellor the same day. New appointments are to be made on the posts of VCs of Patna University (PU), L N Mithila University (LNMU), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), Jaya Prakash University (JPU), B N Mandal University (BNMU) and K S D Sanskrit University (KSDSU) and the pro-VCs of PU, JPU, KSDSU, TMBU, LNMU, BRABUand Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University. All these offices are lying vacant for the last several months. Meanwhile, the post of Purnea University VC also fell vacant recently and the VC of Aryabhatta Knowledge University will be completing his three-year term in the current month itself. As all these universities are being governed by caretaker VCs, no development activities are being carried out in institutions affiliated to them. Most VCs are discharging only routine jobs as their financial powers stand seized by the chancellor. Governor’s principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad said all the necessary processes of selection of VCs and pro-VCs in different universities have been completed and the appointments are likely to be made by the end of this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/14-new-vcs-pro-vcs-likely-in-a-week/articleshow/78192860.cms||B K Mishra
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Minister inaugurates city central library||Mysuru: District minister ST Somashekar on Friday inaugurated the new city central library at People’s Park in Nazarbad. The two-storey library building constructed near the KSRTC bus stand has come up on a area at a cost of Rs 5.3 crore. The building constructed by Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Limited (KRIDL) houses around 36,000 books. The library has separate sections for visually challenged and specially abled persons, women, senior citizens and children. While the ground floor houses computer section, circulation, reference sections, and a separate section for students preparing for competitive examinations, the first floor has administrative office, conference hall and chambers for the staff. Education minister S Suresh Kumar inaugurated the digital library and mayor Tasneem inaugurated the book exhibition. Speaking on the occasion, department of libraries deputy director B Manjunath said that the department has planned to build a landscape and garden in front of the building and grow medicinal and herbal plants. “A two-wheeler parking centre, a pathway, stone benches, rain water harvesting, an elevator and solar will be initiated in the library building in the coming days,” he said. MLAs GT Devegowda, L Nagendra and SA Ramadas, deputy commissioner B Sharat and library department director Satish Kumar S Hosamani were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-inaugurates-city-central-library/articleshow/78192652.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||State government extends ban on gutka, pan masala for a year||PATNA: The government has extended the ban on the manufacture, sale, storage, display and transportation of gutka and pan masala containing nicotine for a year across the state. An order in this regard was issued by food safety commissioner, Lokesh Kumar Singh, on Thursday. The Food Safety and Standards (Prohibition and Restrictions on Sales) Regulations, 2011 lays down that tobacco and nicotine shall not be used as ingredients in any food products. In 2013, the Supreme Court had also asked all the states to ban gutka and pan masala containing nicotine. According to Gaya food safety officer, Mukesh Ji Kashyap, Section 59 (3) of the Food Safety and Standard Act states that a person involved in the manufacture or sale of food items not fit for human consumption will be imprisoned for six years or liable for a fine of up to Rs 6 lakh or both. An FIR will also be registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating the government order. Socio Economic and Educational Development Society’s executive director, Deepak Mishra, welcomed the extension of the ban for another year. Mishra said, “The ban is no less than a boon amid the Covid-19 pandemic because people, who consume gutka and pan masala, are in the habit of spitting them.” He also stressed on the need for strict implementation of the ban for better results. “The reality is that tobacco, gutka and pan masala are readily available at all places,” Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-government-extends-ban-on-gutka-pan-masala-for-a-year/articleshow/78192764.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||489 students engineering and polytechnic students get jobs||PATNA: Around 489 students of both government and private engineering colleges and polytechnics in Bihar have got jobs through the campus placement drive in the academic year 2019- 2020. According to the officials of department of science and technology, 203 students received job letters during the on campus and 33 in off campus placements. Altogether 263 got jobs through pool campus placement drive and 23 through pool campus and college placement drive in academic session 2020- 21. Pool campus placement drive was organised by Md Atiqur Rahman, assistant director (technical) of DST (Bihar), who is also the training & placement coordinator of Aryabhatta Knowledge University, Patna. Students were placed in companies like HCL, Wipro, IBM, TCS, Prism, Johnson Limited, Alstom, Okaya Infocom among others. The average package for students was Rs3.8 lakh per annum. DST’s additional chief secretary Brijesh Mehrotra and director Sanjeev Kumar said in a press communiqué that 6,850 students had completed basic level training in Python, machine learning, Revit for architectural design, CATIA, MATLAB, Primavera and cyber security conducted by IIT Kanpur in June and July. Altogether 6,360 students were undergoing training in the second phase since September 7. Trainings in other academic activities like communication skills, robotics, ethical hacking and courses in demand by the industry are scheduled in October-November for students of engineering colleges and polytechnics. Virtual class software is developed by DST. All students, faculty of government engineering colleges and polytechnics have given access/login ID to view and download the study materials. So far, 20,823 videos and 31,133 study materials have been uploaded. In order to improve faculty-student ratio in government engineering colleges and polytechnics, the BPSC is going to recruit assistant professors (1,401), associate professors (429), professors (168) and principals (32) in government engineering colleges besides lecturers (796), heads of departments (167) and principals (25) in polytechnics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/489-students-engineering-and-polytechnic-students-get-jobs/articleshow/78194772.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Mahabodhi temple to reopen from Monday||GAYA: World heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara will open its doors for visitors after around five months from September 21. However, it will be opened for only three hours in the morning from 6 to 9 am and from 3 to 6 pm in the afternoon from September 21. From October 1, the Mahavihara will open as per its normal timing, from i.e.from 5 am to 9 pm. Gaya district magistrate-cum- BTMC chairman Abhishek Singh has given his approval to open the Mahavihara. Hospitality sector experts in the holy town are, however, skeptical of tourists’ footfall as international flight operation is currently suspended from the Gaya International Airport due to Covid-19 pandemic, while train services have also not fully resumed. Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar told this newspaper that under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, around 175 flights were operated and 25,000 people have been rescued from abroad. “However, international flight operation for the tourists can start only when the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) grants permission. Gaya airport had a very busy time since April as there were lot of activities due to flights coming under the mission. One or two domestic flights may start in October,” he said. Normally, international flight operation at Gaya airport starts every year in September with the onset of tourist season in Bodh Gaya and continues till February. During the period, flights for Colombo, Bangkok and Paro in Bhutan among few other countries are operated. During the tourist season, annual events of different sects of Buddhism like Kagyu Monlam of Kagyu sect, Nigma Monlam of Nigma sect and other events are organised on the premises of Mahabodhi Mahavihara. Sources said that such events are likely to be organised this year as well but with strict following of Covid -19 protocol. Though the event organizers have submitted a request letter for permission, but the Bodhgaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) is yet to release the annual event calendar. Meanwhile, in apprehension of flights and reduced footfall of tourists in Bodhgaya, Tourist Guide Association of Bihar president Rakesh Kumar has demanded to start at least a tourist special train for Gaya so that tour guides, hoteliers, travel agents and others get some relief from the financial crisis they are facing due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mahabodhi-temple-to-reopen-from-monday/articleshow/78193258.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Two key accused in sensational Dhrol murder held||Rajkot: Two prime absconding accused in the sensational daylight murder of a historysheeter Divyarajsinh Jadeja in Dhrol of Jamnagar in March, were arrested with three country-made pistols from Chotila in Surendranagar district on Friday.Police said the accused, Omdevsinh Jadeja (28) and Narendrasinh Jadeja (30), were detained on the basis of a tip-off about them planning to flee to Jasdan from Chotila. On March 6, assailants fired seven rounds at Divyarajsinh at Trikonbaug in Dhrol when he was boarding his SUV. Two bullets hit Divyarajsinh in the chest. He was first rushed to Dhrol Civil Hospital and then to GG Hospital in Jamnagar, where he died shortly after admission. Omdevsinh and Sodha had allegedly plotted the murder of Divyarajsinh. “They had given ‘supari’ (contract killing) to Akhilesh Thakur and Rohitsinh Thakur, both sharp shooters from Uttar Pradesh,” said Rajkot range IG Sandeep Singh in Rajkot on Friday.“Sodha and Mustaq had accompanied the assassins as their helpers,” he added.Sodha had a dispute with Divyarajsinh over the collection of toll tax at the toll booth of which Sodha had a contract. When Divyarajsinh’s trucks laden with sand passed through the toll booth, Sodha's men would charge him toll tax. Divyarajsinh had warned Sodha against collecting toll tax from him, threatening him with dire consequences. Meanwhile, Omdevsinh also developed differences with Divyarajsinh over the possession of a plot worth Rs 50 lakh. When Omdevsinh came to know that Sodha too had a problem with Divyarajsinh, they both hatched the conspiracy to kill Divyarajsinh. Soon after Divyarajsinh was murdered, police had arrested Sodha, Pathan, Ajit Thakur and Akhilesh. However, Omdevsinh, Narendrasinh and Rohitsinh were still at large. “While Ajit Thakur had supplied five country-made pistols to the accused, Narendrasinh had carried out the recce. Narendrasinh had also arranged for lodging, boarding and food of the sharp shooters,” said Singh.Omdevsinh and Narendrasinh have been detained. They will formally be arrested once they undergo Covid-19 test, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-key-accused-in-sensational-dhrol-murder-held/articleshow/78194176.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Martyrs’ memorial to be completed in 6 months||Hyderabad: The state government has set a target of completing the construction of Telangana Martyrs’ Memorial within six months. Roads and Buildings minister V Prashanth Reddy inspected the ongoing works at the memorial on Friday and said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is desirous of making it a tradition for the visiting dignitaries including the President, PM and others to pay their respects to the martyrs at the memorial. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/martyrs-memorial-to-be-completed-in-6-months/articleshow/78193904.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Business||Brands home in, go for ‘spare time’ wallet||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com The work-from-home (W-FH) culture has made people richer with the most expensive commodity — spare time. As a majority of people accept WFH as a norm, they save the time they earlier spent on commuting to office, or for work-related matters. Vying for a share of this ‘spare time’ wallet are marketers who are looking at it as an opportunity to hook consumers to new habits. Brand strategies are directed to get the consumer’s attention during post-work or in-between moments that could translate into better sales. MullenLowe Lintas group chief strategy officer Subramanyeswar S said home has become an ‘omni-verse’ where, parallelly, a number of activities are happening. “Home has become the single command centre of opportunity for a marketer today, as there’s not just work that’s happening, but also playing, cooking, eating, entertainment, reading, chatting with friends & family, and other hobbies at various points during the day. Be it food processing brands, as people are experimenting with cooking, home makeover products, telemedicine services, collaboration platform preferences, entertainment offerings from gaming to streaming, and learning options — if explored well, can lead to innovative opportunities in the redefined home ecosystem,” said Subramanyeswar. Amul, a brand that touched people’s lives in the mornings, has latched onto the shift in people’s behaviour to expand its scope and indulge the consumer during different parts of the day. The brand is pushing its paneer, butter and cheese products to households through different propositions as its sales to hotels and cafes take a beating. Parachute, on the other hand, is encouraging people to use the traditional old way of ‘champi’ to de-stress and bond with family. Digital entertainment too is a strong contender for the consumer’s eyeballs during these spare time moments. R S Sodhi, MD of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, which markets Amul, said the share of stomach has shifted to in-home cooking, which gives consumers a better control over the ingredients they use. “This habit of in-home cooking is here to stay and that’s why we are considering launching grated paneer for the ease of making ‘paneer bhurji’. We see people shifting from unbranded to branded in segments like curd, khoya and paneer, and that’s clearly an opportunity for us.” Consumption of content, online shopping, home exercises and movies are some of the other spare time activities that people have undertaken during the lockdown phase. Spencer’s Retail has live-cooking tutorials on social media every week, which attracts a large crowd. Devendra Chawla, CEO of Spencer’s Retail and Nature’s Basket, calls it ‘couch marketing’. “Brands which deeply connect with consumers, creating a community in this phase, will become part of their journey after the pandemic and will be rewarded,” said Chawla. Marico, which launched the ‘champi’ challenge, felt that Parachute Advance can encourage people to make the most of this time together, while also helping them deal with the anxiety of the situation. Marico chief marketing officer Koshy George said the shift towards mindful and healthier snacking is expected to continue even in the post-Covid era. Koshy said the pandemic-induced new normal has changed the way of life and every individual’s daily routine, which are now defined by work from home, social distancing, little to no travelling and homebound activities. This has helped consumers cultivate new habits. Subramanyeswar said, if the consumer is delighted by new experiences, even long-held beliefs can change permanently. “In a way, it’s a unique moment in time for marketers to shape behavioural changes positively. Thus, positioning their brands better for the next normal, leading to long-term profitable results,” Subramanyeswar added. As consumers spend most of the time at home, there’s also a greater potential for higher spends on home furnishings, ergonomically designed furniture, consumer durables, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/brands-home-in-go-for-spare-time-wallet/articleshow/78195517.cms||Namrata Singh
September 19, 2020||Business||Amazon’s seller fee revision after Diwali||TNN Bengaluru: Ahead of the festive season sales, Amazon India is deferring its marketplace fee revisions this year to December. This is to assist third-party sellers with working capital and invest in stocking up goods. From December, it will hike various fee components in about 45 categories such as eyewear, wall-art and video game accessories. It would also reduce other fees in 15 categories including sports, shoes and suitcases, the company told TOI. Amazon India said the move is aimed to support sellers on its marketplace to cope with the disruption caused by Covid-19. Essentially, this could encourage sellers to increase their listing and prepare for upcoming festive sales, which is expected to see a record gross sale of $7 billion throughout the month. “Sellers will see reduction in closing fee charges for products in low price range like Rs 250-500 that are shipped from Amazon fulfilment centres,” the company said. Closing fees is a per-unit fee that is charged for every transaction that happens on the marketplace. In April, the e-tailer had slashed its marketplace fees by 50% till June for merchants who sold goods worth Rs 10,000 or less before the virus outbreak in India. It was incentivising merchants to sell essential to meet the high demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazons-seller-fee-revision-after-diwali/articleshow/78195301.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid tally crosses 1.65 lakh, recovery rate 91.5%||PATNA: Covid cases in Bihar have crossed the 1.65 lakh mark with 1,147 cases recorded on Friday, taking the day’s tally to 1,65,371. The official death toll has reached 859 with four latest deaths. With more than 1.51 lakh recoveries so far, active cases stand at 13,110. MLC and state Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra is among those who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. “I have tested positive for Covid-19 and all those who have come in touch with me in recent days should get themselves tested and quarantined,” Mishra posted on his Facebook page. Earlier on Thursday, 1,592 new cases and seven deaths were reported by the health department. As per official data, four deaths were reported since Thursday in Patna, taking the district toll to 196. While Rohtas recorded two deaths, Bhagalpur, Buxar, Khagaria, Nalanda and Madhubani reported one death each. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Friday that nearly 54 lakh samples have been tested in Bihar so far and as of Friday, the state’s recovery rate stands at 91.5%, one of the highest in the country. AIIMS-Patna reported deaths of two Patna residents on Thursday. While one was a 48-year-old woman of Mithapur locality, another was a 55-year-old man from RPS More. On the same day, 16 Covid-19 positive people were admitted at the hospital, while two discharged after getting cured. Those admitted to the hospital were also from different localities of Patna, including Ram Nagri, South Mandiri, Mangalam Colony, Choudhari Gali in Raja bazaar and Jagdeo Path. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported no deaths in the past two days but admitted three patients and discharged two on Friday. As far as new Covid-19 cases are concerned, Patna recorded 489 cases in the past two days, including 290 on Thursday and 199 on Friday, taking the district tally to 25,087. However, with 23,064 recoveries, active cases stand at just 1,827. Covid-19 cases registered since Thursday in some other districts are Purnia (149), Saharsa (148), Araria (141), Bhagalpur (121), Supaul (121), West Champaran (92), Madhubani (91), Nalanda (86), East Champaran (78), Gopalganj (65) and Saran (59).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-covid-tally-crosses-1-65l-recovery-rate-91-5/articleshow/78193237.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM thanks PM for launching Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s ‘dream project’||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday thanked PM Narendra Modi for dedicating to people the Kosi Mahasetu, as it was the “dream project” of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and also his own as former railway minister. “You have fulfilled the dream of former PM Vajpayee. It was he who had laid the foundation for Kosi Mahasetu and also of the road-cum-rail bridge across the river Ganga in Patna and Munger,” the CM said. Nitish said Vajpayee had laid foundation stones for three bridges in June 2003, besides announcing that Maithili language will be included in the eighth schedule of the Constitution. He said the Congress-led UPA government, which was in power at the Centre for 10 years, did virtually nothing for completing the Kosi Mahasetu. “Work on the project gained momentum after the NDA came to power at the Centre,” the CM said. Nitish appreciated the railways for taking up projects that will provide the alternative rail route from Kiul to Gaya. “I thank the PM and the railways for creating an additional network of rail routes. It will also benefit the country as Bihar is in the middle, linking the western and southern India to the eastern and north eastern region,” Nitish said. He also thanked railway minister Piyush Goyal for running special trains that brought around 23 lakh stranded people to the state from different parts of the country during Covid-induced lockdown. Earlier, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi made a detailed presentation of the various railway projects, both completed and under implementation, in the state. He said the railways had done a big service to the people of the state by running special trains to bring back several lakhs of migrant workers to the state. The deputy CM said transfer of the land of Patna-Digha railway route to the state government had brought an immense good to the state, as a four-lane road was under construction along it. Among the Union ministers from the state who also participated in the virtual inaugural function addressed by the PM were Ravi Shankar Prasad and Giriraj Singh. Meanwhile, state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kuamr Jaiswal also thanked the PM for inaugurating the railway projects in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-thanks-pm-for-launching-vajpayees-dream-project/articleshow/78194815.cms||Abhay Singh
September 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rs 422 crore sanctioned for elevated road over Ashok Rajpath||PATNA: The state cabinet on Friday gave administrative sanction to construct an elevated road over the Ashok Rajpath between Kargil Chowk near Gandhi Maidan and NIT. The cabinet at its meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar sanctioned Rs422 crore for the construction of the elevated road to ease traffic on the busy Ashok Rajpath. In another important decision, the cabinet gave approved the increase of monthly remuneration of Vikas Mitra, midday meal cooks, anganwadi sevikas, kisan salahkars and teachers working in Talimi Markaz and Sanskrit schools. A sum of Rs1200 has been added to the monthly remuneration of Vikas Mitra. Now, they will be paid Rs13,700 per month. The state government has increased the remuneration of cooks serving government primary and middle schools by Rs150 to Rs1650 per month. Similarly, kisan salahkars’ monthly remuneration has been increased to Rs13,000 per month. The remuneration of Sanskrit teachers has been increased by 13%. The hike in their remunerations will be effective from April 1, 2021. The cabinet also approved certain amendment to the Bihar Motor Vehicles Rules. As per the amended rules, school buses will not be allowed to carry students more than the seats. In addition, the buses will have to display the number of seats on a board. The amendment has been brought to ensure students’ safety while travelling in school buses in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. It was also decided at the meeting to set up Sachivalaya Sports Foundation to promote sports activities among government employees. The cabinet also gave administrative sanction to release funds to the tune of Rs569 crore to the North Bihar and South Bihar Power Distribution Corporation. Funds were also sanctioned to complete works under Namami Gange project. Altogether 64 proposals of different departments were adopted at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-422-crore-okd-for-elevated-road-over-ashok-rajpath/articleshow/78195144.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Modi, Nitish Kumar vs jailed Lalu Prasad in Bihar polls: Sambit Patra||PATNA: BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra on Friday said the Bihar assembly elections would be an electoral battle between PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar leading the NDA side, and incarcerated RJD national president Lalu Prasad, leading the Grand Alliance. “In a nutshell, it will be an electoral battle between ‘Vikas Purush’ PM Modi and ‘Vikas Babu’ CM Nitish Kumar, on one side, and the one who is in jail, on the other side,” Patra said, adding, Lalu was in the jail due to his activities when he was the state’s CM. He was in Patna as part of the party’s celebration of the 70thbirthday of PM Modi. The state BJP has been organizing 70 press conferences to mark the ocassion, and Patra’s was part of the drive. He ridiculed the internal situation both in Congress and RJD. “At the national level, Congress was riven by claims and counterclaims to own the party, as its workers have got divided into two camps around former president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, both clamouring to see their leader as the next party president,” he said. He added, “Similarly, RJD has an ongoing battle between the two ‘yuvrajs’ –Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav. They are fighting to own the party, which they think is their property.” The party’s former state president and health minister Mangal Pandey, among others, accompanied him. “PM Modi has a special association with Bihar,” Patra said. He insisted that the NDA partners, armed with the ‘kaman (bow) of ‘kamal (BJP symbol), teer (arrow, JD-U symbol)’ would win the election with a record margin. “In Lalu, there is neither ‘tej (flash)’ nor ‘pratap (power to move people)’. It is only in name. They don’t command any mass pull,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-nitish-vs-jailed-lalu-in-polls-patra/articleshow/78194664.cms||Abhay Singh
September 19, 2020||Patna||Modi’s ‘generosity’ towards Bihar continues as polls near||PATNA: It is a common practice that the ruling dispensation has always tried to take maximum political mileage by inaugurating pending schemes and announcing new projects in the run-up to  in a state or a country. That way Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s showering a large number projects on Bihar, which goes to polls in a couple of months from now, is nothing new. But a little insight into the matter will reveal how the saffron party is constrained to take this politically crafted move in the past week. The inauguration of new projects for Bihar continued till this week – in fact it started in June with Modi launching from Khagaria an employment generation scheme for migrant workers with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore – with the PM announcing projects ranging from fisheries to petroleum to urban infrastructure, making Bihar the centrepiece of all his moves. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri joined Modi to announce starting of direct flights from the Darbhanga airport from the first week of November. Just like in Bihar, Modi had inaugurated a number of big ticket and low-budget projects ahead of the Gujarat assembly elections in 2017. But why he is so generous on Bihar? With 15 Lok Sabha seats in its kitty, JD(U) is possibly the largest ally of the NDA at the Centre. In the Hindi hinterland, which sends maximum MPs to Parliament and forms the basis of BJP’s vote bank, Bihar is the only state where BJP is sharing power with Nitish Kumar-led party. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are two other states where the saffron party is in power. Naturally, it is imperative for the leader (BJP) to keep its smaller partner (JD-U) in good humour with bountiful of projects in the run-up to the assembly polls. In the present Bihar assembly, BJP is the third largest party with 54 seats with the two largest being RJD (80) and JD-U (69). In 2015, JD(U) had fought the election as part of the Mahagathbandhan. In July 2017, Nitish Kumar left the alliance and joined hands with NDA to get rid of “corrupt” RJD and continue with his “sushashan”. The JD(U) chief had to face a lot of criticism for this move which is perhaps still fresh in the minds of politically conscious voters in the state. Now, as the assembly polls draw closer, it is quite natural for BJP to strengthen its own position and that of its ally JD(U). NDA is facing a huge anti-incumbency wave after its two terms in Bihar. Under the present circumstances, Modi-Shah duo will go to any extent to prevent RJD from regaining power in Bihar. Although Lalu is in jail and his party is, to some extent, plagued by factors ranging from matrimonial to political, BJP cannot afford to let the ground slip from under its feet as it is quite sure about the Muslim-Yadav (MY) votes which will definitely go RJD way and, therefore, is a huge factor in the polls. Hence, Modi is “gracious enough” with the central schemes. Even BJP president J P Nadda’s recent visit to the state is also a step towards that direction. BJP’s well thought-out move to project its ally JD(U) in a respectable picture and proper perspective may be another reason behind announcing a plethora of schemes for Bihar. Modi’s present gesture of heaping praise on Nitish and going extra mile for the state can be an example for other prospective future partners, thereby sending a clear message to them that “look, if you are with me, a gala treatment awaits you”. Neighbouring West Bengal is a case in contrast where Mamata Banerjee has all along been crying “negligence and ill-treatment” meted out by the NDA-led Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modis-generosity-towards-bihar-continues-as-polls-near/articleshow/78194619.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Number of pilgrims for Kumbh in Haridwar next yr to be capped; entry only through passes: CM Rawat||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday announced that the state will issue passes to the pilgrims planning to visit Haridwar for Kumbh 2021. He however denied commenting on the number of pilgrims to be permitted each day, saying, “It will depend on the Covid-19 situation in February 2021. The major bathing days are in March. Vaccines are being made in different countries and we are confident that a solution for the Covid-19 pandemic will definitely come by the start of next year.” Rawat said that preparations for the Kumbh mela in the meantime will continue unhindered. “The works which are permanent and also those which are temporary in nature are being carried out on a large scale at Haridwar,” the CM said. He added that he had spoken to the members of Akhada Parishad and they, too, were of the view that the Kumbh mela should be held on the stipulated dates as the event was based on astrological calculations. To recall, in April this year, the Centre had approved Rs 375 crore for Kumbh preparations. As per a review meeting held by the chief secretary a few days ago, the project of development works at Kangra Ghat of Har-ki-Pauri is stipulated to end on November 15 while December 31 has been fixed as the deadline for the construction of five temporary bridges. The dates for the four ‘Shahi snan’ (key bathing days) for the Kumbh are March 11, 2021 (Mahashivratri), April 12 (Somwati Amavasya), April 14 (Baisakhi Kumbh) and April 27 (Chaitra Poornima). The six ‘Parv Snan’ (festival bathing days) during Kumbh are January 14, 2021 (Makar Sankranti), February 11 (Mauni Amavasya), February 16 (Basant Panchami), February 27 (Magh Poornima), April 13 (Navsamvatsar) and April 21 (Ramnavami).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/number-of-pilgrims-for-kumbh-in-haridwar-next-yr-to-be-capped-entry-only-through-passes-cm-rawat/articleshow/78192634.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 19, 2020||Vadodara||Pomelo sweetens farmers’ sour Covid times||Vadodara: About eight years ago, he ate a sour-sweet fruit and threw the seeds in the corner of his garden. But the pomelo fruit didn’t harbour any bitterness towards this flippancy. On the contrary, the citrus tree is thanking him for the care he took all these years with the sweetest returns today. Meet Wankaner farmer Dharmesh Patel of Savli taluka who is reaping rich benefits from his causal desire to have a pomelo tree on his farm. However, that desire did him good as today in the Covid-hit times, he is enjoying huge demand for the fruit in the fight against deadly coronavirus. In fact, at least a dozen more farmers in Savli and near-by villages are also set to take up pomelo farming looking at Patel's success. Over the last few weeks, Patel claims his phone hasn’t stopped ringing. “The demand for pomelo has risen sharply in recent times. I have been getting calls constantly from the retailers who keep demanding for the precious fruit that is believed to boost immunity. I have been selling pomelos for the last four years, but this is unexpected and am selling them like hotcakes post lockdown,” 34-year-old Patel told TOI. Currently, he is growing seven pomelo trees in his field and each tree bears about 250 fruits between monsoon and winter. “I am planning to increase the number of trees now. I also distributed seeds and saplings to more than dozen other farmers who too will now be growing pomelos in Savli,” Patel said, recalling how a guest from Bangalore had brought a few pomelos to offer at a Ganesh pandal in Patel’s village eight years ago. “Pomelos are usually offered to Lord Ganesh. We ate the fruit then and I sowed its seeds on one end of my vegetable field. The trees bore fruits after four years. Initially, I had no idea about pomelos or its benefits. I collected information about the fruit and then began selling pomelos at Rs 150 per piece to retailers,” Patel recalled. “Considering rich in Vitamin C, pomelo can help in boosting immunity if taken regularly. One can have two small bowls of pomelo fruit added to a balanced diet as immunity can’t be increased overnight,” said Dr Purvi Parikh, a city-based nutritionist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pomelo-sweetens-farmers-sour-covid-times/articleshow/78186998.cms||Tushar Tere
September 19, 2020||Patna||Significant drop in OPD cases at private hospitals with Covid wards||PATNA: Private hospitals in the city shortlisted for Covid-19 treatment have been witnessing sharp drop in the footfall of other patients for OPD services, general check-ups, consultations and planned and elective surgeries. Even the number of emergency cases has come down, as people stayed away from such hospitals due to the fear of infection. Besides lower patient footfall, infection threat to staff and additional investment for coronavirus facilities are creating multiple challenges for private healthcare providers. Sanjay Shrivastava, AGM (administration and operation) of a private hospital at Gardanibagh, told this newspaper that elective surgeries are getting postponed and only emergency cases like cancer patients or dialysis cases are coming. “The bed occupancy has also decreased in the general wards. Only emergency cases are coming for surgery or dialysis. The other hospitals are also facing the same situation,” he said. He added: “The number of Covid patients has also decreased in the past 18-20 days. We have 2-3 Covid patients in our dedicated isolation ward, which has 12 beds.” Administrator of another private hospital on Bypass road, Satyendra Kumar said, “After the Covid outbreak, the patient outfall was zero. But since unlock, we are getting patients for elective surgeries and emergency and OPD footfall has also slightly improved. But once we started admitting Covid patients, the number of people with other medical issues has declined,” he said. An official of a private hospital at Kankarbagh also admitted the decline in patient footfall. “With no elective surgeries and OPD, there has been no income. No patient is coming even for consultations,” he said. Aditya Shekhar, an administrative officer of a private hospital in Bihta, said there was low footfall of general patients because of coronavirus fear. “Earlier, we used to get 400-450 patients in our OPD per day. Now, it has reduced to 70-90. People earlier used to come even with small issues. Now they are only coming if they have some serious issues. Only emergency cases of surgery are coming,” he said. He also said the number of Covid patients has also gone down. “We do not have any Covid patient in the dedicated isolation ward,” Shekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/significant-drop-in-opd-cases-at-private-hospitals-with-covid-wards/articleshow/78192720.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Pak nabs 56 Guj fishermen in 10 boats||Rajkot: Pakistan Marine Security Agency have apprehended 56 Gujarat fishermen along with 10 boats in the past 48 hours for transgressing into uncharted waters. “The fishing boats apparently went near the International Maritime Boundary Line with Pakistan and were caught by the Pakistan agency. Of the seized boats, seven were from Porbandar and three from Veraval,” said Manish Lodhari, former president of Porbandar Fishermen’s Association. Lodhari said at present 270 fishermen from Gujarat are already languishing in Pakistan jails while their 1,100 boats have also not been released so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pak-nabs-56-guj-fishermen-in-10-boats/articleshow/78193865.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||TOI to felicitate 12 social warriors today||Hyderabad: The Times of India’s unique initiative – Times Hyderabad Heroes – announced in January this year, has reached its culmination. Launched with an objective to honour the city’s do-gooders and encourage more people to take up volunteerism, the initiative received an overwhelming response from citizens with over 7,000 nominations coming in from across Hyderabad – from friends, family members, colleagues or neighbours of the Good Samaritans. After meticulous scanning of each of those entries and on-ground reporting by the TOI staff, 24 Heroes were shortlisted and their work placed before an esteemed jury comprising some prominent members of society. Based on their votes, the team selected the final top 12 who were adjudged winners of the initiative. These Heroes will be felicitated by Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, IT and Industries & Commerce (Telangana) through a virtual ceremony, to be held on Saturday. Two of the finalists will also be given the People’s Choice Award, based on votes cast by TOI readers. While we honour these men and women, TOI also salutes the hundreds of other social ‘warriors’ who, cutting through all social and economic distinctions, have been working tirelessly to provide food, education, employment, healthcare and other basic necessities to those in need. Often, despite fighting multiple hurdles in their lives, these Heroes have gone that extra mile to support others – especially over the last six months when the pandemic rendered thousands of people jobless and financially drained. To listen to the stories of the top 12 Times Hyderabad Heroes and witness an engaging panel discussion on the significance of ‘Volunteerism & Community Service’ with our jury members, log on to TOI’s Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/TOIHyderabad at 4 pm on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/toi-to-felicitate-12-social-warriors-today/articleshow/78193890.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Railways infra gets a boost in state||PATNA/BHAGALPUR: The state got a major boost in rail connectivity and related amenities as PM Narendra Modi inaugurated a slew of railway projects worth over Rs 3,000 crore, including Kosi mega rail bridge, through videoconferencing on Friday. The 1.9km-long Kosi mega rail bridge has been constructed with an expenditure of Rs 516 crore, thereby ending the 86-year wait of the people of Kosi region. Former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee had laid the foundation for the bridge on June 6, 2003. Railways had conducted a trial run of passenger train on June 23 this year on the bridge and got approval from the commissioner of railway safety, eastern circle, Kolkata to run passenger trains. The PM also inaugurated the newly-built Kiul rail bridge, which was built replacing the pre-independence era bridge to improve rail traffic on the Howrah-Jhajha-Kiul-Patna route. Modern electronic interlocking system mechanism which was installed between Kiul and Lakhisarai was also inaugurated by the PM . Besides, the PM inaugurated railway electrification projects on the Samastipur-Darbhanga-Jayanagar, Samastipur-Khagaria, Katihar-New Jalpaiguri, Shivnarayanpur-Bhagalpur and Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur routes. Among other projects which were inaugurated by the PM included new electric loco shed at Barauni and construction of new lines – Hajipur-Vaishali, Saharsa-Asanpur Kupha, Karnauti-Bakhtiarpur link bypass and Barh-Bakhtiarpur. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said in the gauge conversion project, the PM inaugurated Saharsa-Saraigarh-Raghopur route while new passenger trains were flagged off on the Hajipur-Vaishali, Islampur-Natesar, Katihar-New Jalpaiguri and Supaul-Saraigarh-Asan Kupha-Raghopur routes. Meanwhile, train passengers and residents of Bhagalpur were elated as the PM dedicated the newly electrified section of railways between Shivnarayanpur and Bhagalpur railway stations under Malda railway division of Eastern Railways (ER) to people on Friday. The electrified section between Shinarayanpur and Bhagalpur, about 43km-long, is part of the 247km railway route between Kiul-Bhagalpur-Sahibganj-Barharwa-Malda stations. Divisional railway manager (DRM) of Malda division Yatendra Kumar said a short film on railway projects was also screened on the occasion. People in Bhagalpur also lauded the unveiling of the electrified section of railways between Shivnarayanpur and Bhagalpur railway stations. Members of the Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (EBCCI), Eastern Bihar Industries Association (EBIA), IMA and Railway Users Passenger Committee said more long-distance electric trains should be introduced on this railway section. “We are happy that the PM is aware about the needs of the people of the region. The government has done the right thing by sprucing up railway infrastructure, which is the core of public and goods transport system,” EBIA general secretary Alok Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-infra-gets-a-boost-in-state/articleshow/78192924.cms||Kumod Verma
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt to replace 12 ordinances with bills in monsoon session||Bhubaneswar: As many as 12 ordinances will be replaced with bills in the monsoon session of the state assembly that starts from September 29. The state government has already informed the assembly about the replacement of the 12 ordinances as bills, said official sources. Since the assembly was not in session, the state cabinet had promulgated a number of ordinances in the past six months to strengthen its fight against Covid-19 and boost economic activities. These ordinances centre on enforcing strict Covid regulations, helping farmers augment their income by providing a free market, revival of pandemic-hit industries and MSMEs, regulation of university administration and to expand corpus of Odisha Contingency Fund, among others. “Ordinances are temporary laws that are promulgated by the governor on the recommendation of the state cabinet, when the House is not in session. Since an ordinance has a life of six months, it has to be replaced by a bill in the assembly within six weeks of reassembly,” said an official of the assembly, requesting anonymity. Apart from replacing the 12 ordinances as bills, the government may also table other bills during the session. An all-party meeting has been convened by speaker SN Patro on September 25 to discuss the conduct of the session. Parliamentary affairs minister BK Arukh and senior leaders of all parties are scheduled to attend it. “If the state government wants to introduce any other bill, it will say so at the all-party meeting,” said the official. To strengthen its fight against the pandemic, the state health and family welfare department had promulgated two ordinances to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The two ordinances, promulgated in April and August, have provision of imprisonment of up to two years and fine of up to Rs 1 lakh for non-compliance with Covid regulations. In the farm sector, the state government had promulgated two ordinances — The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming Services (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, in May. These ordinances, which align with central laws, were promulgated to facilitate geographical restriction-free trade of agricultural produce and to ensure better market linkages for farmers to sell their produce. The Centre on Tuesday passed two farm bills in the Lok Sabha, and these will be tabled in the Rajya Sabha in the next few days. The Odisha University (amendment) Ordinance, 2020, involves reforms brought by the state government in the management of universities. To ensure hassle-free business environment, the state government amended the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, through an ordinance, and gave a number of relaxations to industries. The state government had also promulgated ordinances to amend municipal laws, give relaxations under GST law and amend advocates’ welfare fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-to-replace-12-ordinances-with-bills-in-monsoon-session/articleshow/78193895.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 19, 2020||Patna||Medanta hospital starts operations in Patna||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Friday inaugurated Jai Prabha Medanta Superspecialty Hospital at Kankarbagh. OPD services related to internal medicine, nephrology and cardiology started at the hospital soon after the inauguration. Keeping in mind Covid-19 pandemic, senior doctors of Medanta-Gurugram will also provide telemedicine services. Nitish had inaugurated the hospital’s construction work in May 2016. After the inauguration on Friday amid religious chants, the CM also visited different wards and departments of the hospital. He was apprised about the facilities at the hospital by its CEO Dr Pankaj Sahni and also honoured on the occasion. As per the press release issued by CMO, 25% of the beds of this hospital will be reserved for needy families and they will be charged as per central government health scheme (CGHS). The hospital will give Rs 3 crore for three years with 6.5% annual increase to the health department as per the agreement. “Once the hospital is established fully, the health department will get the premium or 1% of annual revenue, whichever is more. Till now, the health department has received over Rs 21 crore revenue from Medanta Hospital. This superspecialty hospital will not only improve health services, but also increase the health department’s income,” the government said. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, state legislative assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, health minister Mangal Pandey, personal adviser to CM Anjani Kumar Singh, chief secretary Deepak Kumar, principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary to CM Chanchal Kumar, secretaries to CM Manish Verama and Anupam Kumar and other senior officials were present. Medanta Medicity’s chairman Dr Naresh Trehan joined the inaugural programme through videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medanta-hospital-starts-operations-in-patna/articleshow/78193300.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 19, 2020||Patna||Railways takes up measures for passenger amenities||PATNA: The Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) has taken up a slew of measures for passenger amenities and reviewed the safety measures related to Covid-19 at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal and other major stations. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said railways is strictly following health protocol as directed by the ministry of home affairs and health department with regard to passengers’ entry on the railway premises. “Passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed to enter platforms after proper screening and sanitisation of their luggage,” he said. Railways has started issuing tickets from the passenger reservation system (PRS) and unreserved ticketing system (UTS) counters while maintaining social distancing norms. These counters are under CCTV surveillance to check any mischief or violation of the health protocol by anyone with vested interests, the DRM said, adding railways is not issuing platform tickets with a view to reducing rush. Railways has opened two or three entry points at Patna Junction and Rajendra Nagar Terminal. Earlier, there was only one entry point, he said, adding that luggage scanners are likely to be installed at Patna Junction and Rajendra Nagar Terminal. The DRM said railways has installed three pairs of escalators at Patna Junction while two pairs are in the pipeline there. One pair each is being installed at Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Ara, Danapur, Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Barh and Patliputra Junction, he said. A blueprint is ready to install two pairs of lifts at Patna Junction, one pair each at Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Ara and Danapur station. According to Danapur senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj, railways has installed altogether 472 CCTV cameras at different stations, including Patna Junction (117), Danapur (77), Rajendra Nagar Terminal (51), Buxar (44), Ara (42), Mokama (40), Kiul (30), Dildarnagar (28), Patna Sahib (20), Bakhtiarpur (20) and Patliputra Junction (3). When asked about restoration of local passenger trains on various sections of the division, the DRM said railways will run special passenger local trains up to September 15 only for the benefit JEE/NEET/ NDA examinees. However, railways could run local trains only after getting permission from the state government, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-takes-up-measures-for-passenger-amenities/articleshow/78192948.cms||Kumod Verma
September 19, 2020||Business||Colleagues let their hair down in WFH bonding||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com An online activity where employees were asked to speak about their pets proved to be an icebreaker of sorts for the team. A senior director, around whom employees felt intimidated at work due to his strict demeanour, suddenly appeared more approachable now as he engaged with the others on the subject and spoke about his pet. A manager at the company, who was also part of this activity, told TOI, “I was pleasantly surprised to find that the executive had a lighter side to him. We exchanged notes about our respective pets and it was kind of a game changer. He appears so much more affable now. No water-cooler conversation at the office would have brought about this change.” When one is at office, said an executive, there’s a certain formality that comes in the manner in which one behaves or greets another person. Icebreaking moments don’t occur during the occasional employee gatherings organised by HR either, said the executive. In pre-Covid days, progressive employers would urge employees to bring their whole self to work. Contrary to what the naysayers of work-from-home (WFH) believe — that remote working doesn’t help in team bonding — there is anecdotal evidence on how online team events are actually bringing out a person’s ‘whole self’ better than what one would have seen at the workplace. In the new normal, people are revealing their personal side, putting on display home decor, playing with their pets, and even allowing their children to take a peek. Many put in efforts to ensure the backdrop is attractive — be it a bookshelf, a painting or an off-white curtain, neatly pleated. Allied Blenders & Distillers chief people officer Biplob Banerjee said, “Leaders have in fact become more open to share their other side due to the prolonged lockdown at home and allowed the camera to capture various moments of their life at home. Be it doing household chores and sharing it on social media or joining a wellness session with spouse and kids. Earlier, office colleagues used to visit a leader’s home only on occasions. Now, it’s happening everyday through the camera. The need to relate, share and be understood has gone up tremendously in this crisis and are getting expressed through various means.” With work happening online, HR activities to create bonding among employees have also become innovative. At one such office online event, when a senior executive revealed his poetic side and recited a few lines that he had penned, it instilled a positive fervour in other employees. “Social distancing can at times make one depressed. The poem was uplifting and better than any inspirational speech by top leaders,” said a manager, who was part of the activity. Bonding through online interactions appear to have become quite effortless. In an internal meeting at a fintech firm, an executive’s child was caught teasing other members while the meeting was in progress. “It only brought in a lighter moment. What followed was business as usual,” said an executive who attended the meeting. A communications executive said with both he and his wife working from home, each one has occupied a room in the house to dedicate themselves to work for the given hours. However, not everyone has the luxury of a big house. At an industry event, a woman panellist had to cajole a child in the middle of responding to questions posed by the online audience. “None of the panellists displayed any displeasure. It was seen as very normal, which drives home the point that at times work and life do mingle and one needs to accept this fact,” said a manager who attended this online event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/colleagues-let-their-hair-down-in-wfh-bonding/articleshow/78195362.cms||Namrata Singh
September 19, 2020||Patna||Work to start on Raghuvansh’s proposals soon, says minister||PATNA: State water resources minister Sanjay Jha has said the department would soon start work on issues raised by former Union minister late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh in a set of letters addressed to CM Nitish Kumar a couple of days before his death. Raghuvansh (74) had died while undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Delhi on September 13. He had written three letters to the CM from the ICU of the premier hospital and raised issues related to his Lok Sabha constituency, Vaishali, and MNREGA, his brainchild when he was a minister in the UPA government at the Centre. Jha wrote to Raghuvansh’s elder son Satya Prakash Singh on Thursday, informing the latter that the CM has directed him to start work on the issues raised by Raghuvansh. “It shows that Raghuvansh Babu was very much concerned about the well-being of people of the constituency he had nurtured for decades,” Jha said. Raghuvansh’s main demands included certain amendment in MNREGA, bringing lord Buddha’s alms bowl from Afghanistan to Vaishali, unfurling tricolour in Vaishali on Republic Day and construction of a few small bridges over Gandak canal in Muzaffarpur and Vaishali districts. He had also urged the CM to install a statue of eminent Hindi litterateur late Rambriksh Benipuri and construct a bridge over Bagmati river to connect his native village under Aurai block in Muzaffarpur district. In one of the three letters, Raghuvansh had requested for construction of a sluice gate over Malamala canal under Mahnar block in Vaishali district, erecting a big entrance gate somewhere between southern end of the Gandhi Setu and Hajipur, wall writing of a few poems of late Ram Dhari Singh Dinkar and Manoranjan Babu about Vaishali, the first republic of the glove, renovation of old ponds in Vaishali district and construction of a road till the bridge over the canal at Dhamaun village in neighbouring Samastipur district. Jha said, “The CM has asked me to take immediate action in this regard. The water resources department has taken in-principle decisions on several issues raised by the former Vaishali MP. The government has started work on some matters.” Sources in the water resources department said the letter addressed to Raghuvnash’s son had been delivered. Raghuvansh’s nephew Rajesh Kumar Singh alias Khanna Singh said, “It’s a matter of great satisfaction that both the CM and the minister concerned have shown interest in fulfilling the last wishes of Raghuvansh Babu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-to-start-on-raghuvanshs-proposals-soon-says-minister/articleshow/78194804.cms||Ramashankar
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Sanitation worker dies of asphyxiation||Rajkot: A 25-year-old sanitation worker died of asphyxiation at the Rajkot Civil Hospital on Friday, while cleaning an underground gutter in Bhagwatipara locality of Rajkot. Altogether three labourers were asphyxiated. The deceased was identified as Rambhai Lalani, who had climbed down the gutter along with Babu Dharajia (35) and Nagaji Dharajia (45) behind Modern School in Bhagwatipara on September 10. “After the death of Lalani, we have booked the contractor, Manga Solanki, for culpable homicide and atrocity. Solanki had not provided the victims with safety gears and had not ensured their safety,” said an official from Rajkot B Division Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sanitation-worker-dies-of-asphyxiation/articleshow/78194040.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||Doctors heave sigh of relief as number of active Covid cases falls in Patna||PATNA: After numerous gruelling shifts and sleepless days, doctors working in the Covid-19 wards of government and private hospitals have heaved a sigh of relief with a steady decline in the number of cases in the city. On Thursday evening, there were 1,894 active cases as against 4,139 on August 9 when the corona wards were fully occupied. While talking to this reporter on Friday, Dr Samarendra Jha, assistant professor at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), could not recall the last time he took a leave from work. He said, “Our leaves were cancelled by the government in March. Since then, we have been working around the clock. However, due to a fall in the number of active cases in the last few weeks, we have heaved a sigh of relief.” Dr Jha stated that the decline in active cases is likely to be a transient phenomenon, which might soon be followed by a second wave of infections. “The easing of curbs under Unlock-4 is likely to trigger a surge in infections in the coming days. Hence, we are still on our toes,” he added. Five months into the pandemic, the chaos and the fear surrounding it seem to have subsided. Dr Nargis Shamin, senior doctor of medicine at the PMCH, claimed that while the initial days of Covid-19 were nothing less than overwhelming, the situation had improved gradually. “Initially, we did not know about the line of treatment and preventive measures. With increase in number of cases and shortage of PPE kits, we were working for six hours without any break,” she rued. Speaking of the present scenario, Dr Shamin said, “Doctors and the people in general have eventually become more aware and are calmer now. With most of the cases falling in the mild category and patients choosing home isolation, the burden on hospitals has reduced.” All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna doctor Sushmita Supriya pointed out that the number of active cases was directly proportional to the workload of the medical staff. “Although our shift timings remain the same, we are not under so much pressure now,” she said. However, many experts have questioned the steady decline in the number of Covid cases in the state. Indian Academy of Pediatrics-Bihar president Dr Arun Shah said the actual number of cases in the state could be higher than the official figures. “Majority of the tests in Bihar are being done through the rapid antigen method, which has a sensitivity of about 50%. With the easing of curbs under Unlock-4 and cases of reinfection emerging in the city, people should not take the pandemic lightly and continue to take precautions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-heave-sigh-of-relief-as-number-of-active-cases-falls/articleshow/78193185.cms||Arunima Lal
September 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jails getting overcrowded amid pandemic||PATNA: Limited functioning of courts due to the Covid-19 pandemic over the past few months has had an impact on prisons across the state with most of them getting overcrowded as bail hearings have been affected. “Inmate count has increased primarily because the courts are unable to function in full strength due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It has affected the number of bails which courts used to grant normally in the pre-Covid-19 period,” IG (prisons and correctional services) Mithilesh Mishra said. There are altogether 59 prisons in the state, including eight central jails, 31 district jails, 17 sub-jails, two women’s jails and one open jail. According to the IG-prisons, count of inmates across Bihar is nearly 50,000 now while the number of inmates was hardly around 40,000 before the pandemic began. Mishra said the prison authorities took urgent steps to increase the capacity of jails to accommodate more inmates and ease the pressure on overcrowded jails. “We increased the capacity of jails at Hajipur, Purnia, Gopalganj, Sherghati, the central jail in Gaya and few other places by acquiring new buildings where some small construction or finishing works were left to house the inmates,” he added. The IG said with these steps they were able to increase the sanctioned capacity to 44,920 from the existing 42,222 capacity at the start of the year. He said by next year, the sanctioned capacity of jails would be at least 50,000 as there would be new prions in Paliganj in Patna and Arwal. “Besides, we will also have new prisons at Jamui, Aurangabad and Bhabhua with an average capacity of housing around 1,100 inmates in each of them,” he said. The IG said initially due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 18 prisons transformed into interim jails across the state where arrested people were kept in 14-day quarantine before being sent to their respective jails. “Now due to present situation, the count of interim jails has also been increased to 21,” Mishra said. In reply to a query over prisons statistic released recently by the NCRB, the IG said occupancy rates in central jails have been shown as beyond 100% because all inmates convicted for five years or more are shifted to these jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jails-getting-overcrowded-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78193214.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 19, 2020||Patna||Cost of oxygen cylinders falls in Bihar||PATNA: With a steady fall in the number of coronavirus cases in the state capital during the last two weeks, the demand for oxygen cylinders has dipped considerably. Consequently, their prices have also fallen. As the number of Covid cases increased rapidly in July and August, vendors began selling oxygen cylinders at higher prices. At present, the consumption of oxygen is almost negligible in most city hospitals, except for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital and Patna Medical College and Hospital. Ajit Kumar, a wholesaler of oxygen cylinders in Kumhrar, claimed that the demand for oxygen cylinders suddenly rose in July and August. “I have sold more than 3,000 pieces in the last three months,” he told this newspaper. Talking about the fluctuation in prices, he said, “A 10 litre oxygen cylinder, which normally costs Rs 7,000, was available for Rs 9,000 in July and August. However, with a decrease in demand and gradual increase in production across the state, its price has come down.” Niraj Kumar, a dealer of oxygen cylinders in Kankarbagh, pointed out that their demand had shot up in July-end when private hospitals in the city were told to set up Covid wards. “Maximum number of Covid cases were detected in the city in July and August because of the arrival of thousands of migrants from other states, who were admitted to different hospitals. Because of a sharp increase in demand, the supply fell short and prices of oxygen cylinders went up by around 30%,” Niraj said. With time, however, people have grown calmer and less fearful. Their hoarding tendency, which was being witnessed during the initial days, has also diminished. “Earlier, people were unnecessarily hoarding oxygen cylinders out of fear. Now, they know that an oximeter can help them decide whether a Covid patient needs additional oxygen or not,” said Dr Abhilasha, a private practitioner based in Punaichak. Boring Road resident, P R Kumar, who purchased three 10 litre oxygen cylinders along with his neighbours in July, is planning to donate them to Covid hospitals. “We thought everyone, who was infected, needed oxygen support. Also, news reports and viral videos of people dying due to lack of oxygen were doing the rounds on social media which propelled fear in the minds of the public. So, we decided to take the matter into our hands,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cost-of-oxygen-cylinders-falls/articleshow/78193345.cms||Arunima Lal
September 19, 2020||Rajkot||Music group owner attempts suicide with family, loses two children in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Two persons died and three of the same family survived in a suicide pact in Bhader village of Dhoraji taluka in Rajkot district on Friday afternoon. Investigation revealed that the family of Shabbir Rathod (35) was passing through severe financial crisis due to the lockdown and they were unable to repay money borrowed from relatives. Rathod had a small music group in Porbandar and performed in marriages and other festive occasions. However, due to the pandemic, he was left without any work for several months Police said Rathod and his wife Rukhsana (30), threw their 10-year-old daughter Rehana, eight-year-old son Mohammed and youngest four-year-old son Ahmed in the check dam in the village before jumping into it to end their lives. While the villagers rescued Shabbir, Rukhsana and Ahmed, Rehana and Mohammed drowned. “Investigation revealed that the couple had been passing through a severe financial crunch since the lockdown. In order to evade their creditors, mostly relatives from, they left their house in Porbandar and shifted to Upleta. After staying at a relative's place in Upleta for three days, they left saying they were going to Veraval. However, instead of going to Veraval, they went to Bhader and took the drastic step,” said an official from Patanvav police station. “The bodies of all the victims were fished out. While Shabbir, Rukhsana and Ahmed had survived, Rehana and Mohammed were declared dead in the Moti Maran government hospital,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/music-group-owner-attempts-suicide-with-family-loses-two-children/articleshow/78194225.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Business||How logjam with China has hit Indian startups||NEW DELHI: Rarely have two words in an obscure document like IPO prospectus raised as many eyebrows as the use of “significant influence” by Ant Group did recently. A part of the Chinese giant Alibaba Group, Ant had used the term to describe its 30% stake in the Noida-headquartered One97 Communications, which is the parent company of widely used micro payments system Paytm. That Alibaba has a financial stake in Paytm isn’t new. It had invested around $1.2 billion in the company in 2015, which gave it around 45% stake. Over time, its shareholding has fallen by a third. The trigger for attention was the ongoing tension between India and China, which has made people scrutinise everything Chinese. That’s despite the fact that China is India’s largest trading partner and its companies have invested billions of dollars in India. Chinese funding has gone into big private companies like HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank and into dozens of startups that include Paytm and MakeMyTrip. “‘Significant influence’ is just an accounting term, which means that the investor has over 20% equity investment in an organisation. It does not imply anything about the nationality of a company,” Paytm president Madhur Deora told TOI. “They do not have influence on our everyday business operations and decisions. Paytm is as Indian as Maruti and HDFC, and we are proud to be a homegrown success story.” 27 'points of dispute' between India and ChinaFor instance, India’s largest carmaker, Maruti Suzuki (formerly Maruti Udyog) is a 56.2%-owned subsidiary of Japanese automobile giant Suzuki and different foreign institutions hold more than 30% stake in the country’s most valuable private sector bank, HDFC Bank. “Foreign investors have no say in day-to-day operations of these companies,” a top banker said. “Most of these investors invest to make money and they move on. Incidentally, 26% of Ant Group is owned by Japanese company SoftBank. Does that make Ant Japanese? No,” he said. Given the scarcity of local funding, Indian startups rely heavily on foreign investments, mainly from the US, Japan, China and Hong Kong. Among the top 65 startups in India, 31 have received funding from China and Hong Kong, a study by Research and Information System for Developing Countries (RIS) shows. “All companies incorporated in India are governed by Indian laws and regulations. Paytm takes these obligations to our nation with utmost seriousness,” said Deora. “We have invested billions of dollars in growing financial inclusion, created tens of thousands of jobs, and pioneered digital payments ecosystem in India.” He added, “We have been fortunate to have blue-chip investors from around the world and we learn from their immense experience. They do not have influence on our everyday business operations and decisions.” Read AlsoWhy firing at India-China border is a big dealOver the past four decades, no shots were fired along the LAC between India and China. Both sides are now locked in a standoff, which started in May following Beijing's attempts to change status quo at the LACApart from Ant, SoftBank and SAIF Partners are currently the other large shareholders in One97 Communications with stakes of around 19% and 18% respectively. Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma holds around 14% in the company. Surely, some companies have had to hold or review funding plans after tensions with China started brewing. For instance, Ant has not yet invested $100 million of the $150 million funding it announced earlier this year for online food delivery and restaurant discovery platform Zomato. Many startups and investors are waiting for more clarity from the government. This is especially critical for startups that already have investors from China and need to capitalise further. At early stages, where startups raise capital of up to $10 million, the impact of the pullback of Chinese funds is not significant. But mid- and later-stage companies (some of them unicorns, or startups valued at more than $1 billion each) will feel the impact. Some investors feel funds from other parts of the world will start making up for the pause on Chinese inflows. “We may see a temporary retreat of Chinese capital from the ecosystem, and certain sectors like consumer internet (grocery, delivery, e-commerce) may see continued impact into early 2021. However, based on the tailwinds and momentum that Indian startups are continuing to show, we’re seeing new growth funds coming in from North America, Europe and SE Asia that believe in the promise and performance of the India story,” said Sanjay Nath, managing partner at early-stage investment firm Blume Ventures. However, one downside of the restriction on Chinese investments could be that Indian startups may miss out on closer understanding of how businesses were built and scaled up in China, which has more similarities with India in terms of demographics than the US, especially in sectors like e-commerce, mobility and payments. (With inputs from Madhav Chanchani)Watch How logjam with China has hit Indian startups like Paytm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-logjam-with-china-has-hit-indian-startups/articleshow/78195436.cms||John Sarkar
September 19, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-P doctors develop negative pressure incubator for Covid-hit neonates||PATNA: A team of doctors of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) has developed a portable negative pressure incubator for neonates infected with Covid-19. The research, carried out by doctors Abhyuday Kumar, Neeraj Kumar, Amarjeet Kumar, Bhabesh Kant Chaudhary and Amit Kumar Sinha, was published in the international paediatric journal, Acta Paediatrica, this week. They have claimed that the device will also protect neonates from other hospital-acquired infectious diseases both in and after corona times. The team leader, Dr Abhyuday, said they created negative pressure by readily available and affordable materials like neo shield and model neo 1001 incubator and drilled several holes in the last 40cm of the duction tubing. This tube was fixed over the end wall, where the infant’s head is placed, and the roof of the incubator. “The suction tube was passed through underwater seal system with 100ml of 1% sodium hypochlorite solution to disinfect the exhaust air,” he said. Another researcher, Dr Bhabesh of neonatology department, said this negative pressure incubator for neonates would protect all – doctors, staff, parents of the newborn and even other neonates admitted in the ward. He said, “Of 30 babies born from Covid-19 positive mothers at AIIMS-P in the last three months, two were found positive, though asymptomatic. Both recovered, sent to their homes and are still under our monitoring.” Dr Bhabesh said during treatment of these two children, the need to have an incubator with negative pressure was felt and the hospital began working on this. Dr Bhabesh said neonates required utmost care as they are susceptible to catch infection from various sources and the micro environments of hospitals and homes. “We strongly recommend that people follow the norms of hand hygiene for protecting newborns from microorganisms,” he added. Dr Amit, a team member and paediatric surgery, said this portable negative pressure incubator was very useful for carrying Covid positive neonates from ward to operation theatre or radiology department without chances of spread of the viral infection. “This incubator may carry children weighing up to 6kg and aged up to five months,” he added. Dr Neeraj and Dr Amarjeet of anaesthetists said the team was ready to share their design and expertise to any neonatal hospital. The total cost involved in making this device is around Rs 50,000. “Being portable in design, this device is useful for all urban and rural hospitals rendering healthcare services to neonates,” they claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-p-doctors-develop-negative-pressure-incubator-for-covid-hit-neonates/articleshow/78192684.cms||VK Tripathi
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Oncologists warn not to delay emergency care||HYDERABAD: As people are apprehensive of visiting hospitals due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, medical experts say that patients, who are in need of urgent medical care, are delaying or forgoing critical procedures. They say that certain medical conditions, especially among patients with potential cancer symptoms, cannot be ignored or delayed under any circumstances. Oncologists TOI spoke to said that one has to remember that delayed diagnosis of cancer and its stage migration could lead to adverse results of the current crisis. “Since the beginning of the pandemic, patients, who have symptoms of potential cancer, are delaying their presentation because they are afraid to come to hospitals as they believe that they will contract Covid-19. While the fear is quite natural due to the current situation, what many don’t realize is that the systems are now quite robust. Be it at the out-patient level, operation level or post operation level, every hospital has got safety protocols in place,” said Dr K Sreekanth, senior surgical oncologist, Yashoda Hospitals. Almost all the health care centres are gradually resuming surgeries. But for these elective surgeries, as well as for more time-sensitive procedures like cancer treatment or surgeries, doctors say that they are spending more time on the phone trying to convince patients to come in for further assessment. “Patients must be reassured that even though there are hospitals that are treating Covid-19 cases, they are ensuring that each and every person who comes in, will have to undergo screening test for Covid-19, not just temperature screening but a CT of the lungs (which takes about 5 minutes) so that even asymptomatic cases are identified. A lot of protocols have been put in place at out-patient level, operation level and post-operative level,” said Dr Raghu Ram, a noted cancer specialist and president of The Associations of Surgeons of India. Medical experts stressed that without early diagnosis, an early stage cancer has a potential to become an advanced stage and if that happens, life expectancy is reduced and chances for effective treatment also reduces. “The advanced stage treatment also takes a huge toll on the patient with very little survival benefits,” said Dr Raghu Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oncologists-warn-not-to-delay-emergency-care/articleshow/78193947.cms||Moulika.KV
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lost 16 doctors to Covid and Surat six, IMA data reveals||AHMEDABAD: Data compiled by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on 380 doctors in India who fell prey to Covid-19 revealed that 10% of the doctors – 38 – were from Gujarat. Of the 38, 42% or 16 of the deaths, were from Ahmedabad alone. This is the first exhaustive list prepared by the IMA as the national doctors’ body asked the Union government to term doctors who laid down their lives in the line duty ‘martyrs’. Dr Chandresh Jardosh, IMA Gujarat chapter president, told TOI that it’s been six months for the doctors of Gujarat in service of patients. “Recognition is surely due to these true Covid Warriors,” he said. Apart from 16 doctors who succumbed to Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, Surat reported the deaths of six doctors, followed by three each in Vadodara and Navsari, two in Amreli, and one each in Gir Somnath, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Nadiad, Sabarkantha, Rajkot, Bharuch and Valsad districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-lost-16-doctors-to-covid-and-surat-six-ima-data-reveals/articleshow/78195343.cms||Parth Shastri
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BJD questions timing of CBI raid||Bhubaneswar: The CBI raid on properties of former minister and senior BJD leader Debi Prasad Mishra in connection to his alleged role in the Seashore Group chit fund scam has created ripples in the state political circles with the ruling party questioning the timing of the raid. “The CBI starts conducting searches, raids and issues notices just before byelections, general elections and panchayat elections. People of Odisha are wondering why such things happen before any election,” BJD spokesperson Lenin Mohanty said in a clear hint to the assembly bypolls in Balasore Sadar and Tirtol, scheduled in November. The Congress, though, described the CBI raid as an eye wash. The Congress allegation comes close on the heels of the BJD’s recent support to NDA candidate Harivansh Narayan Singh for election to the Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson’s post and growing public perception about BJD-BJP bonhomie in political circles. “Where was the CBI all these years? The agency started investigation in 2014. Raid in Debi Mishra’s home is just a drama. The BJD and the BJP are both sides of the same coin. Be it during the passing of important bills or recent election of Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson, the BJD has been supporting the BJP on several fronts. The raid was stage-managed to mislead the people that the BJD and the BJP are not one,” senior Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati alleged. Suresh Rautray, another Congress leader, said the Centre mobilized the CBI ahead of the bypolls to Balasore Sadar and Tirtol assembly constituencies, a charge denied by the BJP. “The CBI is the most elite and independent investigating agency. Whosoever is guilty in any corruption or chit fund scam should be taken to task by the CBI. Let the CBI do its investigation. The agency knows how to investigate and when to conduct raids or make arrests,” BJP state general secretary Prithiviraj Harichandan said. The CBI had earlier arrested former BJD MLA Pravat Tripathy in connection with the Artha Tatwa (AT) Group scam, former Mayurbhanj MP Ramachandra Hansdah in Nava Diganta scam and former MLA Pravat Biswal for his alleged involvement in the Seashore Group scam. Besides, the CBI had interrogated some BJD leaders, IPS officers and government employees for their suspected roles in several chit fund scams. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bjd-questions-timing-of-cbi-raid/articleshow/78193934.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Startup to help curb black marketing of Covid vaccine||HYDERABAD: The clock is ticking on vaccine development and in the meantime, UNICEF is gearing up to lead the procurement and supply of Covid-19 vaccines across the world. One of the major challenges it faces will be nixing attempts of hoarding and black marketing while at the same time ensuring effective supply of these lifesaving doses. And it is in this mission critical operation that a Hyderabad-based startup, StaTwig, is expected to play a key role. StaTwig has developed a Blockchain-based solution, Vaccine Ledger, under the guidance of the United Nation’s Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in 2019 and its solution has already been tested in multiple pilots across several countries during May-December last year. Vaccine Ledger is a Blockchain-based platform that captures serial numbers, expiry dates, other manufacturing data using 2D Bar codes and uses them to scan each vaccine at various touch points to track and trace its journey from the manufacturer to the end-consumer. “We were able to reduce wastage of vaccine from 30% to 10% in multiple UNICEF supported pilots. Now, we have entered into a long-term agreement with UNICEF, wherein StaTwig is granted a preferred vendor status that allows any UNICEF country office to directly procure our solution,” said Sid Chakravarthy, founder and CEO, StaTwig. Now, the startup is in talks with GAVI and UNICEF to scale up its solution to help in effective supply of Covid-19 vaccines. “We have already started collecting information at the country level with the help of UNICEF and GAVI so that the data can be mapped for us to customise the solutions,” he added. Explaining the way Vaccine Ledger works, he said that every dose or vial has a unique identification number that acts like a digital ID. As the product changes hands, every detail with regard to temperature, location and chain of custody is captured by sensors on a real-time basis at the back-end. As a result, any anomaly, be it change in temperature or change of transport route of the vaccines is captured, alerting the authorities on real-time basis so that they can take prompt action. “It is like an Aadhar number of the vial… if you type the number, you will be able to see its entire history,” Chakravarthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/startup-to-help-curb-black-marketing-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/78193923.cms||Swati Rathor
September 19, 2020||Goa||Revamped Inox likely to be ready by October-end in Panaji||PANAJI: With 65% of renovation work done and running ahead of schedule, Inox cinemas in Panaji is set to be one of the few state-of-the-art cinema halls in the country. Initially scheduled for a November completion, the renovation work which began in June is now expected to be completed by October-end, weeks before the first hybrid international film festival of India (Iffi). “Inox claims that this is their third theatre in India which will have state-of-the-art functionalities with its acoustics, sound systems, projection systems, all of which are high-end. These will be world-class theatres as per our expectations of a platform that will host films for Iffi,” said Subhash Phaldesai, vice chairman of the entertainment society of Goa (ESG). The renovation is being carried out by Inox itself, and the state government does not have to spend a single rupee, he said. ESG had listed all the specifications for an enhanced theatre experience in the tender document, and its personnel have been reviewing the progress daily, besides Phaldesai who has been doing a weekly inspection. “We have found that their work is as per the specifications,” he said, adding that these are the requirements for hosting Iffi. Major work like the roofing, screens, seating arrangements have been completed and only finishing touches, renovation of the ticketing booths, washrooms, bar counters and lawn is pending. “These works have been simultaneously taken up and there are 150 workers working overtime to ensure that they are completed,” Phaldesai said, adding that the dimensions of the screens have not been changed. TOI had reported in June that the Panaji-based Inox will be the first movie theatre in the state to be solar powered. The multiplex was built 15 years ago and the cost was borne by the government. However this time, ESG opted for a build-and-operate model where Inox revamps the cinema complex and operates it. After the completion, ESG will earn Rs54 lakhs per month as rentals from Inox, from the earlier Rs20 lakh per month. The contract with Inox runs for 15 years, with a 5 percent yearly increment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/revamped-inox-likely-to-be-ready-by-oct-end/articleshow/78196343.cms||Nida Sayed
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Jet-setter burglar nabbed in Telangana's Alwal||HYDERABAD: Ever heard of a high-flying burglar? 30-year-old Giri Gangadhar was just that. He would land in Hyderabad by taking a flight from Delhi, commit burglaries in Alwal and surrounding areas and take a flight back to his shelter in Noida. Gangadhar has been doing this during the pandemic with ease before the law caught up with him. Confirming Gangadhar’s jet-setting lifestyle and modus operandi, Cyberabad commissioner of police VC Sajjanar said Special Operations Team (SOT) sleuths of Balanagar nabbed Gangadhar in Alwal on Friday when he was ready to strike at another house. “Gangadhar arrives in Hyderabad by a flight. After committing burglaries, he will leave the city by taking a flight,” Sajjanar said. What’s more, to hoodwink cops, Gangadhar used to work in a private firm in Noida. “This was to avoid coming under police radar,” the CP said. Based on his confession, cops recovered 40 tola gold and one kg silver. By analysing the CCTV footage and his cellphone data, police zeroed in on the accused and arrested him in Alwal. Police said Gangadhar had decided to stay in Machabollarum and Alwal even while doing recce in surrounding areas for potential targets to commit burglaries. “Gangadhar committed four burglaries at Alwal and Keesara this year,” a police official said. A resident of Noida, Gangadhar is a native of Kumhari town in Chhattisgarh. The accused along with the seized material was handed over to Alwal police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jet-setter-burglar-nabbed-in-alwal/articleshow/78193935.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Varanasi||Village head shot in clinic in UP's Jaunpur; 4 cops suspended||VARANASI: The gram pradhan of Amari village Basantlal Bind (48) was shot dead by masked miscreants at his clinic at Galgala Shaheed Bazar in Sarpataha police station area of Jaunpur district on Thursday night. In protest against the killing ,the local residents blocked the Ballia-Lucknow highway demanding arrest of the miscreants. Jaunpur SP Raj Karan Nayyar suspended four policemen including Satpataha station officer Pankaj Pandey for laxity in duty. The police launched a manhunt to nab the accused. According to reports, Basantlal ran a clinic at Galgala Shaheed bazar. Three miscreants on a motorcycle went to his clinic at around 8 pm. One of them shot him point blank range on his temple. He died on the spot. The miscreants fled from the scene after committing the crime. Sensation prevailed in the locality after the murder, and people gathered at the spot in a large number. They blocked the main road for hours demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. Senior police officials including Jaunpur SP reached the village to pacify the agitating people and take first-hand account of the incident. The reason behind the killing was not known. The SP constituted a team to nab the assailants. According to police, efforts are on to nab the miscreants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/village-head-shot-in-clinic-in-jaunpur-4-cops-suspended/articleshow/78195937.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Crook creates top cop’s fake FB a/c, seeks money||Hyderabad: A miscreant created a fake Facebook account in the name of Nalgonda SP Ranganath and tried to dupe people by seeking money from them. Nalgonda police said a fake account was created by a fraudster by using the name and photo of Ranganath. By contacting followers on the account, the fraudster requested money by promising to return it. In one case, the fraudster, who impersonated Ranganath, sought Rs 20,000 from a person. After the SP came to know about it, he directed the district police to conduct a probe. It is learnt that though the fraudster gave a phone number, no one transferred money till now. The SP had closed his Facebook account recently. Police are trying to identify the accused based on technical evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crook-creates-top-cops-fake-fb-a/c-seeks-money/articleshow/78193963.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt e-governance initiative yet to take off||Bhubaneswar: The state government’s websites for almost all its departments, as well as its overall portal for communicating with the public – www.edodisha.gov.in — are not performing as they should. The edodisha portal has given space to 38 departments, besides the governor’s secretariat and the assembly. Save three or four departments, none of the others updates information on the portal. While the health and family welfare department last updated their section in February 2019, the school and mass education department did so in September 2019. The government has created nearly 23 websites for primary government departments, besides having more than 100 separate site for allied agencies. The Odisha Computer Application Centre is the nodal agency for maintenance of the edodisha portal, but one finds no information in the edodisha space of both the parent department (electronics and IT) and its subordinate office. Department secretary Manoj Kumar Mishra said it is the duty of the respective department secretary to update the portal. When asked why his own department is not updating information on the portal, Mishra said it was due to manpower crunch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-e-governance-initiative-yet-to-take-off/articleshow/78193977.cms||Sandip Mishra
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Madhapur cop succumbs to Covid||Hyderabad: A sub-inspector of police who is attached to Madhapur police station, succumbed to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment on Friday. Madhapur police said that the 56-year-old sub-inspector, was tested positive for coronavirus on Monday and he was undergoing treatment in a private hospital at Madhapur. Officials said that the officer might have contracted the virus, while meeting people who come to police station. The sub-inspector is a native of Pargi in Vikarabad. “He joined the police force as constable in 1983 and nearly a year back, he got promoted as sub-inspector,’’ Madhapur inspector Rajendra Prasad said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/madhapur-cop-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/78193976.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops: Store managers, agents in cahoots with bike thieves||Hyderabad: Cops probing the bike theft cases believe that some of the vehicle showroom managers and automobile finance company agents are hand in glove in the fraud. While investigating an inter-state bike thieves’ gang led by Akbar Khan from Nizamabad, Hyderabad police stumbled upon key information on the nexus between the vehicle showroom managers and finance company agents. Akbar is still on the run. His gang primarily used two methods to steal bikes from Hyderabad. One method is selecting high-end bikes like KTM, Royal Enfield, Pulsar and Yamaha parked in deserted alleys and stealing them. Three gangs operating in Hyderabad used to supply bikes to Akbar and his brother Azghar Khan. The gangs break the handle locks and bypass the ignition to steal the bikes. The second method is to purchase bikes through vehicle finance and send them to Akbar after deliberately defaulting on the monthly loan payments. “While the first method is a classic bike thieves’ modus operandi, the second one is not,” explained Karkhana police inspector P Madhukar Swamy. Police officials suspect that certain vehicle showroom managers in cahoots with finance agents have deliberately sold the bikes to the gang members despite knowing that they would not be able to pay the instalments. “Most of the loan-defaulted bikes sent to Akbar are of BS IV standard whose last date of purchase for registration ended in March 2020. We suspect that to clear the stock during the lockdown to meet the deadline, some of the showroom managers have sold the vehicles through finance company agents to these fraudsters,” said an official, who is part of the investigation. A police official said Azghar is not in the know of the fraud. “Only Akbar complete knowledge about execution of the fraud — right from coordinating with the bike thieves in Hyderabad to engaging bike loan defaulters and transporting the bikes to Nizamabad through cargo trucks,” he said. Cops have recovered 77 stolen bikes till now. “We are hunting for Akbar, who would be caught soon,” he added. Police initially thought Akbar was hiding somewhere in Gujarat, but recently got information about his movements in Nizamabad. “Our teams are on the lookout for Akbar,” north zone DCP Kalmeswar Shingenavar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-store-managers-agents-in-cahoots-with-bike-thieves/articleshow/78193974.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||73-year-old man found dead in Uppal||Hyderabad: A 73-year-old man was found dead near Warangal bus stop at Uppal on Friday. Uppal police found an Aadhar card in the pocket of the deceased and the card belonged to K Chennappa of Laxmi Nagar in Ramchandrapuram, Medak. Police also found some tablets and a prescription. An IV cap was attached to the right hand of the man. Police suspect that he might have died due to ill-health. A case was registered by the police under Section 174 (Police to enquire and report on suicide, etc.) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/73-year-old-man-found-dead-in-uppal/articleshow/78195348.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Ex-CM Harish Rawat observes ‘maun vrat’against agriculture bills passed in Lok Sabha||Dehradun: Former chief minister Harish Rawat on Friday observed a “maun vrat” (silent fast) for two hours at the Gandhi Park against the three agriculture bills - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill – which were passed in Lok Sabha earlier this week. Rawat, who has recently been named Congress state-in-charge for Punjab, said that farmers across the country were protesting against the three bills as they were meant to “break their financial backbone". He asserted that farmers are apprehensive since “their land and rights are in danger”. The ex-CM said that the bills will override the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism and put the land of farmers in danger. He further alleged that the three bills were a major blow to the small and marginal farmers as “they intend to support private parties in the agri sector”. He said that through his protest, he has “extended solidarity with farmers of Punjab, who are on an agitation mode on the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-cm-harish-rawat-observes-maun-vratagainst-agriculture-bills-passed-in-lok-sabha/articleshow/78191735.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||At father’s request, high court orders abortion on minor||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday ordered doctors of Sir T General Hospital in Bhavnagar to carry out an abortion on a minor girl at her father’s request. The man was against his daughter’s relationship with the youth she had eloped with. The girl twice told the high court that she does not want to join her parents after she was traced and produced before the court in response to a habeas corpus petition filed by her father. She had eloped with a 21-year-old man in May and was found four months later. On Tuesday, the HC had asked for the girl’s medical examination and had ordered the recording of her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC. This was because she had remained with her boyfriend for four months and there were charges of abduction and charges under Pocso against him. The girl’s father requested the court to order the medical termination of pregnancy (MTP), if she was found pregnant. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-fathers-request-high-court-orders-abortion-on-minor/articleshow/78195353.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver’s suicide bid foiled||Hyderabad: An auto driver, who tried to set himself ablaze for separate Telangana in 2010, has attempted suicide in front of Pragathi Bhavan demanding sanction of a double bedroom house on Friday. Kodari Chander, 43, a resident of Chaderghat, reached Pragathi Bhavan on Friday morning in his auto. He removed some diesel from the auto and filled it in a can before coming to Pragathi Bhavan. “As he suddenly got down from the auto and doused himself with diesel, our team rushed him to safety,” said Tirupatanna, ACP, Panjagutta. Chander told police he was upset about not getting government 2BHK house. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-drivers-suicide-bid-foiled/articleshow/78193983.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Low revenue, consumption trip discoms||HYDERABAD: Telangana discoms, which are under the weather with mounting debts and inadequate financial assistance, are now faced with more problems. On one hand, revenues from commercial and industrial establishments towards power billing have dwindled due to Covid-19. On the other, power consumption has drastically come down in high tension (commercial) category after the pandemic broke out in March this year. The TSSPDCL is losing about 30% of its commercial revenues every month as many industries are yet to launch their operations. With IT and major firms still sticking to work from home facility, it was a double whammy for the discom. Official sources in the TSSPDCL said their monthly billing is Rs 1,700 crore and about Rs 1,000 crore is accrued from 9,000 HT consumers. “We are getting about Rs 700 crore to Rs 750 crore as against Rs 1,000 crore billing from commercial establishments and industries. For a month, we got Rs 100 crore more due to the old arrears for unbilled months,” a director of TSSPDCL told TOI. Officials said the Covid-19 impact was more in Cyber City, Banjara Hills, Medchal and Sangareddy divisions. “The Cyber City division runs a bill of Rs 120 crore every month and of this, Rs 70 crore billing is from IT offices. Now, we are getting only Rs 58 crore to Rs 60 crore a month billing. Hopefully, power consumption should go up with IT firms opening their offices and allowing the employees,” senior accounts officer (Cyber City) Bala Chandrudu said. Senior officials said nearly 2,000 to 3,000 industries falling under TSSPDCL are yet to resume operations despite easing of the lockdown norms two months ago. “The companies are struggling to get labourers, a majority of whom had migrated to their native states,” a chief general manager of the discom said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/low-revenue-consumption-trip-discoms/articleshow/78193965.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||HMRL, Uber launch ‘Public Transport’||HYDERABAD: Metro passengers can now plan their end to end journey using Uber App, as it provides an option to use public transport. L&T Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited and Uber launched its ‘Public Transport’ journey planning feature, which will allow users to get a comprehensive overview of HMRL and TSRTC bus service information with details of the fastest and cheapest routes, real-time schedules and directions to the nearest transit points to help riders make the smartest possible journey choices. Prabhjeet Singh, president of Uber India and South Asia, said, “We believe the future of urban transportation is all about the seamless integration of public transit systems and shared mobility solutions. This enables efficient commute options.”  NVS Reddy, HMRL MD, said, “We need to harness power of public-private partnerships to improve transport infrastructure and help provide smart and efficient urban mobility in the city. The new feature will help passengers plan journey efficiently.” ‘Public Transport’ journey planning feature will allow users to get a comprehensive overview of HMRL and TSRTC bus service information with details of fastest and cheapest routes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmrl-uber-launch-public-transport/articleshow/78193997.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Quota rule for MBBS doesn’t apply to ‘reverted’ seats: HC||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has held that the rule of reservation prescribed for state quota MBBS seats doesn’t apply to seats returned from the all-India quota. For admissions to undergraduate medical courses, 15% of the available seats are from the all-India quota, and when these are unfilled, they revert to the state. The dispute pertains to whether the reservation clause applies to these seats. A PIL filed before the court had sought the quashing of clause 4.37 of the common prospectus for admission to first year of professional degree courses for MBBS, which provides that seats “reverted” from the all-India quota have to be offered to general category students, without any reservation. The case was referred to a third judge after a division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and Dama Seshadri Naidu delivered a split verdict. While Sonak said the reverted seats should go as per clause 4.37, Naidu held that the rule of reservation would apply to the reverted seats. In view of the conflicting opinions, the matter was placed before Justice S C Gupte, who said that there is no merit in the case of the petitioners as far as the challenge to clause 4.37 is concerned. “The rule of reservation prescribed for state quota seats originally available to the state for allotment doesn’t apply to seats reverted from the all-India quota,” he said. Gupte said that it was fully within the discretion of the state to reserve any seats available to it for allotment, and, whilst doing so, it was perfectly legitimate for the state to make a distinction between (i) seats originally available to it under its quota for allotment, and (ii) seats which later become available to it on being reverted from the all-India quota. “The state may choose to make a particular reservation in so far as the first category of seats is concerned, and may equally choose not to make any reservation for the second category,” he added. Regarding the issue of reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS), the division bench held that 10% of the seats meant for EWS must be separated, and only to the remaining pool of seats should the state apply caste or community-wise percentages. The petitioners — the United Tribal Associations Alliance and others — had challenged the method of seat allocation adopted by the government to EWS, pointing out that the government first separated the EWS quota of 10%. This, they explained, meant that of the state’s 153-seat quota, it first takes away 15 seats, and 138 remain. The government then applies the rule of reservation to these seats, they said, concluding that the ST category gets 17 seats instead of 18. Meanwhile, advocate general Devidas Pangam argued that merit should not suffer from “excessive reservations”. He told the court that the all-India quota came into being to ensure that merit doesn’t suffer in professional courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quota-rule-for-mbbs-doesnt-apply-to-reverted-seats-hc/articleshow/78196352.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Crook creates top cop’s fake FB a/c, seeks money||Hyderabad: A miscreant created a fake Facebook account in the name of Nalgonda SP Ranganath and tried to dupe people by seeking money from them. Nalgonda police said a fake account was created by a fraudster by using the name and photo of Ranganath. By contacting followers on the account, the fraudster requested money by promising to return it. In one case, the fraudster, who impersonated Ranganath, sought Rs 20,000 from a person. After the SP came to know about it, he directed the district police to conduct a probe. It is learnt that though the fraudster gave a phone number, no one transferred money till now. The SP had closed his Facebook account recently. Police are trying to identify the accused based on technical evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crook-creates-top-cops-fake-fb-a/c-seeks-money/articleshow/78194006.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Varanasi||Covid shadow on Ramleela shows, costume suppliers, artists in a fix||Prayagraj: With uncertainty looming large over permission to stage Ramleelas in the forthcoming festive months amid Covid-19, costume designers, material suppliers, decorators and artists have no option but to wait for the government’s order. Prominent costume supplier, Rajesh Chaurasia, who has been providing costumes, jewellery, ancient weapons like sword, bow-arrow, javelin and stage decoration material to over 100 Ramleela committees across the state, told TOI, “We are not able to decide whether to start the stitching of new costumes or not. Though we are in constant touch with many Ramleela committees, it is not yet certain if the Ramleelas will be performed.” “It’s too early to predict to predict the state government’s decision over the issue. If the government plans to allow staging of Ramleela amid strict Covid protocol, we need adequate time for completing the requirements,” he added. Chaurasia, who has been a supplier to Ramleela committees since 23 years, said, “The grandeur of Ramleela would have been even more spectacular this year in the backdrop of the construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the scenario.” “I used to take orders for Ramleela costumes and other materials from different Ramleela committees three-four months prior to the beginning of Ramleelas,” said Chaurasia, adding, “This year, costume and stage material suppliers fear the pandemic might play a spoilsport,” he added. Over three dozen small and big Ramleela committees organize Ramleela shows ahead of Dussehra across the city. The Ramleelas organised by Patharchatti Ramleela committee and Pajawa Ramleela committee are the most famous among audiences. Apart from costume and other material suppliers, scores of artists involved in stage construction, lighting and decoration and seating arrangements are also in a fix. Chaurasia said, “Costume designers, artists and other revellers are praying to Lord Ram to end the pandemic so that we can enjoy the Ramleela shows the way we did in previous years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-shadow-on-ramleela-shows-costume-suppliers-artists-in-a-fix/articleshow/78195980.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||4 paan shops sealed, 480 close ‘voluntarily’||Ahmedabad: After the targeting of tea stalls where social distancing was not being followed, paan shops were again the target of the civic authorities on Friday. After news of paan shops being targeting spread, the owners of some 480 paan shops decided to down shutters on their own. Harshad Solanki, the director of the AMC’s solid waste department which is enforcing such drives, said that after targeting tea stalls where no social distancing was followed his teams decided to check on paan shops. As news of four paan shops being sealed spread, others started closing their paan shops. Interestingly, these enforcing AMC teams along with paan shop owners also put up posters that the shops were closed voluntarily, said Solanki. Solanki said the most paan shops that closed voluntarily were in Jodhpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Sarkhej and Vejalpur. Officials said those standing at such shops and either not following social distancing or were not wearing masks were fined and a total of Rs 1.54 lakh was collected. In the past, a similar drive against paan shops was taken up and hefty fines were imposed but following a representation to the ruling party the drive was slowed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-paan-shops-sealed-480-close-voluntarily/articleshow/78195373.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||30 foreign cigarette cartons seized||Hyderabad: Task Force sleuths arrested two persons for selling foreign cigarettes illegally and seized Rs 15 lakh worth cigarettes. Cops intercepted a van carrying illegally imported cigarettes and arrested the duo --— Syed Ilyasuddin (31) and Mohammed Sameer (28) — at Chandrayangutta. Thirty cartons of cigarettes were recovered from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-foreign-cigarette-cartons-seized/articleshow/78195366.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||GCET topper matches highest score by Goan at BITSAT||PANAJI: Caranzalem-lad Gaurav Awasthi has managed to attain a score of 426 out of 450 at the BITSAT, the entrance exam to get into one of the Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS) campuses. With this score, Awasthi has equalled the highest score by a Goan student at the test. Awasthi had earlier topped the Goa Common Entrance Test by achieving the highest marks in all the three subjects of physics, chemistry and mathematics. He has also qualified to appear for the JEE (Advanced) later this month. With a score of 426, Awasthi has qualified to choose any stream in any of the programmes offered at the BITS campuses, but he has his sights set on a seat at IIT Bombay. “I am preparing to answer JEE (Advanced). I am a bit unsure about my stream at present. But I want to go for either electrical or aerospace engineering. I hope to go into the field of rocket design,” said Awasthi, the son of a private firm employee Navin and homemaker Suman. More students will be answering the BITSAT. “The score has more significance as he has attained it during a year which is not normal and everyone is struggling,” said Vyankatesh Prabhudesai, the director of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School at Cujira of which Awasthi is a student. In 2008, Raunak Sakhardande attained a score of 423 at BITSAT, which was the first time by a Goan student. After close to a decade another Mushtifund Aryaan student Prathik Rebello surpassed this score in 2017 by achieving 426. In 2019, Nivedya Amarnani matched the score of 426. “BITSAT had lot more questions i.e. 150 questions to be answered. Besides this, if you answer all the questions, you can get bonus ones. The JEE (Main) consists of 75 questions. Though BITSAT questions are a bit easier, it gets tough to complete so many questions. I am very grateful to all my teachers. They have put in a lot of hard work and prepared us,” said Awasthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gcet-topper-matches-highest-score-by-goan-at-bitsat/articleshow/78196358.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt to scale up RT-PCR tests to 10,000 a day||Bhubaneswar: The state government has decided to scale up RT-PCR tests to 10,000 per day. Over the past 10 days, the government has been conducting slightly over 8,000 RT-PCR tests on an average. Rapid antigen tests (RAT) are four to five times higher than RT-PCR tests now. Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary (health), said the state government had taken a decision to increase RT-PCR tests to 10,000 per day. “The test numbers sometimes come down because many health staff test positive. But we will scale up the tests,” he added. On July 23, the state government had conducted more than 11,000 RT-PCR tests on a single day. On August 16, it had conducted 10,240 tests. The government has already conducted more than 10,000 RT-PCR tests daily several times, but the pace has slowed over the past few days. The On Friday, it carried out 8,407 RT-PCT tests. Although the state government has the facility to scale up RT-PCR testing, some challenges have prevented it from doing so on a daily basis. Besides illness of health staff, sometimes laboratories take a break for the maintenance of machines. “If any laboratory staff tests positive for Covid-19, the number of tests comes down. The RT-PCR tests demand more manpower compared to RAT,” said a government official. Private laboratories in the state test around 1,000 samples per day using RT-PCR method. Private agencies are not interested in developing more labs because they feel that this set-up may become redundant after Covid is brought under control. Skilled manpower, especially microbiologists, are needed to handle the RT-PCR kits. “It is not easy to get such manpower immediately,” said a scientist of a government institution. The government has increased antigen tests manifold. The RAT results come within 15-30 minutes. It does not require high skills because health workers only have to follow simple techniques to get the results. But many scientists and experts said states should not solely depend on RAT for Covid tests. Recently, the Centre had told the states to increase RT-PCR tests. “There is a guideline of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) about antigen test. If the antigen test of an individual comes positive, it will be taken as a confirmed positive case. If it comes negative, it requires a RTPCR test of symptomatic cases, persons with influenza-like illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), co-morbidities and direct contact cases,” said a senior scientist of a national institution. The state has 56 laboratories, both private and government, carrying out Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-to-scale-up-rt-pcr-tests-to-10000-a-day/articleshow/78193995.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
September 19, 2020||Pune||Pollution report shows massive rise of Covid waste in state||Pune: The volume of biomedical waste in the state increased by a whopping 45% as early as May, a report by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board has revealed. Cities have towns in the state have previously reported a rise in biomedical waste generation, but the MPCB report published this week is the first detailed look into how Covid-19 discard — including plastic shielding such as gloves and PPE — has added to the hazardous waste burden across municipalities and councils. Several civic bodies in Pune, Kolhapur and Mumbai, overwhelmed by the rising volume, have had to transport this waste to Taloja in Raigad for incineration. Their own incinerators have not been able to process Covid waste, which burns at a higher temperature because of the levels of plastic in them. The MPCB said the state’s daily generation of biomedical waste rose went from an average of nearly 62,000 kg (pre-Covid) to over 90,000 kg every day by Lockdown 4 in May. This rise caused enormous strain on disposal infrastructure. In June, Pune’s only incinerator broke down after being overwhelmed by a daily inflow of three tonnes. Before Covid, the city was generating just 250kg of biomedical waste every day. The machine took at least a month to be fixed. “By the end of May, the additional increase in biomedical waste was a daily 30,000 kg across the state," said Ajay Ojha, the managing partner at Technogreen Environmental Solutions, the firm that carried out the assessment for MPCB.In September, seven months into the pandemic, areas within the Pune Municipal Corporation have been generating about five tonnes of Covid waste every day. In June, the daily volume was around three tonnes. The Covid-19 waste is currently being sent to Taloja for incineration. Sunil Dandawate, who operates Pune’s incinerator facility, told TOI, “Covid-19 waste is 95-99% incinerable. We are now getting about 3,000 kg of non-Covid incinerable waste per day from the PMC areas and about 5,000 to 6,000 kgs of incinerable pandemic waste. The Covid waste is being sent to Taloja. We are dealing with the rest.”An MPCB official told TOI that there are 29 biomedical waste incineration facilities across the state. “The total capacity of these facilities is a daily 90,000 kg. All excess waste is being sent to the Taloja unit,” he said.A source from the Taloja unit said despite the increase in Covid-19 waste, operations at the unit have been stable so far. “We have an integrated hazardous and biomedical waste treatment facility with a capacity of 84,000 kg per day (approximately) for both hazardous and biomedical incineration. As of now, less than 40,000 kg of Covid-19 waste has been coming in for incineration at our plant daily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pollution-report-shows-massive-rise-of-covid-waste-in-state/articleshow/78195365.cms||Neha Madaan
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Japan job fair to be held on Oct 2||Hyderabad: Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and IIT-Hyderabad will be co-hosting the third edition of ‘Japan Day’ job fair on October 2. The event will be organised online for the first time due to Covid-19. Twenty Japanese companies, comprising of start-ups, SMEs, and large corporates, will take part in the fair to promote their businesses/cutting-edge technologies to attract students from IIT Hyderabad. JETRO has strengthened ties with JICA to provide an opportunity to connect Japanese companies with IIT-H graduates, who received a scholarship from JICA and are currently studying in Japanese universities for a Master’s or a Ph D programme. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/japan-job-fair-to-be-held-on-oct-2/articleshow/78194010.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: CPM brings Quran to debate, League and Congress cry foul||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The loaded questions asked by CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday whether Quran is a banned holy text in India and whether there is an order by Modi govt banning distribution of Quran in the country gave a new dimension to the gold smuggling scandal that has rocked the political sphere of Kerala. The circumstances that led him to ask such questions in a weekly column in CPM mouthpiece Deshabhimani were later explained by Balakrishnan during a news conference. In a bid to corner Muslim League, which is baying forhigher education minister K T Jaleel’s blood, the CPM state secretary pointed out that it was Quran distribution that has put the minister in a spot of bother, and brought him under investigation by NIA and ED. "RSS is an organization that stands for eliminating Muslims, Minorities and Communists. Modi government is acting in tune with this Hindutva line. Why do Congress and Muslim League express an allergy to Quran like RSS," asked Balakrishnan. CPM’s move to bring Quran in focus amid the ongoing protests against Jaleel invited sharp reactions from Muslim League and Congress. League all India general secretary P K Kunhalikutty said people of Kerala are not fools to be misled about the serious issue of gold smuggling using the name of Quran. State secretary KPA Majeed said Jaleel’s penchant to use Islamic symbols and beliefs for creating emotional situations would lead to consequences. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran alleged that Balakrishnan was communalizing the issue to save the face of CPM and LDF government. "This is a dangerous move. The chief minister, higher education minister and assembly speaker are under suspicion in this case. People have lost all trust in this government," Mullappally said here. The CPM state secretariat that met here on Friday has decided to give all support to Jaleel. Reviewing the probe by national agencies, the CPM panel concluded that at the most Jaleel could be listed only as a witness and there was no logic in opposition’s demand for his resignation. The secretariat observed that the protests against the government was a ploy by the opposition, together with capitalist forces, to unseat the LDF government which is set to win one more term in office.  Balakrishnan said Kunhalikutty has already made it clear that CPM and not BJP, is their enemy. "There might be some relation between Kunhalikutty’s stand and CBI’s snail’s pace in probing the Marad case. League should explain this," he said. Titanium corruption case was handed over to CBI a year ago, still there is no progress in the probe. Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala and V K Ebrahim Kunju are the accused in the case. Is there any link between Congress’s soft stand towards BJP in Kerala and this case," he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-brings-quran-to-debate-league-congress-cry-foul/articleshow/78194008.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Covid-hit village count goes up to 1,053 from 456 in four weeks||Pune: The number of villages affected by Covid-19 in rural Pune has gone up from 456 to 1,053 over the past four weeks. Haveli, Khed, Mulshi, Maval, Shirur and Ambegaon talukas — relatively closer to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad — have emerged as the “hotspot talukas’ in rural Pune. “Increased movement of people to cities for work and farmers visiting agricultural markets have contributed to the surge in cases. We can’t stop these activities. So, we are focusing on aggressive testing and boosting the healthcare infrastructure,” said Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad. A joint weekly review report of Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and the Zilla Parishad CEO stated that rural Pune’s case fatality rate (CFR) at 2.6% was a bit higher than the district’s overall CFR of 2.2%, but the recovery rate had increased to 61.3% on September 16 from 51.5% on July 28. The administrative authorities conceded that they had some way to go to bring down the rural Pune’s CFR below 1%, as recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). They are pinning hopes on measures like aggressive testing, contact tracing and early treatment of positive patients, particularly those with comorbidities. “Our endeavour is to achieve the targeted CFR at the earliest. Mass testing at village-level and increasing oxygen and ventilator beds will help us achieve it. We are also acting against people not wearing masks and not following social distancing norms,” Prasad said. The authorities are also looking ahead to the two-phase door-to-door “Majhe Kutumb, Majhi Jawadari (My family, My responsibility)” campaign. The Mumbai-style “Chase the Virus” initiative kicked off from September 15 for identifying people with Covid-19 symptoms. On the first three days of the campaign, a total of 823 people tested positive for nCoV after the survey teams visited 4.75 lakh people across 51 villages, including five municipal towns. The positivity rate went up to 31.6% in rural Pune this week as against 24.7% in late August because of increased testing. The average positivity rate has been 28.3%. A total of 40,167 people tested positive for the contagion out of the 1.41 lakh tested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-hit-village-count-goes-up-to-1053-from-456-in-four-weeks/articleshow/78195376.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Parents direct kids to hobbies to stave off cabin fever||Bhubaneswar: Parents are encouraging their children to devote more time to their hobbies, as the little ones, as well as teenagers, find themselves confined indoors for days. Parents said hobbies helped kids’ mental nourishment and psychological development, increased creativity and reduced their screen time. “Earlier, we used to keep kids away from gadgets. But with online classes regular now, gadgets have become integral to their education. So once their classes and homework are done, I encourage my children to pursue their hobbies,” said Richa Mahapatra, mother to Biswabijayee (11) and Bhagyashree (5). “Biswabijayee loves painting. He spent the Rath Yatra painting different aspects of the festival as he watched the events on television. Bhagyashree likes making her favourite character Lord Ganesha out of coloured dough. She even rolls out a chapati with me in the kitchen” said Mahapatra, adding that she also encouraged the two to cycle on the terrace and dance. Ekakhyaar Trinath Pattanaik (8) likes to help out his parents in their garden, which has 30 to 40 varieties of plants. “I liked planting and watering plants with my father even before the lockdown. Now I can harvest lady’s finger, my favourite vegetable, from the garden. I also like to cycle in the garden,” said Ekakhyaar. His parents said gardening would make him more conscious of the environment. The little boy also helps his parents around the house. Sisters Banshika Panigrahi (13) and Parnavi Panigrahi (3) like to immerse themselves in books and painting when they are not studying. While the older girl likes reading about space exploration, Parnavi loves The Panchatantra, ghost stories and dancing. “Reading about space exploration and computers is my hobby. It relaxes me,” said Banshika. Their mother, Monalisa Panigrahy, said books enhanced kids’ imagination and increased their knowledge. There has also been an increase in the demand for online hobby classes. Smruti Mishra, a freelancer, said she had received a good response for the art and crafts classes she conducted, both for mothers and children. “Children often surprise their parents with their imagination and creativity during communication and storytelling workshops,” said Smruti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/parents-direct-kids-to-hobbies-to-stave-off-cabin-fever/articleshow/78194019.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Corporator in soup after ‘50k demand’||Hyderabad: Ahead of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls in January, another TRS corporator landed in soup with a purported call between her and her husband on extracting money from a property owner, going viral on Friday. As per the alleged call recording, Adikmet corporator B Hemalatha, speaking to her husband Jairam Reddy over the phone, is heard telling her husband that she demanded money from a person constructing a three-storied building in Adikmet. “He (property owner) said he will give me Rs 20,000, but I asked Rs 50,000. I also informed him that in the last one year he has not given anything to the local corporator,” Hemalatha is heard telling her husband over the phone. During the conversation, the corporator also dropped the name of GHMC deputy commissioner (Musheerabad circle) Uma Prakash. Speaking to TOI, GHMC deputy commissioner Uma Prakash said she had slapped a penalty of Rs 15,000 on the individual constructing the house. “The person dumped construction material in a park. He also locked the park following which a penalty was levied a year ago, the same has been discussed on the call,” she said. Corporator’s husband Jairam Reddy said he was not aware about the issue. “For the past six months, I did not venture out of my house due to health issues. I am clueless about the audio that is in circulation. I don’t want to comment anything more,” he said. Nallakunta police said they have not received any complaint on the issue. Incidentally, Neredmet police on September 15 had booked a case against corporator K Sridevi and her husband for alleged money laundering. Sridevi, who belongs to TRS, represents Neredmet division in the GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-in-soup-after-50k-demand/articleshow/78194037.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||History-sheeter detained||Hyderabad: History-sheeter Mohammed Azhar (19) of Mecca Colony in Kalapathar was detained under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act at Chanchalguda prison. As per the orders of Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar, south zone Task Force and Bahadurpura police served the detention orders on Friday at Chanchalguda prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/history-sheeter-detained/articleshow/78195380.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kochi||CPM stoking communal tension to save Jaleel: BJP||Thiruvananthapuram: Higher education minister K T Jaleel has been attempting to wriggle out of the charges raised against him in connection with gold smuggling case by flaring up communal sentiments, BJP state president K Surendran said here on Friday. “They are trying to stoke communal tensions in the name of Quran. They think they can cover up the allegations raised against them by doing so,” Surendran said, adding that the society will not fall for such tricks. It was Jaleel who defiled Quran by using the holy text for smuggling. Nobody is against the distribution of Quran. It is the way Jaleel used the holy text that has come under scrutiny, said Surendran. Being a minister in charge of the Waqf board, Jaleel could have distributed the text under the aegis of Waqf board in a transparent manner, he added. CPM is also trying to communalize the smuggling case and hide behind the holy Quran, he said. Surendran said Pinarayi Vijayan has been behaving like North Korea’s Kim Jong-un. Vijayan’s attempts to silence protesters by force won’t succeed, he said. “The CM claims that protesters spread Covid. The person who says so had conducted his daughters’ marriage by violating Covid protocols. More than 5,000 people participated in the funeral procession held by CPM in connection with Venjaramoodu twin murders. It was minister A K Balan who led the procession. If CPM’s logic is correct, a case should be registered against Balan as well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-stoking-communal-tension-to-save-jaleel-bjp/articleshow/78194029.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||Labour app to connect workers with employment||Lucknow: Seeking to lend a renewed boost to employment generation in the state, the UP government has got a new mobile application created at the level of employment exchange which can be used by various departments seeking different kinds of manpower for execution of developmental projects. Confirming the development, additional chief secretary, labour and employment department, Suresh Chandra said that the data can be used to channelize manpower which had increased following the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. “The application was created after the lockdown was lifted and additional manpower had to be used in different sectors to carry out projects,” he said while speaking to TOI on Thursday. This comes after the state government set up a migration commission and resorted to skill profiling of around 37 lakh migrant workers. Chandra said that the revenue department data of the migrants has also been integrated with the employment portal, which in turn has been shared with the micro, small and medium scale industries department, which can use it to provide jobs to the migrants. “Many workers who had reached their homes were traced with the help of this data and were employed,” he said. Most of the unskilled labourers have also been provided jobs under various projects carried out by the government department. Chandra, however, said that after the lockdown was lifted, many people went back to their place of work in other states. “Some of them had started getting proper salaries. Many had their children working in other states. Most of the skilled and trained workers went back,” he said. The ACS (labour and employment) said that the department has also approached the Centre, seeking amendment in the Factories Act and the Industrial Disputes Act to allow more and more industrial establishments to work amid the Covid crisis. Chandra said that the state government is waiting for the Centre’s approval. “Once we get it, we would not be required to amend the labour Acts. The exemption would essentially be around relaxation from a few compliances which the industries are required to adhere to,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/labour-app-to-connect-workers-with-employment/articleshow/78196362.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Trader runs gas refilling biz, held||Hyderabad: Police arrested K Jairam, owner of Sri Bhagavathi Steels-Plastic Enterprises, in Mallikharjun Nagar for operating an illegal domestic gas refilling business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trader-runs-gas-refilling-biz-held/articleshow/78195383.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Will revise Covid-19 pricing caps for private hospitals, says Parmod Sawant||PANAJI: After facing severe flak for its capped rates for private hospitals for Covid-19 patients, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the rates would be revised. After the state announced its rate caps, many took to social media to allege that the rates — Rs 12,000 per day for a general ward, Rs 15,000 per day for a room on twin-sharing, Rs 18,000 per day for a private room, and 25,000 per day for ICU — were exorbitant and far higher than what is charged in other states. The state government, especially Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane, were heavily criticised over the charges. Many citizens said that they would have to die at home if they couldn’t find a bed in a government hospital. Most beds in government hospitals are currently occupied, and the government is desperately trying to convert the South Goa district hospital into a Covid care hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-revise-covid-19-pricing-caps-for-pvt-hosps-says-sawant/articleshow/78196360.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Havaldar succumbs to Covid-19||Pune: A havaldar from Wanowrie police station succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday night, taking the total number of Pune police personnels’deaths to five. As many as 1,130 city police personnel have tested positive for the virus and 953 have been discharged after recovery, while 177 are active cases. Senior inspector Krantisinh Patil from Wanowrie police said, “The 51-year-old havaldar had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 30. He was admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Vimannagar and from there he was shifted to the jumbo facility at Shivajinagar because he required oxygen. He was later shifted to an Army hospital on August 31. He succumbed to the virus on Thursday night.” Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police (crime), said, “The number of positive cases among policemen has increased for a number of reasons such as a drive had been launched to take action against people not wearing face masks and 70% policemen living in containment zones and adjoining areas. They had also been deployed in containment zones on bandobast duties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/havaldar-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/78195381.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 3,183cr paid for workers’ wages||Ahmedabad: As relief to workers in the unorganized sector who were adversely affected by the lockdown, wages of Rs 3,183 crore were paid by the state government. The state labour and employment department undertook an outreach exercise to reach out to thousands of employers to ensure workers were paid. “Officials reached out to thousands of factories, commercial establishments, and shops through phone, email, WhatsApp, and SMS, and asked them to pay wages in full and on time to workers. We also launched helplines where workers could register their complaints. The approach resulted in workers being paid more than Rs 3,183 crore in wages during the lockdown,” said Vipul Mittra, additional chief secretary, labour and employment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-3183cr-paid-for-workers-wages/articleshow/78195384.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘UP turned crisis into opportunity to foster economic growth in lockdown’||Uttar Pradesh is actively engaging with several key nations which have evinced interest in investing in the state. The industries department is playing a pivotal role in this task. Speaking to Subhash Mishra, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon said that of the Rs 4.18 lakh crore worth of MoUs signed in February 2018, Rs 1 lakh crore of investments have already materialised in just two years, a rare feat for any state. Excerpts: Q. What has been the impact Of Covid-19 pandemic on UP’s industrial growth? A. Several economic challenges surfaced during the crisis. But on the initiative of CM Yogi Adityanath, the industries department did its best to turn ‘aapda’ (crisis) into ‘avsar’ (opportunity). We held interactive and fruitful sessions with many nations, including the US, via video conferencing and webinars and set up helpdesks to draw their attention towards investment prospects in the state. The government pro-actively endeavoured to attract fresh investments for higher job creation. Various new industries such as PPE, santizers, textile, retail and e-commerce have come to the forefront. An employment commission has been set up for skill-mapping and grading to bridge the gap between the industry and labour. Dedicated helpdesks have been created for hand holding and facilitating foreign investments, particularly those relocating from China and other new big-ticket domestic investments. The helpdesks are actively engaged with investors from over 10 countries and new leads worth about Rs 15,000 crore have been generated. Q. Had there been no Covid, where would we have been economically by now? A: Before Covid-19, UP was rapidly facilitating huge investment generated at the 2018 Investors Summit. Of this, 371 projects worth around Rs 1.26 lakh crore were facilitated for active implementation at the ground-breaking ceremonies held in July 2018 and July 2019. Continuing to facilitate investments, about 43% of the leads worth around Rs 2 lakh crore have either started commercial operations or are under active implementation. Since, the state government has resorted to generate fresh leads post-Covid, not only the scope of investment facilitation has broadened, but also the focus on faster investment implementation has gained importance. Q We hear about foreign investments from abroad. How much is actually coming? A: Webinars and interactions with foreign countries have helped establish UP as a favoured investment destination. As a result, we have received more than 50 investment intents from 10 countries, including Japan, US, UK, Canada, Germany and South Korea. These investment proposals are being aggressively pursued by our helpdesks and are in various stages of implementation. Q Which industrial sector has shown maximum growth? A: Before Covid, the state government under its industrial policy had identified 10 focus sectors based on their inherent potential. These were electronics manufacturing, IT and startups, food processing, dairy, renewable energy, tourism, film, textile, MSME and civil aviation. Post Covid, the government has renewed its focus on promoting new industries, such as bulk drug and medical device manufacturing in pharmaceuticals. Also, sectors like logistics, defence and data centre are gaining momentum. The project report for a medicinal park and for manufacturing of medical devices is ready. The CM has asked the Centre to allot one medicinal park to the state. Besides, construction of defence corridor would give employment to people and also give boost to the MSME sector, which is the backbone of the state’s industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-turned-crisis-into-opportunity-to-foster-economic-growth-in-lockdown/articleshow/78196365.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vadodara||17 leopards from overcrowded rescue centre taken to Junagadh||Vadodara: If state’s jails suffer from overcrowding, same is the fate of the leopard rescue centre at Dhobikuva near Pavagadh, where rogue wild cats sentenced ‘life term’ are sent here.The Dhobikuva centre mostly keeps leopards involved in man-animal conflicts across the region, or those either old or injured and incapable of hunting. After ascertaining the condition of these leopards that may bring them in conflict with humans again or are incapable of fending for themselves, they are sent to the centre for survival.Officials said leopards from Dahod, Kevadia, Baria, Godhra, Mahisagar and Vadodara divisions are brought to the rescue centre. Such is the rush, that about a month ago, 17 leopards were kept in the centre that has a capacity of keeping 10 only! This was the result of a series of attacks on humans across the region that kept pushing the ‘convicted’ leopards here.Looking at the lack of space, officials decided to shift all these leopards to Junagadh where a much larger facility is available for such big cats. “Necessary permissions were taken and the 17 leopards were taken with necessary precautions to Junagadh about a month ago to create space for for others to be brought here in future,” said assistant conservator of forests, Mahendrasinh Solanki.He further said that the shifting was done in a most covert operation to avoid the animals from getting disturbed. “People may crowd to see the leopards or disturb them,” Solanki explained to TOI.According to Solanki, three new leopards have already come to the rescue centre after the transfer of the older 17. “They will be staying with us till we are full again,” he said, adding that ones shifted included seven females and 10 males.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/17-leopards-from-overcrowded-rescue-centre-taken-to-junagadh/articleshow/78193240.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Administration slashes Rs 1.3cr inflated hospital bills after audit||Pune: A team of experts appointed by the district administration has reduced inflated hospital bills related to Covid-19 treatment to the tune of around Rs1.3 crore submitted to 271 patients within a month. The hospitals had to refund the money to these patients after the experts found merit to the objections raised. Officials said they found that the administrative charges and costs of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits billed by the hospitals were inflated. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and district administration had deputed the teams at the private hospitals to scrutinize every bill above Rs1.5 lakh. The PMC has cross-verified 425 bills since the scrutiny started on August 14. The total cost of the scrutinized bills was around Rs7.7 crore, of which Rs1.3 crore has been reduced after negotiations. “The reduction in the bill amounts was a big relief for the patients and their relatives in these testing times,” said Manisha Naik, a senior PMC told TOI on Friday. “The awareness about the administrative initiative is rising and more people are coming forward with their complaints about overcharging. We are also sending the old bills for revision,” she said. Another senior PMC official said stringent actions would be taken against hospitals not discharging patients until full payment was made. “Their trade licences can be cancelled. Properties of hospitals can be sealed if the administration was found flouting the guidelines,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/administration-slashes-rs-1-3cr-inflated-hospital-bills-after-audit/articleshow/78195387.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||No order to mandate video recording of weddings||Pune: The Pune municipal commissioner has put an end to rumours about local police stations to be provided names of guests attending a wedding as well as a video recording of the ceremony to prove that all regulations related to curbing the pandemic have been followed.Representatives of the Maharashtra Catering Association and Catering Association, Pune, told TOI on Friday that there is no official written order that mandates wedding lawns and halls to furnish names and details of wedding guests to the local police station or send a video CD of the event to the authorities. The associations, which have owners of 250 wedding lawns, halls and caterers in Pune as its members, said that rumours about new wedding rules issued in Pune district have been doing the rounds, causing confusion among wedding organizers and caterers. “The new rules supposedly mandate wedding organizers to send the police a video recording of the ceremony and give the list of guests to the local police station, for them to monitor the event. Also, unverified reports on the new rules claimed that the 50-persons guest list would be inclusive of musicians, priest and those serving food, among others,” said Kishor Sarpotdar, president of Maharashtra Catering Association.Sarpotdar added that the association recently met the Pune municipal commissioner to seek clarity on the matter. “The commissioner clarified that, at least for Pune city, the list of 50 guests is not inclusive of persons like cooks, musicians, and the priest. He also said that wedding planners are not required to provide a video recording of the event and the guest list to the police,” he added.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar confirmed the development and said that the associations did indeed approach him recently for clarity on the matter.Sarpotdar added that, so far, wedding caterers and lawn owners had not received any official notification about such rules from any authority. “We are thus only required to follow the guidelines on weddings issued by the state government and the civic body earlier,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-order-to-mandate-video-recording-of-weddings/articleshow/78195389.cms||Neha Madaan
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||674 teachers’ posts to be filled||Ahmedabad: The state education board will conduct a fifth round of hiring of teachers for grant-in aid secondary and higher secondary schools from September 21. The new round of recruitment will be held for about 674 vacant posts of the total 2,295, said sources. The state education department had announced a recruitment drive in 2016 for filling up 1,927 posts in secondary schools and 4,397 positions in higher secondary schools. After conducting four rounds so far, the education board has been able to fill 1,054 posts in secondary level grant-in aid schools and 3,015 at the higher secondary level. For secondary level, there are 252 vacant posts according to the information gathered at district level, said sources. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/674-teachers-posts-to-be-filled/articleshow/78195401.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Heavy showers likely from today in Goa: Met office||PANAJI: A combo of two systems, an east-west shear zone between 3.1 and 5.8 kms above mean sea level and a cyclonic circulation over west-central Bay of Bengal, are likely to trigger yet another spell of copious rainfall from Saturday onwards. A third system, a low pressure area in north-east Bay of Bengal, is likely to develop by September 20. “The two systems will enhance monsoon activity. Though there are chances of the third system intensifying further, it will not have much impact over Goa,” Rahul M, scientist, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, said. IMD-Panaji has issued an orange colour alert regarding heavy precipitation during the next three days, as rainfall activity revived after a few dry days. “Very heavy rainfall exceeding 110mm in 24 hours is very likely at three to four places in both districts on September 19, 20 and 21,” the IMD bulletin stated. A possibility of extremely heavy rainfall of over 200mm at one or two places in north and south Goa has also been cited in the bulletin. The wind speed during the period is likely to be 30 to 40 kms per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-showers-likely-from-today-met-office/articleshow/78196364.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 19, 2020||Kochi||Suspension revoked, Air India Express can resume Dubai service||KOCHI: The Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) has reinstated the operations of Air India Express (AIE) after revoking an order it has issued earlier on Thursday, suspending the services for 15 days for flying in SARS-CoV-2 positive passengers from India on two separate occasions. The airline had carried the Covid positive passengers from Delhi and Jaipur in its flights to Dubai on August 28 and September 4, respectively. As per UAE government rules, passengers travelling from India have to bring Covid negative certificates, based on RT-PCR tests done 96 hours before the journey. Following the suspension, AIE had introduced additional flights from Sharjah to accommodate the affected passengers. As the suspension has been revoked, these flights are likely to be cancelled. AIE also informed that it has advised the handling agents to implement a three-tier checking mechanism to avoid any such lapse in the future. “The ground handling agencies concerned have taken appropriate punitive action against their employees who have been held accountable for the lapse at Delhi and Jaipur,” said AIE. Dubai is one of the main destinations of AIE with numerous flights from various cities in India. AIE has several repatriation flights too to Dubai as part of Vande Bharat mission. The suspension of service would have come as a blow for Keralites in Dubai as AIE is used by most for their travel between Kerala and Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/suspension-revoked-aie-can-resume-dubai-service/articleshow/78194045.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kanpur||Cops track down same-sex couple in Ghaziabad on missing complaint||Kanpur: Busting social norms and moral taboo on same-sex marriage, a 19-year-old woman eloped with her teenage niece two weeks ago even as one of their parents lodged a missing complaint with Kanpur police. Late Thursday, the duo was tracked down through phone surveillance at a rented accommodation in Ghaziabad, where they confessed to police they were a couple since January. The family’s missing complaint at Chakeri police station stated their 19-year-old daughter fled home on September 2 along with her 18-year-old niece, who hails from Lucknow. An FIR was registered and investigations were launched. On Thursday, a police team tracked their location in Ghaziabad and detained them for questioning. The cops were shocked to find a third girl living with the same-sex couple. She hails from Anwarganj area of Kanpur and was also missing during the same time. She told cops she became friends with the Lucknow girl on a social networking site and later helped her chat friend and her niece to flee and get married. During questioning, the aunt-niece duo confessed they got married at a temple in January and the 19-year-old played the role of the husband. “The trio will be produced in court and family members have been informed about the development,” said inspector Chakeri, Ravi Srivastava. Legal experts say though there is no law on same-sex marriages, the two are within their legal rights to live with each other since the Supreme Court has struck down Section 377.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-track-down-same-sex-couple-in-ghaziabad-on-missing-complaint/articleshow/78196068.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 19, 2020||Meerut||Sexual assault by godman: Hearing deffered after child breaks down||MUZAFFARNAGAR: The local Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court deferred hearing against Muzaffarnagar’s Gaudiya Math owner Swami Bhakti Bhushan Maharaj and his associate Moha Das after a child victim broke down during cross-examination. According to special public prosecutor Dinesh Sharma, “We presented a witness and during cross-examination by a defence lawyer, the child panicked and started crying. Now, the next hearing in the case will be held on September 25.”  The godman was arrested in July on the charges of sexually abusing minor children in his ashram. An FIR was registered against Swami Bhakti Bhushan Maharaj and one of his associates under various sections, including 377 (unnatural offences), of IPC and the Pocso Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sexual-assault-by-godman-court-defers-hearing-after-child-breaks-down-during-cross-examination/articleshow/78192755.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Sec’bad cluster likely to get 20 train routes||Hyderabad: The ministry of railways has said around 20 private train routes are proposed in Secunderabad cluster which will pass through Secunderabad, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool and Guntur. The ministry has invited applications for investment and induction of modern rakes over select routes under public-private partnership. The ministry has issued 12 requests for qualification on July 1, 2020, for operating passenger trains over approximately 109 origin-destination pairs divided into 12 clusters, including Secunderabad. The proposal is based on design, build, finance and operate (DBFO) basis. “The routes are spread across various states, including Andhra Pradesh, covering the entire Indian Railway network. Responsibility of train operations and safety certification rests with Indian Railways in all such cases. The existing train services shall continue to be operated by Indian Railways and their fare shall be fixed by the railways, as at present,” minister Piyush Goyal said in Lok Sabha. For the trains to be operated under PPP route, the operator would, in consideration of the investment and services provided by him, be entitled to levy and collect fare from the passengers in accordance with what the market can bear and also raise other revenues in terms of a concession agreement, said the railway minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/secbad-cluster-likely-to-get-20-train-routes/articleshow/78194100.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||For smokers hoping to quit, a pandemic offers a push||Pune: Three months into the Covid-19 lockdowns, Delhi-resident Alok Sarkar found himself free from the grip of a 20-year smoking habit. For months, he had been on the fence. But the global pandemic triggered a forceful set of interventions: closed shops, sky-rocketing cigarette prices in the black market and deaths. “The loss of my friend was my tipping point. He was just 45. I was shook-up,” said Sarkar, a product manager with an IT firm in the capital. Worldwide, there has been a drop in the number of active smokers. The British charity Action on Smoking and Health estimated in July that over a million people may have given up smoking during the first four months of Covid starting March. In India, where over 9,00,000 people die every year from smoking, doctors are calling for urgent action. "When you quit smoking, you go through withdrawal symptoms, including anxiety, depression, irritation, constipation, headaches and insomnia. But it's better to deal with these symptoms than face the dire effects of smoking," said pulmonologist Sujoy Ghosh. Former smokers TOI spoke to said unprecedented changes in the workplace method and culture have also caused them to quit. "I was away from the office smoking zone for two weeks - that's all it took. I have been smoke-free for five months now," said Shravan Shetty, a resident of Bengaluru. He added, "At first, I was just unable to smoke because I have a child at home. After a few days, the cravings started to get less intense. I go for morning runs now." In Pune, the sounds of passing ambulances was motivation enough for 36-year-old Gautam Prateek. "I live near a jumbo Covid centre. One day, I counted 11 ambulances. These have become the clearest reminders of the risk we're running. It's not smart to be a smoker during a pandemic-level event," he said. Psychologist Nidhi Jain said an increase in the conversations around health has motivated many to kick the habit. "But every person’s experience of quitting cigarettes has been different, and difficult. Many have often quit many times before finally finding prolonged success. And that's the biggest challenge - staying smoke-free even after the lockdowns and when life returns to normal. You have to keep fighting the urge. Engaging yourself in an activity or hobby can help," she said. Sarkar, with newly-found rigour remains confident. "I wake up fresher. I went back to my guitar after a 15-year break." (With inputs from Govind Vijaykumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-smokers-hoping-to-quit-a-pandemic-offers-a-push/articleshow/78195414.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Tree-mapping app helps citizens preserve data on Goa’s green cover||PANAJI: It has long been a concern that Goa’s green cover could be rapidly reducing , and that the loss isn’t being balanced with new trees. As an answer to this common worry, an Aldona-based company has developed an app that helps any citizen map trees anywhere in the state. The app, built by the not-for-profit Living Heritage Foundation (LHF), helps geo-tag threes and preserve data about them, like their health and risk status. The app’s Android version was made operational in March, and the iOS version was launched in August. Yet, over 1,700 trees have already been recorded using it, despite the lockdown in between. “Once a tree is mapped, we can be sent an SOS using the app if it is on the verge of dying, falling or being felled,” said Renuka Figueiredo of LHF. I”n case the health of a tree is affected, we try to revive it with the help of botanists.” The geo-tagging helps locate the trees easily. After the app was first made functional in March, it was noticed that those using it had an issue when internet connectivity in the area was not available. Now, the app — developed with the help of an IT company from Goa, Nova Semita — even allows entries in dense forests where there is no internet connectivity available. The data then gets uploaded once the device re-enters a network area. “The data entered into the app serves as evidence of the tree’s existence. Even recently in Mollem, it was being argued by some that more trees are being cut than for which permissions were issued. This could happen when there is no data available on the trees,” said Figueiredo. This app’s use is not restricted to Goa, and can be used anywhere in India for tree-mapping. “The person entering the tree details can record if the tree has flowers, if it is fruiting, if it has termites, or if it is near any highway being expanded. We then get an SOS. The recent re-rooting of a tree carried out at Arambol is a great example. The recovery of the re-rooted tree is being monitored using this app,” said Figueiredo. The foundation, with Marc Francis, Priya Sule and Mohan Kumar as its directors, is working to minimise conflict between biodiversity and local communities, said Figueiredo. Those citizens, who are interested in helping geo-tag trees but know little about trees need not worry either. The app’s in-built tutorial guides one on how to go about the mapping. “Once you have mapped 20-30 trees, you can sign up as a volunteer,” she said. “Phoebe Pereira of the LHF works on project activation, and she goes to different organisations raising awareness among students and citizens about tree mapping with the app.” The organisation believes that the data collected through the app will be helpful to municipalities to carry out the tree census mandated to be conducted every five years. Besides researchers, the data is also expected to help monitor trees planted as compensation for those cut for development projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tree-mapping-app-helps-citizens-preserve-data-on-goas-green-cover/articleshow/78196369.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 19, 2020||Pune||Corporators to support ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign||Pune: The local representatives will help the city and rural areas to successfully execute the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign to ensure that no Covid-19 positive or suspected patients are missed from the radar. Officials said the efforts, similar to that being employed in Mumbai, will help in the successful completion of the exercises which was rolled out on September 14. The campaign will go on till October 24. Under the initiative and with the new-found support, the health staffers will receive help from the local corporators and grass-root political workers in conducting a door-to-door survey and test temperature and oxygen levels of people to identify the suspected cases of Covid-19. Civic administration officials said as part of the campaign, the instituted team will prepare a list of senior citizens and people with co-morbidities and screen them for the virus. The team will also raise awareness on Covid-19 precautions and arrange for admissions in hospital for symptomatic patients. “Local corporators, NGO volunteers and public representatives would be roped in for this drive,” Pune municipal corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar said.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh, who had kick-started the campaign in the rural areas, told TOI that the purpose of the campaign was to ensure that no person was left out of the screening process. Officials said people with ailments such as diabetes, heart and kidney disease, as well as obesity, would be referred for treatment. A team comprising one health worker and two support staffers would survey people and also suggest available services for the diseases. A swab test would be recommended to those with Covid-19 symptoms. The state has set a target of reaching 2.25 crore families twice a month during the course of the survey.Under the initiative, the housing societies will have to ensure that temperature and oxygen testing facilities are available for helpers, drivers, waste collectors and cleaners. They will also have to display the emergency contact numbers of municipal health centres and hospitals within their society premises. The Pune district president of the housing society federation, Suhas Patwardhan, told TOI that they have directed all the societies to follow the rules.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The campaign aims to involve a large number of frontliners to reach out to every home in the state to assess the health condition of its residents and provide medical assistance, if needed. The campaign will also seek assistance from elected public representatives, NGOs and residents and will cover all households.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporators-to-support-my-family-my-responsibility-campaign/articleshow/78195427.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 19, 2020||Kochi||Violent protests: LDF smells sabotage||Thiruvananthapuram: LDF state committee that met on Friday accused UDF and BJP for organizing violent protests to unsettle the LDF government. It said that the vehicles of two ministers were also attacked, which is an indication that a frustrated opposition would go to any length to create issues. All constituents in the front supported higher education minister K T Jaleel and opined that there was no need for him to step down. “LDF decided to stand united and take on the attempts by UDF and BJP to sabotage the government. The attempts to attack ministers Jaleel and A K Balan made it clear that Congress and BJP are using criminal gangs to physically attack ministers. Protests on streets are led by trained goons,” said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan. LDF also observed that ongoing attack against Jaleel is spearheaded by IUML and it is part of the League’s transition to hard-line agenda. “League has accepted the intellectual leadership of fundamentalist organisation Jamaat-e-Islami. UDF is gearing up for stitching up an alliance with Muslim fundamentalist organizations under the aegis of IUML. Their mysterious agenda is to polarize the society communally, trigger violence and sabotage the government. We will mobilize the public against this,” he added. Preparations for local body poll were also discussed at the meeting. LDF constituents opined that postponing polls for long may be detrimental to the ongoing activities at the grassroots-level to check Covid-19. The meeting didn’t discuss the entry of KC (M)’s Jose K Mani faction to the front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/violent-protests-ldf-smells-sabotage/articleshow/78194080.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Varanasi||Rs 1L reward announced for wanted brothers||Prayagraj: Additional DG (Prayagraj zone) Prem Prakash has declared Rs 1 lakh cash reward each on Sabhapati Yadav and his brother Subhash Yadav, who have been absconding since August 6. Police said that the local court in Prataparh had on September 11 issued NBW against both of them. The police would be taking up property attachment exercise of the absconders shortly. Police said that the duo were wanted in connection with a case registered under sections 147,148, 149, 307, 352, 427,286,504,506, 188 and 269 of IPC, 7 CLA and 51 A of Disaster Management Act with Patti police station of Pratapagrh district. Pratapgarh police said that Sabhapati and his brother Subhash, residents of Vinaiya village (Aspur Devsara) along with henchmen had on August 6 assaulted a trader at Mujahi Bazar area under the limits of Patti police station. Following the incident, an FIR under appropriate sections of IPC was registered. On August 26, the SP (Pratapgarh) had announced Rs 25,000 cash each on Sabhapati Yadav and his brother. On September 9, IG (Prayagraj range) K P Singh increased the reward amount to Rs 50,000 each on their heads. However, the ADG ( Prayagraj zone) Prem Prakash on September 17 has increased the reward amount to Rs 1 lakh each on both the absconders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rs-1l-reward-announced-for-wanted-brothers/articleshow/78195995.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Patna||PM Modi opens Kosi rail bridge in Bihar, heaps praises on CM||PATNA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday inaugurated the Kosi Mahasetu and 12 other railways projects in the poll-bound Bihar through videoconferencing from Delhi. Modi said the railway projects could be completed in the last six years only with the ‘sahyog’ (cooperation) of chief minister Nitish Kumar. “Nitish Babu jaisa sahyogi ho to kya kuch sambhav nahi hai (If you have an associate like Nitish, nothing is impossible),” Modi said. The PM inaugurated Kosi Mahasetu worth Rs516 crore, along with 12 other projects entailing an overall expenditure of over Rs 3,000 crore. The railways projects worth Rs6,000 crore have been going on in the state and 90% of the work has been completed. In an obvious reference to the delay and the lack of will power for development on the part of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who was railway minister in the UPA-1 government from 2004 to 2009, Modi said the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee had laid the foundation of Kosi rail bridge in 2003. Alluding to former PM Manmohan Singh and Lalu, Modi added: “Who does not know whose government it was at the Centre and as to who was the railway minister.” The Kosi Mahasetu was the dream project of Atal ji as the prime minister and Nitish ji as railway minister with an aim to solve the problems being faced by the people of Mithila and Kosi regions, Modi said. But when the next government came in 2004, the speed of work on the Kosi rail line project slowed considerably. “If the people of Mithilanchal and Bihar had been cared for, the work would have been done at a fast pace,” he said and added: “If there is ‘dridh nishchay’ (strong will), anything can be achieved.” The Kosi Mahasetu has reduced the route between Kosi and Mithilanchal to just 22km while, earlier, people from the two regions had to cover a circuitous railway route of 298km in the state, he said. A mega bridge constructed in 1886 on the Nirmali-Saraigarh-Upaha section of the railways was first devastated by the 1934 earthquake and then washed away by the floods caused by Kosi river the same year. By that token, this section of the railways and Kosi Mahasetu rail bridge had become open for public use again on Friday after 86 years. The PM said the completed section of the railway route would not only link the Kosi and Mithilanchal regions, but also open an alternative route to the North East, besides giving a boost to the trade, industries and economic revival of the two areas. The PM said in the last six years, journey by trains had become secure and comfortable in the country. “Trains and platforms have also become clean, modernization of the tracks and bridges and construction of new bridges have increased the speed of the trains. A 250km-long dedicated freight corridor has also been completed,” he said. “The country is becoming self-reliant and untouched areas are also getting connected by the railways. The speed of the goods trains and volume of cargo carried by them has also increased,” he said. Earlier, Union minister of home Nityanand Rai welcome the guests. On the occasion, giving the details of the new strides made by the railways in launching and completing various projects in the state, railways minister Piyush Goyal said, “We at the Centre and the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi in Bihar will develop the state further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-opens-kosi-rail-bridge-in-state-heaps-praises-on-cm/articleshow/78196371.cms||Abhay Singh
September 19, 2020||Pune||Police return, auction over 3k abandoned vehicles||Pune: The Pune police have returned or auctioned 65% of 5,000 unclaimed, abandoned vehicles that have been gathering dust at various police stations since the start of the year. Police said they have found it difficult to manage with these vehicles taking up much-needed space. Police said such vehicles were also an eyesore in public spaces such as roads and footpaths. “We took permission from the authorities concerned to dispose of unclaimed and abandoned vehicles, as well as those seized in accident cases and crimes,” additional commissioner of police Ashok Morale said. After 3,250 vehicles were disposed of, the pandemic slammed the brakes on the process. “We have again intensified the drive to auction off the pending vehicles,” he said. “The seized vehicles were unnecessarily occupying space and it had become difficult for the police to maintain security and records,” Morale said. He said most vehicles had been damaged beyond repair and were not being claimed, prompting them to undertake the drive. “We have also started returning stolen properties, like vehicles, ornaments and valuables to the claimants,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Akkanoru Prasad P said the vehicles abandoned included two-, three- and four-wheelers. “We returned many of the vehicles to owners and identified people who were not interested in collecting the vehicles because the vehicles were too damaged and could not be repaired. We also identified vehicles whose owners could not be traced.” Prasad said certain Supreme Court guidelines have made it easier for them to dispose of the vehicles. “The Supreme Court, in Ambalal Desai v/s Gujarat state, has stated that vehicles should not be kept at police stations for more than 15 to 30 days. The guidelines state that the panchanama of the seized vehicles and photographs can be used as evidence in court cases,” he said. “The unclaimed vehicles are auctioned after seeking permission from the police commissioner. Vehicles seized in criminal cases are auctioned after seeking permission from the magisterial courts. The RTO determines the value of the vehicles, and an auctioneer is appointed at the police station level,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-return-auction-over-3k-abandoned-vehicles/articleshow/78195452.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Release MPLADS funds, Vinod tells central govt||Hyderabad: Telangana State Planning Board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar has sought release of MPLADS funds immediately for the 16th Lok Sabha members. In a letter to the central government on Friday, Vinod said small contractors who executed various works were suffering because of non-release of the funds. Vinod Kumar said the ministry of planning and progame implementation officials replied to him saying, “The budgetary outlay for financial year 2020-21 in respect of the MPLADS funds has already been placed at the disposal of the ministry of finance for managing the economic and health impacts of the pandemic in pursuance of the decision of the Union cabinet for not operating MPLAD scheme for financial year 2020-21 and 2021-22.” However ,Vinod Kumar reminded the government that the Union cabinet had taken a decision not to operate MPLAD scheme for 2020-21 and 2021-22, but not for the payment incurred earlier. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-mplads-funds-vinod-tells-central-govt/articleshow/78194130.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Agra||106 test Covid positive in Agra||AGRA: At least 106 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Friday evening, taking the district tally to 4,601. The patients included five individuals suffering from coronary artery infection, eight of severe acute respiratory syndrome, five of influenza-like illness and nine of acute respiratory distress syndrome. Also, 104 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 4,601 cases reported in the district, 78.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 852 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 3,632 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/106-test-covid-ve-in-agra/articleshow/78192771.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Airport pre-paid auto booth shuts down||Pune: The pre-paid autorickshaw booth at the Pune Airport has shut down following the expiry of its licence and extension given to the autorickshaw union to operate it.Prakash Rajguru, secretary, L.V Antaral Autorickshaw Sanghatna, told TOI that their two-year agreement to operate the booth ended in March. “The counters were shut down four days ago. We were sitting at home without work from March till June and even now the number of passengers is less. We had approached Pune MP Girish Bapat and Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre and the agreement was extended twice till September 14. We have sought permission to operate yet again for a period of two years,” he said.Around 180 autorickshaw drivers were attached to the booth. The autorickshaw drivers said that they should be given permission to continue operation as their income has shrunk due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They said they have submitted application for renewal of the contract, but the airport authorities were yet to respond.Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre, who is also the vice-chairman of the Pune airport advisory committee, said, “The autorickshaw drivers had approached me and I have discussed the matter with our leader Sharad Pawar. There seems to be some issue and we have planned to sort things out. However, I am recovering from Covid-19 and will follow up on the issue next week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airport-pre-paid-auto-booth-shuts-down/articleshow/78195441.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Man gets life term for killing air hostess wife||Hyderabad: A man was sentenced to life imprisonment by a local court on Friday for killing his air hostess wife in 2015 in Uppal. After taking into cognisance the evidence produced by the prosecution, LB Nagar court convicted Sachin Uppal of killing his wifeReetu Sareen and awarded the life term. Sachin was also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000. His mother Seema Uppal and his friend K Rajesh Kumar, however, were acquitted. On that fateful day in April five years ago, Sachin and Rajesh had consumed alcohol and went to the former’s residence. When Reetu snapped at Rajesh for changing TV channels frequently, Sachin was enraged and physically assaulted his wife by hitting her with his hands. She suffered a head injury and died. Rachakonda police said Sachin started suspecting wife’s fidelity soon after their marriage in 2013. In 2014, they were blessed with a boy, but Sachin continued to harass his wife, police said. At the time of the marriage, Reetu’s parents gave Rs 5 lakh cash and gold ornaments worth Rs 6 lakh on the demand of Sachin’s family. Sachin was doing electronic goods business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-life-term-for-killing-air-hostess-wife/articleshow/78195431.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Water from sewage plant to nurture 36-acre Rajghat lake||NEW DELHI: The revamp of the Delhi Gate sewage treatment plant (STP) was reviewed by Delhi Jal Board (DJB) chairman and minister for water affairs Satyendar Jain on Friday. The water from this upgraded plant would be used for creating a 36-acre lake near Rajghat. A senior DJB official said the area where the lake would be developed used to be the fly ash pond of the now decommissioned Rajghat power plant. “The plant was shut around five years ago and shrubs and weeds now occupy the abandoned pond. This will be the biggest waterbody in the area and serve as another recreational spot in the heart of Delhi,” he added. Last year, DJB had announced that it would create the lake in the low-lying area behind Rajghat as it would help in both groundwater rejuvenation and restoration of ecology. The cost of creation of the lake was fixed at Rs 36.5 crore. Water for rejuvenation of the lake would come from the Delhi Gate STP, which has the capacity of treating 15 million gallons of waste water daily. It is estimated that the lake would be able to hold 50 million gallons of water. “Currently, the STP discharges treated water into the Yamuna. Landscaping has also been included in the proposal for development of the lake,” said the official. Earlier, DJB had said that creation of the lake would help in improving biodiversity of the Yamuna floodplain, while also reducing organic load pollutants flowing into the river. Another official said that a high-level tertiary purification process would be done at the STP before water was flown into the lake. “The treated water will undergo an ozonation process with activated carbon filters before being sent into the lake. Aerators will be used to increase the dissolved oxygen levels,” he added. The waterbody would also help in supplying water for maintenance of Rajghat where borewells are currently being used. Last year, DJB had announced a deadline of three years for the completion of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-from-sewage-plant-to-nurture-36-acre-rajghat-lake/articleshow/78195445.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Two-year-old held hostage at knife point, family looted of valuables||KANPUR: Robbers held hostage a two-year-old son of a trader on a knife point and robbed cash and jewellery worth several lakhs in KDA Swarn Jayanti Vihar colony under the limits of Bidhnoo police station, on late Thursday night. The incident took place at around 2 am when the family was asleep and two armed men barged through the rear portion of trader Saurabh Singh’s house. Saurabh’s wife, Poonam, and the couple’s two-year-old son and trader’s 85-year-old mother were at home while he had gone to Lucknow in connection with some business. “The robbers scaled rear boundary of the house for entry. They trained knife on my two-year-old son’s neck and threatened us not to resist,” Poonam said, adding, “The robbers locked me and my mother-in-law in another room and snatched keys from us and searched for cash and jewellery and escaped thereafter. They also took away with them my SIM. I thereafter apprised my husband about the incident from another cell phone. My husband reached house at around 7 am and alerted local police station about the incident.” Circle Officer Ghatampur Ravi Kumar Singh said they suspect the role of an insider as the robbers seemed familiar with the house. “We are interrogating few suspects. The robbers fled with the SIM of the trader’s wife,” he told TOI. He further said that forensic teams collected vital evidences from the spot. The police are scanning CCTV footages procured from the area. “During preliminary investigations, investigators have come across two men in the CCTV footages escaping with valuables.” CO said a case under relevant sections of IPC has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-yr-old-held-hostage-at-knife-point-family-looted-of-valuables/articleshow/78196085.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Meerut||Ambulance owner electrocuted||Bijnor: An ambulance owner, 35, electrocuted while working at his home. According to police sources, he was rushed to a hospital in his ambulance, but his condition deteriorated further and he died. The victim — Sitaram, alias, Pawan — was working at his home when he came in contact with an electric wire. According to the victim’s family, they admitted Pawan to a private hospital, but he died during the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ambulance-owner-electrocuted/articleshow/78192794.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Sarai Kale Khan flyover repair to cause jams||NEW DELHI: The Sarai Kale Khan flyover on Ring Road is likely to witness heavy traffic jams for at least another 15 days due to the repair work that began on Monday. Police said traffic would be diverted to other routes for the next two weeks. The work is expected to get completed by the first week of October. Commuters coming from Ashram side and going towards Rajghat will also face inconvenience because of an underpass construction work. Even they have been advised to take alternative routes. An advisory issued by Delhi Traffic Police on Friday stated, “Avoid Ashram due to ongoing construction. Traffic coming from Moolchand on Ring Road and bound for Sarita Vihar, Badarpur, Faridabad can take a right turn onto Capt Gaur Marg from below Lajpat Nagar flyover. They can then move back onto Mathura Road via Modi Mill flyover and continue their journey.” “Cars and two-wheelers coming from Sarai Kale Khan, DND Flyway on Ring Road and bound for Sarita Vihar, Badarpur and Faridabad can take a left turn onto CV Raman Marg from where they can turn right onto Mathura Road via Mata Mandir Marg or Johar Marg and continue their journey,” the advisory added. A senior traffic police officer said that one-third of the flyover outside Sarai Kale Khan ISBT was blocked by PWD workers who were repairing the expansion joints of the flyover that were in a very bad shape. “Once the work on this section of the flyover is complete, they will block the other one-third part and repair it,” the officer added. “Compared with Thursday, it was easier for us to manage the traffic on Friday. The regular commuters knew that this road would be busy, so they took other routes to get to their destinations. Many commuters were asked to take the road beneath the flyover,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sarai-kale-khan-flyover-repair-to-cause-jams/articleshow/78195470.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Trader duped of Rs 5.7L in online steel deal||Pune: A fraudster duped a trader (35) of Rs5.7 lakh on the pretext of selling him steel via an online deal. On September 5, the suspect took money from the trader online and promised to send him the steel consignment in two days. When the trader did not receive the steel, he lodged an FIR on Thursday with the Dehu Road police. An officer from the Dehu Road police said the complainant — Sachin Patil (35) of Chimbli in Khed taluka — required steel for some work. “While searching for steel suppliers online, he came in contact with one trading firm from Bhilai in Chhattisgarh,” the officer said. The suspect, who claimed to be the firm’s owner, told Patil that he would send the required steel in two days after the payment was made. “The suspect also sent him an account number of a private bank’s Bhilai branch and told Patil to transfer the money via RTGS,” the officer said. On September 7, Patil transferred Rs5.7 lakh to the given account number. “When he did not get the delivery, Patil tried to contact the person to tell him to return the amount. When he did not get either the steel or the money, he lodged a complaint,” the officer said. An offence has been registered under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly, inducing delivery of property) and 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code against the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trader-duped-of-rs-5-7l-in-online-steel-deal/articleshow/78195463.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Agra||Smartphones worth Rs 25 lakh stolen from shop in Aligarh||AGRA: A week after a daylight robbery of Rs 35 lakh worth jewellery in Aligarh, burglars walked away with around 90 smartphones worth Rs 25 lakh from a mobile shop in the city during the early hours on Friday. Police said three masked men entered the shop by cutting the shutter. The incident took place around 4 am and the CCTV footage of the crime is being scanned by the cops. SP (city) Abhishek Kumar said that forensic experts have been called in to collect the evidence. “An FIR has been registered and a probe is on,” the SP said, adding that the case will be solved soon. Shop owner’s son Raja Varshney said burglars entered their shop, which is located in Manglam complex under Civil Lines police limits, early in the morning. He added, “All expensive phones were taken out from the boxes and put in a carry bag before being taken out of the shop.” Last week on September 11, three bike-borne miscreants identified as Saurabh, Rohit and Mohit, carrying country-made pistols, had looted a jewellery shop in Bannadevi area and had decamped with Rs 40,000 cash and gold ornament worth Rs 35 lakh. Later, they were arrested by police after a brief encounter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/smartphones-worth-rs-25l-stolen-from-shop-in-aligarh/articleshow/78192808.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Covid positive, debt-ridden farmer ends life in Nagpur||NAGPUR: A 52-year-old farmer, a resident of Shegaon tehsil of Buldhana district, hanged himself in a toilet of a dedicated Covid hospital in Khamgaon on Thursday late night. The farmer was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday after he tested positive in rapid antigen test, Buldhana’s resident deputy collector Rameshwar Puri told TOI. “We came to know that the deceased was a farmer from a small village in Shegaon tehsil. We have been told that he was under stress due to farm debt but administration is yet to get complete details of his loans,” said Puri. Doctors said the person was under tremendous pressure since he was admitted in Covid hospital. “He was suffering from depression,” said a doctor. This is the fourth suicide of a Covid-19 positive patient in Vidarbha region. Earlier, a labourer from Assam had ended life in Akola in May. Recently a man from Washim jumped into a well, while a man in Bhandara had hanged himself in bathroom of a Covid-19 hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-positive-debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life/articleshow/78196380.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 19, 2020||Patna||Nitish opens interstate bus terminal on Patna-Gaya road||Patna: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday inaugurated the state-of-the-art Interstate Bus Terminal (ISBT) located at Mauza Pahadi on Patna-Gaya road. Nitish also inaugurated bus terminals at Ara, Aurangabad, Nawada and Jhajha through remote control on the occasion. Speaking at the function, the CM said the ISBT has been renamed as ‘Patliputra Bus Terminal’. Nitish said such a huge bus terminal would hardly be found anywhere else. All safety measures and facilities have been taken care of, he said. Nitish said the new bus terminal, spread over 25.02 acres of land, would have a capacity for 3,000 bus trips and is expected to draw around 1.5 lakh passengers per day. “Ticketing counters, separate toilets for men and women, airconditioned restrooms, elevator and lifts are there for the passengers. The commercial block has a hotel, multiplex, restaurant and lounge among other utilities,” a press communiqué said. The ISBT has four separate multistorey blocks — Block A for arrival, Block B for departure, Block C (connects the first two blocks) and Block D for commercial use. These blocks have been built at a cost of Rs339 crore, an official release said. Apart from the four blocks, the ISBT campus has other utility structures like dormitory-cum-workshop station for drivers, fuel stations and parking bays. The G+2 dormitory building will have the capacity to accommodate 100 drivers at a time. As far as parking bays are concerned, there are 72 departure platforms, 68 arrival platforms, 51 idle bus parking (city buses) and three workshop areas mainly for maintenance, cleaning and servicing of buses. There is a 700-metre-long and 7.2m wide elevated road for the movement of private and public vehicles. Commuters will park their vehicles in the basement of the blocks by crossing the elevated road. The parking space will have the capacity of around 700 vehicles. The campus also has provision of rainwater harvesting (RWH), water treatment plant (WTP) and sewage treatment plant (STP). The terminal is equipped with public address system to avoid traffic chaos. A high-speed Wi-Fi zone for internet access, LCD screens, fire detection and fighting system are there. The bus terminal is under CCTV camera surveillance. Around 33% of the total plot area is developed as greenbelt. Buses from ISBT will start operating in the next 15 days, said UDHD secretary Anand Kishore. He said an eight-lane approach road is being constructed between Zero Mile and ISBT by the road construction department. RCD’s additional chief secretary Amritlal Meena said five lanes out of the eight would be completed in the next 15 days. “The buses will start operating from ISBT as soon as approach road is ready,” he added. The CM also planted a sapling there in the presence of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma, road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-opens-interstate-bus-terminal-on-patna-gaya-road/articleshow/78196404.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||After HC rap, state clears jumbo hosp with riders||Nagpur: After rebuked by the judiciary over inordinate delay in setting up jumbo Covid hospital, Maharashtra government issued a notification granting in-principle approval to a mega facility to treat 1,000 Covid-19 patients in Mankapur indoor stadium. The approval, however, comes with many riders that the district administration and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) may find it tough to fulfil, say officials. The government made it clear that it would be contributing 25% from emergency response funds for the facility. Remaining amount is to be generated by NMC and NIT/NMRDA at 25% each, and 25% from district planning committee (DPC) and private companies under corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. It’s nearly a month that a proposal was sent by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar for setting up such a facility in anticipation of community spread of the deadly contagion. “Had the government acted promptly, it would have saved many precious lives as patients failed to get a bed in city’s hospitals,” say officials. The notification by secretary, disaster management, revenue and forest department, Kishor Raje Nimbalkar, directed the commissioner to certify that all existing medical facilities in the city are being utilized for patients. He was told to ensure about it from collector, NMC commissioner, zilla parishad chief executive officer and other authorities. Kumar was further told to make sure that all beds in state and central-run hospitals along with those in semi-government and private are fully utilized before erecting the new facility. The notification further asked authorities, including NMC commissioner and ZP CEO, besides Kumar, to utilize all wedding halls, similar large places in various buildings for accommodating Covid patients. The authorities have also been told to ready requisite manpower, including doctors and paramedical staff, and facilities to run the jumbo hospital. The responsibility of smooth running of the hospital was entrusted with Kumar, who was directed to constitute a panel for monitoring its set-up. What The Notification Says Govt to contribute 25% from emergency response funds NMC & NIT/NMRDA to bear 25% each, and 25% from DPC & under CSR Divisional commissioner to certify all existing facilities are being utilized for Covid patients Utilise all wedding halls, similar large places in various buildings for accommodating Covid patients Ready requisite manpower and facilities to run the jumbo hospital Start working on facility, submit plan: HC The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court directed divisional and municipal commissioners to submit a detailed plan on creation of jumbo hospital within two weeks and start working on it even before the next hearing. The directives came after government notification was submitted to a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala while hearing suo motu PIL based on TOI report. The government and NMC counsels assured appropriate steps would be taken as per the notification. The government was forced to issue a notification on Friday after HC had on Tuesday warned of summoning chief secretary, if no decision was taken within a week on setting up of jumbo hospital. Blasting the government for not rising to the occasion to reduce Covid death rate, the bench expressed surprise over its failure to respond to the commissioner’s proposal on a much-hyped 1,000-bed hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-hc-rap-state-clears-jumbo-hosp-with-riders/articleshow/78196527.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 19, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur’s affiliate membership model to support MSMEs||KANPUR: In India, MSMEs form the backbone of the economy and have taken the hardest hit in the current ongoing pandemic situation. The fact that Kanpur has a huge MSME base and these MSMEs are engines of growth for regional economy, Technopark@iitk has designed an Affiliate Membership Model. The main purpose of this model is to provide an opportunity to MSMEs to leverage IIT Kanpur’s R&D strengths. The primary goals of the Affiliate Membership Model include to provide support to MSMEs for improving product quality, to assist them in skill and technology upgradation. “We have long been contemplating of reaching out to MSMEs since the very day we had our first outreach event on April 6 in 2019. The event saw a huge participation from MSMEs based in Kanpur. During the discussions, we realized that MSMEs are keen to seek expertise from IIT-K but setting up an R&D base in Technopark may not be a financially feasible option for them. And Technopark too would like to reach out to a large base of MSMEs and not restrict itself to a few numbers,” informed Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Professor In-charge, Technopark@iitk. Some of the main offerings of this program are access to state-of-the-art research infrastructure, access to intellectual resources, opportunity to work with IIT-K students, opportunity to participate in Special Interest Group (SIG) meets and industry events organized by Technopark@iitk, opportunity to network and enhance their brand’s visibility and opportunity to license and commercialize IITK IPs (a database of 600+ patents). The affiliate member can also avail office desk for 30 days in a year in Technopark@iitk to have close interactions with IIT-K. Kunal Kasera, Founder, TruFarm Co(Re-Engineering Food Systems startup) is one of the firsts to take an annual Affiliate Membership with Technopark@iitk. “Our partnership with IIT-K Technopark has brought immense strength to our Engineering and R&D Departments. Being from a commerce background I had initially struggled to understand how technical aspects of a machinery works. Now, I have a reliable partner with whom not only I clear my doubts regarding engineering and machinery but also propel various R&D activities to create proprietary Technology, which otherwise would have been impossible or highly capital intensive,” he said. Kunal said that he is already in discussions with professors to work on a novel research project. Technopark@iitk is keen to push this model as it sees value in it. As informed by Reema Mittal, COO Technopark@iitk, the research park plans to increase its reach in the coming months. It is already in interactions with TiE-UP and Indian Industries Association (IIA) and would like to reach out to various government ministries and departments including MSME Ministry to push this model for wider adoption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-kanpurs-affiliate-membership-model-to-support-msmes/articleshow/78196048.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
September 19, 2020||Agra||Agra: Over 300 Covid-19 patients home quarantined in 3 days||AGRA: The Covid-19 infection is spreading rapidly in Agra district. At least one Covid-19 positive case has surfaced in each of the 100 wards in the city and 500 villages. In the past three days, 303 Covid-19 patients have been home quarantined and 86 patients in serious condition have been admitted to isolation wards. According to sources, the contract tracing of the infected patients has stopped with the increase in number of Covid-19 cases. Following the lackadaisical approach of the officials, no monitoring of the containment zones is taking place. Sanitisation work has also stopped. Till Thursday, there were 311 Covid-19 containment zones in Agra district. Over 4,500 cases have been reported in the district. So far, 117 deaths of Covid-19 patients have been reported in the district. Nagla Padi resident Vinod Agarwal said, “Our locality is under the Covid-19 containment zone. Despite this, no health department team has come for inspection in the locality. Sanitisation has also not taken place. At least 10 cases have been reported in the vicinity of my house in the past week.” Additional district magistrate (city) Prabhakant Awasthi said, “In place of policemen, now home guards and civil defence workers are being deployed for monitoring of the containment zones. Regular inspections are being conducted in different parts of the city. Action is being taken to ensure social distancing protocol is followed at the markets and public places. Penalties are being imposed on people found not covering their face." Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “Our teams are reaching out to the patients. They are being provided with medicines and asked to register their complaint on the Covid helpline numbers in case of any emergency. Due to the increase in the number of cases, contact tracing is taking time. Sanitisation work will be reviewed for any improvement."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-300-covid-19-patients-home-quarantined-in-3-days/articleshow/78192837.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mumbai||Worli bldg partly damaged after gas tank explodes||Mumbai: A nitrogen gas tank exploded at a pathology lab on the top floor of a commercial building in Worli, injuring a woman, at 9am on Friday. A portion of the top floor of Manish Commercial collapsed due to the impact and it damaged glass of other offices. BMC issued a notice to the occupants to remove the loose portion of the parapet as a precaution. Fire brigade engines controlled the situation. Chief fire officer Shashikant Kale said, “We have sealed the damaged portion and told departments to check for violations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/worli-bldg-partly-damaged-after-gas-tank-explodes/articleshow/78194447.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 19, 2020||Goa||Indian Navy’s latest patrol aircraft will call Goa home from October||PANAJI: Indian surveillance and anti-submarine capabilities over the Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean region will get stronger when the second batch of the Indian Navy’s Boeing P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft will land at INS Hansa in October. The arrival of the multi-role aircraft from the US will enhance the aerial balance and sub-surface surveillance in India’s favour, naval officials said. The Indian Navy currently operates eight P-8I aircraft that are based at INS Rajali, Arakkonam in Tamil Nadu, and this will be the first P-8I to be based on India’s west coast. The aircraft is expected to arrive in the first week of October from Boeing’s facility in Seattle and will be based at INS Hansa. Hansa is the base where the Indian Navy’s tryst with maritime surveillance began. According to naval officials in Delhi, after landing at INS Hansa, the P-8I will fly to INS Rajali for a temporary deployment. The Indian Navy ordered eight P-8I jets in January 2009 and after seeing the aircraft’s performance, a follow-on order for four more aircrafts was placed in 2016. This is the first aircraft from the follow-on contract. “It is a multi-role aircraft as it can track and even attack submarines and surface ships. It is a very potent aircraft and a generation ahead of Pakistan, which is still with the P-3 Orion, a turboprop aircraft,” former chief of naval staff admiral Arun Prakash said. With a maximum speed of 789 kmph and an operating range of over 1,200 nautical miles, the P-8I is also a leap ahead from the Ilyushin Il-38 (IL 38) that the navy operates from Goa. “This aircraft flies at 40,000 ft which gives it a longer range and this means that India’s area of influence is much bigger. We must remember that we have hegemonic and expansionist neighbours,” captain (retd) D K Sharma said. The deployment of the P-8I comes against the backdrop of China’s repeated forays into the Arabian Sea under the guise of anti-piracy operations. Beijing has established a presence at a string of ports in Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Iran and east Africa which could pose a threat to India. Though the P-8I is a long range maritime surveillance aircraft, it has also been deployed during the on-going standoff with China in Ladakh as well as during the 2017 Doklam standoff. The Indian Navy has also deployed the P-8I for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) operations during cyclones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indian-navys-latest-p-8i-to-call-goa-home-to-arrive-in-oct/articleshow/78196428.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Thousands of fabrication units halt work over lack of industrial oxygen supply||Kolhapur: Just as they were beginning resume some business, work at hundreds of small-scale fabrication units and metal cutting workshops has again come to a halt. These units require oxygen for the heavy cutting work, but have not been getting the supply of oxygen cylinders over the past few days as the demand for medical use has gone up. Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara have more than a 1,000 small-scale units dependent on the fabrication and other allied industries and all of these units have been affected. Yogesh Kulkarni, the owner of Precifab Engineers in Gokul Shirgaon MIDC, said the lockdown had already dealt a blow to the fabrication industry and the decision to divert all oxygen for medical use has further crippled them. “The business was somehow coming back on track after the lockdown, but with the lack of oxygen cylinder supply, which is the backbone of our industry, everything has come to a halt. There should have been proper planning before the state government took such a harsh decision,” he said. Kulkarni pointed out that thousands of families depend on the industry for their livelihood. Nilesh Chougule, a worker working in a fabricating unit in Shivaji Udyam Nagar area, said he didn’t want to complain as the oxygen supply to industries was stopped to save lives. “It’s the need of the hour. However, all operations that depend on oxygen and industrial gases have come to a standstill. We have work orders, but oxygen cylinders are not available. We are not getting anything done. It is affecting our daily income,” he said. Devendra Diwan, an industrialist and the former chairman of Gokul Shirgaon MIDC, said oxygen cylinders are required for heavy plate laser cuttings, regular mild steel rolled section gas cutting, plasma cutting, CNC cutting, and metal cutting and other fabrication purposes. Even a lot of other industries allied to fabrication regularly use oxygen. “Around 30% of the fabrication industry depends on oxygen supply and it has been badly hit,” he told TOI. Even the oxygen manufacturing units expressed their helpless. Anil Patil, the owner of Devi Industrial Gases Pvt. Ltd. in Kolhapur, said their unit produces about 5 to 5.5 metric tonnes of oxygen every day and all of it is being used for medical purposes. “Over the past 15 days, we haven't supplied any oxygen to industrial units though there is huge demand from the fabricating units. The administration has appointed an officer in the oxygen producing plants and the entire supply is closely monitored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/thousands-of-fabrication-units-halt-work-over-lack-of-industrial-oxygen-supply/articleshow/78191849.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
September 19, 2020||Pune||Insurer told to refund Rs 8.69 lakh to Baner resident||Pune: The district consumer court has directed Go Digit General Insurance Company, a Bengaluru-based private establishment with an office in Yerawada, to refund Rs8.69 lakh along with 9%, per annum, interest since July 4, 2019, and Rs50,000 cost, to a Baner resident in a dispute over a car accident claim. Lawyer Umesh Deshmukh, representing complainant Rajesh Chaubey (52), had alleged in the consumer complaint that the insurance firm resorted to deficient service and unfair trade practice by passing an accident claim on paper, but not releasing the claim amount despite repeated follow-up. On November 24, 2016, Chaubey purchased a car for Rs12.72 lakh. Chaubey also purchased a car insurance policy on November 14, 2018, with a declared value of Rs8.71 lakh. On May 16, 2019, Chaubey’s car suffered extensive damage in an accident following which he initiated the claim. According to his complaint, the insurance company kept vacillating over passing the claim. A three-member consumer court bench, on September 10, upheld lawyer Deshmukh’s argument that the insurer was liable for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. The bench gave the insurance firm a month’s time to comply with its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/insurer-told-to-refund-rs-8-69-lakh-to-baner-resident/articleshow/78195478.cms||Vishwas Kothari
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||790 cases take Satara dist’s Covid-19 count to 28,153||Kolhapur: Several small villages and hamlets in Satara district continue to register fresh coronavirus cases. On Thursday, the district reported 790 fresh cases and 24 deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 28,153 while the death toll has touched 807. At present, the district has 9.569 active patients while 17,777 have been discharged from various facilities after recovery. Meanwhile, Satara and Karad tehsils continue to record a large number of patients. Satara tehsil registered as many as 220 cases, including 80 from the town. Karad, on the other hand, reported 187 new cases, of which, 37 are from the town. In addition, Khandala tehsil reported a surge of 30 patients, including nine from Lonand village. Khatav recorded 59 patients, including 10 from Waduj, eight from Mayni, six from Punwadi and five from Waduj village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/790-cases-take-satara-dists-covid-19-count-to-28153/articleshow/78191838.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||In Prahladnagar, fines spur call for parking facility first||Ahmedabad: The joint enforcement teams (JET) of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and traffic police faced stiff opposition from shopkeepers and customers in Prahladnagar who had parked their vehicles on the road. The traders are opposing AMC plans to have a cycle track in the area. A shopkeeper from the area said they are not against the cycle track or enforecment of no parking on the road, but they want the authorities to provide adequate space so that they can park their vehicles near their shops. “We are left with no option and have to either park on the road or ensure that we come early so we get space to put our cars inside the limited parking space.” On Friday, as a JET came to the area and started issuing challans, traders came out on the streets along with customers and protested the issuing of challans for illegal parking. The shopkeepers demanded that the JET issue challans only after the faulty design of the street is rectified and customers and shopkeepers get adequate parking space. They also demanded some facility for pick-ups and drops to and from the AMC parking lot, so customers can reach their destinations. They say this must be free of cost for customers who park for a short while. AMC officials were not available for comments. Another shopkeeper said the street design is not uniform and at places one finds green space, followed by a cycle track and then a footpath and at some places the footpath is missing or the cycle track is missing. They said this design is being modified to suit some influential people in the area. There are two parking lots in the area, one near Prahladnagar Garden and the second some distance further away. However, there is no parking facility near Shyamal Crossroads. “If someone has to park his car in either of AMC parking lots, he then has to hire a rickshaw. “Customers will thus not use the parking lot. We have to have parking near the complex, but due to the new construction it is not possible, forcing people to park on the road,” one trader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-prahladnagar-fines-spur-call-for-parking-facility-first/articleshow/78195493.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Pvt hispitals in Kolhapur dist treated only 1,160 Covid patients for free||Kolhapur: Private hospitals in Kolhapur district have so far provided free treatment to only 1,160 Covid-19 patients. This number is much lower than the number of patients actually admitted to and treated in private hospitals. The state government had assured free treatment to all Covid patients, irrespective of their income status. However, while those admitted to public hospitals are being treated for free, a large number of patients in private hospitals have had to pay hefty treatment charges. A senior official of the district unit of Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana said: “So far, 1,160 patients in private hospitals have been treated for free. We have to keep the amount reimbursed to the hospitals confidential. The claim filing and reimbursement processes are done online and much depends on the documents submitted by the relatives and hospitals.” The state government has capped Covid treatment charges for private hospitals. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has appointed auditors to check the bills issued by the hospitals. So far, over Rs 2 crore of excess bill amount has been saved by the auditors. However, activists have demanded that all private hospitals be empanelled under the scheme. District collector Daulat Desai had also recently requested the MPJAY officials to empanel big private hospitals for free treatment of Covid patients. Durgesh Lingras, an activist from Rajarampuri, said, “We have found that the capped rates are not displayed at the private hospitals. We want the list of the auditors with their contact numbers to be displayed at the hospitals. Many hospitals are charging advance sums and delaying treatment by hours for the same. Despite the government’s assurances, poor patients continue to be exploited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pvt-hispitals-in-kolhapur-dist-treated-only-1160-covid-patients-for-free/articleshow/78191862.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Agra||Sharjeel Imam produced before Aligarh court, sent back to Tihar||AGRA: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam was on Friday produced before a court in Aligarh in connection with a sedition case filed against him in the city for his alleged provocative speech given on January 16. The court remanded him into 14-day judicial custody. And he was escorted back to Tihar jail by Delhi Police personnel, from where he was brought to the court. The sedition case against Imam was filed in Aligarh’s Civil Lines police station on January 25. A similar case was also filed against the JNU scholar in Assam for the same statement which Imam gave in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). UP Police are yet to file a charge-sheet in the case. But now, after Imam’s appearance before Aligarh’s chief judicial magistrate, the process of compiling the charge-sheet will kick off. “A warrant under section 167 of the CrPC was made today. Imam will be in judicial remand in Delhi,” said Anil Samaniya, circle officer of Civil Lines. Last month, Imam was also booked by Delhi Police for “inciting” the Delhi riots which took place in February this year. But they haven’t named him in the charge-sheet they filed recently. Delhi Police said that his name might come in the supplementary charge-sheet which will be filed soon. Earlier in the day, Imam’s brother Muzzammil Imam wrote on Twitter, “My brother Sharjeel Imam has been taken to Uttar Pradesh in a secretive manner without informing his counsels and family. We all are concerned about his safety. He has nothing to hide and has been actively cooperating in the investigation.” Aligarh police had registered the FIR against Imam under sections 124 A (sedition), 153-A (provocation with intent to cause riots), 153-B (whoever by words either spoken or written or by signs makes or publishes any imputation, assertions prejudicial to national-integration or may cause disharmony) and 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code at the Civil Lines police station. Imam was booked under sedition and other charges in several states after his alleged inflammatory speeches at the AMU and Jamia Millia Islamia University in Delhi were circulated on social media. He was then arrested by the Delhi Police’s Crime Branch from Bihar’s Jehanabad on January 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jnu-scholar-sharjeel-imam-produced-before-aligarh-court-sent-back-to-tihar/articleshow/78192861.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 19, 2020||Madurai||CHILD MARRIAGES GET A PANDEMIC PUSH||In August, the Madurai district administration stopped a marriage hastily arranged for a 15-year-old girl by her mother to her brother (the girl’s uncle). The 40-year-old woman from Sellur who suffers from health problems had lost her husband five years ago and taken to selling vegetables for a living. And then the pandemic struck, turning her world upside down. She says she expected her brother to take care of her daughter. "I had to hurry to conduct the marriage since my brother is getting old. Otherwise, I would have waited a few years until she turned 18." the woman said. Poverty is a key driver of child marriages while lack of education, cultural practices and love affairs contribute to it. Adding to this list is the insecurity fuelled by the lockdown. The long holiday for schools has also served as an impetus for the social evil to thrive in many interior villages in districts such as Trichy and Madurai. The district social welfare department in Trichy recorded 107 child marriages in the last eight months. The authorities managed to stop more than 80 in the district. From 108 in 2018, the number of stopped child marriages has increased to 160 in 2019. Child Line has been getting calls to report child marriages across the state quite often during the lockdown. Data showed that several child marriages were stopped in Manapparai, Marungapuri and Vaiyampatti taluks in Trichy. The other areas were Mannachanallur, Thathaingarpettai, Trichy city, Thottiyam, Marungapuri, Pullambadi and Uppliyapuram. Madurai received 46 alerts of child marriages till August this year. Since 2015, the district received 481 child marriage alerts, of which 436 were stopped. Legal action was initiated in the rest of the 45 cases the alert landed late. C Jim Jesudoss, a child rights practitioner of Sakthi Vidiyal, an NGO, said that apart from Usilampatti belt the practice of child marriage is prevalent in Thirumangalam and Melur areas. There was a spike in the number of such incidents during the lockdown since it did not require much money to conduct marriage, he said. "Child marriages are prevalent in a dominant community in the district and another community, which has been following it as a tradition to marry off their minor girls," said coordinator of Sevai Childline , I Muralikumar. He said the long holiday for schools during the lockdown gave parents in the rural areas a reason to force their minor daughters into marriage. Places such as Usilampatti, Chellampatti, Sedapatti in rural areas and Sellur are hotbeds of child marriages in Madurai. Majority of people living in these areas are Piramalai Kallars, a sub-caste of Thevar. M Buvaneswaran, principal of Madurai Kamaraj University Constituent Model Arts and Science College, who is a native of a village in Usilampatti belt, said that parents want their children get married to maternal uncles as they do not want the family property to go into the control of other people. "Fear of girls falling in love with someone is the major reason why parents marry them off early. When the alliance is financially sound, poor parents do not mind the age gap," Buvaneswaran said. DSWO, Trichy, A Thamim Munisha said, "Parents are aware that their children should get education and employment. Sadly, they are not mindful of the legally, physically and mentally the right age for the marriage for their children. Likewise, the minor girls should also be empowered to decide whether the age is right for her marriage," said Thamim Munisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/child-marriages-get-a-pandemic-push/articleshow/78194187.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vadodara||Man arrested for duping job aspirant||Vadodara: The prevention of crime branch (PCB) arrested a man for duping job aspirants and using their identity documents for committing cheating. Nitin Dhomse, a resident of Raopura, was nabbed from Tarsali Road on the basis of a tip-off on Friday. The cops have also seized a two-wheeler from Dhomse. According to the police, Dhomse had contacted Nishant Patel, who was looking for a job, seven months ago. The accused promised Patel that he would get him a job and took the latter’s adhaar card, PAN card and three cheques along with photographs. Dhomse then disappeared and didn’t respond to Patel’s calls. The accused meanwhile used Patel’s documents to buy a two-wheeler. Dhomse told the showroom employees that he is buying the two-wheeler on the behalf of Patel. The accused then mortgaged the two-wheeler and borrowed some money from his friends. The police said that Dhomse has duped several such persons by promising them jobs in the bank. Dhomse used to take their identity documents and then buy vehicles in their names. He was arrested in 2013 for committing vehicle theft in Nadiad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-arrested-for-duping-job-aspirant/articleshow/78193303.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tiff with lawyer over spot for car||Ahmedabad: Vasudev Tanvar of Naroda, a lawyer, lodged a complaint on Thursday with Krishnanagar police against four unknown persons alleging that they beat him up over a dispute of car parking. One of them also hit him with the handle of a knife on his forehead. Passersby saved him. On the other hand, Ajitsinh Chauhan, 23, of Chandannagar on Bhargav Road also lodged a complaint against Tanvar alleging that the lawyer had abused and beaten them. Krishnanagar police took complaints of both the parties and are investigating the case. Tanvar has stated that while he had gone to purchase grocery and meet his friend near Arya Residency he parked his car near a milk parlour. A security guard told him to not park his car there. Soon, four persons came there and started beating him despite the guard’s warning. The lawyer has claimed they also took away Rs 3,500 from his pocket. Chauhan stated the lawyer had parked his car in the middle of the path and when told to remove it, he abused and beat them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tiff-with-lawyer-over-spot-for-car/articleshow/78195512.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Meerut||2019 courtroom shootout led to UP’s 10k-special security force||NEW DELHI: It was a courtroom shooting in UP’s Bijnor in 2019 which spurred a series of events that culminated in UP government’s new special security force which has created controversy for the powers it has been granted — to arrest, interrogate and act upon suspects without a warrant. On December 17 last year, an undertrial murder accused was shot dead inside a court in Bijnor, one more addition to a series of courtroom shootings in UP that would have been forgotten after the initial shock but for the Allahabad high court which took cognisance of the incident. A group of three assailants — with a minor boy leading the charge — had fired indiscriminately at an undertrial brought from Delhi for hearing, killing him on the spot as the chief judicial magistrate looked on in shock. The man was on trial for allegedly killing the minor’s father. While police were quick to dismiss it as a standalone “revenge killing”, the incident shook the corridors of power. The Allahabad HC took note and slammed the UP government over inadequate security in local court premises citing similar violence in courts of Agra and Muzaffarnagar. On June 13, 2019, chairperson of the UP Bar Council Darvesh Kumari Yadav (36) was shot dead by a colleague in her chamber on the court premises in Agra while in 2015 armed men had entered Muzaffarnagar court and shot dead gangster Vicky Tyagi. The HC observed that the most “incompetent” police personnel were being deployed in local courts. Terming the shootings “serious and shocking”, a division bench comprising justices Sudhir Agarwal and Suneet Kumar had told the UP government on December 20 last year to come up with a plan to ensure adequate security arrangements on court premises in the state. It also suggested the constitution of a specialised force to protect courts. Months later, the Yogi Adityanath government has come up with the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPPSF) which it said is meant to secure key establishments like courts, metro rail, airports, banks. The force, however, will also provide security to VIPs. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi has called it a “dream project” of the UP chief minister. Awasthi said, “The basis of this force is an order of the high court, which had directed that there should be a specialised force for civil courts. In all, there will be 9,919 personnel in the force.” Senior police officers that TOI spoke to said the controversy over the force was unwarranted as it was being formed along the lines of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to protect key installations in the state. “The provisions of the force draw heavily from the CISF Act. Even the CISF Act has a similar provision of arrest without warrant,” said a police officer. ADG, law & order, Prashant Kumar added, “We already are short-staffed and a large portion of state police personnel are deployed to protect these key installations. Formation of UPSSF will address this problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2019-courtroom-shootout-led-to-ups-10k-strong-spl-force-that-can-arrest-sans-warrant/articleshow/78192852.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Lady Hill Circle to be renamed after Sri Narayana Guru||MANGALURU: Lady Hill Circle on MG Road in the city will soon be renamed after philosopher and social reformer Sri Narayana Guru, who envisaged the idea of ‘one caste, one religion, one God for humanity’. A resolution in this regard is expected to be part of the agenda at the second council meeting of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) which will be chaired by mayor Diwakar on Tuesday. If everything goes as per plan, the circle will be officially renamed during the Mangaluru Dasara festival at Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple. The temple was consecrated by Sri Narayana Guru in 1912. The circle is an entry point to the Kudroli temple from the northern side of the city. Several organisations and the temple authorities too have been demanding the circle be named after Sri Narayana Guru. Recently, Friends Ballalbagh – Biruver Kudla had submitted a memorandum to mayor Diwakar requesting the city corporation to rename the circle after Sri Narayana Guru. The organisation also had submitted a memorandum in this regard to the mayor and Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath in 2018. Senior BJP corporator Premanand Shetty, who is also the chief whip in the MCC council, told TOI that the mayor has responded positively to the demand. “We have received requests from various organisations to rename Lady Hill Circle after the philosopher. The mayor has responded positively to the proposal. It is expected to be part of the agenda of the next council meeting. Once it is passed, the circle will be renamed after Sri Narayana Guru,” he added. The Mangaluru Dasara festival of Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple this year is scheduled to be held from October 17 without much pomp in the wake of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lady-hill-circle-to-be-renamed-after-sri-narayana-guru/articleshow/78192865.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Mandatory online booking at Srirangam temple on Saturdays||Trichy: The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department has implemented compulsory online booking to visit Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam for the next four Saturdays, as a crowd controlling measure. HR&CE has taken the decision anticipating a surge in footfalls of devotees on Saturdays in the ongoing Tamil month of Purattasi. The move has not gone done well with some devotees.Earlier, only paid darshan was facilitated through online booking. But citing Covid-19, HR&CE has made online booking mandatory even for people opting for free darshan at the temple. After applying in the official website ww.srirangam.org, devotees have been directed to download the entry slip to enter the temple. By doing so, HR&CE said that only 3,600 devotees will be allowed darshan in six different slots on each Saturday.But the decision to ensure mandatory online booking for free darshan has irked a section of devotees. “At least, devotees opting free darshan could have been spared from the compulsory online booking. Not all of us are tech-savvy and what if the site develops a snag,” T Santhanakrishnan, a resident of Srirangam added. P Jayaraman, HR&CE Joint-Commissioner said that the system was applicable only on Saturdays, considering the rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mandatory-online-booking-at-srirangam-temple-on-saturdays/articleshow/78194232.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Drunkard wife batters me’: Man wants cop cover||Ahmedabad: A Maninagar man has submitted an application to the Khokhra police stating that his wife is an alcoholic who tortures him and his parents. The application was filed on Thursday. The man, who is 29 years old, stated in the application that he married the 25-year-old woman in March 2018 after they had an affair. According to the application, he realized only after marriage that his wife is an alcoholic. He said that after she gets drunk, she tortures him and his parents mentally and physically. The man said that his wife comes to his office in an inebriated condition, calls him out, and creates a scene. “The complainant said that the woman also keeps demanding money,” a Khokhra police official said. “He has sought police protection.” The man said that under his wife’s pressure, he moved out of his elderly parents’ house to live with her separately. “However, the man said her demands or torture did not stop,” the police official said. The man said that in June, his parents tested positive for Covid-19 and taking advantage of the situation he returned to their house on the pretext of taking care of them. He said that his wife immediately moved into the first floor of his parents’ house and never offered any help. Instead, he said, she pressed his parents to transfer their house’s ownership to her. She threatened to commit suicide if her demand was not met. “The complainant said that as part of a conspiracy his wife had in June submitted an application against him and his parents at the Khokhra police station,” the police official said. “And on September 11, she filed a complaint against them alleging cruelty,” he added. The man said that his wife still stays on the first floor of the house, beats him after getting drunk, and then calls the 181 women’s helpline to make false representations. The man said in his application that if something happens to him, his old parents would be at his wife’s mercy. Inspector Y S Gamit of the Khokhra police station said that the details of the application are being verified before further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunkard-wife-batters-me-man-wants-cop-cover/articleshow/78195541.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Trichy||BJP cadres booked for breaking rules||Trichy: Breaking the Covid-19 lockdown norms and gathering in public places unmindful of the danger in poses remained a routine affair of the political parties. While the BJP celebrated the 70th birthday of PM Narendra Modi by hoisting flags in 31 places, various parties and outfits garlanded the statue of EVR Periyar on his birth anniversary in 34 places in Trichy city on Thursday. Police registered cases against all of them. The BJP functionaries and cadres hoisted BJP flags near bus stops, ration shops, major junctions in the localities and residential areas. In each location, there was a gathering of about 20 to 50 participants. Police registered first information report against the organisers and the participants for disobeying the curfew order of the government and not adhering to social distancing and acting in a negligent manner to spread the infectious disease. So was the case with the celebration of the political parties such as DMK, ADMK, Congress, CPI, VCK , AMMK, and outfits like Dravidar Kazhagam, Makkal Adhikaram garlanding the statues of EVR Periyar at Central bus stand, MK Kottai, Armoury Gate and the portraits of the revolutionary leader in several places on Thursday. Police booked them. One worker from BJP and Tamil Desiya Podhu Udamai Katchi each were booked for erecting flex boards at Srirangam without obtaining permission from the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-cadres-booked-for-breaking-rules/articleshow/78194224.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Shivaji Peth to get 50-bed CCC soon||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur municipal corporation (KMC) has decided to set up a 50-bed Covid Care Centre in the Shivaji Peth area as it is one of the nine major hotspots in the city. Shivaji Peth has reported 578 Covid-19 cases so far, many of which are currently active. The locality has reported the hightest number of casualties after Rajarampuri and Kasba Bawda. Mallinath Kalshetti, civic chief said, “We are going to set up a Covid Care Centre with the help of public participation. Local private doctors have agreed to provide services to cure Covid patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shivaji-peth-to-get-50-bed-ccc-soon/articleshow/78191870.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held for assaulting constable||Ahmedabad: A constable with city crime branch, Mohamed Arif Chauhan, a resident of Danilimda Police Lines, was assaulted by four persons — Dashrath Patni and three others — in Shahibaug on Thursday night. Shahibaug police registered a case under Sections 323, 506(1) and 114 and detained Patni. Police are hunting for the other accused. According to the complaint lodged by Hemantkumar Upadhyay, 45, a resident of Isanpur, he and Chauhan were going to Civil Hospital on a scooter. At about 8.30pm when they were in Chandannagar, a boy suddenly crossed the road. Upadhyay had to brake hard to avert an accident. “Upadhyay and Chauhan told the boy to be cautious, but he started arguing. The boy’s parents started abusing them and began beating them with another two persons from the crowd,” said a police official.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-for-assaulting-constable/articleshow/78195563.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Class X students of govt school get smartphones||Trichy: School teachers and good Samaritans have sponsored 26 smartphones for Tamil medium students of class X at a government higher secondary school in Perambalur district through crowd-funding. Apart from helping the students from low-income families to attend online classes amid the lockdown, teachers said that such measures will build confidence in government schools to improve students’ enrolment. Elambalur Government Higher Secondary School has enrolled 42 students in class X. The school remained closed during lockdown, while a section of private schools conducted online classes. Only class XI and XII students were provided with laptops by the state government. To bridge the digital gap, teachers of Elambalur Government School and a few good Samaritans including NRIs have sponsored 26 smartphones worth Rs 6,000 each for Tamil medium class X students in the school. The teachers said that the gadget will help them attend online classes conducted by the teachers. “The mobile phones have SIM cards and internet service pack for the next three months. Parents were asked to encourage their children to learn online skills using the gadgets on a par with private school children,” S Suresh, teacher of the government school, said. R Selvaraj and K Bairavi were the other teachers who pooled in money through their contacts to sponsor Rs 1.60 lakh for supporting the initiative. “We will use the smartphones for extracurricular activities such as environmental studies,” Suresh said. So far, the school has provided smartphones to all 42 students of class X. A few weeks ago, 16 class X English medium students were given smartphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/class-x-students-of-govt-school-get-smartphones/articleshow/78194247.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 19, 2020||Meerut||2019 courtroom shootout led to UP’s 10k-strong spl force that can arrest sans warrant||New Delhi: It was a courtroom shooting in UP’s Bijnor in 2019 which spurred a series of events that culminated in UP government’s new special security force which has created controversy for the powers it has been granted — to arrest, interrogate and act upon suspects without a warrant.On December 17 last year, an undertrial murder accused was shot dead inside a court in Bijnor, one more addition to a series of courtroom shootings in UP that would have been forgotten after the initial shock but for the Allahabad high court which took cognisance of the incident.A group of three assailants — with a minor boy leading the charge — had fired indiscriminately at an undertrial brought from Delhi for hearing, killing him on the spot as the chief judicial magistrate looked on in shock. The man was on trial for allegedly killing the minor’s father.While police were quick to dismiss it as a standalone “revenge killing”, the incident shook the corridors of power. The Allahabad HC took note and slammed the UP government over inadequate security in local court premises citing similar violence in courts of Agra and Muzaffarnagar.On June 13, 2019, chairperson of the UP Bar Council Darvesh Kumari Yadav (36) was shot dead by a colleague in her chamber on the court premises in Agra while in 2015 armed men had entered Muzaffarnagar court and shot dead gangster Vicky Tyagi.The HC observed that the most “incompetent” police personnel were being deployed in local courts. Terming the shootings “serious and shocking”, a division bench comprising justices Sudhir Agarwal and Suneet Kumar had told the UP government on December 20 last year to come up with a plan to ensure adequate security arrangements on court premises in the state. It also suggested the constitution of a specialised force to protect courts.Months later, the Yogi Adityanath government has come up with the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPPSF) which it said is meant to secure key establishments like courts, metro rail, airports, banks. The force, however, will also provide security to VIPs.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi has called it a “dream project” of the UP chief minister. Awasthi said, “The basis of this force is an order of the high court, which had directed that there should be a specialised force for civil courts. In all, there will be 9,919 personnel in the force.”Senior police officers that TOI spoke to said the controversy over the force was unwarranted as it was being formed along the lines of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to protect key installations in the state.“The provisions of the force draw heavily from the CISF Act. Even the CISF Act has a similar provision of arrest without warrant,” said a police officer.ADG, law & order, Prashant Kumar added, “We already are short-staffed and a large portion of state police personnel are deployed to protect these key installations. Formation of UPSSF will address this problem.”Content state:WritingIn use by:Reporter(s):Rakesh Chandra1Last modified:18-09 22:10 - Rakesh Chandra1Requested size: Actual size: 110 lin - 993.71pCategory:Contextual use: NormalDescription:Correction:Usages of this branch:TOI CMS 18-09-2020, TOI Online/City - MeerutAll usages://||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2019-courtroom-shootout-led-to-ups-10k-strong-spl-force-that-can-arrest-sans-warrant/articleshow/78192876.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Priest booked for hindering cop||Ahmedabad: City police on Thursday booked a priest of the Sai Baba temple in Lal Darwaza for allegedly obstructing and threatening a cop who was discharging his duty, and was asking the priest for CCTV footage. A constable of Karanj police, Sahdevsinh Kiritsinh, filed a complaint alleging that the priest, Iqbal Sai, threatened him when he was on duty checking CCTV footage of temples, hotels and restaurants in the area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/priest-booked-for-hindering-cop/articleshow/78195603.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||In state IPS reshuffle, Amitabh Gupta to be new Pune police chief||Pune: The state government late on Thursday night transferred Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham as additional director general of police (special operations) in Mumbai. He has been replaced by Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) in the home department. The transfer is part of a reshuffle of six additional DG rank police officers in the state. Deputy inspector general of police Jalinder Supekar from the state criminal investigation department (CID) and Kolhapur superintendent of police (SP) Abhinav Deshmukh have also been transferred to the vacant posts of additional commissioner of police (administration) in Pune city and SP (Pune rural) respectively. Sandeep Bishnoi, who was replaced by Krishna Prakash as Pimpri Chinchwad commissioner of police earlier this month, will take over as ADG (railways). Senior IPS officer Makarand Ranade, who was awaiting his new posting, has been assigned the post of special inspector general of police, CID, which is headquartered in Pune. Late on Thursday night, Venkatesham issued a message which read: “Thank you. Dear Punekars. Thank you for the support given to our innovative policing experiments, thank you for giving this great opportunity to serve the needy, thank you for giving us encouragement when we needed it, thank you for understanding our honest intentions and genuine mistakes, thank you for allowing us to create new benchmarks in policing and crime control, thank you for giving feedback on our frequent reports of outcomes, and thank you for refining my Marathi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/in-state-ips-reshuffle-amitabh-gupta-to-be-new-pune-police-chief/articleshow/78191886.cms||Gitesh Shelke
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Close to 2,000 appear for Cucet||Trichy: Close to 2,000 students appeared for the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (Cucet) in Tiruvarur district on Friday. The exam will go on till Sunday. The entrance test is being conducted across the country, for admissions to 18 central universities including Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) at Tiruvarur, in 141 cities across India including centres in Tiruvarur, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Madurai, Nagercoil and Trichy in Tamil Nadu. In Tiruvarur, examinations were held at five centres — Nethaji Subash Chandra Bose College of Arts, VS Boys HSS, New Bharath Matriculation School, Trinity Academy CBSE Senior Secondary School and the GRM Girls HSS. The forenoon session had about 750 candidates and 1,200 students in the afternoon session with one more centre at Vivekanandam Vidyashram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/close-to-2000-appear-for-cucet/articleshow/78194261.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||2 held for possessing bogus certificate||Kolhapur: The Juna Rajwada police on Thursday arrested two office-bearers of the Maharashtra State Gymnastics Association for possessing bogus certificates and using them for clearing Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exam. The suspects have been identified as Mahendra Anand Chemburkar (63) of Chembur, Mumbai and Dilip Babasaheb Sawant of Miraj in Sangi district. Both the suspects have been remanded to police custory till Saturday. Chemburkar was picked up from his Mumbai residence while Sawant was arrested from his Miraj residence, said police. The incident of bogus certificates came to light after police arrested Vijay Sadashiv Borkar, a resident of Sangli in this connection. Borkar had used a bogus certificate for clearing MPSC exam in 2016. The certificate stated that he had participated in a gymnastic tournament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-held-for-possessing-bogus-certificate/articleshow/78191911.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||CM lauds successful candidates||Lucknow: On a day when CM Yogi Adityanath directed all departments to identify vacant posts and ensure that they were filled up within six months, he also congratulated successful candidates of the subordinate agriculture examination under the directorate of agriculture. The candidates were selected for 2,059 posts under Group C. The CM said that the government is committed to ensuring a bright future for its youth. Along with a conducive environment for education, the government is also creating opportunity for employment. He said that the process of filling vacant posts in government jobs was taking place in a fair and transparent manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-lauds-successful-candidates/articleshow/78196444.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman alleges molestation by father-in-law in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old woman lodged a complaint on Thursday against her husband, his parents and sister alleging that they harassed her and assaulted her over trivial issues. She filed the complaint at Sardarnagar police station. She also alleged that her father-in-law used to touch her inappropriately and that her husband had demanded a dowry of Rs 8 lakh so he could start a new business. “She alleged that her husband is an alcoholic and smokes a lot,” said a police official. The complainant alleged that in January 2010 her father-in-law had a paralytic attack and she used to tend to him. “During that period, her father-in-law touched her inappropriately. She first put it down to a mistake but one day he put his arm around her waist and gripped her hand. From then on, she refused to enter his room,” said police official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-alleges-molestation-by-father-in-law/articleshow/78195608.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Meerut||Customer lays trap, nabs two men who delivered him salt instead of drone camera||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A wily customer laid a trap and got two men arrested for allegedly duping him on an earlier occasion by delivering salt packets instead of a drone camera he had ordered online. Mohd Samad said he paid Rs 12,000 for the drone camera. After discovering that he was duped, he made several complaints to the website but to no avail. Instead, he found that his number was blocked. He tried to call from another number but that was also blocked. Samad made a plan and ordered another set but on a different address. When the package was delivered, he called several people before opening the packet in front of the two delivery men. This time, their fraud was exposed. The duo was taken to Nagar Kotwali police station and an FIR was filed. The men were identified as Tehseen and Salim Khan of Muzaffarnagar. They denied any hand in replacing the product in the box. They were booked under IPC’s section 420 (cheating) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/customer-lays-trap-nabs-two-men-who-delivered-him-salt-instead-of-drone-camera/articleshow/78192897.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||One held with 4kg of ganja||Ahmedabad: The special operations group (SOG) of city police on Friday arrested a 26-year-old resident of Danilimda, Salmankhan Pathan, with 4kg of ganja, worth Rs 42,000, from near the Chandola T-Junction. Assistant commissioner of police B C Solanki said that based on a tip-off, PSI P K Bhoot of SOG and his team kept watch near the Danilimda T-Junction and intercepted the accused when he was passing on his scooter. “The ganja was found in the glovebox of the scooter. During his preliminary interrogation, it emerged that the contraband belonged to Zakir Shaikh, also a resident of Danilimda, who is on the run. Pathan had been told to deliver it to someone. We have the name of the intended recipient,” added Solanki. Zakir has a long criminal record and has been arrested ten times in prohibition cases. “He also has been detained under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) thrice,” said Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-held-with-4kg-of-ganja/articleshow/78195614.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Former ABVP convenor of Kheri district shot dead by uncle over property dispute||Bareilly: Former district convenor of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) Aman Bajpai, 22, was allegedly shot dead by his uncle Kuldeep over a property dispute in Gola town of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday night.Aman — who was pursuing LLB from Lucknow University and used to live in the state capital — was rushed to a hospital where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival. Aman returned home during the lockdown and had been waiting for the commencement of his classes.Aman’s father Vijay Bajpai said, “There was a property dispute with my half-brother Kuldeep. On Thursday night, Kuldeep argued with my son and suddenly he shot Aman in his chest. When we heard the gunshot, we rushed to the spot and found Aman writhing in pain. Soon, he died in my arms.”Gola police station SHO Anil Kumar said, “We have booked Kuldeep for murder. He was arrested on Friday morning while he was attempting to leave the town and the gun was seized from his possession. Kuldeep was born to the second wife of Aman’s grandfather Ramrakhan Bajpai. The murder is a result of a property dispute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/former-abvp-convenor-of-kheri-district-shot-dead-by-uncle-over-property-dispute/articleshow/78189890.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Parcel containing explosives creates panic||Thanjavur: A courier parcel containing explosives created panic near Orathanadu in Thanjavur on Friday. According to police, K Arivazhagan, 27, a native of Kannathankudi West near Orathanadu in the district on Thursday received a call from a courier agency functioning from Orathanadu asking him to come and collect a parcel arrived from Trichy. He along with his father brought the parcel from Orathanadu. When he opened the parcel on Friday he was shocked to see a gelatin stick and a detonator in the parcel. Subsequently, they buried the explosive at their coconut grove and alerted police. Orathanadu police and a bomb squad checked the parcel. The parcel has a fake originating address. The explosive is usually used to crack boulders in quarries, police said. Meanwhile, in his compliant, Arivazhagan accused the proprietors of private finance company ELFIN E-COM Private limited for the incident. He had deposited around Rs 54 lakh in the company. When he asked it to return the money, they threatened him, he said in the complaint. Police registered a case and an inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parcel-containing-explosives-creates-panic/articleshow/78194272.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||6 of 8 M’wada districts get new police chiefs||Aurangabad: In late night orders issued by the home department, six of the eight districts of Marathwada region have been given new police chiefs while orders on the outgoing officers were yet to be revealed. A few days ago, National Police Academy deputy director Nikhil Gupta has replaced Chiranjeev Prasad as Aurangabad commissioner of police, Cidco chief vigilance officer Nisar Tamboli has replaced Manoj Kumar Lohiya as Nanded range IGP, while Nagpur range IGP KM Mallikarjuna Prasanna has replaced Ravinder Kumar Singal as Aurangabad range IGP. With these transfer orders, except for Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil and Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan, all the senior police officers from the region have been transferred. As per the latest orders, DIG law and order Vinayak Deshmukh will replace S Chaitanya as Jalna superintendent of police, deputy commissioner of state intelligence Raja Ramaswami will replace Harssh Poddar as Beed superintendent of police, Thane DCP Pramod Shewale will replace Vijaykumar Magar as Nanded superintendent of police, Nagpur SRPF commandant Nikhil Pingle will replace Rajendra Mane as Latur superintendent of police, Jayant Meena, who was awaiting his posting orders will replace Krushnakant Upadhyay as Parbhani superintendent of police, Superintendent of police (CID technical services) Rakesh Kalasagar will replace Yogesh Kumar as Hingoli superintendent of police. Anti corruption bureau’s Aurangabad unit superintendent of police Arvind Chawria has been transferred as Buldhana superintendent of police. Senior officers pointed out that Beed’s Poddar, Nanded’s Magar and ACB’s Chawria have been transferred before completion of their respective terms. However, these officers have refused to comment on the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-of-8-mwada-districts-get-new-police-chiefs/articleshow/78191896.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur farmer finds Chola-era sculptures in his field||Thanjavur: Two sculptures dating back to the Chola era were found in an agriculture field in Thanjavur district on Thursday. The sculptures - a five-feet Dwara Balagar and a two-and-a-half feet lingam - were found in two different places by farmer Kamaraj, while he was ploughing his field for samba cultivation.A group of researchers headed by Mani Maran, Tamil pandit of Saraswathi Mahal Library in Thanjavur, visited the field in Kamadevamangalam near Bhuthalur. Kamaraj told Maran that he found the lingam and a small stone protruding from the surface of the field 15 feet away from the spot where the lingam was unearthed. On digging further, the team found the Dwara Balagar sculpture. Maran said that the lingam was carved using quality granite, while the hands and legs of Dwara Balagar were in a broken condition.“The sculptures seem to be from the 10th century Chola era. Usually, we assess the period of any sculptures based on its appearance. The dress, ornaments and figures speak volume about its period. Sculptures made during Chola, Pallava, Chera era have their own identities. Based on these things, we usually come to a conclusion that the unearthed sculptures belonged to which period,” Maran told TOI.Many sculptures unearthed by the team were placed in many temples in and around Thanjavur. However, people usually don’t like the sculptures in broken condition, said Maran adding that the archaeological department should take steps to shift them to the government museum. Stating that each Shiva temple has two Dwara Balagar near the entrance, he said, “Another one might be somewhere around there. Further excavation may help find similar sculptures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-farmer-finds-chola-era-sculptures-in-his-field/articleshow/78194267.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Vets operate on leopardess, remove dead foetuses||Mangaluru: Veterinarians at Pilikula Biological Park on Thursday conducted an emergency operation on ‘Chintu’, an 8-year-old leopardess, who suffered intensely during delivery. The doctors retrieved two dead foetuses from its womb. The feline was sedated and veterinarians Vishnu Deth Vijaykumar and Yashaswi carried out the surgery. H Jayaprakash Bhandary, director of the park, said Chintu is recovering post-surgery under the watchful eyes of the veterinarians and park staff. This is for the first time that veterinarians had to carry out an emergency surgery, Bhandary said. The park had received the leopard as a cub eight years ago after it had separated from its mother near Moodbidri. It was christened Chintu subsequently. The park has 10 leopards, Bhandary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/vets-operate-on-leopardess-remove-dead-foetuses/articleshow/78192893.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Porvorim sewage network ready, no land for plant in Goa||PANAJI: It’s been awhile that nearly the entire pipeline network for the sewage treatment plant at Porvorim has been laid, but the STP project continues to be stuck due to non-availability of suitable land for the plant itself. Official sources said that not much progress has been made nearly two years after most of the pipeline work was completed. The 20MLD project is being executed by the Sewerage and Infrastructural Development Corporation of Goa and, along with the pipeline network, will cost around Rs 2.8 crore. As part of phase I, a pipeline network of 43km has been laid. The first phase covered Porvorim plateau. Phase II was to cover other areas like Socorro, Salvador do Mundo, Pilerne and Pomburpa. But, presently phase I itself is in jeopardy as the project is facing opposition from residents of nearby areas whenever a plot is identified for construction of the STP. Residents near identified sites in Mapusa, Guirim and Porvorim have raised objections. Around 8,000sqm of land is required for the plant. The much delayed STP is now unlikely to be ready by 2020. Once land is identified, it is expected to take around 1.5 years to construct the plant. The plant is expected to benefit 18,000 people in Porvorim. Officials said that once the plant is functional, residents will be charged 25% of their water bill for the STP. Goa uses SBR technology for its STPs, which is now being adopted for most such plants across the country, as it is recognised for its odourless technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/porvorim-sewage-network-ready-no-land-for-plant/articleshow/78195612.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Help us pay CBSE exam fees, poor students urge Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: “Due to the novel coronavirus-induced national lockdown, my father is without a job for the past five months. Our situation is so bad that we only eat one meal a day. At this moment, I will not be able to pay the examination fees of Rs 2,150,” wrote Aditya Kumar Maurya, a Class X student of a government school in southeast Delhi’s Madanpur Khadar, in a postcard. Maurya is among the 100-odd children living in the area who have written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal seeking his help to pay the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examination fees. Maurya further wrote, “The only option I have is to borrow from a neighbour and pay. But I don’t know how I will repay it. Please help.” In notes written in Hindi, the students have expressed their hardships. The fees for Class XII students vary between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,400, depending on the number of subjects opted by the student. For students of Class X, the fees vary from Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800. “My father used to ride an autorickshaw taken on rent. Now, the autorickshaw has been taken away from him. My father is without a job and I don’t know how to pay the money? Can CBSE exempt the fees for us or the government help us?” asked Nikhil, a Class XII student. Last year, the Aam Aadmi Party government had paid the registration fees for students of all its schools. This time, the schools have not received any notice in this regard yet. On Friday, the schools were issued a circular asking them to submit the list of candidates for classes X and XII as per the procedure followed in 2018-19, by October 10. Prior to 2019, the state government used to bear the cost of the registration fees for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes students. These students used to pay Rs 50 and the state government the remaining amount. This year, there is no clarity yet on the matter. Kirti, a student of a co-education school in Madanpur Khadar, told TOI that paying the examination fees would not be possible for her. She doesn’t have parents and lives with her grandmother who recently lost her job at a factory. “I am somehow able to feed the children in the house. Now, I do not know how to pay this much money. Borrowing money looks like the only option left,” said Shanti Rana, Kirti’s grandmother. Meanwhile, the Delhi chapter of All India Parents Association has also written a letter to PM Narendra Modi seeking his help in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/help-us-pay-cbse-exam-fees-poor-students-urge-kejriwal/articleshow/78210719.cms||Shradha Chettri
September 19, 2020||Nashik||Sachin Patil to take charge as new Nashik (rural) SP||Nashik: Sachin Patil has been appointed the new superintendent of police (SP) of Nashik (rural) and he is likely to take charge in a day or two. The transfers of the SPs across the state were effected on Thursday. Patil replaces Arti Singh, who has been transferred to Amravati city on promotion as police commissioner. Since Singh left charge, additional SP of Malegaon Sandeep Ghuge was holding the additional charge of Nashik rural SP. Officials said Patil would take charge after handing over his charge as commandant, SRPF, Navi Mumbai. Among other new police officers who have been transferred in north Maharashtra are SP Pravin Mundhe and SP Manoj Patil. Mundhe will replace Panjabrao Ugle in Jalgaon, while Manoj Patil will be replacing Akhilesh Kumar Singh in Ahmednagar district. Mundhe was earlier SP of Solapur, while Manoj Patil was SP of Ratnagiri. Sachin Patil, the new SP of Nashik rural, would have a major task at hand — controlling the spread of coronavirus by ensuring that people wear masks and maintain social distance, and keeping the morale of the police personnel high at a time when a large number of cops are getting infected during the course of their duty. Issues of farmers, who have been taking to the streets to press for their demands, and other crimes like house break-ins, dacoities, highway robberies etc. in the rural district will be among the major areas of focus for the new SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sachin-patil-to-take-charge-as-new-nashik-rural-sp/articleshow/78191918.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Min praises school for launching app to reach out to students||Trichy: Minister for municipal administration S P Velumani appreciated the government school in Edamalapattipudur here for launching a mobile application to help students and parents keep track of academic activity even if they do not have a smartphone. In a tweet, he congratulated the teachers and the headmistress of the school for the initiative.The school launched the application named ‘PUP School Trichy’, developed by the firm Best shine. The app is programmed to send regular alerts through SMS and voice memos to parents on the participation and performance of their wards, besides alerts on various activities of the school. Until now, teachers from the school were using WhatsApp to send homework, while those not without smartphones could not be contacted. Headmistress P Jayanthi said that the recognition from the minister will motivate the school to work hard to introduce innovative techniques to empower students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/min-praises-school-for-launching-app-to-reach-out-to-students/articleshow/78194276.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur district sets record in area under kuruvai crop||THANJAVUR: Thanjavur district has created a record in kurvai paddy cultivation, the short term crop cultivated between June and August or July and September, by growing it on 1.48 lakh acres, the highest area covered under the season in 35 years. District collector M Govinda Rao said this was a 62% increase over last year when only 92,900 acres was covered. Addressing the farmers’ grievance meeting convened online on Friday, he said that so far samba cultivation has been completed on 17,932 acres in the district. Nursery for samba cultivation is ready on 1 lakh acres. An area of 2.58 lakh acres was under samba cultivation in 2019-20 in the district. Farmers had taken up thaladi (cultivation done after harvesting kuruvai) on 80,337 acres last year, agriculture department officials told TOI. “The steep increase in kuruvai cultivation will impact thaladi cultivation also. Compared to last year, the area covered for thaladi during this season would definitely touch 1.25 lakh acres. Timely opening of Mettur reservoir on June 12 and good seasonal rain in the delta districts have encouraged more farmers to take up the crop this year”, joint director of agriculture department A Justin said. Thanjavur also was the first district to resume farmers' grievance meeting online on Friday after a break of five months. Around 80 farmers and leaders of farmers’ associations attended the meeting held from the office of assistant agriculture officers in 14 blocks. The meeting began at 10.30 in the morning and concluded at 2 pm, officials said. The district collector told the meeting that a total of 1,255 tonnes of paddy seeds had been distributed for samba cultivation and 1,063 tonnes are available with the concerned department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-district-sets-record-in-area-under-kuruvai-crop/articleshow/78194287.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrapur doctor dies of Covid in Nagpur||CHANDRPAUR: Senior paediatrician from city Dr Manohar Anande died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Nagpur on Friday morning. He is 37th doctor in the state and fourth from Vidarbha to succumb to the deadly infection. Two doctors from Chandrapur, including Dr Anande, have died of Covid-19 so far. President-elect of IMA, Chandrapur, Dr Mangesh Gulwade ratified the death of Dr Anande due to Covid-19 and termed it as great loss to doctor fraternity and IMA. Dr Anande was initially treated in Chandrpaur, but was later shifted to Nagpur for emergency treatment as his condition started to deteriorate. Aged around 66, Dr Anande was one of seniormost paediatric practitioner and was serving in city since more than 40 years. Earlier, a 32-year-old Dr Sunil Tekam, deployed in Warora sub-district hospital, had died of coronavirus infection on August 21. Chandrapur has witnessed surge in Covid infection in recent days and around 40 doctors have contracted the virus. Many doctors have closed down their private hospitals either out of threat of getting infected or for themselves after contracting the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chandrapur-doctor-dies-of-covid-in-nagpur/articleshow/78194294.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar chemist shot outside his house, dies||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Western UP that has been rocked by a spate of sensational murders over the past few weeks was witness to the murder of Anuj Karanwal, a 40-year-old chemist, on Thursday night in Muzaffarnagar. On August 31, partially burnt bodies of an Agra-based trader, his wife and son, tied up together, were found in their house. A few days later, a Meerut jeweller was shot dead on September 8. Barely 24 hours later, a gym coach out on a walk was killed in Meerut. In Muzaffarnagar, Karanwal was sprayed with bullets by at least three assailants at his doorstep when he about to enter his house after returning from his medical store at Morna village under Bhopa police station. On hearing the gunshots, his family rushed outside to find Karanwal lying unconscious in a pool of blood. He was hit by three bullets. He was taken to a local hospital and subsequently shifted to the district hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. Abhishek Yadav, senior superintendent of police, said, "Preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased had a personal dispute with the attackers, who have been identified and will soon be arrested." Meanwhile, members of the Muzaffarnagar's chemist and druggist association met police officers and demanded arrest of the culprits as soon as possible. Several political leaders, including BJP state minister Kapil Dev Aggarwal, called on the deceased's family to offer their condolences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-chemist-shot-outside-his-house-dies/articleshow/78192912.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Half-naked body of 10-year-old boy found in UP’s Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: The half-naked body of a 10-year-old boy was found in a sugarcane field in a village under Roza area in Shahjahanpur district on Friday afternoon. The boy was missing since Friday morning and his family had lodged a missing complaint. There were multiple injuries on his body and the condition suggested that he was sodomised and later killed by the accused, said police. A dog squad, forensic experts and senior police officers inspected the spot and collected evidence, said police. Police said the boy was playing near a cowshed when he disappeared. A few hours later, his body was found abandoned in a cane field outside the village, said police, adding that there were injuries on his neck and ears, and it seemed that the boy was strangled. Bareilly SSP S Anand told TOI, “The autopsy will ascertain the reason behind the death. We have also asked doctors to ascertain whether the boy was assaulted sexually before his murder as it could be the motive behind his murder. Circle officer and additional SP inspected the spot and collected evidence. We will soon get a breakthrough.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/half-naked-body-of-10-year-old-boy-found-in-ups-shahjahanpur-sodomy-suspected/articleshow/78189911.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||No starry nights this time, rue light decorators||Bhubaneswar: The scaling down of Durga Puja celebrations to prevent the spread of coronavirus has hit artisans big and small. For them, the future has never looked more uncertain. Orders from clients are almost zero. Six months since Covid took a hold in India in March, light decorators said it was a struggle to get contracts and make profits. The pandemic has not only affected their families, but also dashed the hopes of thousands of children who wait to see the towering light sculptures during this time of the year. Subrat Kumar Rath, a decorator who does the illumination work of Saheed Nagar Puja pandal, said, “Children enjoy the glittering alleys and pandal gates. They are intrigued by the luminescent creations. But everything is uncertain this year.” Among the children who love the lights is five-year-old Avnita Shekhar, who would return home from pandal hopping and draw the characters she would see in light murals on the road. There is also Hansini Padhi, whose mother would take her to pandals, particularly during Ravana Podi on Dasami, so that she could understand the characters of ‘The Ramayana’ better. Rath added, “Light decorators, whose earnings can go up to Rs 15 lakh if they bag the contract of a big pandal, have been hit hard. We start Durga Puja preparations at least 15 days in advance. This time, we have told ourselves that there will be no work. We have not even been paid for functions organised in March.” While most festivals are area-specific, Durga Puja is celebrated across the entire state. “Earlier, Durga Puja celebrations were limited to Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, but now they have spread to Jharsuguda, Sambalpur and other parts of the state. We rope in light decorators from Kolkata to meet the huge demand,” Rath said, adding that he had sent his workers away because of lack of orders. Pradip Shaw, a light decorator of Kolkata, is equally crestfallen. He used to visit the twin cities, Balasore and other cities in western Odisha during Durga Puja. “We do not have work. My workers are either selling fish or vegetables. In the current situation, it is a question of survival, celebrations can wait,” Shaw added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/no-starry-nights-this-time-rue-light-decorators/articleshow/78190952.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||1/4th cases in past month from posh, populated areas||Lucknow: Five urban residential areas—Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Alambagh, Rae Bareli Road and Aashiana—account for one-fourth (5,000) of the total Covid-19 cases reported in the city in the past 29 days. The data provided by the Chief Medical Officer’s (CMO) office shows that from August 21 to September 18, these five areas have been on top with over 5,000 infections altogether. While posh Gomtinagar has been number one all along, Indiranagar has been at number two followed by Alambagh, Rae Bareli Road and Aashiana. The constant spike in cases in these areas has made them new ‘hotpots’ of the city. Sources in the district health department said that the reason behind the surge is that entire families are contracting the infection compared to earlier when isolated cases were being reported. Further, the population and area of these places is also more than that of others in the city. Moreover, sources said, as these areas house many offices of many government departments and private companies as well as commercial hubs, they witness a constant and heavy flow of people from across the city, which perhaps is resulting in high transmission rate Another probable reason could be that the number of people travelling to other cities or even abroad from these localities is comparatively higher than other areas, they added. A senior health officer said that nearly 80% of the people contracting the infection are asymptomatic. They are passing the infection to all of their family members before being diagnosed with the disease. Significantly, the numbers of cases is comparatively lower in areas like Kaiserbagh and Cantonment, which were on top in May, June and July. “Our assessment is that since a large number of people have already been infected in these areas, many have developed immunity against the disease and the virus is not getting enough carriers for transmission. Also, people are taking precautions because they have suffered a lot earlier,” said health officers. Additional CMO Dr MK Singh, who is responsible for containment and testing, said that aggressive and focussed testing by the health department is also being reflected in the spike. “Since we are testing more people in comparison to earlier, more number of people are being detected,” he said. Testing of a patient’s primary contacts—family members and who they live with—and secondary contacts—those who have come in contact—is being done in a quick and efficient manner, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1/4th-cases-in-past-month-from-posh-populated-areas/articleshow/78196463.cms||Yusra Husain
September 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Kariakoil river comes to life after 4 years||Salem: After four years, water has flown in the Kariakoil river in Attur taluk in the district, bringing cheers to farmers and raising hopes of crop cultivation this year. Kariakoil river, a tributary river of Vasishta river, originates from Pappanaickenpatty village near Pethanaickenpalayam and flows through Edaiyapatty, Edaiyapatty Pudur, Vilvanur, Thandanur, Panaimadal, Sekkadipatty, Mettukkal, Kumarapalayam, Kalyanagiri, Kalleripatty, Padaiyachiyur, Abinavam and Thumbal villages and finally confluences with Ammampalayam river, another tributary river of Vasishta river near Thumbal in Attur taluk. In 1990, the state government constructed a dam across the river with a capacity to store 190mcft of water. However, there are 8 anicuts within 25km downstream of the dam site, irrigating about 3,600 acres in that region. The length of the right side main canal is 10.84km with a carrying capacity of 20.19 cusecs of water to feed an ayacut of 1,775 acres of dry land while the length of the left side main canal is 10.32km with a carrying capacity of 21.72 cusecs and it would feed an ayacut of 1,825 acres of dry lands. According to PWD officials, water will not be flowing throughout the year in Kariakoil river. “Water flow usually occurs in July due to southwest monsoon and heavy flow will be realized between October and December due to northeast monsoon,” a PWD official told TOI. However, there has been no good rainfall since 2016. The farmers in this region approached the Madras high court in 2017 seeking its direction to the state government to store water in the Kariakoil dam only after Kumarapalayam lake, Kottavadi lake, Anaikkattu lake, Kalyanagiri lake, Kalleripatty lake, Puthiragoundampalayam lake, Abinavam lake and Panaiyeri lake get filled up at least one third of their capacity. “The high court on January 18, 2108, directed the state government to store water only after these lakes reach at least one third of their total capacity,” M Govinda Gounder, a farmer from Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam, said. He said as per the order, the PWD has not been storing water in the dam. Following this, the Kariakoil river started flowing with rainwater in the last 10 days. “Rainwater from Neiyamalai, a nearby hill, has been flowing in the river after four years,” the farmer added. Meanwhile, farmers in these villages are preparing their lands to start cultivation activities. The farmers said they will go for short term crop cultivation such as cereals and pulses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kariakoil-river-comes-to-life-after-4-years/articleshow/78194283.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Trichy||More than 44,000 students attend BDU’s mock online test||Trichy: A total of 44,000 students participated in a mock online test conducted by Bharathidasan University ahead of final semester examination scheduled to be held between September 21 and 30. While more than 52,000 students including previous year students are expected to take part in the examination, the university terms the mock test a success as they got an opportunity to rectify minor issues in the examination process. Students were asked to download dummy question papers uploaded in the university portal and asked to upload the soft copy of the answer scripts. This is exactly the way students will appear in the examination. Saying that the university didn’t expect these many students to participate in the mock session, controller of examination (in-charge) S Srinivasa Raghavan said that the mock test has given a fair idea about the difficulties students would face and the technical support that the university has to ensure for the examination. We have constituted university support team comprising college principals to assist students, he said. Students had encountered technical issues within a few hours after the portal was opened for mock test. These technical glitches were addressed by the university team. College principals were asked to create dedicated email addresses so that students can upload the answer scripts by combining them in a single PDF file. This is in case students find issues in uploading answers scripts through the university portal. The controller said that the university has server support besides they have also request cloud service from Microsoft to withstand heavy traffic on the day of the exam. He said that those who could not send the answer scripts through mail or through the university portal are asked to handover the answer scripts to a nearby arts and science college within 2 hours after the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-than-44000-students-attend-bdus-mock-online-test/articleshow/78194282.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 8 lakh stolen from parked car||Ahmedabad: A 44-year-old man from Ghodasar, Ankur Khetani, lodged a complaint at Kagdapith police station on Thursday stating that some unknown person or persons broke the glass window of his car and stole a bag he had put on the backseat which contained Rs 8 lakh and important documents. Kagdapith police registered an offence and are going through CCTV footage to identify the thief or thieves. According to Khetani’s complaint, he runs a business travels business and has an office near Geeta Mandir. “On Thursday, he took Rs 8 lakh from his house to settle an account with a travel agency and put it in a bag. He put the bag on the backseat and went to his office. He went in and after prayers, told his employee to get the bag from the car but it was not there. “They found a rear window had been broken. He approached us and lodged a complaint. We are hunting for the accused based on CCTV footage we have gathered,” said a senior Kagdapith police official.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-8-lakh-stolen-from-parked-car/articleshow/78195617.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Probe TCP’s ‘land scam’, Congress tells CAG||PANAJI: Congress has written to the office of the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) identifying irregularities in the change of zone processes followed by the town and country planning (TCP) department. State Congress president Girish Chodankar has said the approval for change of zone by the TCP is a “window for gross corruption” as the entire process is arbitrary. Congress contends that while Section 16A of the TCP Act makes any development undertaken in contravention of the Regional Plan, a cognisable offence and punishable with a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh, Section 16B allows piecemeal and selective development by allowing modification of the Regional Plan. He said that this “back door” route meant that on a mere application and upon payment of the relevant consideration (unofficial), the application would be granted or refused, thus “making the entire exercise arbitrary, a total mockery, loss of revenue to the state, and an open and shut case of a window for gross corruption”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/probe-tcps-land-scam-cong-tells-cag/articleshow/78195623.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, minor daughter run over by train while crossing tracks in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: A 39-year-old woman and her 17-year-old daughter were run over by a goods train when they were crossing the tracks on foot near Govindganj railway crossing in Sadar area of Shahjahanpur city on Friday morning. Her husband, who was accompanying them, had already crossed the tracks while the woman was busy talking to her daughter when the tragedy struck. Government Railway Police sent the bodies for autopsy. The victims — Premwati and her daughter Priyanka, residents of Kaanth area of the district — were going to Sallia village to meet their relatives. Premwati’s husband Mangulal said, “After arriving in Shahjahanpur, we were heading towards the roadways bus stand to board a bus to Sallia village. We were crossing the railway tracks on foot while taking a shortcut to the bus stand. I crossed the tracks first, while Premwati and Priyanka were busy talking and didn’t realise that the goods train was approaching fast. When they saw the train, they panicked and couldn’t cross the tracks and were run over by the train and I couldn’t do anything to save them.” Confirming the accident, Shahjahanpur railway station superintendent AK Gautam told TOI, “A woman and her daughter were run over by a goods train. The incident took place when they were crossing the tracks. The loco pilot gave a memo to our staff and moved ahead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-minor-daughter-run-over-by-train-while-crossing-tracks-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78189925.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 19, 2020||Trichy||Vaiko urges govt to set up arts college in Manapparai||Trichy: MDMK leader Vaiko has urged the state government to establish a government arts college in Manapparai taluk, a long-pending demand of the local people. He said many youngsters were turning to construction work in Trichy and Coimbator as they don’t have access to higher education. Manapparai assembly constituency includes Manapparai municipality, a town panchayat and three unions besides two revenue blocks. Being rain-fed, agricultural activity happens only for a few months with a section of people engaged in cattle rearing and making popular savouries. Vaiko said that local youth could not afford to travel all the way to Trichy or neighbouring districts for colleges. MDMK functionaries from Manapparai have sent a mail to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami seeking steps to establish a government arts college while some youths have also started a social media campaign which has been gaining strength in the last few days. Meanwhile, education department officials said the state government had recently decided to start seven arts and science colleges, of which three would be in Karur, Ariyalur and Nagapattinnam. The one in Karur will be 30 km from Manapparai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vaiko-urges-govt-to-set-up-arts-college-in-manapparai/articleshow/78194300.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Gun licence holders seek more time to submit documents||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police has fixed deadlines and issued directions for all gun licence holders to produce physical fitness certificates and other documents related to gun licence renewal. Many gun licence holders have asked for more time to submit physical fitness certificates citing the pandemic. A businessman told TOI that he received a call from a local police station a few days ago, requesting for submission of a physical fitness certificate in connection with the licence for a 12 bore shotgun that was renewed early last year. “Though the renewal procedure took longer than expected, I had submitted an eye test certificate and NOC from two neighbours at the time of renewal. During the pandemic, I have been asked to do an eye test again and submit a physical fitness certificate and a firearms training certificate, which I feel can be put on hold. For the time being, the police themselves can ascertain if the person is fit or not, when he goes to the police station personally with the weapon. If found unfit they can demand a medical certificate, immediately. The need of the hour is for a facility that will cater to all the needs regarding issuing and renewal of arms licences,” he said. Another licence holder said the clause of getting NOCs from two neighbours could be a difficult one. Criminals own illegal weapons, not us, he said. The most common weapon owned by people is the 12 bore shotgun that is often kept for agriculture purposes. Many claim that the purpose is to chase away monkeys. Then there are revolvers and pistols that are kept for self-protection, or at times as a symbol of prestige. The district has about 10,000 licenced firearms. A licenced weapon dealer, said that due to the delay caused in the issuance or renewal of gun licences, many weapon owners are coming forward to deposit their weapons and many are keen on selling them. Firearm owners have the choice of depositing weapons either with their jurisdictional police station or with licenced firearm dealers. Many prefer licenced firearm dealers because maintenance is assured. City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said it is a routine exercise as the licence conditions laid down have to be followed. Directions have been issued and deadlines have been fixed, and the same has been communicated to all concerned. A senior officer said that a physical fitness certificate can be obtained from a physician. “Getting a certificate from the family doctor should not be an issue, despite the pandemic. The department is taking measures to ensure that there is no misuse of the licence or the weapon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/gun-licence-holders-seek-more-time-to-submit-documents/articleshow/78192840.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 19, 2020||Vadodara||Coronavirus strikes discordant note for Vadodara garba singers||Vadodara: When Navratri arrived every year, he was the most sought after artist and almost achieved a stardom among his fans in the city. But this year, famed singer Atul Purohit won’t be singing his popular garba ‘ke hove hove’ that left his thousands of fans burst into a chorus at the United Way Garba. In over three decades, Atul kaka, as he is fondly called, won’t be belting out the best of garbas, thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic.Most of the big garba organizers have decided to cancel the Navratri Mahotsav in the cultural capital of the state. “I am going to miss all the energy and aura of those nine nights of revelry. Since the time I began singing garba, this is for the first time that Navratri won’t be organized. We all are sad and shocked too,” said Purohit who has a huge fan following not just in Gujarat but also in the UK, the US and Australia.Gautam Dabir, who is the lead singer at Vadodara Navratri Festival (VNF), also echoed Purohit’s sentiments. “Yes, we feel like stars during Navratri as the fans mob us for the selfies. But more than the stardom, I will miss the vivacity and passion that our team has for the garba. Every year, we used to begin practice two months before Navratri and bonded as a family. Also, the sight of thousands of garba revellers dancing around us kept us going for all nine nights,” Dabir told TOI.Apart from the passion for garba, most singers have also suffered financial setbacks as they used to earn in lakhs during the Navratri. For the first time they are out of work, as there won’t be any garba event this year. “But for us it isn’t about money. We organize Navratri for faith and culture, and this year we will be missing the aaradhna of Ma Amba. Though our troupe is sad, we all pray that the country gets over Covid-19 pandemic soon,” said Achal Mehta who sings at Ma Shakti Garba in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/coronavirus-strikes-discordant-note-for-vadodara-garba-singers/articleshow/78193277.cms||Tushar Tere
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Waiting like Lord Ram for cabinet berth, says Ramadas||Mysuru: Former minister and BJP MLA SA Ramadas, who is aspiring to become a minister, said on Friday that he is waiting like Lord Sri Ram when he was banished from Ayodhya. “I experienced a setback when I was promised a minister’s post but didn’t get it. While Lord Ram, who was to become the king, was sent to the forests, I am I’m among people,” he said. He said it is for the party and chief minister BS Yediyurappa to decide if he should be elevated even as he expressed displeasure over considering MLC AH Vishwanath for a cabinet post. “I’m a senior MLA from Mysuru region. I’m not sure if the party will give prominence to outsiders or insiders,” he said indicating Vishwanath as the “outsider”. He said he would continue to serve the party even if he is not made a minister. District minister ST Somashekar said the CM will decide about giving representation to Mysuru. He refused to comment even as he asserted that Yediyurappa will continue in his post for three years. Primary education minister S Suresh Kumar said Yediyurappa will be at the helm of affairs in the state for the next three years and ruled out a change in leadership. The party is not considering replacing him, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/waiting-like-lord-ram-for-cabinet-berth-says-ramadas/articleshow/78192665.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Shopping at brick and mortar stores loses its zing as buyers move online in Covid times||Bhubaneswar: The festive season is here, but where are the shoppers? No points for guessing that Covid has kept shoppers largely away from malls and stores. Though shopping is slowly gaining pace, it is nowhere close to what it used to be during the pre-pandemic days or during the same time last year. Stores selling jewellery, branded clothes and cosmetics are experiencing a 40% to 50% footfall despite ensuring social distancing norms, thermal scanning and frequently sanitizing their premises. In a desperate bid to woo buyers ahead of the festive season, a leading jewellery store has reduced the making charges on gold, silver and diamond ornaments and has come up with attractive offers on watches and silver decorative items. “Nowadays few people are buying gold as an investment. It is mostly being bought for weddings. With the rates of gold high, the sales have dipped by 50% to 60%,” Kishan Lal Gupta, director of the store, said. Similarly, a women’s and kids’ apparel manufacturer has seen a steep decline in sales too. While regular customers are still buying from them, they have not been able to attract new ones. Biswajit Mohapatra, the store’s manager, attributed the fall in demand to very few women stepping out to shop along with their children for fear of the infection. In such a scenario, online shopping has emerged as a boon for shoppers. “I am buying stuff for my child online. I will do the same for my husband and myself. It will at least help minimize our chances of contracting the virus. This apart, we will not shop as much as we do every year as we will not be meeting our relatives during the festival this time,” Smruti Rupa Mohanty, an HR professional, said. Similarly, Nutan Das, a social worker from Balangir will be buying clothes and accessories online for her large joint family. “There are chances of being infected in a crowd, so online shopping is the best way out. Though all of us will be wearing new clothes during the Puja, we will not go out,” she added. Keeping the demands of the situation in mind, shops are also facilitating online delivery at home. The city-based store of a premium Ayurvedic cosmetics brand is delivering goods to the home of its regular customers. “Those who have our store number call us for home delivery,” Amulya Kumar Patsani, the store manager, said. At the store, they provide masks and gloves to customers who come without one to ensure everyone’s safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/shopping-at-brick-and-mortar-stores-loses-its-zing-as-buyers-move-online-in-covid-times/articleshow/78190970.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Plasma donors forum created for DK||Mangaluru: Viqaya, the emergency response and social service wing of the Samastha Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF), has created an exclusive forum of plasma donors who can donate plasma for severe cases of Covid-19 in the district. Viqaya in association with the KS Hegde Medicaal Academy has already conducted a camp in Kaikamba on Sunday, and identified 12 plasma donors, and many of them have already donated too. The organisation has scheduled two more camps – one will be held at Bengre in Mangaluru and another at Aranthodu in Sullia. Organisers say that they expect to identify more than 100 donors in the next two camps. Once all tests match the plasma donation criteria, the reports and contacts of those identified donors will be handed over to the medical college hospital, said Thajuddin Tarly, district in-charge of SKSSF Viqaya Blood Donors Forum. He told TOI that it is for the first time that a plasma donors’ forum has been created by the SKSSF Viqaya Blood Donors Forum in the district. “We have commenced a blood donation campaign on August 19 and it will conclude on October 2. Recently, the demand for plasma has been increasing due to the spike in Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, donors have to wait for hours to complete various tests, prior to donating plasma. Hence, we have decided to hold camps to identify plasma donors, along with the blood donation camps. Technicians from the KS Hegde Medical College, where plasma therapy is being conducted at present, collect samples and the data of donors will be available with them. Once the donors are identified by the medical college, donors are contacted based on the data bank, when there is a requirement for plasma,” Tarly said. Out of the 16 people who voluntarily came forward to donate plasma at the camp held in Kaikamba, 13 were declared fit for donation and six have already donated plasma, he said. “We expect at least 30 plasma donors at our next camp to be held at Bengre on September 20. Meanwhile, nearly 100 donors, including donors from Koadgu are expected to take part in the camp to be held at Aranthodu on September 26. We are in touch with Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner K V Rajendra to take part in the camp to be held at Aranthodu,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/plasma-donors-forum-created-for-dk/articleshow/78192931.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmer groups extend, intensify protests||Bathinda/Patiala: With the three agri-marketing bills set to be tabled in the Rajya Sabha after being passed by the Lower House, farmer organisations in Punjab have decided to intensify protests to build pressure on the Modi government. BKU Ekta Ugrahan on Friday extended parallel protests at former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s native village, Badal, and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s hometown, Patiala, till September 25. Initially, the protests were planned till September 20, but the organisation extended these by another five days. The group described Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Cabinet as insufficient and asked SAD to withdraw support from the Modi government. Kisan Mazdoor Committee, which has presence in Majha, has given a call for disrupting rail traffic from September 24 to 26, even though train movement is already low due to Covid restrictions. Ten farm organisations, under All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), have given a call for a Punjab bandh on September 25. BKU Lakhowal and BKU Rajewal too have decided to intensify the protest. BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri described the bills as an attack by the Union government on farming community. "We will have to be strong and have the urge to make sacrifices to resist this attack,” he said. BKU Dakonda general secretary Jagmohan Singh said they had already given a call for Punjab bandh and decided to reach out every small village to mobilise farmers against the bills. BKU Lakhowal general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said Union government had intentionally tried to crush farmers. “We are in talks with Bhartiya Kisan Union at the national level,” he said. Farmers have also been protesting at PUDA ground in Patiala district and a large number of women, including students of various colleges and universities have been actively participating in the protest. On Friday, Jaswant Kaur, a school teacher as well as wife and daughter of farmers, addressed a gathering in Patiala. Similarly, Kamaljit Kaur of Mehal Kalan village addressed protesters and said it was a do-or-die battle for farmers, who are fighting for their rights and survival. Karnail Singh Lang, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Patiala president said, “A large number of young girls are participating in the protest. These girls are students in various colleges and in Punjabi University but they decided to join the protest on their own as they are daughters of farmers. Two women on Friday addressed the gathering. Our protest is for day and night and will continue till September 25.” BOX: Suicide bid by farmer in Mansa Pritam Singh (60) of Akkawali village in Punjab’s Mansa district tried to commit suicide at the farmer protest in Badal village by consuming a poisonous substance on Friday morning. Police personnel deployed near the protest site took him to civil hospital in the village , from where he was referred to Bathinda. He was disturbed over passing of the three bills in the Lok Sabha and feared the bills would cause immense loss to farmers. He is still in hospital and is out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-farmer-groups-extend-intensify-protests/articleshow/78196470.cms||Neel Kamal
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 2k robbery, one killed||Ahmedabad: A man with mental health problems, originally from Etawah district of Uttar Pradesh, was stabbed to death in Memco in the early hours of Friday. The man had come to the city to stay with his sister in Bapunagar and get treatment for his illness. The deceased, identified as Ramlakhan Singh Bhadoriya, 36, had been staying at Yogeshwarnagar Society with his sister, Manorama Chauhan, for about six months. Inspector Vikrant Vasava of Shaherkotda police said that Bhadoriya had left his sister’s house on Thursday evening to take a train to Etawah. “He had first left on Thursday afternoon but returned home because there was no train,” said Vasava. “Later in the evening he left again, for Kalupur railway station.” Bhadoriya’s body was found beneath Memco Bridge later, said Vasava. “His body was spotted by a priest who called police,” said Vasava. “He had been stabbed twice in his stomach.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-2k-robbery-one-killed/articleshow/78195646.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Valet parking in T Nagar for hassle-free shopping||CHENNAI: Shoppers heading to T Nagar in the last week of October or early November for the Diwali season won’t have to spend hours hunting for a decent parking spot. Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to roll out valet parking, similar to the ones at clubs and high-end restaurants, in the city’s crowded shopping hub. Sources in the civic body told TOI that the multilevel car park, under construction for more than a year, at the junction of Theagaraya Road and Thanikachalam Road is likely to be open by then. The project is one of the first launched under the Chennai Smart City Mission in February 2018.An add-on to Chennai’s first pedestrian plaza, the project is designed to create parking space for 550 two-wheelers and 250 cars in the multi-storey building. Consumers are likely to be charged an hourly rate of 40 for four-wheelers and 10 for two-wheelers. “We are currently testing the dolly system (the automated car parking system). Once it is done, the space outside will be cleaned up and car entry and exit points will be marked clearly,” said a senior corporation official. Robotic trolleys would transport cars to and from a parking slot in a short period. The system also has built-in drop protection. This was to be tested in February by engineers from China’s Wuhan, the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Covid outbreak has posed an inordinate delay to the testing, but corporation officials have been holding web conferences to get it done. A few days ago, the civic body floated a tender to identify an operation and maintenance contractor for the project. “The contractor has to integrate it with the on-street parking that is under way. People will be given the option of either parking it on the road or in the multilevel car park. Valet parking will also be provided as an option,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/valet-parking-in-t-nagar-for-hassle-free-shopping/articleshow/78194305.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 19, 2020||Goa||German woman found dead in flat at Chaudi in Goa||CANACONA: A German national was found dead on Wednesday night in her apartment at Chaudi in Canacona. Canacona police inspector Tukaram Chawan said the deceased, 53-year-old Stephenie Hesser, had married a Punjabi man some years ago. However, she was estranged and lived alone at Chaudi. Her daughter, Himani, was who in Germany, decided to fly down to Goa as her mother was not responding to calls since Wednesday morning. Himani asked her boyfriend who lives in North Goa to pick her up from Dabolim airport, and immediately rushed to the rented flat. As they found the front door locked, Himani’s boyfriend entered the flat by breaking open the toilet window panels and found Stephenie lying dead in the hall, said Chawan. The police conducted an inquest panchnama and registered a case of unnatural death. Chawan said the deceased was suffering from depression and asthma, and was undergoing treatment. He also said the post mortem would be carried out in the daughter’s presence. Meanwhile, the police also registered another case of unnatural death following the alleged suicide of a 35-year-old man from Bhupor man who was found hanging at his residence. on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/german-woman-found-dead-in-flat-at-chaudi/articleshow/78195655.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu breaks silence, says farmers are the soul of Punjab||Chandigarh: Congress leader and Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been off the political landscape of Punjab, finally broke his silence by tweeting on Friday that the "farmers are the soul of Punjab" and "Punjab, Punjabiat and Punjabis are together in solidarity with the farmers". He further tweeted: "Wounds on the body can heal but wounds of the soul hurt forever. Attack on our identity, our soul will not be tolerated. The war is on, Inquilab Zindabad…." Sidhu has been lying low ever since he resigned from the Punjab Cabinet after a public spat with chief minister Amarinder Singh last year, soon after the Lok Sabha elections. After his tweet on July 21, 2019, announcing that he had vacated his official residence in Chandigarh (after the resignation), this is the first set of tweets by the cricketer-turned-politician, who was upset after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio and he was given charge of power. Meanwhile, political reactions to SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union Cabinet on Thursday continued. Congress Giddarbaha MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring tweeted, "Harsimrat ji, Why did you not oppose the 3 ordinances that were promulgated by Centre on 5th June 2020? YOU let them pass in the Cabinet! Why did you not raise your voice then? We know you & Sukhbir Badal are MPs because of BJP." Resigned to join farmers’ struggle: Nagra Congress Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, who has decided to resign from the Punjab Assembly over the issue of farm bills, said in his resignation, "The passing of the farmers’ bills is the most brutal attack on the state of Punjab so as to render its people incapable forever. Hence, in protest, I am resigning as MLA Fatehgarh Sahib to participate in the struggle of the farmers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-breaks-silence-says-farmers-are-the-soul-of-punjab/articleshow/78196474.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 1,000 cops in Marathwada have so far tested Covid positive||Aurangabad: More than 1,000 policemen have so far tested positive for Covid-19 from the nine units spread across the eight districts of the Marathwada region.However, around 200 policemen are currently undergoing treatment at various facilities, including private hospitals, across the region and so far, 10 have succumbed to the infection.With 185 cases, Aurangabad city is on top of the list followed by Latur (156), Aurangabad rural (130), Jalna (65), Beed (102), Osmanabad (130), Nanded reported (168) and Parbhani (89).Keeping the morale of the force high is the major challenge before the police authorities. Senior police officers have started personally interacting with the Covid-19 positive policemen and their families.Nanded range special IGP Nisar Tamboli, who is holding additional charge of Aurangabad range, reiterated that his priority is to ensure that there is no more deaths among police personnel. “I have reviewed the mechanism being followed by the unit commanders to monitor daily cases among the policemen, including the asymptomatic ones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-1000-cops-in-marathwada-have-so-far-tested-covid-positive/articleshow/78191936.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur crosses 60,ooo cases, September tally in 18 days crosses August total||NAGPUR: The district on Thursday crossed 60,000 Covid cases at the same pace at which it jumped from 40,000 to 50,000 on September 11. The last two 10,000 cases came within just six days each while the first 10,000 took 143 days. Since August 29, when the district crossed the 30,000-mark, the number of days being taken for each 10,000 are in single digit, with six days being the shortest span. Of the 1,11,826 Covid-19 cases across 11 districts of Vidarbha, Nagpur continues to report the highest number. As on Thursday, Nagpur had 61,006 cases and 1,879 deaths. Since August 11, the district has recorded 1,000 or more cases on a daily basis. The district has 13,755 patients under treatment, of which over 5,733 are admitted to 69 Covid hospitals and Covid care centres. Over 3,000 patients are admitted to tertiary care hospitals where only moderate to severe cases are being handled. Among 35 districts in Maharashtra, Nagpur is at the 5th position behind Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Nashik in number of cases. Admitting the prevalence of community spread, the district administration had projected 50,000 Covid cases in September alone. In August, the district had recorded 27,973 cases while the progressive tally reached 33,365. In 17 days of September, the district has touched 27,641 cases and surpassed the 31-day tally of August on Friday. Assuming the district continues to report on an average 2,000 cases daily, the month’s final count is likely to cross the projected tally of 50,000. Increased testing capacity too has been attributed as the reason for large number of cases being reported on a daily basis. The district touched a high of 8,216 tests on Wednesday despite some of the labs not working to full capacity due to infection among staff. Rapid antigen test (RAT) has been making up for loss of RT-PCR samplings with 4,800 tests done on the same day. Till date, 3.72 lakh people have been tested at six government and other labs, beside the RAT. Over 2.72 lakh from city limits and over 1 lakh from rural areas have taken the Covid test till date. Yet, presence of many more undetected cases can’t be ruled out as seen in a national antibody research. Complains have surfaced about people hiding their condition to skip quarantine period which is longer than the actual time they take to recover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-past-60k-mark-september-tally-in-18-days-crosses-august-total/articleshow/78194339.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Officers inspect Mangaluru Central rly station||Mangaluru: A high level team of officers nominated by Pratap Singh Shami, divisional railway manager, Palakkad inspected Mangaluru central railway station on Friday. The team inspected the entire Mangaluru Central yard to chart out an action plan to accelerate construction work of pit line and platform 4 and 5. Palakkad division of Southern Railway is striving to complete the work, estimated to cost about Rs 7 crore by March 2021 The existing yard at Mangaluru Central will be completely re-modelled to accommodate the changes after the Nethravathi-Mangaluru Central doubling, construction of new platforms and the pit line. The present train control system based on route relay interlocking (RRI) at Mangaluru Central will be upgraded to advanced electronic interlocking (EI) system which will ensure safe movement trains with a mouse click on digital display. change in timings The originating/terminating station of trains 06585/ 06586 Yesvantpur-Karwar-Yesvantpur special will be shifted to KSR Bengaluru from Yeswantpur, with revision in arrival/departure timings at some stations enroute. This temporary arrangement will last till the resumption of regular services. Train 06586 Karwar–KSR Bengaluru Special Express will leave Karwar at 6pm on September 19 and operate up to KSR Bengaluru instead of Yesvantpur. The train will reach KSR Bengaluru at 8am the next day. There will be no change in timings of this train between Karwar-Padil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/officers-inspect-mangaluru-central-rly-station/articleshow/78192954.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||Fill all govt vacancies within 6 months: Yogi||Lucknow: In a major decision to fill vacancies in government departments, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked all departments to identify vacancies and ensure that all posts are filled within the next six months. The CM has said that the recruitment should be carried out in a transparent manner, like the filling up of 3 lakh posts that has been carried out since March 2017, after BJP came to power in the state. More than 85,000 jobs are in the process. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that all departments have been asked to identify vacancies and submit a list to the chief secretary and to the chief minister’s office at the earliest. As soon as this is done, the process should start for advertising the posts for which three months has been given and within six months, the recruitment process should be completed. An official added that the move was crucial as it would help many people get jobs at a time where there was an economic slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The CM will soon be holding a meeting with the heads of all commissions and boards which are responsible for recruitment to discuss the way forward and how to proceed with the recruitment process based on the timelines given. “The CM also reviewed departments where recruitment has already taken place. The most number of recruitment has taken place in the police department. Other departments where recruitment has taken place include health, medical education, cooperatives and the four wings of education, basic, secondary, higher and technical,” Awasthi said. He added that selections had been made through the public service commission and subordinate selection board. Since March 2017, recruitment has taken place in 12 departments of which police has hired the maximum number of people at 1,37,253. The total recruitment has been 2,94,080. Meanwhile, the process is on to fill up an additional 85,629 posts. Of these 16,629 are in the police department while 69,000 are in the basic education department. On Thursday, the CM also met with three candidates in Gorakhpur who had cleared the PCS main exam. “The three told the CM that the examination conducted by the board was very crucial as it helped even a poor boy from a village get a job,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fill-all-govt-vacancies-within-6-months-yogi/articleshow/78196473.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Golden Katar gets new General Officer Commanding||Ahmedabad: Major General V K Sharma, has taken over as General Officer Commanding of Golden Katar Division of Indian Army on September 18, 2020. The General Officer has taken over the command from Major General Dinesh Shrivastava. In his distinguished career spanning over three decades, Maj Gen Sharma has tenanted important command and staff appointments in counter-insurgency areas of Jammu and Kashmir , along northern borders with China and western borders with Pakistan. He had also held key appointments in Strategic Forces Command and Army headquarters, besides serving as Military Observer in United Nations Mission in Ethiopia - Eritrea. Along with him, his wife Vibhuti Sharma, who is an accomplished educationist with passion for social service also assumed the charge of Chairperson, Family Welfare Organization of the Division. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/golden-katar-gets-new-general-officer-commanding/articleshow/78195677.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Sikh man in turban issued photo challan for Rs 500 for ‘not wearing a helmet’ while riding two-wheeler in UP’s Moradabad||Bareilly: In a bizarre incident, traffic police in UP’s Moradabad issued a photo challan for Rs 500 to a Sikh man in a turban for allegedly not wearing a helmet while riding a two-wheeler. The photo in the challan clearly shows the man was wearing a turban. Section 129 of the Central Motor Vehicles Act exempts Sikhs wearing turbans from wearing protective headgear (helmet). Sucha Singh, a resident of 96 Kothiwal Nagar under Thakurdwara police station, said a photo challan incorporating vehicle registration details with a penalty amount of Rs 500 was sent to his address by Moradabad traffic police a couple of days ago. The official document stated that the challan was generated for not wearing a helmet while riding a two-wheeler under the Uttar Pradesh Motor Vehicle Rules, 1998, he said. “The photo challan clearly shows that I was wearing a turban when the challan was issued. I have not yet approached the traffic police about the matter, but I will soon be submitting an application against the challan that was issued illegally as Sikhs with their heads covered with a turban are exempted from wearing a helmet while riding a two-wheeler,” said Singh.Notably, the date of issuance of challan on the official document is “August 21, 2010”. Traffic police department officials, however, said the Sikh motorcyclist was “mistakenly” issued a challan for not donning a helmet. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police (traffic), Moradabad, Ashok Kumar Singh said, “The Sikh man was mistakenly issued a challan. The issue was recently brought to my notice, and the challan was revoked with immediate effect. The motorist will be informed about it shortly. An inquiry will be conducted into the matter to find out as to why the traffic police personnel issued a wrong challan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sikh-man-in-turban-issued-photo-challan-for-rs-500-for-not-wearing-a-helmet-while-riding-two-wheeler-in-ups-moradabad/articleshow/78189944.cms||Maria Khan
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad GMCH reports 8 more deaths||Aurangabad: As many as eight people , including two women, died due to Covid-19 on Friday at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), taking the death toll at the hospital to 653. According to a GMCH official, there are 328 Covid patients at the hospital now and of them, 208 are critical. “This is the biggest Covid-19 treatment facility in the region and most of the critical patients from other areas are referred here,” he said. A 71-year-old from Khufta Madani Chowk and a 56-year-old from Naralibagh were the two women who died at the facility on Friday. The male patients who died at the GMCH included a 60-year-old resident from Pandharpur-Waluj, a 70-year-old Mukundwadi resident, a 65-year-old from N-9 and a resident of Mahora (48) in Kannad taluka of Aurangabad. Meanwhile, on Thursday night, the district recorded 360 more Covid-19 patients taking the number of active cases to 6,020. The district has so far recorded 838 deaths due to the contagion. The total number of patients recorded in the district has reached 29,855, and out of them 22,997 have already got treated and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-gmch-reports-8-more-deaths/articleshow/78191949.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Loliem-Poliem panchayat begins water harvesting project||POINGUNIM: The village panchayat of Loliem-Polem has begun rain water harvesting. In the first phase, pits have been dug at a cost of Rs 1.6 lakh in five wards. “We are utilising the funds from the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA)scheme, which also helps generate employment for villagers,” sarpanch Nishant Prabhudesai told TOI. He said the project has been undertaken following an advice by the deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes to the panchayat to rejuvenate and preserve ground water under employment guarantee scheme. “Private wells and other water bodies in the surrounding areas get affected with the depleting ground water level. This leads to a water crisis in summer,” the sarpanch said. Former sarpanch and panch Shailesh Pagui, who is also a part of the project said, “Based on the results and progress of the first phase, the panchayat will again utilize MGNREGA funds for the second phase. The natural pond at Madditolop near the crematorium will be consolidated using mud so that water doesn't get contaminated.” Panchayat member Sachin Naik said that gramin rozgar sahayak (GRS) Ajay Tubki played a big role in putting the water harvesting project on track.  Fernandes said, “Other panchayats too should take up such projects as they too face water scarcity. I will seek funds for MGNREGA funds for water harvesting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/loliem-panchayat-beginswater-harvesting-project/articleshow/78195636.cms||Albert Fernandes
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Biz weather turns good, but city garment industry knits brows||Ludhiana: The city garment industry has started receiving orders for winter clothes, but it does not have enough labour to execute these in time. Businessmen said in addition to the labour crisis, there was also a shortage of raw material and finances. Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, “For almost six months we got no local orders due to the lockdown and the old stocks could not be sold by shopkeepers and showroom owners. But now since the weather has started changing in some of the states, the demand for winter garments has started picking up. Ludhiana garment factories have started getting orders, which is a good sign for revival of our industry. But we do not have enough workers to process them in time. Majority of our workers have not returned from their villages in UP, Bihar and West Bengal. They had left Ludhiana during the lockdown. Some of them are not willing to come back, while those desirous of returning say there aren’t enough trains running from their states to Punjab.”Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers’ Association, Ludhiana, said, “Small orders for winter garments have started pouring in. Afraid of another lockdown in India due to the rising Covid-19 cases, the shopkeepers and traders are placing orders cautiously and for quantities they think they can easily sell in one month. But even with small value orders, the industry is facing problems due to lack of workforce and raw materials.”Sanchit Sharma, a garment manufacturer from Khudd Mohalla, said, “Months after remaining silent, our clients in the North-East have finally started sending us orders. We are happy that the situation is changing, but we are worried how we will execute the orders with shortage of labour, raw material and finances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/biz-weather-turns-good-but-city-garment-industry-knits-brows/articleshow/78192958.cms||Mohit Behl
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD-BJP ties: From ‘unconditional support’ in 1996 to be left in cold in 2020||Jalandhar: From declaring “unconditional support” to Atal Behari Vajpayee led BJP government in 1996, just after winning the Parliament elections from Punjab in alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party, things have come full circle for five-time former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. BJP’s refusal to heed their concerns on farm bills, which resulted in Harsmirat Kaur Badal’s resignation from Union cabinet, has put the alliance under severe strain. Even if Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is continuing to stay in NDA, the alliance – which Badal would often taking pride in saying ‘nahun mass da rishta’ (bond between nail and flesh) – is near breaking point, especially with Akali leaders feeling insulted. Badal never wavered in unconditional support to BJP, even as Punjab faced several issues for decades. That Badal senior announced the support on his own was evident from the fact that then Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president, late Gurcharan Singh Tohra, only other leader in the party equal to stature in Badal, opposed this idea of unconditional support. “Tohra always argued that parties of minorities or the regional parties could not offer unconditional support to a central party and should rather make a coalition with regional parties and should always first lay conditions in the interests of their community and state,” said Tohra’s protégé and SGPC member Karnail Singh Panjoli. Former SGPC secretary Kulwant Singh Randhawa in his book “June, 84 Shiromani Committee Nu Grehan” recorded the strained relationship between Tohra and Badal. “On October 2, 1998 Tohra said days of unconditional support to BJP were over as BJP refused to heed Akali Dal’s demand to not include Udham Singh Nagar in Uttaranchal and then on October 3 he issued another statement that (LK) Advani’s statement about Chandigarh continuing to remain UT was a slap on SAD’s face and Akali dal should withdraw its support,” Randhawa noted, adding that these statements damaged Badal’s image and he and his associates decided that Tohra would have to be removed from post of SGPC president. Within a few months, Tohra was shown the door. “BSP founder and supremo Kanshi Ram was very angry when Badal announced unconditional support to BJP without even consulting or apprising him even as 1996 election was contested in alliance. Kanshi Ram would often say Badal had ditched Panth, Punjab and Dalits by announcing unconditional support,” said noted Sikh author Gurbachan Singh, who worked closely with Kanshi Ram for several years and even remained present during his important meetings. “Akali Dal under Badal compromised its core ideology — Panthic identity and more powers to states — when it unconditionally supported BJP, when it supported POTA even as it had opposed TADA and when it supported GST, which gave more financial power to the Centre,” said former IAS officer and noted Sikh author Gurtej Singh. However, now BJP appears to have left Akali Dal in a lurch when the party was facing a lot of heat on agri bills. Today, the second oldest party of the country appears to be far removed from the days of “unconditional support”, as it battles hard to save its core base.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-bjp-ties-from-unconditional-support-in-1996-to-be-left-in-cold-in-2020/articleshow/78196478.cms||IP Singh
September 19, 2020||Goa||As funds dry up, work on major devpt projects grind to a halt||Panaji: Completion of key projects by Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) hinges on the state government finalising the modalities of the bill discounting scheme. GSIDC may not be able to complete the High Court Complex at Porvorim by December 2020 if it is unable to release funds to the contractors in time. Paucity of funds has brought all infrastructure projects to a standstill. While chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is also the chairman of GSIDC, had asked the corporation to fast track certain projects, the lack of funds has proved to be a stumbling block. “The state government has to stand guarantee before the banks. The modalities will have to be finalized and only then can the works resume,” said an official. On August 31, TOI reported that the state government has decided to adopt the ‘discounting bill’ method to clear around Rs 700 crore worth of contractors’ bill. The adoption of the bill discounting option means that banks, contractors and the government through various departments will have to register themselves on the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) trade receivables electronic discount System (TReDS) platform for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) - an online electronic institutional mechanism aimed at facilitating the financing of trade receivables through multiple financiers. Big contractors who have taken up major works including construction of bridges and roads are expected to benefit from the scheme. When the GSIDC board met on July 23, it cleared a proposal to give the state legislative assembly complex a Rs 7 crore facelift. Sawant, who chaired the meeting, also asked GSIDC to ensure that the new High Court complex at Porvorim is also ready by December. According to officials, the finance department has yet to accord financial approval for the Rs7crore facelift for the Assembly complex. “The priority was to complete those projects which are already 80% to 90% complete. Putting more money to complete projects is better than pouring money into new projects,” said an official. Larsen & Toubro (L&T) has stopped work on the Atal Setu bridge’s Panaji arm and work on the second phase of the Neugi Nagar bridge has also come to a standstill. M Venkat Rao (MVR), the contractor for the High Court of Bombay complex at Porvorim has also reduced the pace of work to a bare minimum to keep the workers engaged. Work on the new court complex began in October 2014 and was initially estimated at Rs72 crores but was awarded for Rs79 crores. Due to multiple delays, the cost has breached Rs90 crores. “Only those projects which have central funding are continuing,” said another GSIDC official. The complex at Porvorim has missed multiple deadlines and was expected to be complete by March 2020 but once it skipped that deadline, Sawant insisted that the structure should be ready by December 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-funds-dry-up-work-on-major-devpt-projects-grind-to-a-halt/articleshow/78195708.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Tollygunge complex, Behala slum enter containment list||Kolkata: Exactly 10 days after the city recorded only one containment zone at Umesh Dutta Lane in Girish Park area, Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police on Friday added two more areas—a complex in Tollygunge and Khudiram Pally in Sakherbazar—to the list. The development came at a time when the KMC and police announced that it would earmark a neighbourhood as containment only if it posed a threat to adjoining areas. The specific conditions included a chance of a larger outbreak in adjoining areas, the number of infected people is so high that normal home isolation is not possible and an exceptional situation arising out of prevailing micro-level problems.  Under the new norms, no special barricading will be carried out to avoid “apathy” among locals. Police will be deployed outside containment zones. At Tollygunge, the containment zone is a complex, where about nine cases have been reported in the past four days. “There is no slum around, but there are too many cases from a single block. It’s located on the main road and several people have access to the house. So local ward, police and borough officials decided to put it under containment,” said an officer at the Tollygunge police station. At Sakherbazar, the two worst-affected dwelling units are in a slum at the two ends of a road. “But this is a slum and the areas around are thickly populated. The KMC took an update from us four days ago and we were informed of the decision on Thursday,” said an officer from southwest division. Lalbazar said the decision to give the containment-zone tag was taken locally. Umesh Dutta Lane, which had initially reported six cases, continues to be a containment zone though actives cases have gone down. The new list is now a mix of a housing complex, a slum and single-storey houses, the last being in central Kolkata. The city started with 18 containment zones and reached 31 in July. The current three areas might lose the tag after a week, hinted police and KMC health officials. “We are putting equal stress on slums and apartments. We are carrying out targeted testing and spreading awareness in slums as well as complexes with more than 30 families. We have received immense help from KMC officials who conducted regular tests and sanitization in each ward,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tollygunge-complex-behala-slum-enter-containment-list/articleshow/78194394.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers have objections, how can I support govt at cost of people: Harsimrat||New Delhi: SAD’s Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who resigned on Thursday from the Cabinet as food processing minister, said on Friday that she took the decision only after she and representatives from the Centre “failed to convince stakeholders, including farmers and middlemen, that their fears were unfounded on the three farmer bills”. She told TOI: “I am not even getting into the objection (by SAD). The only objection I have is that farmers have an objection to some things. Whatever they have, they need to be given a hearing. Before the ordinances, I gave in writing the objection of stakeholders as the food processing minister. When I heard that the ordinance was coming up, I raised it in the Cabinet and told them that ground level problems exist and that no legislation should come until they are heard.” The SAD leader added, “Party president (Sukhbir Badal) met farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and I tried to assure them that their fears were unfounded. At the same, I brought a central minister to a video-conference with farming communities. But when his word or my word were not enough to convince them, I felt there was need to bring it up at a higher level… some mechanism has to be there for them to air their apprehensions. Those checks and balances should have been taken note of." The two-time MP refused to comment on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement where he said instead of farmers political parties were protecting middlemen. “He’s very senior. There may be issues of middlemen in many parts of the country. But the state that I come from, arhtiyas (middlemen) are an integral part of the success of farmers in Punjab,” she said. Harsimrat said SAD will take a call on whether they would want to be part of the BJP-led alliance at the centre or fight the 2022 elections separately. “I can’t comment (on the 2022 polls). That’s a decision the party will take. As far as the alliance is concerned, consultations are on. The party will take a call...How can I support the government at the cost of people who sent me here?” She added that she was giving up a cabinet portfolio “which during my tenure saw 8.4 % growth in food processing for something I stand for. When I took up this ministry, it was part of agriculture. No one knew about it. I am glad I took it to new heights.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-have-objections-how-can-i-support-govt-at-cost-of-people-harsimrat/articleshow/78196481.cms||Rohan Dua
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus alert: Highest fortnightly increase in cases in district||Ludhiana: Things don’t seem to get better for Ludhiana on Covid-19 front as the district witnessed the highest increase in cases in the past fortnight since the start of pandemic. It was also the highest among the districts of the state.As per the recent state media bulletin, Ludhiana witnessed 5,978 cases from August 31 to September 13, which is the highest fortnightly increase for the district till now. During the fortnight between August 17 and 30, it was 5,300 and before that (between August 3 and 16) 4,482 cases were reported. The district had lowest fortnightly cases at just 44 in the fortnight between May 11 and 24.With 5,978 cases in the past fortnight, the district came at number one position, SAS Nagar second with 3,787 fortnightly cases, followed by Jalandhar with 3,478 and Amritsar with 3,059. SBS Nagar, with just 346 cases in the past fortnight, is at the bottom of the list.The recent media bulletin also suggested that on September 14 and 15 as well, Ludhiana witnessed the highest number of 650 cases in the state. Pathankot had second highest 591 cases and Sangrur with 513 cases was at number three. Barnala had minimum number of positive cases in these two days (29). Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the number of cases was high because of the peak of pandemic in the district. “We are on a plateau of the graph and cases are likely to decline now. However, the pandemic has become part of our lives now and we will have to live with it. We have been creating awareness among residents to follow norms, like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene. We are doing extensive testing and contact tracing.”Residents said the authorities should ensure that norms were enforced strictly. “Though there has been some improvement on the ground, there is still a sizeable percentage of people who don’t follow norms. There should be strict checks,” said Narinder Singh, a SKS Nagar resident.Increase in distFortnight Count April 27 to May 10 117May 11 to May 24 44May 25 to 7 June 86June 8 to June 21 315June 22 to 5 July 540July 6 to July 19 939July 20 to Aug 2 2,239Aug 3 to Aug 16 4,482Aug 17 to Aug 30 5,300Aug 31 to Sep 13 5,978District Fortnightly increase (Aug 31 to Sept 13)Ludhiana 5,978SAS Nagar 3,787Jalandhar 3,478Amritsar 3,059Patiala 3,018Bathinda 1,960||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-alert-highest-fortnightly-increase-in-cases-in-district/articleshow/78192973.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Farm ordinances downgrade democratic values, says Johal||Ludhiana: Renowned agriculture economist Sardara Singh Johal has termed the recent farm ordinances as “downgrading of democratic values”.Johal, who is the chancellor of Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, took to social media to express his observations. He wrote that it was no more a question of content, because the farm ordinances would surely be replaced by an Act after signing by the President.He observed, “Howsoever good or bad may the contents, there was no need of hurry to promulgate ordinances. These should have been put as bills only in Parliament. Even if ordinances were issued, before submitting as bill in Parliament, this period should have been used to invite all stakeholders, mainly farmers and their parties/ organisations and states individually to discuss the contents thoroughly and remove their apprehensions…Now when bills were put in Parliament, these should have been referred to the select committee to examine the issues threadbare and consult all stakeholders to develop understanding and consensus. I feel the majority of the ruling party in Parliament has been used rudely, and democratic values and system of the country have been crushed in a steamrolling manner (sic).”In a scathing attack on the Union government, Johal said, “On content we can have difference of opinion, which should be respected and reconciled, but downgrading the democratic values and system should not be acceptable.” Reacting to his post, netizen Gursharan Singh wrote, “Consultation with stakeholders is a critical missing point in this bill. The government must have included farmers’ unions and farm labourers’ collective groups…But I guess the BJP government has the decisive mandate to dismiss the interest of farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farm-ordinances-downgrade-democratic-values-says-johal/articleshow/78192966.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 19, 2020||Goa||Mapusa ITI to reopen from Monday||SALIGAO: The industrial training institute (ITI) in Mapusa, which was shut for nearly four months due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, is set to reopen on Monday. On Thursday, a team from the Mapusa municipality sanitised the ITI premises at Shetye Vaddo, under the supervision of ward councillor Franky Carvalho. The central government has permitted all schools to restart classes from September 21 and has also made it clear that training under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) for the existing batches should also start at the ITIs from September 21. In all, Goa has 13 ITIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-iti-to-reopen-from-monday/articleshow/78195693.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 81% ICU patients being treated at private hospitals||JAIPUR: Lack of facilities for Covid-19 treatment at government hospitals in the city is forcing patients to opt for private hospitals, paying a higher price for services. Currently, 61% of virus patients in the city are admitted to private hospitals, while 39% are in government hospitals, giving a clear picture of shortage of facilities at government care centres. Similarly, a whopping 81% of patients requiring ventilator support are in private hospitals and 19% in ICUs of government hospitals. ‘We will increase the number of beds to 1,000’Jaipur: The situation becomes grave for a patient who requires oxygen therapy, ICU or ventilator support. In all, 37% of Covid patients, currently undergoing treatment with oxygen support, are in government hospitals, while 63% are in private hospitals. Pointing to high occupancy of beds in government hospitals and shortage of facilities and emergency equipment, the health department on Friday issued directions to make oxygen cylinders available at help desks at dedicated government-run Covid hospitals for patients in urgent need till they get a bed at the facility. In two dedicated city Covid hospitals — RUHS and Jaipuria — which have come under the managemwent of SMS Hospital, the situation is not encouraging. Out of 56 beds available in ICUs, 52 were occupied on Thursday. In Jaipuria Hospital, all 10 ICU beds are occupied. Keeping an eye on the emerging situation, the state government is taking measures to increase facilities in RUHS to accommodate more patients requiring intensive critical care. “We have 600 to 700 beds in RUHS. We will increase the number of beds to 1,000. More patients will require ICU facilities as the pandemic progresses. We are taking all possible measures to add more beds in the ICU for patients. There are around 50 ICU beds with ventilators in RUHS. We will add 70 more soon to the existing capacity,” said Dr Ajit Singh, superintendent, RUHS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/81-icu-patientsbeing-treated-at-pvt-hospitals-in-city/articleshow/78195715.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||India’s biggest film city will come up in Noida: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Friday to search for suitable land to set up the 'biggest and most beautiful' film city in Gautam Budh Nagar. Interacting with the public representatives and officials of the Meerut division, the CM said that in the present circumstances, the country needs a good quality film city and UP is ready to take this responsibility. He asked the officials to search for the land in or around Noida, Greater Noida or Yamuna Expressway and prepare an action plan in this regard. "This film city will not only provide better opportunities to film-makers but also job opportunities to the youths from the state," he said. Addressing the vexed issue of builders-buyers conflict in Noida and Greater Noida, the CM asked to ensure protection of the consumers’ rights by all means. Speed up Habitat Centre, Golf Course, Noida Authority toldHe said that as soon the flat is ready, its registry should be done. He also directed the Noida Authority to expedite the work of ongoing projects like Noida Convention and Habitat Centre, Golf Course and Expansion of Metro and Shooting range in Sector 21A. The CM was reviewing the projects worth over the development projects of Meerut division comprising Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshehr, Hapur, Baghpat and Gautam Budh Nagar districts. There are seven ongoing projects in Gautam Budh Nagar, three in Meerut, three in Ghaziabad, two in Bulandshahr, and one in Baghpat with a total sanctioned cost of over Rs 2000 crore. The CM assured the officials and public representatives that the traffic snarls from Delhi,Ghaziabad to Meerut will now be a thing of the past. The Delhi-Meerut Expressway, Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System ( RRTS Corridor) and Inner Ring Road in Meerut will ease the traffic. He directed the ongoing Delhi-Meerut Expressway project to be completed by the end of this year. He also directed the entire Meerut Metro project to be completed by March 2025 while the priority section from Sahibabad to Duhai (17 km) should be completed by March, 2023. He reiterated that the Smart City Projects in Ghaziabad and Meerut should be fast tracked. Out of a total of 20 projects under AMRUT (water supply) in the division, nine have been completed. The CM asked to expedite other projects also. Similarly, he stressed on timely completion of ongoing 19 projects of AMRUT ( Sewerage and Septage management). The CM gave directions to start work on the Kailash Mansarovar building in Ghaziabad soon and to complete state medical college in Bulandshahr and Atal Residential School in Secunderabad. The CM directed officials to clear cane dues before the start of the new sowing season. The divisional commissioner informed him that the dues for 2018-19 have been cleared entirely. Against the dues of Rs 5,190.10 crore for 2019-20, Rs 3,354.08 crore had been cleared till September 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/indias-biggest-film-city-will-come-up-in-noida-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/78199725.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||62 of 102 private hospitals yet to start Covid-19 treatment in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Even after directives to convert 102 private hospitals as Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals (DCHs), only 40 such institutions have started treating coronavirus patients. Lack of sufficient infrastructure, apprehension among staff and stigma associated with the infection are the major hurdles being cited by the private hospitals. This came to fore during high court-appointed panel’s meeting held by mayor Sandip Joshi and attended by divisional commissioner’s representative — deputy commissioner Sudhakar Telang, NMC’s additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi, office-bearers of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nagpur branch, Dr Archana Kothari and Dr Anil Laddhad. IMA Nagpur branch president Dr Kothari apprised the mayor about the problems being faced by the doctors in private hospitals and stressed on the need to understand the problems of the 62 private hospitals. According to her, private hospitals are facing issues like non-availability of doctors, paramedical staff etc. “The panel’s intention is to minimize the difficulties of private hospitals and inconvenience being faced by Covid-19 patients,” Dr Kothari said. After the meeting, the panel decided to give the private hospitals not participating in the fight against Covid-19 a chance to explain their situation. The mayor will conduct the hearing in three batches of 20 hospitals each from 3pm on Saturday. Deputy municipal commissioner (NMC) Dr Milind Meshram has been appointed as secretary of the panel. After the hearings, the mayor will also hold meeting with representatives of Vidarbha Hospitals Association. Meanwhile, Joshi also visited IMA office and had detailed discussion with the office-bearers and senior doctors regarding better coordination between NMC and IMA Nagpur. Dr Anand Kate brought to the notice of the mayor threatening language used in notices served by NMC and also the threat to cancel hospital registration, which demoralizes already stressed doctor fraternity. The IMA requested the NMC to give details of required working hours, rotation schedule, remuneration, insurance and safety so that more medical practitioners can be encouraged for the Covid services. Dr Prashant Nikhade highlighted that authorities issue notices and always demand compliance within 24 hours, which is very difficult. He brought to the notice of Joshi that several IMA members are already giving Covid services. More than 160 doctors, including five from Nagpur, have fallen victim to Covid while serving the patients, he said. “In such a situation, the allegation of non-compliance or non-cooperation by doctors is totally misplaced,” said Dr Nikhade. IMA past president Dr Sanjay Deshpande requested authorities to make an updated centralized portal for bed availability and appealed that minimum 10 beds should be reserved for IMA members in big hospitals. Earlier on Thursday, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had constituted a panel under mayor Sandip Joshi to sort out the problems faced by private hospitals. It also included divisional and NMC commissioners or their nominees along with IMA president Dr Archana Kothari and Dr Anil Laddhad, who will represent the private hospitals. It was formed as per suggestion by senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari, while hearing a petition by Viveka Hospital through counsel Kartik Shukul. “There has to be a coordinated activity between authorities and private hospitals. All counsels of various parties have agreed to this proposal, so that the issues can be worked out and doctors and paramedical staff can be made available immediately,” a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala said. The judges added that the endeavour should be to minimize inconvenience and hardship to hospitals and patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/62-of-102-pvt-hosps-yet-to-start-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/78194375.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Asha workers claims no equipments provided to screen citizens||Kolhapur: Asha workers conducting survey under ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign claim that they are not provided with proper equipment to screen the citizens for Covid. In many places of the district, the frontline workers are not provided with pulse oximeters, thermal guns, protective suits and triple-layered masks. Whilein Kolhapur city, it has been observed that pulse oximeters and thermal guns are faulty as batteries defuse rapidly and in some cases the readings vary for an individual if the reading is taken again in a couple of minutes. Netradipa Patil, the district president of Asha workers’ association, said, “We have given a petition to Shirol’s medical officer to provide the survey material to the workers there. It has been four days since the campaign has started, however, basic equipment such as functioning oximeters, thermal guns have not been provided. We demanded adequate safety gears since we will come directly in contact with the people.” Many citizens complained that the survey is being not done properly as only the details of a person are being recorded and no actual screening is being done. Mallinath Kalshetti, the civic chief said, “We are making all necessary equipment available to the ground staff. Teams comprising three health workers have been formed. We have asked our local committees to monitor the activities of these teams and ensure Covid suspects are tested. So far over 300 suspects have been tested through this drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/asha-workers-claims-no-equipments-provided-to-screen-citizens/articleshow/78191966.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran police to use app ‘e-nakabandi’ to nab criminals||Tarn Taran: The police here are planning to use mobile phone application “e-nakabandi” to check cross border narcotics and arms smuggling. While talking to TOI on Friday, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Tarn Taran, Dhruman H Nimbale said, “The nakabandi app is integrated with various software and data of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) to identify vehicles. The use of Punjab Artificial Intelligence System will help in finding suspects, or even the vehicles used in any illegal work.” He claimed that the app will also be used to alert nakas. “This app will also help in decreasing the number of officials on naka duty who can further help in strengthening other policing activities,” said the SSP. Nimbale said these high-tech nakas will be installed at main entry points of Harike head works, KPT Chowk Goindwal and Golwarh. “It will also give officers live update about the performance at nakas at any given time along with details of deployment, barricading, efficiency and number of vehicles checked etc,” added SSP Nimbale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tarn-taran-police-to-use-app-e-nakabandi-to-nab-criminals/articleshow/78196486.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 19, 2020||Goa||Only 15% claimants for Mapusa bank deposits: Officials||PANAJI: In a surprise for authorities, very few have come forward to claim their deposits which lie locked up with the now defunct Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank of Goa Ltd. According to officials supervising the liquidation of the bank’s assets, just 15% of the 1.2 lakh depositors have come forward. The bank’s officials believe that many of the depositors are residing abroad or in other states. Depositors were required to file their claims by September 15 but officials said that the deadline has been extended. “Not more than 10-15% of the depositors have filed claims,” said liquidator of the bank and senior bureaucrat Daulat Hawaldar. “It has come to our knowledge that the majority of the depositors are not in Goa and we are talking to the Reserve Bank of India about this.” As per Rule 28 of the Multi-State Cooperative Societies Rules, 2002, s claims have to be submitted within two months of the bank informing about the same. “Only 15,000 claims have reached the head office and there are still some claims with the branches, so say around 15,000 to 18,000 people have submitted their claims,” general manager of MUCB Shailendra Sawant said. “If one looks at just the deposits, then more than 50% of the deposits have been claimed because we have received claims for Rs 160 crore,” Sawant said. At the time when the bank was liquidated by the RBI on April 16 this year, MUCB had around Rs 355 crore as deposits. “We find the awareness of the liquidation among customers is poor. As and when the depositors file their claims we will accept it,” Sawant said. To facilitate processing of claims of those who are abroad or unable to visit the bank branches, authorities are accepting online claims through email and WhatsApp as long as the documents are in order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-15-claimants-for-mapusa-bank-deposits-officials/articleshow/78195714.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Lockdown over but most city buses still off the road||Ludhiana: The city bus service, which went off the road during the lockdown and resumed partially later, is yet to become fully operational. As of now, it is available on only two routes and most of the buses are parked gathering dirt at a municipal corporation land on Hambran Road.The operator, who is managing the operation and maintenance of buses, claimed that they were unable to provide service on four routes, which were allowed to ply on, for want of adequate number of commuters.The bus service from the metro near Jalandhar bypass to the city bus stand started on September 1, but it was available on only one route — from the railway station to Sahnewal.If buses remain parked at Hambran Road the way those are now, it would not take those long to turn into junk. The condition of 37 buses parked at Tajpur Road workshop of the civic body is a glaring example of the neglect towards the upkeep of buses, which were brought under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). This scheme was scrapped long back and the buses purchased with the funding under the JNNURM are getting reduced to scrap gradually.In the absence of buses, the residents are dependent on auto rickshaws or rickshaws to travel within the city. However, the authorities are tight-lipped over the situation as a legal battle is also going on in the court against the continuance of the present operator as well as revision of fares.After many roadblocks, the city bus service was launched with much fanfare in 2011 during the SAD-BJP regime. However, right since its start, the bus service has been mired in controversy, sometimes due to selection of firms by the civic body to run the buses and sometimes due to its poor service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-over-but-most-city-buses-still-off-the-road/articleshow/78192981.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Goons loot jewellery shop||TNNLudhiana: The police on Thursday evening booked four armed miscreants for looting a jewellery shop in Gujjarwal during broad daylight. In his police complaint, Deepak of Phallewal said, “My father, Durga Dass, has been running Durga Jewellers at main bazaar of Gujjarwal for the past 30 years. I too look after the business. Around 2.15pm on Thursday, my father went out for work and I was alone at the shop.” At that time, four masked miscreants came to his shop. “One of them stood outside. They told me that they had given an order for bracelets and have come to collect those. When I called up my father to ask about it, one of them pulled out a double barrel gun and tried to hit me on head. They then tried to tie me up, but I raised the alarm and they ran away with a box containing a stone used on the jewellery,” he added. Deepak called up the police.Jodhan police station SHO Vikramjit Singh said, “We are scanning the footage of CCTVs installed in the area.”Police said the accused had parked their motorcycles outside the market and walked up to the shop.The complainant said, “One of the accused had a double barrel gun and others had two sharp-edged weapons. They were between 20 and 30 years old. CCTVs are installed at our shop.”A case has been registered against the four unidentified accused under sections 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to committing of the theft), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonments), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and under the Arms act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/goons-loot-jewellery-shop/articleshow/78192991.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Reusable bag usage can reduce plastic pandemic: Greens||PANAJI: Carrying a reusable bag for shopping can be a valuable contribution to protect the environment from plastic pandemic, as garbage managers say attractive options are easily available now, but people need to dump their old habits. Lack of usable alternatives to the plastic carry bag was a big hurdle to its reduction, but now an array of cloth, jute, other eco-friendly materials and even rexine bags are being sold in the market place. “Alternatives are sufficiently available now at a reasonably good price. Sensitive people are using them and even children accompanying parents for shopping are urging their parents not to accept plastic,” said Pramod Sawant, of People of Ponda (PoP), a voluntary organisation providing cloth bags. A casual attitude of not carrying reusable bags is proving disastrous for the environment. At every trip, shoppers collect several one-use bags at different outlets, adding up waste to uncleared mountains of avoidable mixed waste. Burning of plastic and disposal in water bodies are fall-outs of the unmanageable waste. “The people forget to carry bags. In the past, we would never set out shopping without them. The habit needs to be inculcated. We can carry them or keep them handy in car or scooter,” Valerie Madre de Deus, a former garbage manager said. Some business establishments and shopkeepers are doing their bit by making customers pay for carry bags. Key workers in the battle against plastic say reusable bags are being tapped by shoppers, but people need to change their attitude. “We see a lot of people carrying plastic bags, as many don’t like cloth bags,” Rekha Joshi, an activist and cloth bag maker said. The authorities should also halt the production and sale of one-use plastic. “It is the vendors who give bulk of these plastic bags and they should be stopped,” Alka Damle, a Vasco-based social activist, said. The government cannot fight the battle alone, but if everybody carries reusable bags, the quantum of waste will be reduced drastically, anti-plastic campaigners say. “Just putting up banners against plastic will not do. Each and every household should think well. It is an attitude problem and the change has to come from within,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reusable-bag-usage-can-reduce-plastic-pandemic-greens/articleshow/78195717.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 19, 2020||Noida||India’s biggest film city will come up in Noida: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Friday to search for suitable land to set up the 'biggest and most beautiful' film city in Gautam Budh Nagar. Interacting with the public representatives and officials of the Meerut division, the CM said that in the present circumstances, the country needs a good quality film city and UP is ready to take this responsibility. He asked the officials to search for the land in or around Noida, Greater Noida or Yamuna Expressway and prepare an action plan in this regard. "This film city will not only provide better opportunities to film-makers but also job opportunities to the youths from the state," he said. Addressing the vexed issue of builders-buyers conflict in Noida and Greater Noida, the CM asked to ensure protection of the consumers’ rights by all means. Speed up Habitat Centre, Golf Course, Noida Authority toldHe said that as soon the flat is ready, its registry should be done. He also directed the Noida Authority to expedite the work of ongoing projects like Noida Convention and Habitat Centre, Golf Course and Expansion of Metro and Shooting range in Sector 21A. The CM was reviewing the projects worth over the development projects of Meerut division comprising Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bulandshehr, Hapur, Baghpat and Gautam Budh Nagar districts. There are seven ongoing projects in Gautam Budh Nagar, three in Meerut, three in Ghaziabad, two in Bulandshahr, and one in Baghpat with a total sanctioned cost of over Rs 2000 crore. The CM assured the officials and public representatives that the traffic snarls from Delhi,Ghaziabad to Meerut will now be a thing of the past. The Delhi-Meerut Expressway, Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System ( RRTS Corridor) and Inner Ring Road in Meerut will ease the traffic. He directed the ongoing Delhi-Meerut Expressway project to be completed by the end of this year. He also directed the entire Meerut Metro project to be completed by March 2025 while the priority section from Sahibabad to Duhai (17 km) should be completed by March, 2023. He reiterated that the Smart City Projects in Ghaziabad and Meerut should be fast tracked. Out of a total of 20 projects under AMRUT (water supply) in the division, nine have been completed. The CM asked to expedite other projects also. Similarly, he stressed on timely completion of ongoing 19 projects of AMRUT ( Sewerage and Septage management). The CM gave directions to start work on the Kailash Mansarovar building in Ghaziabad soon and to complete state medical college in Bulandshahr and Atal Residential School in Secunderabad. The CM directed officials to clear cane dues before the start of the new sowing season. The divisional commissioner informed him that the dues for 2018-19 have been cleared entirely. Against the dues of Rs 5,190.10 crore for 2019-20, Rs 3,354.08 crore had been cleared till September 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/indias-biggest-film-city-will-come-up-in-noida-up-cm-yogi-adityanath/articleshow/78196491.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||4 detained for 24-yr-old’s murder||Aurangabad: A 24-year-old man was found murdered sometime in the wee hours of Saturday in the limits of Cantonment police station. Crime branch as well as the Cantonment police have detained four suspects in this connection and are working on to detect the case. The incident came to light at around 9 am after some locals spotted the dead body in the bushes surrounding Padegaon power house. The deceased has been identified as Mohammed Azhar Mohammed Hanif, a resident of Bhoiwada. Police suspect that the murder is a result of old enmity. Hanif’s body was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital where an autopsy was performed in the evening before handing over the body to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-detained-for-24-yr-olds-murder/articleshow/78191994.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||CAG flays government for Rs22 crore work on NGO land||NAGPUR: The Comptroller and Accountant General (CAG) has flayed State Social Justice and Special Assistance Department (SJSAD) for spending Rs22.15 crore on construction of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar memorial on private land of an NGO at Chicholi here. The memorial was sanctioned under Vidarbha Development programme of 2009-10, where SJSAD decided to construct a museum, mediation and sociocultural training centre. The administrative approval was accorded in March 2011 for Rs5 crore and revised in March 2012 to Rs40.76 crore. In its latest report, CAG pointed out that without ensuring transfer of land, SJSAD instructed Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) to begin its work and spent Rs22.15 crore till March last year on the project. “This violated tripartite agreement resulting in irregular expenditure,” it tersely observed. The agreement between NIT, NGO and SJSAD for land transfer was inked in August 2012. Subsequently, the department released Rs33 crore to NIT in instalments and told it to start construction in January 2013. However, SJSAD did not transfer the land. NIT then issued work orders in June 2016 and spent Rs22.15 crore till March 2019. SJSAD officer replied that the government would be requested to delete the condition of land transfer. The CAG, however, rejected it stating that the expenditure from government funds was always done for public purpose. “No public purpose would be served if the land title is not in government’s name. This may also result in idling of entire expenditure as NGO breached agreement conditions,” the report mentioned. SJSAD also failed to include a clause of amount recovery along with interest as per prevailing rates of nationalized banks in case of condition breach. “The issue was referred to the government in April last year, but its reply is not received till June this year,” the CAG noted. In December 2015, the government issued rules for governing land allotments to NGOs for construction of memorial of eminent personalities. Those stipulated that agreement with NGOs should have a recovery clause of taking back the amount in lump sum along with interest rate for breach of terms and conditions. “The department, however, failed to incorporate this clause in agreement before issuing a work order to NIT,” the report said. Quoting Maharashtra Public Works Manual, the CAG reported that no work should commence on land that is not duly handed over by a responsible civil officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cag-flays-govt-for-rs22-crore-work-on-ngo-land/articleshow/78193006.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation expands Covid-19 helpline number to 10 lines||NAGPUR: Following repeated complaints from citizens regarding the civic body’s Covid-19 helpline numbers remaining engaged, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has added more lines to the helpline number. On Friday, additional commissioner Jalaj Sharma informed TOI that the number of lines has been increased to ten now. “Additional staff from the civic body has also been deputed and their training is also underway,” he said. Welcoming the move, those working closely for the welfare of Covid-19 patients have demanded that people from medical background should man the helpline desk. “NMC staffers do not have a medical background and are unable to guide patients or their kin beyond a certain point. NMC should hire medical students, who can ask for relevant parameters and gauge the seriousness of the patient, thus directing him to the right hospital,” said Anasuya Kale Chhabrani, secretary of NGO Together We Can. Also, many private hospitals have not been responding to NMC’s calls. “If those manning the help desk are medicos, at least the staff at private hospitals will take them seriously. Also, NMC should put up a big screen with real-time data of bed availability. This will lead to better bed management,” said Chhabrani. In another development, the civic body is also taking efforts to ensure that patients are not burdened with hefty hospital charges. “Following state government’s orders regarding pre-audit of bills in private hospitals. We had already prepared teams for that and they will undergo training and then be assigned at different hospitals,” said Sharma. In the last few weeks, TOI has received multiple complaints regarding inflated bills at different private hospitals. At a meeting held with city mayor Sandip Joshi on Friday, representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) did not approve of the auditing. “If NMC starts doing this now, the concentration of the hospital staff will get diverted,” they said. The issue will be discussed again in the next meeting. Stating that auditing of bills is a must, Chhabrani added, “Instead of its own staffers, NMC should appoint a special task force for this purpose, like ex-servicemen who are a part of the Nuisance Detection Squad. Educated women of self help groups can also be included in this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-expands-covid-19-helpline-number-to-10-lines/articleshow/78194399.cms||Manka Behl
September 19, 2020||Salem||Salem: Ragpicker spends Rs 10 lakh to erect his own statue||SALEM: Call it the revenge of a ragpicker. When a 60-year-old man who had spent all his life unknown, unquoted and uncared for decided to square up, he gave life his answer in style — five-foot-tall and cast in stone. A Nallathambi of Atthanurpatty near Vazhapadi in Salem district, who earns a living by picking discarded bottles on the streets, spent his life saving of Rs 10 lakh to buy a piece of land to erect his own statue. “When I was young, I wanted to make a name for myself. I wanted a statue of my own. I have fulfilled my dream now,” said the man who walked away from his family 20 years ago. Nallathambi, a mason who quit his profession after it became too demanding years back, left Anaimedu village in Salem district and came to Atthanurpatty after a domestic dispute. His wife and children still live in his native village. A NallathambiWith all the money he had saved right from his days as a mason, Nallathambi, who earns between Rs 250 and Rs 300 every day now, purchased two plots (1,200sqft each) on Vazhapadi-Belur village road. He approached a local sculptor and paid him Rs 1 lakh to get a life-size statue ready. “He did not want to share his money with anyone, not even his family. He wanted to spend it entirely on fulfilling his dream. I helped him in that,” said K Manickam, 55, an acquaintance of Nallathambi. Nallathambi erected the statue on his own land on Sunday, complete with a pedestal and a concrete canopy. Though curious onlookers have started flocking the place, the man who had given life to his dream is planning a grand, formal inauguration soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ragpicker-spends-rs-10l-to-erect-his-own-statue/articleshow/78194393.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD projects resignation as big sacrifice, netizens question flip-flop||Jalandhar: Even as Shiromani Akali Dal has launched a campaign on social media to project Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union cabinet as a big sacrifice, response on social media is mixed – with supporters hailing it and others taking digs. Several comments by Punjabi netizens were against the Badals and SAD. A few negative comments could also be seen on SAD’s official Facebook page. A number of netizens called out the Badals for their flip flop on farm ordinances, which they supported earlier and now describe as “anti-farmer.” A video clip of statements by Harsimrat and Parkash Singh Badal, in which they justified the ordinances and said farmers were being misled by Congress and its “B party” for opposing these, are doing the rounds. People also shared their old video interviews with different media platforms, in which they defended the ordinances. However, SAD supporters, including its IT Cell were aggressive in posting about and hailing the decision of Harsimrat to withdraw from the Union cabinet, calling it a big sacrifice for the sake of farmers. Several netizens questioned SAD for continuing in NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-projects-resignation-as-big-sacrifice-netizens-question-flip-flop/articleshow/78196494.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Meerut||Ambulance owner electrocuted||Bijnor: An ambulance owner, 35, electrocuted while working at his home. According to police sources, he was rushed to a hospital in his ambulance, but his condition deteriorated further and he died. The victim — Sitaram, alias, Pawan — was working at his home when he came in contact with an electric wire. According to the victim’s family, they admitted Pawan to a private hospital, but he died during the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ambulance-owner-electrocuted/articleshow/78193011.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Short-staffed on migrant workforce, ryots turn to machines, local labour for cultivation||PANAJI: With paddy cultivation season in full swing right in the middle of the pandemic lockdown, and migrant workers headed back to their home states in large numbers, it seemed like farmers primarily dependent on the migrant labour force would face a hit. From employing local labour to harnessing technology such as renting sowing machines and transplanters, farmers have adopted various measures to ensure that their fields didn’t remain uncultivated in the face of the pandemic. For Carmona-based farmer Blair Rodrigues, the lockdown served as an eye-opener. He managed to carry out tasks such as weeding, ploughing, transplanting and even spraying of organic manure, by using technology, something he had otherwise turned a blind eye to.  “I have mechanised the cultivation process and managed the tasks for the past month by renting machines,” he said. Rodrigues is now preparing to rent harvester machines to harvest his paddy crop in October. Further, he plans to replicate this model, and share it with other farmers, during the rabi season. To counter the shortage of the migrant workforce, community farmer Nestor Rangel hired people locally to work at his farm in Valpoi. “Many of these workers would be employed in the cashew farms in Sattari, which keeps them busy annually from December to May. From June to November, they are usually free. Since they’re already well trained in tasks like manuring, manicuring, etc, I have managed to tend to my farm with their help,” he said. However, the hiring of local labour comes at a 30-40% higher cost. While farmers paid migrant workers Rs 400 per day for fieldwork, they are now shelling out anywhere between Rs 600 to 700 per day for the local labourers. “Farmers have had to manage because some farm activities must be timed. Sowing of seeds must be done at a certain time and spraying of fertilizer must be done after a given period. Such tasks cannot wait until labour is available at one’s preferred cost,” said Rohan Joshi, who has a farm in Bicholim. Another farmer, Vinod Barve, went to the extent of ensuring that his migrant labour receives amenities in Goa itself, thus eliminating the need for them to return to their hometown. “Originally from Jharkhand, I have 14 workers at my farm in Valpoi. During the lockdown, I paid them salaries and provided them with groceries. As a result, I didn’t face any problems during the cashew harvest season, nor am I inconvenienced now,” he said. Satish Tendulkar, a retired agriculture official and coconut farmer said that migrant workers are currently required for manuring of crops at horticulture gardens and applying fungicide to arecanut crops.  “Not only workers from far off Jharkhand and Bihar, even those from neighbouring Karnataka and Maharashtra have not yet returned. Paddy cultivators managed by getting their family to help in the fields using machines. But farmland owners who were completely dependent on migrant workers have faced a setback,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/short-staffed-on-migrant-workforce-ryots-turn-to-machines-local-labour-for-cultivation/articleshow/78195718.cms||Nida Sayed
September 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Covid patient’s jewellery stolen, woman detained||KOLHAPUR: Laxmipuri police have detained a woman for allegedly stealing gold jewellery from a Covid-19 patient admitted in a hospital. As per the complaint lodged with the police, jewellery weighing around 70 gram and worth Rs 2.60 lakh were stolen. The suspect was detained on the basis of CCTV footage. The patient, a resident of Kadamwadi , was admitted in the ICU at a private hospital in Maharana Pratap Chowk. Her family members were not around as she contracted Covid. Taking advantage of the situation, the suspect entered the ICU and allegedly stole the patient’s jewellery.  Police said the patient in her complaint stated that two bangles, earrings and a mangalsutra, worth Rs 2.60 lakh were stolen. The family members of the patients noticed the valuables missing and approached the hospital administration. Police traced the suspect after watching the CCTV footage at the hospital. This is the third incident of theft in Kolhapur district in which belongings of Covid patients were stolen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-patients-jewellery-stolen-woman-detained/articleshow/78191984.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mumbai||Senior citizen gets back chain stolen 19 years ago in the form of gold bar||Thane: A 63-year-old railway commuter on Friday got back her gold necklace, albeit in the form of a gold bar, which was stolen aboard a local train at Thane station 19 years back. The commuter had shifted residence twice, but determined railway police staff tracked her down and handed the bar following instructions from railway police commissioner Ravindra Sengaonkar. Police said the victim was travelling with her family from Navi Mumbai to Mulund to attend their daughter’s felicitation ceremony on a Sunday, when she fell prey to the thief who took advantage of the mega block rush and fled. The family later registered a police complaint but had lost all hope of getting it back. Subsequently, police tracked down the thief but found the necklace was melted and converted into a gold bar. After the victim, who stayed in Koparkhairane at the time of registering the complaint migrated to Thane, police were unable to contact her, and the gold bar remained with police. Following instructions from Sengaonkar, railway staff, including P C Natekar and P N Bagul began tracking down the victim by contacting local gas agencies and telephone exchanges, and finally traced the woman to Thane. They later came down to the railway police station on Friday and handed her the bar. “We had lost all hope of getting the necklace back. We were in for a pleasant surprise recently when police informing us about it. We initially thought it was a prank, but are now happy to get it back after so many years. We will try to reward the police for their efforts,” the husband of the commuter told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senior-citizen-gets-back-chain-stolen-19-years-ago-in-the-form-of-gold-bar/articleshow/78194428.cms||Manoj Badgeri
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Tourism stakeholders use Taj example to pitch for reopening of Ajanta & Ellora||Aurangabad: The scheduled reopening of the Taj Mahal on September 21, albeit with certain Covid-19 pandemic-necessitated restrictions, has prompted different stakeholders in Maharashtra to request a similar resumption of tourism at the world heritage site of Ajanta-Ellora in Aurangabad district. Members of the Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation (ATDF) and the advocacy group Aurangabad First met district guardian minister Shubash Desai on Thursday and sought the reopening of the monuments in and around Aurangabad. “To avoid crowding and allow adherence to social distancing norm, we suggested that only 5,000 visitors be permitted at the monuments every day. We said two slots — pre-lunch and post-lunch — can be scheduled and each slot can accommodate 2,500 tourists. The tickets may be purchased online so as to avoid human contact,” ATDF president Jaswant Singh said. In a memorandum submitted to the government, the stakeholders pointed out that the tourist places have been shut for almost the past six month due to the Covid-19 outbreak, and the tourism and hospitality industry in Aurangabad had suffered a lot. “Now that the state government has lifted interstate travel restrictions and the Centre is reopening world-famous monuments, including the Taj Mahal, it is important that the monuments in Aurangabad are reopened as well. This will be a positive step for the revival of the tourism industry,” Singh said. NOTE: Take side-by-side file photos of the Taj and Ajanta/Ellora caves with this caption: Tourism activities will resume at the Taj Mahal with certain conditions on September 21. In Aurangabad, tourism industry stakeholders feel monuments and world heritage sites here too should be allowed to reopen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tourism-stakeholders-use-taj-example-to-pitch-for-reopening-of-ajanta-ellora/articleshow/78192005.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Newborn ‘adopted’ for Rs 15,000 by couple having 3 daughters||VADODARA: A midwife and a couple were arrested by the Kalol police in Panchmahal district in connection with a child trafficking case. The couple that had three daughters had ‘adopted’ a new born boy paying Rs 15,000 to the midwife towards the expenses for the delivery of the boy. The baby boy was handed over to the couple residing in the Sureli village of Kalol taluka on September 1, the very day it was born. The couple was bringing up the boy, but someone in the village grew suspicious and informed the police as well as child welfare officials regarding the couple having a new born. Investigations revealed that the couple had taken the baby from a midwife. The midwife, who used to work for a private hospital had conducted the delivery herself. “The mother of the baby and the mother’s family was not willing to keep the child as she was unmarried,” said Kalol police sub-inspector M L Damor. Damor added that the investigations had initially revealed that the midwife had taken Rs 15,000 from the couple saying that it was the amount to be paid for the delivery of the boy. But, he added, statements of the mother of the baby and her family had revealed that the midwife had charged them Rs 12,000 for the delivery. The couple that had taken the child was arrested and sent to judicial custody. The midwife too was arrested and is being questioned in police custody remand. The woman to whom the baby was born and her family had been held and preliminary interrogation was being conducted. The baby was handed over to the child welfare committee of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/couple-with-two-girls-adopts-new-born-boy-for-rs-15k/articleshow/78193339.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Actor and MP Mimi Chakraborty records statement||KOLKATA: Actor and MP Mimi Chakraborty on Thursday recorded her statement in-camera before a magistrate at the Alipore court in a case in which a taxi driver, Laxman Yadav, allegedly tried to misbehave with her while she was travelling in her car, returning from her gym on Monday afternoon. The actor said she was there to record her statement for two reasons: the accused should not get away and that she wanted to help police build the case. “ I came here to help police with their probe. If I did not come here, there was a possibility that the accused could have been freed for lack of evidence. I could not have allowed that. It is because of a few individuals like him that the city and the administration earn a bad name. The accused, if freed, could have seen this as a licence to crime. I want each woman in the city to stay safe,” the Jadavpur MP said. The Gariahat police said her statement would be a crucial evidence. “We will seek court permission to record witnesses’ statements. The accused is in police custody till September 20,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mimi-records-statement/articleshow/78194408.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pvt school fees: HC won’t intervene||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday refused to mediate in the issue of reducing fees of private schools in the time of Covid. The court told the state government to take an independent decision as it has wide powers. The government had filed an application seeking the court’s directions after the federation of self-financed schools refused to accept the proposal of a flat 25% cut in fees. The division bench said that there was no need for the court to function as an arbitrator. The judges told the government that it has substantial powers under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act to take decisions for regulating such matters. This was stated by Vishal Dave, an advocate who represented the parents’ association which supports the government’s stand. The judges also told the government that if the schools are not in agreement with it, the court may be approached. During the hearing, private schools stuck to their earlier stand that a flat 25% fee reduction would be difficult to offer. They proposed a flat cut up to 10%. They also reiterated that they should be allowed to go ahead with their plan of fee reduction after assessing the financial losses of parents on a case-to-case basis. BACKGROUND OF LITIGATION At the end of April, an association of parents complained to the Gujarat high court that some schools had stopped providing online education to students whose parents could not pay the fees. The association said that some parents had been hit financially owing to Covid and the lockdown. The association sought a reduction in fees charged by private schools. The court immediately asked the government to ensure that such discrimination does not occur. At the next hearing, the court told the government to resolve issues relating to private school fees. The government was reluctant but the Chief Justice asserted that the government should intervene. The government asked the federation of self-financed schools to reduce fees. The schools refused to do so and offered their formula: no increase in fees and a reduction of fees on a case-to-case basis. The government did not accept this proposal and issued a diktat on July 16 prohibiting private schools from collecting fees for as long as they remain shut. The government even cited the rejection of its proposal of fee reduction as a reason for its harsh decision. The government’s decision was challenged by private schools and the HC on July 31 quashed the government’s ban on fee collection and castigated the authorities. The HC asked the government and schools to talk again with “open heart and open mind”. After two rounds of negotiations, the government approached the HC complaining that the schools were not ready to accept its proposal to reduce fees by 25%. Meanwhile, the parents’ association on whose litigation these developments took place was kept out of the loop by the government, when it came to seeking court directions after the failure of two rounds of negotiations. The association requested the HC to allow it to join the litigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-school-fees-hc-wont-intervene/articleshow/78195748.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Forest protection goes for a toss as 3,170 posts vacant in Nagpur||NAGPUR: With mind-boggling 3,170 posts remaining vacant in the state forest department, most of them involving forest and wildlife protection, policy implementation and decision-making have gone for a six. “Though the number of vacant posts is till March 2020, more must have been created in the last six months. Most of the field posts are ‘deliberately’ not being filled despite department promotion committee (DPC) approving them. Recently, 160 forest officers were shifted, but many sensitive posts have been left vacant by forest minister,” said RTI activist Abhay Kolarkar. Information received by Kolarkar under RTI states that of the total 27,849 sanctioned posts in the department, only 24,679 are filled while 3,170 are lying vacant. Though some vacant posts like paniwala, cabin attendants, washermen etc look irrelevant, a large number of vacancies in Group A, B, C & D category reveal a glaring picture, he said. The department appears to be lax in filling important executive posts as well as front-line and ministerial staff for a long time. Despite department promotion committee (DPC) and civil service board (CSB) clearing lists, orders are not issued on time, said Kolarkar. Information received under RTI reveals out of 122 posts of DFO, 31 posts (25%) are vacant. These cadre officers play key role in implementing government schemes in the field as well as forest and wildlife protection. “Even after availability of suitable officers, they are denied promotion,” said Kolarkar. Similarly, of the 316 ACF posts, 112 (33%) are lying vacant. Over 201 out of 647 posts in Group A category are vacant. “This clearly shows lethargic approach of the forest ministry and officials at headquarters here,” alleged Kolarkar. “The vacancy figures are till March 2020. If September is considered, the number of vacancies may even be more. In Group B category, a large number — 125 — posts of RFO are vacant, adversely affecting protection in the field. This has led to encroachments and poaching,” he said. Similarly, in Group B category, nine out of 17 posts of statisticians are vacant. This cadre is involved in updating various forest data to prepare annual administrative reports. “Forest portal shows outdated data and the department is yet to publish annual report of 2019-20 due to vacancies,” Kolarkar said. Of the seven crucial posts of assistant medical officers, three are vacant. Though these posts are filled by deputation, vacancy is for a long period hampering proper and timely treatment to injured wild animals. In the Group B category, 36 posts out of 90 sanctioned posts of stenographers are vacant. This is affecting daily office work to a great extent. For these posts, even after availability of suitable candidates they are denied promotions. Beside, of the total sanctioned 147 posts, 52 posts (35%) in Group B non-gazetted category are vacant. Similarly, in Group C category, out of 150 posts of police constables, 36 are vacant. These posts are mostly with mobile squad unit responsible for patrolling in sensitive forest areas to check organized illicit felling as well as poaching. Kolarkar said most important posts of front-line staff, such as foresters and forest guards, are also vacant. RTI reveals 746 posts of forest guards and 483 posts of foresters are vacant as on March 2020. There is no clerk in most of the ranges and RFOs are dependent on daily wage labourers or contractual staff. The RTI reply also states that many posts which are either of no use for the department are lying vacant since long. These posts include assistant mechanic, compounders/dressers, caretaker, launch drivers, lathe men, radio mechanic, storekeepers, wireless operators, projector operator etc. “These posts should have been scrapped as they have become redundant now. But due to casual approach of the department, these posts are on paper only,” says Kolarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-protection-goes-for-a-toss-as-3170-posts-vacant/articleshow/78193035.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Record 10 Covid deaths in a day in Chandrapur, cases past 7,000-mark||CHANDRAPUR: On Friday, the district registered record 10 deaths in a day, taking the toll past the 100-mark to reach 105. Chandrapur also surpassed the 7,000-mark of Covid positive cases with detection of 303 new patients, taking the caseload to 7,279. The day also saw the discharge of 270 patients, taking the total recoveries to 4,106. Now, 3,068 patients are under treatment. The latest 1,000 cases were added in just four days. The first patient in Chandrapur was detected on May 2. Although it took 139 long days to reach the 7,000-mark, the last 5,000 patients came in just 20 days. First death due to Covid-19 was reported in Chandrapur on July 24 and it took just 56 days to take the death toll past the 100-mark. New patients included 126 from Chandrapur and suburbs, Bramhapuri (49), Ballarpur (29), Bhadrawati (22), Warora (18), Mul (15), Saoli (13), Korpana (12), Gondpipri (6), Nagbhid (3), Sindewahi (2), and one each from Pombhurna tehsil here and Wani in Yavatmal district. The deceased included a 52-year-old person from Ram Nagar, a 57-year-old person from Mahakali Collieries, a 53-year-old person from Bhivapur ward, a 32-year-old woman from Balaji Ward and 62-year-old person from Jatpura gate locality in Chandrapur city. Others victims included a 45-year-person old from Kalmana, a 62-year-old person from Ballarpur, a 50-year-old person from Vichoda and a 49-year-old person from Payli-Bhatali village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-10-covid-deaths-in-a-day-in-chandrapur-cases-past-7k-mark/articleshow/78194403.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Only online booking for zoo visit, forest safari||Kolkata: Zoos across the state will reopen on October 2, after a gap of six-and-a-half months. Tourism at national parks and sanctuaries in Bengal, though, will resume on September 23. But the state forest department has prepared SOP for both tourism and zoo visit in new-normal times that forest minister Rajib Banerjee unveiled at Aranya Bhavan on Friday. TOI on September 11 reported about the likely changes. The major change is the introduction of complete online ticketing system, said Banerjee. “Safety is of prime importance. One way to ensure that is through crowd control. So, we are shifting to online ticketing system for now,” he added. No elephant safari will be allowed in any national park or sanctuary in the state. According to chief wildlife warden V K Yadav, since not many avail of the online system to buy zoo tickets, the crowd will be controlled automatically. “For Alipore zoo, one has to go to www.kolkatazoo.in and then, select the e-ticket option to book tickets. This facility was introduced on January 1 this year,” he said. All locations inside the zoo will be disinfected after visiting hours every day, particularly visitors’ path, barricades and railings. “No person will be allowed to enter without masks and sanitiser. Guards at entry gate will check temperature of each guest and any person with high temperature will not be allowed inside. In such cases, no refund will be given. This will be displayed on the online ticketing site, too,” said the SOP. Yadav said while online ticketing system was available for Alipore zoo, Darjeeling zoo and Bengal Safari, it will be introduced at other mini zoos in the state, too. For forest safaris, online booking would be in place latest by October 5, said Yadav. Till then, the old system will continue. Safari charges will rise by 10%. Another major change in wildlife safari is barring of visitors at watchtowers on the premises of protection camps. At other watchtowers, number of visitors will be limited to 20. This will be controlled by the number of vehicles/boats allowed access. “Park authorities may close any facility or portion at short notice or impose restrictions,” said the SOP. All buildings, including enclosures and canteens at zoos and sanctuaries will be sanitized before reopening. Number of visitors at canteens and common areas will be restricted to 30% of capacity at a given time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-online-booking-for-zoo-visit-forest-safari/articleshow/78194425.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
September 19, 2020||Goa||Taxi operators urge govt to defer loan payments||Calangute: The North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners’ association (NGTTOA) has urged the state and central governments to extend the moratorium on repayment of loan instalments by at least another six months, and also sought a waiver on the interest. Speaking to reporters at Calangute on Friday, NGTTOA said taxi owners are amongst the worst-affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With the moratorium period coming to an end, banks have started demanding payment of EMIs from taxi owners and are even threatening to confiscate vehicles if payments are not made, they said. Ravindra Vengurlekar, vice-president of NGTTOA, said that taxi owners have had no business or earnings for close to six months. “Taxi owners are wondering how to pay the loan instalments. Whatever savings they had have been exhausted in the last six months. They have to look after their families. Now they have a fresh burden of online classes for their children and they have to buy smartphones and laptops for them,” Vengurlekar said, adding, “The situation is so bad that people do not have money to buy food.” Vinayak Nanoskar, former NGTTOA general secretary, said many have purchased expensive cars costing Rs 20 lakh which are being operated as taxis. “Their instalments are around Rs 40,000 per month, while others have to pay Rs 20,000. When there is no business, how are we going to pay the EMIs?” he said. NGTTOA has also asked for a similar moratorium on payment of road tax and insurance premiums. “We had met the chief minister some time ago and he had assured us that it would be done, but so far nothing has materialised,” Vengurlekar said. Nanoskar said that if the banks start attaching the vehicles, then some owners might even commit suicide out of desperation. “The RBI has announced that banks can extend the moratorium, so why are banks asking us to pay the EMIs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taxi-operators-urge-govt-to-defer-loan-payments/articleshow/78195738.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Meerut||Hooch deaths: Opposition parties ratchet up pressure on UP government||MEERUT: Opposition parties are ratcheting up pressure on the UP government to act against people involved in illicit liquor trade and provide compensation to the kin of nine persons who died due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor in Meerut and Baghpat districts. On Friday, Congress’ state president Ajay Kumar Lallu met the families of six victims in Baghpat’s Chandrawal village and later with three families in Meerut’s Meerapur Jakeda village. While, at the same time, the administration and police were trying to quell the protests by the Samajwadi Party. SP leader Atul Pradhan was booked for holding mahapanchayat in Meerpur Jakeda village demanding monetary compensation and jobs for the survivors of the victim’s families. And SP’s Baghpat in-charge Abhayavir Yadav was put under house arrest. The party is now planning a big agitation against illicit liquor. Lallu said, “After having spoken to families of the victims, it has come to the light that six persons died (in Baghpat) of consuming spurious liquor. Out of six, a post-mortem was conducted on only two victims. Families allege evidence was wiped out under conspiracy.” The Congress leader added, “Action in cases of sale of spurious liquor is taken against the small names involved in it. Chief minister will have to answer on whose behalf some big names are being protected." Earlier, SP leader Atul Pradhan was booked for holding mahapanchayat in Meerpur Jakeda village demanding compensation and jobs for the survivors of the victim's families. Meanwhile, in Baghpat, police have put SP’s Lok Sabha constituency in-charge Abhayavir Yadav under house arrest. Forces of several police stations have been deployed near the farmhouse in Bailani village where Yadav and his supporters are detained. Yadav had given “72-hour ultimatum” to pay compensation of Rs 10lakh to the kin of those dead. He also sought a high-level inquiry into the tragedy and strict action against illicit liquor traders. Speaking to TOI, Yadav said, “Law and order has crumbled in Baghpat. Rampant supply of illicit liquor is going on across the UP border (from Haryana).” Meanwhile, police have downplayed the detention. Circle officer Om Pal Singh said, “There was no house arrest. It’s just that force was deployed to prevent any flare-up. They were planning an agitation in support of their demand.” ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hooch-deaths-opposition-parties-ratchet-up-pressure-on-up-government/articleshow/78193045.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: ICU power cut claims nurse’s hubby on ventilator||NAGPUR: Sudarshana Thorat, a nurse at the Covid ward of Mayo Hospital, has saved many lives in the pandemic but lost the battle on Wednesday when her husband Pravin’s ventilator stopped functioning following a power failure. Pravin had tested positive on August 28 and had been fighting for life since then. Stunned by the power failure and the death, Mayo Hospital authorities have already alerted the collector to ensure such a failure is not repeated. MSEDCL too conducted a field inquiry and found a ‘breaker’ in the hospital premises had developed a fault and was not repaired. Thirty-five-year-old nurse Sudarshana had been looking after patients, which included her husband, in ICU ward number 33 on the first floor of Surgical Complex of Mayo Hospital. Sudarshana had been serving Covid patients at Mayo since the pandemic outbreak began in the city. She and her two daughters, aged two and 12, had tested positive on August 14. Despite health hazards and chances of reinfection, Sudarshana had returned to be with her critically ill husband at the ICU. On Wednesday, Sudarshana was shocked when the power at the ICU snapped suddenly at around 5pm, throwing the room into darkness. With her husband and other serious patients on ventilators in peril, Sudarshana rushed to get help from doctors, her colleague nurses and other technical support to restart the crucial supply. Sudarshana said she desperately tried to find some help to restore power as many lives were at risk. “Despite all my efforts and attempts, the power took almost half an hour to get restored. When the ventilator started functioning again, my husband was no more,” she said. “I contracted the virus while serving in the Covid ward to save others, and I have no misgivings for that. My daughters too tested positive later, and so did my husband, but I am a nurse and saving lives remains my pious duty,” she said. “What hurts me is that I could not save my husband despite all efforts and prayers beside him,” said Sudarshana. Sudarshana said her husband Pravin, who was hypertensive, had symptoms since August 14 but the test results from Dhruv Laboratory said he was negative. “As he was continuously ill and not recovering, I tried to get him tested at Mayo too, but it could not happen due to administrative issues. He was finally tested at Mayo on August 28 and found positive,” she said. Mayo Hospital dean Dr Ajay Keoliya said there are a backup system, and generator and electrical maintenance was being monitored by PWD wing. Sources claimed, due to the backup, the ventilators were without power supply for hardly 10-12 minutes. They also claimed Pravin’s condition was already very critical and his prognosis was not good, which caused his death while other patients on ventilator survived the power disruption. MSEDCL clarified that there was no ‘fault’ detected at their end when the Mayo sub-station, which feeds the hospital, was tested, or in the system during verification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/icu-power-cut-claims-nurses-hubby-on-ventilator-even-as-she-saves-others/articleshow/78194429.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Paracetamol: The new exam drug for students in Nagpur||NAGPUR: The exam checklist for students now seems to have a new item sharing space with hall ticket, pens and ID card — paracetamol. With thermo guns now standing guard at every exam centre, popping a paracetamol pill before leaving home is the ‘new normal’. A JEE candidate told TOI that many of his friends took the pill as a safety measure even though they did not have fever. “An institute batchmate read this online, and mentioned this in our private WhatsApp group. We could get a slight temperature on exam day due to tension as well, so why take a chance. There is no harm in taking a paracetamol if you are not Covid-19 positive. It’s not cheating, just being safe,” said the candidate. He added that the original online message was about people taking a paracetamol before boarding aeroplanes. This used to be a common practice by those returning from abroad and wanting to take no chances with body temperature checks. It’s no surprise that the same technique has found its way now to examinations, because students do not want to jeopardize their chances in any way. Also, this aspect is coming out only now because full-fledged exams resumed from September first week. Though both JEE and NEET have provisions for allowing students with fever (not Covid-19 positive) to appear for the exam in isolated room, students were not ready to take chances. Another student said, “In my college WhatsApp group, people said Dolo 650 is the best tablet. However, all these messages were sent with lot of emoticons, like jokes. But though everyone was making fun of the idea, I know quite a few of my friends who took paracetamol before their entrance test. It’s the best way to avoid the ruckus. But I hope that Covid-19 positive students did not misuse this and put all of us at risk.” In that same WhatsApp group, a message was sent about the timing. “It said the tablet must ideally taken one hour before entering the exam centre,” the student added. Sameer Phale, a senior academic who specializes in NEET preparation, said such students are risking their health. “Suppressing fever for gaining entry into exam centre is wrong,” said Phale. Interventional cardiologist Dr Prashant Jagtap said taking medication without medical supervision is dangerous. “The drug reduces fever through sweating, but if one does not have body temperature then why would you even take it. I believe it’s a very bad idea to pop that pill just because of the thermo gun,” said Dr Jagtap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/paracetamol-the-new-exam-drug/articleshow/78196539.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Real-feel 44°C but rain relief on radar: Met||Kolkata: Two days before a low-pressure is set to strike Gangetic Bengal, the mercury soared to 35.6°C in Kolkata — three notches above normal — on Friday but it felt like it was 44°C in the afternoon. Even as the Met office predicted the heat to persist till Sunday, spells of drizzles lashed parts of north and east Kolkata early in the evening, bringing some relief to the scorched city. Maximum temperature could continue to hover around 34°C-35°C in the city on Saturday, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). With no cloud cover and moisture-content remaining high, conditions have turned warm and uncomfortable in Kolkata and south Bengal, said RMC director GK Das. “We are experiencing a weak monsoon so far this month. There is no system yet that can generate clouds and keep the mercury down,” said Das. He, however, added things could change from Sunday evening once a low-pressure forms over northeast Bay of Bengal and moves closer to Gangetic Bengal. “Temperature will remain high till Sunday evening when we expect the system to start having an impact. Kolkata could receive moderate to heavy showers between Sunday night and Monday evening,” said Das. The initial impact could be on the districts bordering Bangladesh. It could then move westward on Monday, sailing across Kolkata, Howrah, Hoogly, West Burdwan and West Midnapore. “Kolkata could receive at least one heavy spell of shower on Monday,” said Das. Temperature is set to drop from Monday morning, though. The RMC predicts the maximum temperature to slide by at least 4°C and remain around 30°C till cloud cover persists in the aftermath of low-pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/real-feel-44c-but-rain-relief-on-radar-met/articleshow/78194454.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Private ambulances fleece Covid patients, charge over Rs10,000 for local transfers||NAGPUR: Taking advantage of overburdened emergency services like 108 ambulances, and lack of facilities in civic-run converted vans, private ambulances are allegedly fleecing Covid patients in the city. A couple of relatives said they were charged over Rs10,000 for transferring Covid patients to government medical colleges hardly a kilometre away. Recently, a private hospital handed over a bill of Rs11,000 to a relative for transferring a critical woman from a prominent hospital on Station Road to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). As per the bill break up, the patient was charged for three PPE kits and masks for the accompanying private hospital staff. Similarly, a Covid recovered patient was charged Rs40,000 for dropping at Chhindwara in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. As deaths have increased, many private ambulances are purposely parked near IGGMCH and GMCH mortuaries, where a hard deal is negotiated with relatives to transfer the body to cremation or burial ground. Nagpur Private Ambulance Association is divided over rates to be charged for transferring Covid patients. The association has fixed Rs6,000 for up to 15km distance shifting of patients, while some of them feel relatives must also pay for PPE kits, N95 masks and sanitizers beside other disposables. Some association members have also alleged a nexus between hospitals and ambulance owners, which has led to over charging of patients. An office bearer of the association, who owns a fleet of over 50 ambulances, said Rs500-1,000 rental is charged for local travel, excluding safety kits. “With doctor, ventilator and kits, we decided to charge Rs6,000. But there are certain black sheep tarnishing the profession,” he said. The fleet owner said the need of the hour is to keep ambulance service provider motivated. “We are risking our lives. A patient takes around 3 to 4 hours or even more to get admitted in government hospital. Yet, many are working at nominal fare. It is unfair to charge exorbitant amounts from relatives,” he said. Meanwhile, regional transport officer Dinkar Manwar told TOI that citizens can complain to them with the registration number of the ambulance. “We haven’t received any complaints as yet. But strict action will be taken if ambulances are found fleecing patients. People must send complaints on our official email IDs,” he said. NMC health department officials urged citizens to prefer its ambulances or 108 for local transfers while also asking them to report such cases of overcharging. “The city has the services of 108 ambulances which are fully equipped to transfer critical patients. We also recently deployed 4-5 ambulances in each zone. Unfortunately, they don’t have oxygen, doctors or paramedics. Hence, people have to prefer private ambulances,” a top NMC officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-ambulances-fleece-covid-patients-charge-over-rs10k-for-local-transfers/articleshow/78196554.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 19, 2020||Mumbai||Women-only ST buses for govt staff from Monday||Mumbai: Female Mantralaya and other government staff will have exclusive ST buses from far-flung suburbs from Monday morning, state transport minister Anil Parab on Friday announced. Other women can board the buses if there is space. MSRTC had introduced 100% occupancy in buses, increasing ridership and reducing queues of office-goers on Friday morning. Parab told TOI, “Many female government employees have to wait in long queues and undertake painstaking journeys to government offices. I have directed MSRTC to run special buses for them from Monday morning from Panvel, Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai-Virar.” Parab said that based on the response they will increase buses in the coming days. MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe said increasing the capacity of buses, especially during peak hours, helped thousands in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). “While ridership may have gone up, what was important was making buses available for maximum office-goers. It reduced queues to an extent at Kalyan, Vasai, Nalasopara and Panvel, where daily office-goers were complaining of poor frequency,” he said. Instead of 22 passengers, each bus carried 44 and no standees were allowed, sources said. Shivneri AC buses to Pune also carried passengers on all seats. MSRTC made it mandatory for passengers to wear masks and use sanitisers. The increase in ridership figures will be available on Saturday, when MSRTC will compare figures of Friday with Thursday. On an average, 5,550 buses have been ferrying five lakh commuters daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/women-only-st-buses-for-govt-staff-from-monday/articleshow/78194473.cms||Somit Sen
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Lalbazar allots Rs 1 crore for Amphan-hit CCTVs||KOLKATA: Lalbazar has allotted around Rs 1 crore to repair and replace the CCTV cameras damaged by Cyclone Amphan around four months ago. The process is likely to be completed in the next three months, according to sources. Senior officers of the Kolkata traffic police said that over two-thirds of cameras installed across the city need to be repaired or replaced. On Friday, the city police headquarters floated the tender for “restoration of damaged cameras under localised CCTV monitoring system”. The estimated cost has been pegged at Rs 97.5 lakh, sources said. Police sources said the cyclone that had damaged 85% of CCTV cameras across the city, led to the collapse of live monitoring from Lalbazar. Around 650-700 cameras are now functional and some of them have been repaired on a short-term basis. “Almost two-thirds of the cameras, especially in the added areas, are still not functioning properly. We are facing some issues in policing, so we have decided to resolve the problem,” said a senior officer from the traffic department. A few recent instances, especially the one where a driver fled after hitting braveheart Nilanjana Chatterjee at Anandapur, showed the importance of CCTV cameras even beyond the main roads, said a police officer. A few petty night thefts too showed the necessity to get the cameras replaced. Local police stations have been deploying more men on rounds at night and carrying out naka checks following the instructions from Lalbazar. Though the process of replacing the cameras started in July, it was the top security zones and main roads that were so far getting the priority. About two months ago in August, a tender had been placed for submitting bids for replacing the cameras on Ho Chi Minh Sarani that houses two high-security addresses — the British Deputy High Commission office and the US Consulate. The extent of the work can be understood from the fact that the tender bid has asked for 68 four megapixel cameras and 28 two megapixel cameras. In addition, 25,000-meter of outdoor cable and 3,200-meter of CCTV connecting cable will be required. “Since the work will be carried out across the city, a bigger time frame has been provided. But the bidder will also be providing us continuous servicing too,” said an officer. Officers at Lalbazar said that with the tender being called, they expect the situation to be normal by November. “But for the Covid situation, we could have completed the work earlier,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lalbazar-allots-rs-1-cr-for-cyclone-hit-cctv-cams/articleshow/78194477.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Bombs hurled in Karaya cafe brawl||KOLKATA: Some miscreants allegedly fired and hurled bombs inside a restaurant-cum-cafe at Nasiruddin Road in Karaya early on Friday. The cops have already identified the accused and a hunt is on to arrest them. Senior officers at Lalbazar, however, refuted the claims of firing and said the clash was a result of an old rivalry. Locals though claimed that it was a political clash.  Though cops denied the charges, sources claimed the restaurant also doubled up as a hookah bar. “One of the accused, Nishat Haider (23), along with three of his associates, entered the cafe around 1.30am and started searching for the owner, Rahul Singh. Haider was allegedly carrying bombs in his hands. When they could not find Singh, an argument broke out between him and Md Amin, the manager of the cafe,” claimed a police source. The cop added: “It was then that an employee, Tausif Raza (28), tried to stop Haider. The accused then assaulted Raza with the butt of his firearm, leaving the 28-year-old with serious head injuries. Before leaving the premises, Haider allegedly hurled at least four bombs and fired at least three bullets from his country-made firearm. Luckily, none was injured. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bombs-hurled-in-karaya-cafe-brawl/articleshow/78194478.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||RBI cuts rates, but reducing EMIs easier said than done||Whenever the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reduces key rates, it sends a message that equated monthly instalments (EMIs) on home loans would reduce as a consequence. The reality is starkly different. During the pandemic, when several people face job losses or salary cuts, a reduced EMI would come as a welcome relief. However, this is not an easily available option. Take the case of Ajay Kumar, for instance. Faced with a reduced salary, he approached a leading nationalized bank last month to get his EMI changed following policy rate reduction. “In an attempt to dissuade me from exercising the option, the branch manager told me, ‘if you reduce your EMI, you will face issues if you do not increase the payment when the rate cycle goes up’,” Kumar said. Two application forms, at least one branch visit and multiple e-mails later, Kumar is still waiting for a resolution. Similar was the case with Sudha Aravind, who said she had to “push her way through the hierarchy” at the bank’s loan processing centre to convince the bank to reduce her EMI. In practice, all it takes to change the EMI is a new mandate form signed by the loan account holder(s) and in some cases, an undertaking saying that the customer will increase the instalment payment in case the rate goes up. Bank insiders said the reluctance stems from the fact that reducing an EMI is a multi-level approval process involving changes in the back-end system. “It requires approvals from senior officers and also throws the bank’s income calculation off balance. We do try hard to tell customers not to tinker with the EMI and instead take the benefit of reduced tenure, as no change is involved.Only those who are persistent are grudgingly allowed to change the EMI ,” a retired official, who worked in the home loan department of a public sector bank, explained. “[Reducing EMI] is not an option given freely,” admitted a senior executive from a housing finance company. The executive pointed to the fact that institutions do not revise EMIs either when rates go up. “Only the tenure changes, provided it is within the original loan term,” the executive said. “The banks have an archaic way of working. Till now, all the agreements were on paper and so, the customer’s presence is necessary at the branch to change the mandate. Banks are now working on allowing this option online, but it will take a few months,” a senior private sector banker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rbi-cuts-rates-but-reducing-emis-easier-said-than-done/articleshow/78194460.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
September 19, 2020||Pune||Picking the strings & striking the right chord to beat the blues||Pune: Jitendra Shitre has been teaching keyboards for nearly two decades in Pune, but never had a mix of students aged between six years and 70 years.“The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown have brought about this change. Many adults are signing up for online music classes. Before the lockdown, I would spend around four hours a week teaching. Now it’s six hours a day,” Shitre said. IT professional Vishal Dharmadhikari had bought a guitar a few years ago, but could not proceed beyond a few lessons on YouTube. “But this July, I signed up for an online tutorial. It turned out to be easier for me to focus on music while working from home.”Finding the right tutor in the times of lockdown was also not a difficult task for the likes of Dharmadhikari. “Earlier 5% of our student pool were adults. Now they account for 30%. They want to learn everything — from keyboards to guitar, from piano to drums. We have over 150 teachers, who take online classes. Besides the one-on-one classes, we have group sessions for three adult beginners at a time,” said Shubhashish Satpathy from Furtados School of Music. Akshit Garg from Rooster Guitars in Bengaluru said, “There has been a healthy rise in the sales of guitars We offer free classes with every purchase. It is not difficult to learn the guitar, as long as you spend time with it, fiddle with it, get to know it and make it your own. The lockdown gave people the time.”Tony Braganza from Braganza & Co, Kolkata said, “People are enrolling their kids for online music classes. Adults, too, are willing to pursue music. Restocking is a problem with sales going up. But there’s a lack of stack because China-made products are not being imported. Local manufacturing will hopefully increase, once people go back to their lives. Yamaha has a factory in Tamil Nadu, but production has taken a hit because of Covid-19.”Ukulele, too, has become a rage. “My student pool has tripled during the lockdown and most of them are in their 20s. Online classes help me reach out to students in Hyderabad, Bangalore, the UK and Canada. A lot of Indie-alternative content is being created around it, particularly with celebrities such as Billie Eilish and Twenty One Pilots using the instrument,” said Pune-based ukulele player Luv Mahtani, who is pursuing an online training course with James Hill Ukulele Initiative, Canada.Drummer Arjun Menon of The Abel Projekt said, “It’s not to teach drums online because not many people have access to a drum set or own one. But I have two students — one has a drum set and the other has made a DIY practice pad. I also teach keyboards to 23 students online. We used the lockdown to finish recording of our songs and released ‘Stories of an Abstract Mind’. It features some of the audience favourites from the last two-three years of our live shows.” Pune-based music composer-arranger Sanket Sane said, “Now that travelling is restricted, I have started teaching qualitatively. I am accepting three students and guiding them from the basics — music theory, how to listen to music and developing an ear for sounds. The next level will be learning how to do the actual scoring I hope to work with them on projects once their training is over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/picking-the-strings-striking-the-right-chord-to-beat-the-blues/articleshow/78194472.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Ignou sticks to offline exam, over 3 lakh register||NAGPUR: Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) said it is conducting offline exams for its final semester/year students because the online format is not an option. Speaking to TOI, Ignou vice-chancellor Nageshwar Rao said most of its students will face difficulty in either accessing compatible technology or for appearing in an online format exam. Rao said, “The demographics of Ignou students is very wide and a drastic change in format cannot be implemented at such short notice. To get the centres prepared will take quite some time and also many students might not be comfortable with it. So to conduct online only exam will not be possible for us.” The VC added that IGNOU has received feedback from students that exams should be held offline only. “Those who were able to reach us, expressed concerns over online exam. It’s clear that many of them are comfortable with offline format,” said Rao. Ignou exams started on Thursday with over 3.25 lakh students registered for it. The exams will continue till October. These exams are being held as per the mandate given by University Grants Commission (UGC) to hold test for final year or semester students from September itself. In Maharashtra, various universities are already preparing for an online exam. Even Government Polytechnic Nagpur (GPN) has announced it will go for both orals and theory exam in online format. In case of no Internet access, the oral exams can be taken over phone, said the GPN, an autonomous institution. The exams currently underway have been going on as per Covid-19 guidelines. However, unlike JEE and NEET, there is no provision for students with high temperature to appear for the test. P Sivaswaroop, regional director of Ignou, said, “No student with high temperature turned up at any test centre. Students with any symptoms or cases nearby or Covid positive, are contacting us through e-mail. We are guiding them to take care and that they can appear in exams in December, without any extra fees.” .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignou-sticks-to-offline-exam-over-3-lakh-register/articleshow/78193109.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 19, 2020||Vadodara||Godhra municipality seeks Rs 60L for RTI papers||Vadodara: An applicant seeking information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has been asked to deposit Rs 60lakh by the Godhra municipality!. The applicant Kasam Hathila had sought records regarding building permissions given by the municipality in the last decade. Hathila had been seeking details from the municipality since early this year. He was unhappy with the details provided to him earlier and was allowed to see the record. However, on one occasion he wanted to see the record with a videographer and on another with a man having a mobile phone. When the municipality did not allow a person to accompany Hathila, he sought a copy of the records. In reply, the municipality has asked him to deposit Rs 60lakh for making the copies. The letter by the municipality sent to Hathila last week also states that if the amount increases, he may have to pay the additional amount too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/godhra-municipality-seeks-rs-60l-for-rti-papers/articleshow/78193375.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||3 arrested for ferrying weed||Pune: The crime branch personnel arrested three persons for possessing marijuana worth over Rs24 lakh on Thursday evening. Arun Jadhav (26), along with his relatives Prashant Shinde (25) and Shubham Mohite (19), will be in police custody till September 21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-arrested-for-ferrying-weed/articleshow/78194479.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala ADC, RTA officials pelted with stones on Punjab-Haryana border||Jaskaran Singh | TNN Ambala: A group of persons involved in mining activities attacked Ambala additional deputy commissioner (ADC)-cum-secretary, state road transport authority (RTA) Preeti and department officials, damaging her car on Punjab-Haryana border area late on Friday night. In videos which have gone viral on the internet, a group of people can be seen attacking RTA officials and their vehicle with stones and hurling abuses. Two officials posted with ADC, Ambala including her gunman, constable Karambir and her driver Kuldeep Saini sustained injuries in the attack. Police said they are out of danger. An official of Ambala RTA, transport sub-inspector (TSI) Sher Singh is missing and has not reported to his office on Friday, assistant secretary Ambala RTA, Roop Chand said. On the complaint of Roop Chand, who was also present on the spot, a case has been registered against four accused identified as Buta Singh, Kulwant Singh, Rajeev Gadaria, Sachin Saini and unknown others under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from his duty), and 365 (kidnapping or abducting) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Panjokhra police station at 01.25 am on Friday. Roop Chand told the police, “On Thursday, our team, under the leadership of Ambala ADC, was checking overload vehicles from 12pm onwards. We checked many vehicles and at about 8pm, we reached near a Haryana liquor store in Panjokhra before the turn of Tasimbli village road. Several overload vehicles were seen and we started checking them after laying a naka (barricade). During this time, owners of several overload vehicles reached the spot in their personal vehicles and started turning back their overload vehicles, which were stopped by the team. Then, ADC madam took us along and attempted to catch those vehicles. During a chase, upon entering some area in Punjab, they confronted our vehicle with their personal vehicles.” Roop Chand added, “ They launched a deadly attack on the ADC and staff. They confronted my staff’s vehicle (HR06R0018) with their vehicles and launched an attack with sticks and stones. They damaged our vehicle and pushed it into ditches. Our staff received injuries in the incident. They kidnapped our employee Sher Singh TSI and the rest of the staff saved themselves after running into the fields.” According to him, assailants include Buta Singh of Baldev Nagar, Ambala City, Kulwant Singh of Janetpur village in Ambala district, Rajeev Gadaria of Nohni village and Sachin Saini of Gaganheri village. Vehicles bearing numbers HR37D5455, HR37D5238 and HR37D9046 were stopped during checking. “About 50 to 60 unidentified persons were also involved in the attack,” Roop said. He blamed the mining mafia for the attack and said safety has become a major concern for officials. Ambala police has handed over investigation of the case to Naraingarh crime investigation agency (CIA) and no arrests have been made so far. Naraingarh CIA in-charge inspector Arvind Kumar said, “Two officials of RTA Ambala were injured in a violent attack on their team in Panjokhra police station area. Efforts are being made to nab the accused involved in this case and they are at large.” On September 12, Ambala ADC busted a gang conducting reconnaissance of district RTA officials and sharing their location with transporters via WhatsApp group in exchange for money to help them pass with overloaded vehicles through Ambala roads. A case in this regard was registered at Naraingarh police station and five persons were arrested. They were later released on bail. On September 7, two persons were caught chasing the vehicle of the Ambala ADC in Naraingarh area. A case was registered on September 8. They were arrested and released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-adc-rta-officials-pelted-with-stones-on-punjab-haryana-border/articleshow/78193123.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang stealing wheat bags from trains busted, 7 held||Ludhiana: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Friday claimed to have busted a gang of thieves with the arrest of seven after conducting raids at several localities near railway yards and sub-stations where goods wagons are stationed.All seven accused were involved in two cases of stealing wheat bags in the past some days when the railways increased the number of goods trains for generating more revenue.The station master and the train guard had complained to the RPF about the thefts that were undertaken after breaking the seals of goods trains when they arrived at the sub-stations of Phillaur and Ladhowal during late night hours. Ludhiana RPF inspector Anil Kumar said, “After receiving complaints, a special investigation team was formed and they started conducting raids in localities near railway tracks in Phillaur and Ladhowal and arrested seven accused. They have been identified as Satnam Singh, Ravi Kumar, Ashok Kumar, Mandeep, Pawan Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Ritik. All seven are residents of Ladhowal. Police have recovered 31 wheat bags (one quintal each) worth more than Rs 50,000 from their houses.”He said, “Police learnt that the accused were into alcoholism and gambling and their incomes had dropped due to the pandemic, so they resorted to stealing. At the time of arrest, they were hatching a conspiracy to steal more than 50 bags of wheat along with pulses and sell it in the wholesale market.” He said, “Kingpin of the gang Vijay Kumar led his accomplices after learning that there was no security when trains arrived at Ladhowal and Phillaur sub-stations following the maintenance work at late night hours. Accused Pawan Kumar entered the wagons of two goods trains after breaking their seals and threw out wheat bags when the locomotives were about to leave the station. While his gang members were working, Vijay kept an eye on the guard and security personnel.”Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “We received several complaints from railway guard and station master about wheat bags getting stolen at night hours. A large number of good trains are running these days to carry essential items across the country and the railways is focusing on increasing revenue by running more goods trains. In the past few days, we have conducted meetings with RPF officials to know about the cause behind the burglaries and after which a team was constituted and raids conducted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-stealing-wheat-bags-from-trains-busted-7-held/articleshow/78193127.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Four South Kolkata accidents claim two lives||KOLKATA: Two persons died, while four were injured in four accidents on Thursday. In the first accident, Kaushik Mondal, a Lake View Road resident, lost his life after his scooter hit a median on Lake flyover. The pillion rider, Indrajit Shetty (25), is in a serious condition.  In another accident, pillion rider Subhasish Mondal (45) died after the bike he was on crashed into a parked bus near Patuli petrol pump. His pillion rider, Rakesh Roy (30), is also in a serious condition. In the third accident, Amit Mahato (25), a Kalighat resident, was severely injured after a WBTC bus hit him at Rashbehari crossing. In the fourth, Mainak Ghosh (32), a reserve force constable riding a bike, was hit by a vehicle at Kidderpore Road-Casuarina Avenue crossing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-s-kol-accidents-claim-two-lives/articleshow/78194514.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||10% jump in Jamia Millia Islamia applications||NEW DELHI: Each applicant for BA (H) economics at Jamia Millia Islamia will have to compete with 256 others for a seat this year. Similarly, for BA (H) political science, 178 candidates have to fight it out in the entrance test. With 1,70,992 applications against 1,53,544 in 2019, the varsity has witnessed a 10% jump in the number of applications for the entrance test this year. The entrance exams are likely to begin from the first week of November. Only last year, Jamia had witnessed an 11% jump from the 2018 numbers. Vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar said the varsity has been popular as it’s open for applicants from all the states. “We have a large number of courses, including multi-disciplinary ones,” she said, adding that the varsity’s rankings had also been improving regularly. TOI had reported on August 13 that how Jamia, despite the turmoil that it had faced for many months, bagged the first spot among all the central universities in the country in the assessments of the ministry of education with a score of 90%. Jamia came first in the grading/scoring of performance of central universities by the ministry, followed by Rajiv Gandhi University of Arunachal Pradesh, Jawaharlal Nehru University and Aligarh Muslim University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-jump-in-jamia-applications/articleshow/78194516.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 19, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar opens state-of-art Krishi Bhavan in Patna||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday inaugurated a state-of-the-art ‘Krishi Bhavan’ in Mithapur area here by unveiling the inaugural plaque. The Krishi Bhavan campus is spread over an area of 23.80 acre which was built at a cost of Rs 125.23 crore. It is for the first time after the outbreak of Covid-19 that the CM visited the spot to inaugurate a new building or project. Earlier, he had been doing such inaugural works through video conferencing either from the CM secretariat or the ‘Nek Samvad’ hall at his official residence. After the inauguration of the new building, the CM also inspected an exhibition based on the achievements of the agriculture department and its allied offices. Accompanied by deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary and agriculture minister Prem Kumar, the CM also visited different rooms of the main administrative block and inquired about the facilities available there. The CM also released the ‘BIHAN’ App and a booklet on ‘Bihar Agri Investment Promotion Eco System’ on the occasion. All officers of the agriculture department will be linked through the BIHAN app, which will provide various information about agricultural produce of the state. Nitish also planted a sapling on the campus. “The Krishi Bhavan has been constructed on the concept of green building. It has all modern facilities like rainwater harvesting, zero water discharge technology, quake resistant technology and centralized air-conditioning,” agriculture minister Prem Kumar said. He said, the main administrative building of the bhavan is spread in around 11,900 square meters. The campus has 11 building blocks and 78 residential units, 117 water harvesting structures and one water body to ensure effective water harvesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-opens-state-of-art-krishi-bhavan-in-patna/articleshow/78194576.cms||Madan Kumar
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||All 27 gates of Jayakwadi dam opened||Aurangabad: With the water from Jayakwadi major irrigation project being discharged at the rate of 94,000 cusec, all the 27 flood gates were lifted by Friday morning. The dam authorities have issued an alert for people living along the banks of Godavari to take necessary precautions amid heavy release of water in the command areas. Meanwhile, a long spell of heavy rain lashed Aurangabad city and the outskirts on Thursday night. Sandeep Rathod, the in-charge of Jayakwadi dam, said, “While the Jayakwadi dam is filled to the brim, inflows from upstream areas in Nashik and Ahmednagar have been rising. Increased inflows along with the rain in catchments has increased the net addition of water into the dam. Heavy discharge is the only option.” Rathod added the release of water from the left bank and right canal systems of Jayakwadi had been kept on hold for the past few days before the latter resumed discharge at the rate of 300 cusec. “Parts of Marathwada have been witnessing heavy rain and release of water could further worsen the situation,” he said, adding the water release from an outlet near hydropower project was kept on hold. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/all-27-gates-of-jayakwadi-dam-opened/articleshow/78192148.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Rain Deficit Looms After Sept’s Dry Run||New Delhi: After a promising monsoon period in August with two ‘heavy’ and one ‘very heavy’ rain days, September has been a disappointment so far. Just three days have recorded precipitation this month. While Delhi’s overall rainfall record is ‘normal’, the city may well show a deficit by the end of the month, when the monsoon starts withdrawing. To add to the dry spell, the capital has also been sweating with high humidity and a maximum temperature two degrees above the average of 34 degrees Celsius for this time of the year. Though light rainfall was expected on Friday and Saturday, an IMD official admitted that Delhi would likely see rains only by September 22. “The maximum temperature will continue to be 36-37 degrees Celsius till September 21. There will be a slight relief on September 22 when the heat will decrease one or two degrees. The humidity level, however, is expected to rise to 90%,” said a Met official. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, explained, “Delhi had fewer rainy days in September because the monsoon trough mostly remained in the hills and there was no major disturbance or low-pressure system.” According to the Met department, there was precipitation in Delhi on September 5, 6 and 8. Only ‘trace’ rainfall was recorded on September 4, while 0.8mm of rainfall was recorded on September 5. The rainfall on September 6 measured 18.8mm and on September 8, 1.3mm. Officials said eastern Delhi and a few areas on the capital’s outskirts also received very light rain on September 14, but no rain was recorded at the IMD observatories, including Safdarjung, the base weather station. The lack of rain has meant that the Safdarjung log shows a deficit of 78% in September, while Palam and Lodhi Road have a deficit of 68% and 80% so far this month. In contrast, there were six and 14 rainy days in September, respectively, in 2019 and 2018. In the last 10 years, the driest September was 2015, when only it rained on only two days. At a negative 17%, Delhi’s overall monsoon is still in the ‘normal’ category, but lack of rain activity in the next few days will likely push the measure to a deficit classification. The IMD classifies deficit when the rainfall recorded is over negative 19%. IMD officials are closely monitoring the withdrawal of the monsoon, the normal date for which is September 21 for Delhi. Earlier this year, this date was set for September 25. But as Srivastava now says, “The monsoon is likely to withdraw from Delhi by the end of September or first week of October.” Last year, the monsoon withdrew on October 10, on October 1 in 2018 and September 30 in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-deficit-looms-after-septs-dry-run/articleshow/78194586.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 19, 2020||Surat||Knife-wielding teens cut into Surat’s crime scene||SURAT: It’s not just ensuring adherence to Covid rules that’s keeping Surat police on the razor’s edge. The cops are having to keep a sharp eye on large number of teenagers whose new-found fad for possessing and brandishing knives. In just three days up to September 17, as many as 72 knives of various shapes and sizes have been seized in three police station areas alone. As many number of youths have also been arrested. While most teenagers are ending their days either finishing homework or preparing for various exams, there are others who can be seeing hanging out in groups, regaling about their shiny knives and the extent of injuries they can cause. Police sources said that most of these wayward teens don’t mind spending from their pocket money on buying the weapons, mostly as a style statement and if necessary, as intimidation tactics. These startling facts came to light after police started a drive to check youths from Udhna, Limbayat and Dindoli following at least 13 offences of attacks with knives lodged in these police stations in August On checking them while hanging out with friends in public between 6pm to 9pm, the constant recovery of the knives left even the cops surprised. “Police teams found knives of different sizes and shapes from the youths during the drive. All of them are not involved in criminal activities, but they want to possess knives as a style,” said Prashant Sumbe, in-charge of zone I under which the three police stations fall. However, police suspect that many are keeping the knives since they are easy to carry compared to other weapons like sticks or iron rods. Knives are also preferred as they can deal severe injury with limited effort, police informed. Following recovery of so many knives in just three days, police now plan conduct this drive at regular intervals to prevent bodily crimes. “While examining details of criminal cases, I found that many bodily crimes are taking place in the limits of these three police stations. Therefore, a drive between 6pm to 9 pm when chances higher of similar crimes taking place was conducted,” Sumbe said. Police also observed that many of the youngsters had lean bodies and therefore preferred knives as they themselves can’t possibly take the weight of iron rods or wield heavy wooden sticks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/knife-wielding-teens-cut-into-surats-crime-scene/articleshow/78193191.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 19, 2020||Mumbai||NCB says drug supplier linked to Bollywood celebs held||Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Rahil Vishram from Versova and seized 900gm of charas and Rs 4.5 lakh. Rahil’s name cropped up during interrogation of another suspect Anuj Keshwani, arrested for links with peddlers who used to supply drugs to actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Sushant had died by suicide on June 14 at his Bandra home. A team led by zonal director Sammer Wankhede is probing supply of ganja to Sushant. NCB claimed that charas recovered from Rahil was procured from Himachal Pradesh and was of superior quality. Rahil will be produced before the magistrate’s court through video-conferencing on Saturday. “During interrogation, he admitted he supplied drugs to Bollywood personalities and named his mentor. Based on his interrogation we are preparing a list of celebrities who were buying drugs from both,’’ an official said. NCB claimed that they also supplied Malana cream, a high quality hashish. Meanwhile, NCB nabbed drug peddlers Rohan Talwar, Nogthoung Lotha, Jaychetan Raichera and Vishal Salve and seized around 500gm of ganja from them. NCB said they were selling it for Rs5,000 a gm. Watch Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests drug supplier with Bollywood links, recovers 900gm of charas from him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-says-drug-supplier-linked-to-bollywood-celebs-held/articleshow/78194569.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, paramour found hanging in Pilibhit village||PILIBHIT: A 30-year-old mother of two and her paramour (22) were found hanging at two different places in Pilibhit's Ramnagar Jagatpur village, under Deuria police station, on Friday morning. Sanjeev Upadhyay, SHO, said Guddi Devi was in a relationship with Amit Kumar, a farmer, in the village. Both faced humiliation and taunts when their affair became public. This may have forced them to take the extreme step, he said. The youth hanged himself inside his house late on Thursday night. On learning about his death, the woman also hanged herself from a tree on Friday morning. No complaint has been lodged in the matter, SHO Upadhyay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-paramour-found-hanging-in-pilibhit-village/articleshow/78193139.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam: 12 govt hospitals to augment facilities||KOCHI: The district administration and health department are planning to augment facilities in the district as Ernakulam has been witnessing significant spike in Covid-19 cases. As per the projection by health department, soon the number of cases may go beyond 700. So, authorities have initiated steps to begin Covid-19 treatment at 12 major government hospitals, including taluk hospitals. “As of now there are more than 3,000 patients undergoing treatment in different parts of the district. We have adopted a strategy to ensure maximum use of healthcare staff and system without overburdening them,” an official with the health department in the district said. “Measures are on for rolling out decentralized Covid-19 prevention and swab collection centres in all the local bodies. Around 40 local bodies have already set up such centres. There will be measures to identify all the contacts and those with Covid-19-like symptoms at the earliest. Telemedicine support will be given to all contacts and those identified with influenza like illness. There will be dedicated staff at the panchayat level centres to get in touch with those in quarantine or asymptomatic patients undergoing treatment at their homes,” he said. If the number of cases touches 1,000 or more a day, authorities will start Covid-19 treatment in taluk hospitals and other major government hospitals in the district. “Our plan is to avoid providing Covid and non-Covid treatment at the same hospital. But, if cases increase, we will have to start Covid-19 treatment in taluk hospitals as well. But it will be done after ensuring adequate facilities to avoid the mix of Covid and non-Covid patients,” a health department official said. “As of now, there are adequate facilities to accommodate more patients in government medical college, covid treatment centre at Adlux convention centre near Angamaly, PVS Hospital and CFLTCs,” the official said. Health department officials said facilities for conducting Covid-19 diagnostic tests also have increased in the district. “There are RT-PCR test facilities in Government Medical College, Ernakulam and Regional Public Health laboratory here. Besides some of the private hospitals, three major private labs in the district also provide RT-PCR testing facilities. This has resulted in more and more cases being diagnosed. Private hospitals also are giving treatment to more Covid-19 patients now. As of now, there are around 300 patients undergoing treatment at private hospitals,” sources with the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/12-govt-hosps-to-augment-facilities/articleshow/78194579.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||School kids among beneficiaries of PM Kisan Nidhi in Uttar Paradesh||BAREILLY: Barely a week after a major scam in the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme was unearthed in Tamil Nadu, police in Uttar Pradesh busted a gang which facilitated registration of thousands of ineligible beneficiaries – people without any agricultural land – under the same scheme in Shahjahanpur, on Friday. So far, the district administration has found the details of nearly 6,500 fake beneficiaries who were getting benefits of Rs 6,000 per annum under the scheme. The beneficiaries included even schoolchildren. Of the 3.5 lakh farmers enrolled under the scheme in the district, some 30,000 could be fake beneficiaries, said an official on the condition of anonymity. Police have so far arrested five scamsters, who used to create fake profiles by entering false ‘Khatauni’ numbers. Police have also recovered three laptops, a printer and four mobile phones from them. The crime branch team will seek custody of the accused to gather more information. The gang members included computer operators who had previously been given the task of data entry in government offices and had access to government records. Involvement of a few government employees is also suspected. Shahjahanpur district magistrate Indra Vikram Singh said, “After the issue was raised by a whistleblower, we had registered an FIR at Roza police station against 77 unidentified people. The final list of fake beneficiaries would be available once the survey is completed and they will be sent notice to return the money.” Detailing on the gang’s modus operandi, senior superintendent of police S. Anand told TOI, “Main accused Vipin Kumar runs a Jan Seva Kendra in Roza area of Shahjahanpur and had teamed up with Mohit and Anil Kumar, both former contractual government employees. They used to bring fake beneficiaries to the centre. After filling the online form with a fake land record, the accused used to verify it through the ‘tehsil login ID’ provided to them by two other accused. Once the form is verified by the tehsil login, benefits are processed into the account of the beneficiary. The accused used to charge the first instalment as their fee.” The SSP said that a detailed probe is underway and many government employees are under scanner. Last week, it was reported that an estimated ₹110 crore was fraudulently credited to the bank accounts of 5.5 lakh ineligible people in 13 districts of Tamil Nadu during the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/school-kids-among-beneficiaries-of-pm-kisan-nidhi-in-up-6500-fake-entries-found/articleshow/78192150.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Pkl sand mafia went to work during lockdown||Arvind.Bishnoi1Panchkula: The district’s illegal sand miners were at work even during the pandemic, when all the administrative machinery was fighting Covid-19. Since the beginning of the lockdown, the task force against illegal mining has registered seven cases. These miners were in fields along rivulets and the impounding of their 20 vehicles made no difference to the mafia. Force head and deputy commissioner M K Ahuja has asked the mining department officers to make a better plan. The DC wants the force to intensify vigil in the potential mining pockets of Pinjore, Kalka, and Raipur Rani. He has also called for a detailed report. Talking about the NGT (National Green Tribunal) rule, an official said the fine for illegal mining was between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 4 lakh. Non-payment invites the auctioning of the seized vehicles. Since the NGT passed its orders in August, the mining department has seized 115 vehicles and sent a notice of fine to their owners. None of them has come forward to pay the fine. Most of those vehicles are lined up for auction. Subdivisional magistrate (city) Dheeraj Chahal and Kalka SDM Rakesh Sandhu will supervise the monitoring teams in their areas. All 25 potential pockets that the mining department has identified must have mining guards, who will report any illegal activity in the area. Additional DC Manita Malik is nodal officer of the DC’s task force committee. Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa has recommended enhanced vigil in the riverine course villages of Rihor, Shyamtu, Toka, Burj Kotiyan, Bataur, Mauli, Tabar, Todi, Natwal, and Badauna. The administration has told the Sarpanches of these villages to report any illegal mining. The DC had made it clear that his office was determined to auction the seized vehicles, if no one came forward to pay the fine. However, illegal mining continues relentlessly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-sand-mafia-went-to-work-during-lockdown/articleshow/78193152.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to reduce school syllabus by 30%||Dehradun: The state education minister Arvind Pandey on Friday announced about 30% of the syllabus would be reduced for school students for the current academic year. Pandey announced that directions have already been given to the education department regarding reducing the NCERT syllabus by 30% for the current academic year in view of the days lost by the students due to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. The directions to reduce 30% of the syllabus also apply to non-NCERT reference books being used by different schools along with the NCERT ones. However, the content which will be deducted for this year is yet to be finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-reduce-school-syllabus-by-30/articleshow/78193173.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||People coming to U’khand for 3-4 days don’t need Covid-19 test||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has clarified that people coming to Uttarakhand for a short duration of three to four days are not required to get the Covid-19 test done. On Friday, he once again asked the state authorities to ensure that such tourists or people coming to Uttarakhand for urgent or emergency reasons are not mandated to undergo Covid-19 test. Students and candidates appearing for competitive exams would also be exempted from undergoing Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/people-coming-to-ukhand-for-3-4-days-dont-need-covid-19-test/articleshow/78193146.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education department guidelines for phased visit of students to schools||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department has issued guidelines on visit of students to schools from September 21. In the first phase, students of board classes X and XII will be allowed to come voluntarily and only for guidance. They will be called in two sessions of two hours each, with a gap of one-and-a-half hour between both the shifts. Only 15 students will be seated in one room. All the schools have been asked to prepare a class-wise schedule as per the number of students and ensure social distancing. The teaching and non-teaching employees, up to 50% strength, may be called to schools for online teaching or tele-counselling and other work. Instead of biometric attendance, arrangements for contactless marking will be made. Teachers will attend the school from September 21 as per the requirement of the schedule. The principals and heads of schools have been asked to ensure that online or distance learning is continued. After the first phase of partial re-opening when board classes’ students are called, those of Class XI will be allowed, followed by those of Class IX in the last phase. The students will need to carry a written consent of their parents or guardians. The students and teachers residing in micro-containment zones will not be allowed to visit. All work areas, including laboratories, will be sanitized. MC chief engineer has already initiated sanitisation work, which will be completed by September 20. There will be a provision of thermal screening at the entry and sanitisers will also be provided. The students will be discouraged to carry eatables to avoid sharing. The canteens will not be allowed to open. The students will be asked to carry their own drinking water bottles. For ensuring queue management, inside and outside the premises, specific markings on the floor with a gap of six feet will be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-guidelines-for-phased-visit-of-students-to-schools/articleshow/78193168.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Retail veggie prices go haywire||KOLKATA: City’s retail market prices are marked by wide fluctuations, mainly due to supply line issues. The fluctuations not only leave a lot of unsold vegetables to rot but also trigger irritation and shock among buyers. “Price fluctuations do more harm to us than to buyers,” said Shankar Ghosh, secretary of the Barisha retail market. Early last week, the price of tomatoes suddenly rose to a record Rs120-130 a kg. It took only two days to cool off the price to Rs 80 and subsequently to Rs 60. There were supply line issues with the bulk of tomatoes coming to Kolkata from Karnataka. “But the price refused to swing back to its early August rate of Rs 25-30 a kg,” Ghosh added. The brinjal (eggplant) that was being sold in the first week of September at Rs 30 a kg is now Rs 60 per kg. Brinjal’s production suddenly dropped due to the vagaries of weather and the price may appreciate further, cautioned Kamal Dey, president, West Bengal Vendors’s Association. Some vegetable prices have dipped in the wholesale market, but it is not being reflected in their retail prices. The price of green chillies, which rose to a record Rs250 a kg, has crumbled to Rs30-40 kg in the wholesale market. But its retail price hovered around Rs100-120 a kg. Prices of beans have also come down to Rs 40 per kg against Rs 80 four days back while the retail market price refused to plunge below Rs 120 a kg. “The supplies have improved and prices have also come down accordingly. There has not been much demand for the vegetables like green chillies and beans in Bangladesh after a few consignments from India were of inferior quality. This has increased supply in the domestic market for green chillies and beans,” said Anup Gupta, a wholesaler in the Koley Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/retail-veggie-prices-go-haywire/articleshow/78194573.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 19, 2020||India||Automatic weather stations for nearly all dists||NEW DELHI: Almost all districts across the country will get automatic weather stations (AWS) to provide farm-specific weather and soil related advisories to all farmers by the end of next year. The Centre has decided to expand its ongoing programme from 200 districts to 721 districts having ‘Krishi Vigyan Kendras’ (KVKs). These 721 KVKs are specialised centres of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and agri universities to provide agricultural extension services to farmers. The Agro Meteorological Advisory Service is currently being provided by India Meteorological Department under the Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa scheme. Under this scheme, medium range weather forecasts (up to five days) at district level are issued.The AWS, covering all districts in India, will further strengthen the existing advisory services. “At present, we have AWS in 130 districts. Additional 200 districts are being covered under Phase-I of our plan. The first phase will be completed in the next couple of months. The remaining districts will be covered in next 12 to 18 months, bringing all KVKs under the net of such services for farmers,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences (MoES). He told TOI on Friday that these District Agro Meteorological Units (DAMUs), equipped with AWS, would record daily minimum and maximum temperature, humidity, rainfall, evaporation rate etc. and work for better outreach with all kinds of weather and soil-related information so that the farmers can go for right crops at right time. “We will deploy two weather scientists each at all DAMUs. These scientists will work in coordination with the ICAR to provide weather-based crop and livestock management advisories to farmers,” said Rajeevan. These advisories are currently communicated to farmers through multi-channel dissemination systems using newspapers, radio, TV, mobile SMS and mobile App – ‘Meghdoot’. “Idea is to take this facility from district to block level. But, it’ll happen later,” said Rajeevan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/automatic-weather-stations-for-nearly-all-dists/articleshow/78197444.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 19, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab to provide Rs 11 crore loan to backward youth||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government would provide a loan of Rs 11.27 crore during the financial year 2020-2021 to uplift the economic standard of the youth from backward classes in the state. Social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (Backfinco) would disburse a loan of Rs 11.27 crore to 751 beneficiaries during 2020-21. He said under this scheme, loans amounting to over Rs 1.09 crore have been already disbursed to 65 beneficiaries till July 31. Besides, loans of Rs 5.50 lakh have been disbursed to three beneficiaries under the direct loan scheme. The minister said the corporation had disbursed loans of over Rs 24.33 crore to total 1,459 beneficiaries between 2016-17 to 2019-2020 under the direct loan scheme. Dharamsot said the trained youth could avail benefits of this scheme and improve their economy by starting their own businesses. He said Backfinco has also provided loans to the youth from backward class for higher education. Under this scheme boy students can take loans at 4% interest to pursue studies. The interest rate for girls is 3.5% per annum. The loan is repaid in monthly installments after six months of the completion of the course in five years. He said provision has also been made to provide loans up to Rs 20 lakh for studying abroad. He said that priority would be given to the vocational trained youth in providing loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-to-provide-rs-11cr-loan-to-bc-youth/articleshow/78200628.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||CSCL receives 8 bids for purchase of twin-bin garbage lifting vehicles||Chandigarh: Finally, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has received eight bids to purchase 390 twin-bin BS-6 vehicles to lift dry and wet garbage separately. Of these, noted companies like Tata Motors, Mahindra and Isuzu have applied in a bid. CSCL has completed technical evaluation and asked successful bidders to submit clarifications to resume the process of purchase of vehicles. Since the in-built twin-bin garbage collecting vehicles will have two bins of green and blue colour to lift dry and wet waste on a daily basis, the civic body will not have to install any additional accessory or part separately. The estimated cost of these vehicles is around Rs 35 crore, but the authority is quite optimistic about getting the vehicles for less due to competition among participating companies. “After receiving the bids, we have just completed the technical evaluation and asked for clarification over some points from the companies. Clarification will come within a week and we will open the financial bid after that. Although the bidder who gives us the vehicles at the lowest rates among the participants will be liable to get the tender, we may also go for reverse bidding to look for another bidder who can supply the vehicles to us in more or less amount than quoted by the lowest bidder,” an official said. Since pollution is a major concern of the central government these days, they allowed only BS-6 vehicles, which are more environment friendly than others. The tender process was delayed earlier as the BS-6 vehicles were not available on GeM (Government-E-Marketing). “As the MoU has already been signed with door to door waste collectors’ association of the city, these collectors will be employed on the vehicles and they will work based on the laid down terms and conditions they signed with the authority. They will be provided with proper dress and safety equipment required for lifting garbage from their respective areas”, sources said. Box: 70 vehicles in use Currently, the Chandigarh MC has deployed around 70 twin-bin vehicles to lift segregated garbage from 13 villages of the city. Since these villages were directly under the civic body, they started the exercise last year without any problems by purchasing small twin-bin vehicles to lift segregated garbage. However, the tussle between city-based door to door collectors hindered its implementation in urban areas. The project will now be started in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cscl-receives-8-bids-for-purchase-of-twin-bin-garbage-lifting-vehicles/articleshow/78193184.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||3 killed, 3 injured after vehicle rams boring machine||BAREILLY: Three people were killed and three others seriously injured after the vehicle they were travelling in from Haryana’s Panipat rammed into a submersible boring machine on Moradabad highway near Rasulpur Kaily village in Chandausi after their driver reportedly dozed off at the wheel around 4am on Friday. Five labourers — working at a factory in Panipat — were on their way home in Badaun, Bareilly and Pilibhit districts in a hired vehicle when the accident took place. Police said they rushed all of them to a CHC in Chandausi, where doctors proclaimed three, including the driver, dead upon arrival, while the injured were admitted to the district hospital. The deceased were identified as Dhaniram (45), resident of Aonla, Bareilly; Dhirendra Singh (25) of Rukhda Khola village in Badaun; and Pravin (35), the driver, hailing from Manak Shahar in Panipat, while the injured are Pradeep Kumar (17) of Gajeaula Kalan in Pilibhit; Rajesh Kumar (30) of Godi Nagla in Badaun and his cousin Raju (32). Chandausi SHO Dharam Pal Singh said, “The accident took place as the driver dozed off at the wheel and the uncontrolled vehicle rammed into a boring machine on the roadside. The bodies were sent for postmortem and the victim’s families were informed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-killed-3-injured-as-vehicle-rams-boring-machine-after-driver-dozes-off-at-wheel-in-ups-chandausi/articleshow/78193209.cms||Maria Khan
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Jayakwadi overflowing but Aurangabad city still thirsty||Aurangabad: The Jayakwadi dam is overflowing for the second consecutive year, yet Aurangabad, the city that it largely caters to, is grappling with water supply issues.The saucer-shaped Jayakwadi dam has been functioning since 1976 and can hold 102.7 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water. Though it had hit dead storage quite a few times in the past, the good run of the monsoon this year has meant the dam’s gates have been lifted to release water.However, residents of Aurangabad are still getting water only once in four days. Aurangabad, which is the main city of the parched Marathwada region, is not unaware of water woes. The reason for this plight is its leaking and rusting pipeline and supply network. A new parallel pipeline was mooted in 2005-06 at a cost of Rs 359.67 crore, but the project moved at a snail’s pace due to opposition and litigation.As per official estimates, Aurangabad needs around 278 million litres of water daily (MLD) for its 14 lakh residents. In response to an RTI query in 2017, the civic administration had said that the pipeline commissioned in 1975-76 was designed to carry 56 MLD and was now functioning below 50% capacity. A pipeline of 100 MLD capacity, which was installed in 1991-92, is also suffering from wear and tear.Kiran Dhande, the water supply in-charge for Aurangabad city, admitted that the two existing pipelines drawing water from the Jayakwadi dam are outdated and can, at the most, draw 135 MLD water even if the reservoir is full. “With limited pumping capacity, we cannot increase the water supply frequency. The proposed new project involves laying a pipeline of 2.5m diametre and can ensure adequate water lifting,” he said.The new water supply project with a financial outlay of Rs 1,680 crore involves laying 39.5km pipeline between the Jayakwadi dam and Nakshatrawadi (main pump house) and creating an internal distribution network in the city. It was given to state government agency – Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP) – last year.Civic activist Vijay Diwan said the pipeline project for Aurangabad is an example of “avoidable practices” for any local self-governing body. “There is a need to probe into the inordinate delay in the execution of the project. If the authorities and public representatives are serious, they would speed up the project,” he said, adding the MJP should receive necessary staff for smooth execution of the project.Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey declined to comment on the delay and current status of implementation of the new pipeline.Acting chief engineer with MJP, Aurangabad division, R S Lolapol said the project proposal was sent to the state town planning department for approval.“Once the formal approval from the government is received, we will issue the work order,” he said.Shiv Sena MLC Ambadas Danve said the work on the new pipeline would start soon. “All formalities are almost over and the town planning department is expected to convey its formal nod to the MJP soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jayakwadi-overflowing-but-aurangabad-city-still-thirsty/articleshow/78192172.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Offer dialysis facilities, hospitals told||Chandigarh: UT administrator V P Singh Badnore on Friday directed all three medical institutions to make exclusive and separate arrangements for Covid-19 patients in home quarantine requiring dialysis. The directions were issued during the review meeting on Friday.PGI director Dr Jagat Ram said two such machines exclusively for dialysis of Covid patients have been earmarked. All patients needing routine dialysis could approach PGI, Government Medical and College Hospital, Sector 32 and Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. SS Gill, education secretary, will coordinate the operation, he submitted.Besides, the administrator directed that Covid care centres should be regularly inspected and proper cleanliness maintained. He called for regular sanitisation, saying disposal of garbage, medical waste, used personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and gloves should be streamlined.The administrator directed that proper monitoring should be done of containment zones, so that the spread of infection could be restricted. Ambulance service should be available round-the-clock in case of emergency, he said. Restrictions off from 4 sectorsUT adviser Manoj Parida on Friday ordered to remove containment zone restrictions from four areas, parts of sectors 27 C and D and Sector 38 C. The decision was taken on the basis of recommendations of affected area assessment committee. The municipal corporation will continue to sanitise the area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/offer-dialysis-facilities-hospitals-told/articleshow/78193202.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kochi||Panangad cops to seek custody of accused||Kochi: Panangad police probing the murder of a 19-year-old during a clash between two gangs at Nettoor would seek the accused in custody soon. Fahad Hussain, who sustained injuries in the attack on Sunday night, died the next day. Police said a thorough investigation has been launched to find out the antecedents of the accused who were part of a large ganja racket. City police had on Thursday arrested 14 persons relating to the incident. The arrested persons were identified as Jaison (25), Nithin (24), Roshan (30), Jeevan (32), Varghese (24), Vijith (33), Febin (34), Nishad (21), Nivin (24), Pramod (38), Rahul (25), Sankaranaryanan (35), Jefin (23) and Sujith (32). The accused were arrested from their hideouts at Kandanad in Udayamperoor, Kalamasserry HMT Colony and Maradu. Police said the accused would be further interrogated after getting them in custody to find out their past dealings. Police have to seized the weapons and vehicles involved in the murder as well. The accused would be taken to the crime scene after taking them in custody, sources said. Police are also probing the role of a woman who was arrested by Panangad police with over 3kg of ganja on July 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panangad-cops-to-seek-custody-of-accused/articleshow/78194595.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre nod can make Chandigarh civic body richer by Rs 1,072 crore||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has written to the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to release grant to the municipal corporation (MC) according to the recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission – a request if it is approved will provide the civic body Rs 1,072 crore, an amount that is more than double of what it is receiving from the finance department of the administration. The letter sent a couple of days back said, “The report and recommendations of the 4th Delhi Finance Commission have been forwarded to the joint secretary (UT division), ministry of home affairs, for taking necessary action in accordance with the provisions under Section 84-A of Punjab Municipal Act 1976 as extended to the Chandigarh vide Punjab Municipal Corporation, Law Act, 1994.” The 4th Delhi Finance Commission had recommended 30% revenue of the UT’s total share to the MC in 2014, suggesting how much share from which department should go to the civic body and in how much percentage. The MC can take a share of revenue from Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA), a fixed amount from stamp duty, goods and services tax (GST) and tax on goods and passenger vehicles, according to the 4th Delhi Finance Commission. The revenue from these departments goes to the finance department of the administration as of now. From the day the recommendations were made, councillors have held multiple meetings with senior officers of the UT for the release of the financial grant. The administration had approved Rs 425 crore grant in aid (GIA) to the MC for the financial year (April 2020 to March 2021) but it was reduced to 20% owing to the coronavirus pandemic, landing another blow to the cash-strapped MC that was forced to halt all development works and is struggling to fulfil its monthly liabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-nod-can-make-mc-richer-by-rs-1072cr/articleshow/78193179.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab to provide Rs 11 crore loan to backward youth||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government would provide a loan of Rs 11.27 crore during the financial year 2020-2021 to uplift the economic standard of the youth from backward classes in the state. Social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (Backfinco) would disburse a loan of Rs 11.27 crore to 751 beneficiaries during 2020-21. He said under this scheme, loans amounting to over Rs 1.09 crore have been already disbursed to 65 beneficiaries till July 31. Besides, loans of Rs 5.50 lakh have been disbursed to three beneficiaries under the direct loan scheme. The minister said the corporation had disbursed loans of over Rs 24.33 crore to total 1,459 beneficiaries between 2016-17 to 2019-2020 under the direct loan scheme. Dharamsot said the trained youth could avail benefits of this scheme and improve their economy by starting their own businesses. He said Backfinco has also provided loans to the youth from backward class for higher education. Under this scheme boy students can take loans at 4% interest to pursue studies. The interest rate for girls is 3.5% per annum. The loan is repaid in monthly installments after six months of the completion of the course in five years. He said provision has also been made to provide loans up to Rs 20 lakh for studying abroad. He said that priority would be given to the vocational trained youth in providing loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-to-provide-rs-11cr-loan-to-bc-youth/articleshow/78200627.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to provide Rs 11 crore loan to backward youth||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government would provide a loan of Rs 11.27 crore during the financial year 2020-2021 to uplift the economic standard of the youth from backward classes in the state. Social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation (Backfinco) would disburse a loan of Rs 11.27 crore to 751 beneficiaries during 2020-21. He said under this scheme, loans amounting to over Rs 1.09 crore have been already disbursed to 65 beneficiaries till July 31. Besides, loans of Rs 5.50 lakh have been disbursed to three beneficiaries under the direct loan scheme. The minister said the corporation had disbursed loans of over Rs 24.33 crore to total 1,459 beneficiaries between 2016-17 to 2019-2020 under the direct loan scheme. Dharamsot said the trained youth could avail benefits of this scheme and improve their economy by starting their own businesses. He said Backfinco has also provided loans to the youth from backward class for higher education. Under this scheme boy students can take loans at 4% interest to pursue studies. The interest rate for girls is 3.5% per annum. The loan is repaid in monthly installments after six months of the completion of the course in five years. He said provision has also been made to provide loans up to Rs 20 lakh for studying abroad. He said that priority would be given to the vocational trained youth in providing loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-provide-rs-11cr-loan-to-bc-youth/articleshow/78195849.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Surat||Woman driven to brink rescued from suicide||Surat: Had the Abhayam team not reached on time, this mother of a child would have ended up as another suicide statistic in Navsari town. However, timely intervention by the helpline officials not only helped save a precious life tormented first by her boyfriend before marriage and then by brother-in-law over her past affair but also cleared up a mess that would have complicated matters later. “We received a frantic call from Nimisha (name changed) informing us that tired of the harassment she was determined to end her life. Sensing the urgency in her voice, we did not waste any moment and kept talking to her to keep her engaged till we reached the spot. As soon as we reached, we started counselling her while trying to understand what was the trauma that had made her take such an extreme decision,” said a senior member of the Abhayam team from Navsari. Sharing details of the case, the official said that the woman was aged 27 years who informed that before marriage she was romantically involved with a person with whom she also had clicked photos of their intimate life. However, she got married to another man and has a child from him now. But, for the past few days, the ex-boyfriend has returned to take revenge, blackmailing the woman of circulating the private pictures on social media. He kept insisting her to continue having their physical relationship. Meanwhile, her sister-in-law came to know the harassment and confided it to her husband, the official said. "One day, the husband of her sister-in-law caught hold of the ex-boyfriend and forced him to share the pictures with him. The former also made the ex-boyfriend delete all the objectionable pictures from his mobile phone. After this, the brother-in-law started harassing Nimisha threatening to expose her past affair to her husband if she did not started having physical relation with him. He, thereafter, started sexually exploiting her. Tired of all this harassment, the woman decided to end her life,” the official told TOI. Abhayam took the easy way out to help Nimisha out the mess and took her husband into confidence. “Once he was convinced, we had no problem in diverting Nimisha’s decision. Later, her-brother-in-law too apologised to her in writing. However, both Nimisha and her family members denied lodging police complaint against the brother-in-law and wanted to end matters there,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-driven-to-brink-rescued-from-suicide/articleshow/78193230.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body can spend Rs 8 crore to fight Covid||CHANDIGARH: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has given permission to the municipal corporation (MC) to spend Rs 8.38 crore received under Covid-19 cess till August to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. “We have got the approval to spend the money. The amount will be spent only on matters related to Covid-19. Directions have already been given to officers concerned,” said municipal commissioner K K Yadav. The civic body is preparing a list of works to be taken up on priority. The pandemic has further increased the workload of the authority passing through its worst-ever financial crises. The MC had imposed 5% cess on the sale and purchase of the liquor in May, drawing a good amount since the beginning. “The cess was on every kind of liquor like whisky, beer and wine. The amount collected directly comes to the civic body,” a senior official said. The accounts department of the MC was looking after the exercise, preparing the data and sharing the details with senior officers. The MC has been carrying out sanitisaton drives in different localities almost daily, sending teams for contact tracing and quarantining people suspected to have come in touch with those who have got infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-body-can-spend-rs-8cr-to-fight-covid/articleshow/78193211.cms||Deepak Yadav
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Bathinda pharma park will challenge Chinese stranglehold on medicine’||Bathinda: Punjab is extremely hopeful of Bathinda hosting one of the three pharmaceutical parks in India, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal has said. The pharmaceutical park here would go a long way in challenging the stranglehold of Chinese medicine manufacturers, he said in Bathinda on Friday. Manpreet said that Bathinda was an ideal location in north-western India. North of Delhi, Bathinda was a place that could ensure ease of access to Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. Enumerating Bathinda’s benefits as a location, the minister said 1,300 acres of land that was earlier with the thermal plant was available for establishing the pharma park. In addition, the Bathinda refinery would be a big asset since many products and byproducts were similar to the pharma industry. The railway facilities that were previously used by the thermal plant could be utilised by the pharma industry. According to the Union government announcement, it will invest Rs 1,000 crore and expect the state government to finance the remaining amount. Punjab was earnestly hoping that the Union government would establish the pharmaceutical plant in Bathinda, Manpreet said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bathinda-pharma-park-will-challenge-chinese-stranglehold-on-medicine/articleshow/78195864.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Protesters slam cops, block road near Kharar bus stand||Mohali: Supporters and family members of an advocate, a tax consultant, blocked a highway near Kharar bus stand on Friday while protesting against failure of the police to catch those who attacked him. The protestors blocked the highway for around one hour. They lifted the blockade after police assured them of speedy action. Around 150 youths came out in support of Devan Sharma and his father Arun Sharma, who was injured early on Thursday during a firing incident in Kharar. They said that a resident of Bhagomajra named Aman, relative of dairy worker Major Singh was also present on the night of the firing incident but police are not including his name in the FIR due to political pressure. SHO Kharar City Bhagwant Singh reached the spot with a police party, after which the protestors were pacified. Early on Thursday, a group of five men fired 12 shots in the air and assaulted a chartered accountant with bats and sticks after barging into his house near Janta Chowk in Kharar. Around 3am, five men barged into the house of the victim, Arun Sharma and thrashed him and his son Devan Sharma. They also fired 12 rounds in the air to terrify him said Ravjot Kaur Grewal, superintendent of police (Rural). Besides, the accused threatened Sharma’s son and vandalised his car before leaving. Police said three of the five accused have been idenfied and will be arrested soon. The attack seems to be the fallout of old enmity, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protesters-slam-cops-block-road-near-kharar-bus-stand/articleshow/78193218.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Aurangabad||SRTMU declares Rs 2L salary advance for employees testing positive for Covid||Aurangabad: The Nanded-based Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU) has decided to give a salary advance of Rs 2 lakh to its employee who test positive for Covid-19. Also, the university staff along with their family members can get free Covid test done at the SRTMU laboratory.University public relation officer Ashok Kadam said the management council and other authorities have decided to offer all possible support to the workforce during the pandemic.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/srtmu-declares-rs-2l-salary-advance-for-employees-testing-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78192182.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Nearly 65% of children who went missing this year traced by cops||New Delhi: In a development that has raised many hopes, nearly 65% of children who went missing this year have been traced by Delhi Police. While the most number of missing children were from outer Delhi areas like Alipur, Narela, Shahbad Dairy and Rohini, the least were from Lutyens’ Delhi. Many children, some even missing for a decade, were also reunited with their families. Till August 31 this year, 2,625 children went missing, of which 1,729 were traced. Also, 238 children were reunited with their families through the Milaap scheme of Delhi Police. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said, “The out-of-turn promotion scheme for missing children has encouraged policemen to find more lost children. Constables and head constables get out of turn promotion if they rescue a specific number of children. Even on a regular basis, we keep checking shelter homes to find children who are unable to trace their parents.” As Delhi Metro was shut during the pandemic, no case of a missing child was reported from there. The scenario was similar for the railways since they also started plying much later. Only two children were reported missing from stations and they had been rescued. While the maximum number of children went missing from Outer-North district followed by Outer and Rohini, the least were reported from Lutyens’ Delhi, Central, Shahdara and North districts. The children rescued from Lutyens’ Delhi went missing from their homes either after an argument with their parents or getting on a train by mistake. In south Delhi, 160 children went missing of which 64 were rescued. Some of them were minors who had been separated from their families for over a decade. A police inspector revealed that some children lost their way during the pandemic while walking, while some had run away from home in search of a job. “Three girls were reported missing from West Bengal in August. We found them working as domestic staff at three houses. The employers informed us that they had hired them through an agency. The girls wanted to earn, so they left their homes without informing their parents and took a train to Delhi. West Bengal Police were informed and the girls were reunited with their families,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-65-of-children-who-went-missing-this-year-traced-by-cops/articleshow/78194611.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mumbai||Son of Mahim jeweller who was financial link in call centre racket held||Mumbai: Crime branch, probing an illegal call centre racket, arrested a man who was an important financial link in the transfer of money from US, to accomplices here. Crime intelligence unit arrested Akshay Rahalkar (29), son of a jeweller from Mahim, and recovered incriminating documents. Police said the Bachelor of Engineering graduate had gone to US many times, opened a US company, High Five Products and LLC, through which he transfers $5,000-10,000 a week. Police are surprised how the transactions did not come under income-tax authorities’ radar. Rahalkar is the eighth person to be arrested in the racket. Last week, a team led by assistant inspector Sachin Waze busted five call centres in Marve, Malad, and arrested more than 112 persons, including six proprietors of these call centres, where the accused used to pose as officials from Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and under the pretext of settlement of pending dues, used to dupe Americans and Canadians of several lakhs of rupees. These call centres are linked to each other and were selling and trafficking in narcotic substances and a Viagra substitute to Americans. Police seized laptops, servers, computers, mobile phones and incriminating documents, including invoices, scripts from the call centres. Employees would pose as IRS officials and tell victims to pay pending fines. If the fine was $2,000, the accused would offer to immediately settle it by paying 50%. They would get them to buy gift coupons, give them a code and dupe them. The money would go into Rahalkar’s account, which he would transfer to his Mumbai accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/son-of-mahim-jeweller-who-was-financial-link-in-call-centre-racket-held/articleshow/78194614.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Paytm transaction helps cops arrest couple killer||Kolkata: The youth, accused of killing an elderly couple in Habra on Wenesday, was arrested from a Barrackpore hideout in the early hours of Friday after he asked a friend to send money to his Paytm account and the location of his mobile tower was traced. Tanmoy Bor had killed the ex-armyman Ramakrishnana Mondal (62) and his wife Lilarani Mondal (57) at Habra in North 24 Parganas on Wednesday. The accused, a spurned lover, had climbed up a tree and reached the terrace of Mondal’s two-storey building at Habra’s Nandanpara. He shot at the elderly couple when they tried to resist his attempt to abduct their 19-year-old niece for the second time. The incident happened barely six months after the accused had been released from the jail as Mondal had lodged a complaint against him for abduction in 2018. Bor has been remanded in six-day police custody after being produced in a Barasat court on Friday afternoon. “He would be further interrogated to know the exact cause behind the crime,” said North 24 Parganas SP, Abhijit Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/paytm-transaction-helps-cops-arrest-couple-killer/articleshow/78194596.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Man booked in 17 cases held with 35g heroin||Chandigarh: The operation cell of the UT police has arrested a criminal, who was booked in 17 cases of theft, burglaries, NDPS Act and Gambling Act, with heroin from Sector 45 on Thursday night. The accused was produced before a local court and sent in judicial custody. Rashmi Yadav, DSP, operation cell, UT police, said the accused has been identified as Sukhbir Singh alias Satbir alias Changa, 36, a resident of Burail village, Sector 45. The operation cell team was patrolling near Dev Samaj College in Sector 45 and in the meantime, Sukhbir was seen coming towards the police check post, when he noticed the police post, he tried to flee, but was nabbed. The police claimed to have recovered 35 gram heroin from his possession. During his interrogation, the accused revealed that he had bought heroin from a Nigerian national from Delhi to sell in the city. While checking his past criminal record, the police found that Sukhbir was arrested three times under the NDPS Act and 11 times for burglaries and other thefts by sectors 31, 34, 36 and 39 police since 2002. The police said the accused belonged to Ludhiana and worked as a carpenter in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-booked-in-17-cases-held-with-35g-heroin/articleshow/78193204.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Seven Covid deaths, cases past the 3,000-mark in Wardha||WARDHA: The district crossed the 3,000-mark of Covid-19 cases after new 170 cases were recorded on Friday, taking the caseload to 3,158. The day also saw 57 patients getting discharge after recovery, taking the recoveries to 1,528 while 1,550 patients are under treatment. The district also recorded seven deaths, which included a 67-year-old man, two women (65 and 64) from Wardha, three men (80, 51 and 63) from Hinganghat and a 39-year-old man from Pulgaon. The death toll has reached 80. New patients came from Wardha (128) Deoli (13), Hinganghat (10), Selu (7), Arvi (4), Ashti and Samudrapur (3 each) and Karanja (2). Traders associations have declared ‘janata curfew’ from September 18 to 21, but some shop owners are not ready to keep their establishments closed. Citizens are confused due to messages on social media supporting and opposing the curfew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seven-covid-deaths-cases-past-the-3000-mark-in-wardha/articleshow/78194618.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vijayawada||City bus operations in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada resume||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation (APSRTC) on Saturday resumed city bus services in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. Roads and buildings (R&B) principal secretary and in-charge vice-chairman-cum-managing director MT Krishna Babu in his statement on Friday said the decision was taken in view of the examinations to be conducted for village and ward secretariat posts. While the decision was primarily taken to facilitate movement of candidates for the examination, the services will continue to run in accordance with the public health department’s guidelines. All necessary arrangements are being made to ensure proper social distancing norms inside the buses. Krishna Babu said that a zigzag seating arrangement will be followed to ensure social distance and all passengers will be required to wear masks. They will only be allowed inside the bus after a temperature check. RTC staff will be deployed at all boarding points to check temperature. “Passengers will be allowed only to the extents of seats available and no one will be allowed to stand,” he said and suggested that persons above the age of 60 should refrain from travelling. As for inter-state operations, especially to Telangana, Babu said that discussions were ongoing with TSRTC. He said that Telangana officials have asked for equal route-wise proportion of buses, which may not be possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-bus-ops-in-vizag-and-vij-all-set-to-resume-today/articleshow/78192851.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||City bus operations in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada resume||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation (APSRTC) on Saturday resumed city bus services in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. Roads and buildings (R&B) principal secretary and in-charge vice-chairman-cum-managing director MT Krishna Babu in his statement on Friday said the decision was taken in view of the examinations to be conducted for village and ward secretariat posts. While the decision was primarily taken to facilitate movement of candidates for the examination, the services will continue to run in accordance with the public health department’s guidelines. All necessary arrangements are being made to ensure proper social distancing norms inside the buses. Krishna Babu said that a zigzag seating arrangement will be followed to ensure social distance and all passengers will be required to wear masks. They will only be allowed inside the bus after a temperature check. RTC staff will be deployed at all boarding points to check temperature. “Passengers will be allowed only to the extents of seats available and no one will be allowed to stand,” he said and suggested that persons above the age of 60 should refrain from travelling. As for inter-state operations, especially to Telangana, Babu said that discussions were ongoing with TSRTC. He said that Telangana officials have asked for equal route-wise proportion of buses, which may not be possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-bus-ops-in-vizag-and-vij-all-set-to-resume-today/articleshow/78198296.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Does not appear that 3 women abetted suicide, court ready to give pre-arrest bail||MUMBAI: Even as a 43-year-old woman who died by suicide left behind a note, a sessions court observed there was nothing to show that three women named in it had influenced, exerted pressure, threatened or abetted the suicide. “In these facts and circumstances, I deem it just and proper to grant anticipatory bail to the applicants...” the court said. The youngest of the three named by the victim was only 13 at the time of alleged harassment in 2016. Now 17, the minor has been named along with her grandmother and mother. Another accused, who was arrested, was granted bail on Friday. Seeking anticipatory bail for the three Taloja women, advocate Ninad Muzumdar, submitted that the minor’s mother was acquainted with the victim as she ran a tiffin service. The victim left her job in 2016 and moved to Goregaon, while in February, she shifted to Kandivli. The victim was in search of a job since 2016, and with lockdown, her search continued, it was submitted. Denying abetment of suicide, the defence submitted the women did not have contact with the victim after she left Taloja in 2016. The Kandivli (E) resident died by suicide at her rented apartment. She was found dead by her 63-year-old mother on the evening of August 3. She was suspected to have taken her life in the morning. In her four-page suicide note, she wrote that when working in Kharghar and residing at Taloja, Navi Mumbai, her life was ruined by the three. She claimed they were involved in black magic and siphoned Rs 8 lakh from her. The victim said this caused a rift with her mother. She alleged she was forced to quit her job and the accused threatened to disrupt her peace no matter where she went. Also named in the note was the victim’s maternal uncle, who she accused of harassing her mother and her for over 30 years. The victim’s sister told police the contents of the suicide note were correct, so a case of cheating and abetment to suicide was filed against those named. The court, however, said there was substance in the submissions that the deceased left Taloja in 2016. It said it was prima facie not the prosecution’s case that the three were in contact with the deceased even after she left Taloja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/does-not-appear-that-3-women-abetted-suicide-court-ready-to-give-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/78194757.cms||Rebecca Samervel
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Marijuana-laced jellies in high demand among students, peddlers tell cops||BENGALURU: Two drug peddlers, who were arrested on Wednesday from MG Road, have revealed that they were supplying Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) jellies, which found many takers among college students. Youngsters would pay up to Rs 2,000 per jelly. A central crime branch (CCB) police team headed by inspector Mallesh S Bolettin arrested Jon Nikolas, 21, a II PU student in a private college and resident of Kothanur and Irfan Sheik, 29, an MBA graduate and resident of JP Nagar, near RSI compound on MG Road on Wednesday morning. Police recovered 50 pieces of THC jellies, 34 ecstasy pills and 27 LSD strips, all worth Rs 4 lakh from them. The accused reportedly told police that there was huge demand for the jellies among college students. Tetrahydrocannabinol is the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis, explained said. “A few PU and degree students are obsessed with the jellies and they would place order for the marijuana-laced substance through phone calls or WhatsApp messages. We would charge them Rs 2,000 per jelly,” the duo told police. Cops said they checked the duo’s claim by verifying WhatsApp messages in their mobile phones. “We found many messages related to the jelly. Under our watch, the duo attended to a few calls made to their cellphones. They received at least five calls, each enquiring about the jelly,” an investigating officer said.  Addiction to these jellies could lead youths to other drugs, said police. “Marijuana-laced jellies have been seized. The jelly is especially harmful, as it can attract children,” said Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/marijuana-laced-jellies-in-high-demand-among-students-peddlers-tell-cops/articleshow/78194338.cms||Santosh kumar.B
September 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Vegetable prices rise again but quality dips||VISAKHAPATNAM: Prices of onions and tomatoes are rising once again in markets due to a supply crunch. Tomatoes are being sold for as high as Rs 50-55 per kilo in retail markets while prices of onions and potatoes have gone up to Rs 35-40 per kilo. The prices however are a little lower at rythu bazaars. However, customers are expressing displeasure over the poor quality of onions and tomatoes there. Traders say that only a week ago, the price of onion was Rs 25 per kilo. Onion prices may increase further as the supply of onions from Maharashtra decreases, they said. S Giri, who was at a rythu bazaar on Friday, said that the price of 1kg onion at farmers’ markets is only Rs 30 but quality is really poor. Deputy director of horticulture, Visakhapatnam, K Gopi Kumar said that Visakhapatnam district requires at least 600-800 tonnes of vegetables per day. The city depends on neighbouring districts such as Vizianagaram and East Godavari for its vegetables, he said. As for onions, Vizag city requires at least 50 tonnes of onions per day but now availability has dropped to 30 tonnes as supply from Maharashtra has declined. The supply of tomatoes from Chittoor too has declined. Prices of other vegetables have also increased. Beans are selling for Rs 80 per kilo and capsicum is selling for Rs 60, said G Sowmya, a Vizag-based homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vegetable-prices-rise-again-but-quality-dips/articleshow/78192878.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||513 fresh cases take tally past 15k-mark||Ludhiana: Ludhiana reported 500-plus Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row as 513 people from the district contracted the virus on Thursday, taking the case tally past 15,000-mark. As many as 19 persons, including 12 from Ludhiana, also lost the battle against Covid-19 at various hospitals of the state. On Wednesday, Ludhiana had reported record 562 cases. A 14-year-old boy from Shiwala Road was the youngest to die of the virus on Thursday. Six victims were elderly citizens. They were three 78-year-old men from Lajpat Nagar, Jamalpur and Amar Nagar; 66-year-old man from Basant Avenue, who had diabetes and hypertension; 75-year-old woman from Shahpur, who had CAD and hypertension; and 70-year-old man from Dholewal, who had CAD. Other victims were 50-year-old woman from New Subash Nagar, who had obesity; 18-year-old woman from Urban Estate, who had Chronic Kidney Disease; 49-year-old man from Vishwakarma Colony, who had diabetes; and two 56-year-old men from Civil Lines and Dugri. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the total number of deaths from the district has gone up to 634 whereas 181 out of district/state deaths have been reported in Ludhiana hospitals. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said till date, 2,12,693 suspects have been tested for Covid-19 in the district. State health department bulletin revealed that of the 513 patients from Ludhiana district who tested positive, 119 were from flu corner (Influenza Like Illness (ILI) patients), 36 were contacts of positive cases, OPD 186, police personnel 3, healthcare workers 12, severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) 5, foreign traveller 1 and pre-operative 1. It added that till Thursday number of total patients from Ludhiana district has been 15,251 of which 1,898 are active cases. As per the bulletin, 68 patients from Ludhiana district were discharged after being cured. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the number of persons home quarantined is 4,494 whereas the total number of people who had been home quarantined so far stood at 40,184.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/513-fresh-cases-take-tally-past-15k-mark/articleshow/78182705.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Industrialists told to steer clear of cheats by APPCB||Amaravati: The Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) has cautioned industry owners not to fall prey to persons impersonating as board officers and demanding money. Recently, a few criminal cases have been filed at various police stations. According to police, the inquiry is going on and they will catch these fraudsters soon. Speaking to media here on Friday, PCB member secretary Vivek Yadav said that it had been brought to their notice that some persons were impersonating as officers of APPCB and contacting industrialists in various districts and demanding money. “We have already initiated criminal proceedings against such callers. The police inquiry is going on. We are requesting the industrialists to be careful about such fraudsters,” said Yadav. He said that a man, Shankar Reddy, called industrialists in Srikakulam and Guntur districts in the name of PCB from the number 8008445437 and demanded money. He asked them to Google pay money to 7093993736. The PCB and the industrialists then contacted the police. The caller’s phone signal was traced to Kalloor village in Chittoor and the GooglePay number account details were from Tirupati. He said that APPCB was not responsible for any such fraudulent calls, transactions or consequences arising out of it. “All the industry, company owners and the general public are advised to remain alert and vigilant and prevent themselves from being cheated and complain immediately to the police authorities for stringent action under the law,” he said. Yadav said that the owners of industries and companies could inform about those calls to the pollution board on 7993477763 to initiate further action from the board. He said that no official from the APPCB would seek money from any industrialist for any purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/industrialists-told-to-steer-clear-of-cheats-by-appcb/articleshow/78192765.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Harsimrat quitting ministry a political stunt: Bittu||Ludhiana: Terming the resignation of union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal against farm ordinance as political stunt, local MP Ravneet Singh Bittu has challenged her and SAD to quit the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) if they were really serious about farmer woes. Bittu said, “Badal family is full of drama artists and Harsimrat is one of them. If she was so concerned about the issues of the farmers then why she did not quit her ministerial post when the draft of the farm ordinances was being prepared months ago. At that time her own party leaders were busy propagating that these ordinances were for the interest of farmers and revolutionary bills. Her party came under tremendous pressure after strong opposition to these anti-farmers ordinances was witnessed all over the country. SAD sensed the threat of their vote bank drifting away from them. But this is a big slap on the face of Badals as the resignation was accepted within minutes by the NDA and what could be more insulting than the fact that her portfolio was handed over to Narendra Singh Tomar, whose ministry brought these ordinances.” Bittu also added, “If Harsimrat and her party both were really concerned about the pain of the farming community then why SAD has not quit NDA till now. Why are their other leaders silent on the issue and how are they tolerating the false claims made by BJP, their counterparts in Punjab, who from day one are propagating that these ordinances in favour of farmers. The real face of the SAD and Badals has been truly exposed in front of the entire nation and I think it’s better that Harsimrat, Sukhbir and Majithia retire from politics and concentrate on other works.” Bittu also added, “I challenge both Harsimrat and Sukhbir that if they really want anyone to believe their claims that they are against the farm ordinances, then both of them should resign as the members of the Lok Sabha.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/harsimrat-quitting-ministry-a-political-stunt-bittu/articleshow/78194646.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vadodara||Epochal Kheda Satyagraha school to graduate into college||VADODARA/ ANAND: More than a century old Kathlal town school, Sheth M R High School, from where Mahatma Gandhi had launched country’s second mass movement — the Kheda Satyagraha of 1918 — will turn into a full-fledged college offering professional courses to students. The historic school was started in memory of Sheth Manilal Ranchhoddas – who also lends his name to Ahmedabad’s Maninagar area. The school is witness to visits by high-profile dignitaries including India’s Iron Man late Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, former Prime Minister (PM) late Indira Gandhi and PM Narendra Modi among many others. The trust — Vakil K M Education Society, Kathlal — that runs the high school has joined hands with Changa-based Charotar University of Science and Technology (Charusat University) to provide education in rural areas of Kheda district. Gujarat government has given its nod to convert the high school into Charusat Vidyalaya. Founded on October 23, 1908 as a school, the institute became a full-fledged high school offering Classes V to XI between June 1946 and March 1947. It later started placing its students in the matriculation examination conducted by the University of Mumbai. At present, the high school has 2,300 students enrolled in Classes VI to XII apart from 100-odd teachers. The state government has given approval to start Class I to V non-granted English and Gujarati medium at the premises. At the higher level, Charusat Vidyalaya will offer professional courses like BBA, BCA, diploma engineering among other courses based on suitability of the region. Leafing through pages of Indian history, the school was the venue where Bapu on February 19, 1918 had asked peasants of Kheda to resort to Satyagraha to demand the British Raj to scrap tax collected from farmers in wake of a famine. “We will do our best to take this historic institution to newer heights. Our efforts will be to ensure that children from the rural heartland of our region receive global level education in higher streams of engineering and technical streams in future,” said Nayan Patel, secretary of the society that coordinator of Charusat Vidyalaya. “We will continue our efforts to ensure that children of all classes get quality education through the Vidyalaya,” said Dr M C Patel, secretary of Shri Charotar Moti Sattavis Patidar Kelavani Mandal. “Like Charusat University, even at Charusat Vidyalaya, we want to develop a world-class infrastructure that will make the legacy of this institute even brighter,” said vice president of Kelvani Mandal C A Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/epochal-kheda-satyagraha-school-to-graduate-into-college/articleshow/78193418.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Man granted bail after 11 years||KOLKATA: Wakil Qureshi, accused as a co-conspirator in a murder committed more than 11 years ago, was finally granted bail by the Calcutta High Court on Wednesday. Qureshi was granted bail till December 16 this year and directed by the bench of Justice Samapti Chatterjee and Justice Tirthankar Ghosh not to delay the proceedings before the trial court. In case he attempts to do so through unnecessary adjournments, his bail may be cancelled. Qureshi’s counsel Phiroze Edulji submitted that he had been arrested on April 16, 2009 and declared a co-conspirator. On January 20, 2009, one Wasim Qureshi allegedly entered a club in Howrah and murdered one Jainul Abedin Khan. Wakil wasn’t named in the FIR initially but was later charged with aiding the murderer. Edulji told the court that his client was eligible for bail as he has already spent more than half of maximum sentence he is liable to get if found guilty. The court observed that Wakil Qureshi is entitled to bail under Article 21 of the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-granted-bail-after-11-years/articleshow/78194616.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, minor daughter run over by train while crossing tracks in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A 39-year-old woman and her 17-year-old daughter were run over by a goods train when they were crossing the tracks on foot near Govindganj railway crossing in Sadar area of Shahjahanpur city on Friday morning. Her husband, who was accompanying them, had already crossed the tracks while the woman was busy talking to her daughter when the tragedy struck. Government Railway Police sent the bodies for autopsy. The victims — Premwati and her daughter Priyanka, residents of Kaanth area of the district — were going to Sallia village to meet their relatives. Premwati’s husband Mangulal said, “After arriving in Shahjahanpur, we were heading towards the roadways bus stand to board a bus to Sallia village. We were crossing the railway tracks on foot while taking a shortcut to the bus stand. I crossed the tracks first, while Premwati and Priyanka were busy talking and didn’t realise that the goods train was approaching fast. When they saw the train, they panicked and couldn’t cross the tracks and were run over by the train and I couldn’t do anything to save them.” Confirming the accident, Shahjahanpur railway station superintendent AK Gautam told TOI, “A woman and her daughter were run over by a goods train. The incident took place when they were crossing the tracks. The loco pilot gave a memo to our staff and moved ahead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-minor-daughter-run-over-by-train-while-crossing-tracks-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78193235.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Ex-SEC’s rent row: Govt sanctioned amount in July||Vijayawada: In a twist to the house rent controversy of former state election commissioner Justice V Kanagaraj, it has now come to light that the state government had issued a GO granting Rs 13 lakh towards the payment of rent. While the GO has become a basis for current SEC, Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, to file a contempt of court case, the building owner claims he has not received the rent till date. The department of panchayat raj and rural development had issued two GOs on July 21. While GO 419 was issued sanctioning Rs 13.4 lakh towards rent for accommodation for official purpose of the newly-appointed SEC for a period of 12 months, GO 418 sanctioned Rs 6 lakh for rent-free furniture and other appliances in the said house. Both GOs were issued after considering a proposal sent by the secretary of the state election commission on April 4. Despite the sanctions, the SEC did not release the money to the house owner, who lodged a protest when officials tried to move furniture from the house recently. Building owner Valluri Ramesh Babu told TOI that he has not received the rent as agreed by the government. “Officials said it will be sorted out in a day or two. I am only claiming the rent as agreed as the house is still under the control of the government,” Babu said. Even as the logjam over the payment of rent continues, the GOs have become the basis for Ramesh Kumar for his contempt petition against the government. Ramesh Kumar moved the AP high court as he was not restored as state election commissioner by the government even after the high court’s orders. In his contempt petition, he said that the GOs reflected the “defiant and contemptuous attitude” of the state government. He argued that while the high court set aside the appointment of V Kanagaraj on May 29, the government continued to provide official residence to him by sanctioning additional funds. Speaking to TOI, principal secretary of PR&RD, Gopala Krishna Dwivedi, said the GOs were issued after they received a proposal from the secretary of the state election commission. “As Justice Kanagaraj served as SEC for some period of time, it is obligatory on the part of the state government to provide him an official residence according to protocol. It is the state election commission which has to look into the issue of payments,” the PR&RD principal secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ex-secs-rent-row-govt-sanctioned-amount-in-july/articleshow/78192869.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Girl’s father, spouse among 11 booked||Ludhiana: Police have booked a man and his relatives for the rape of a minor girl after he allegedly married her off following which her husband and his relatives raped her. The 11 accused in the case also included mediators who got her married. In her police complaint, mother of the 13-year-old girl, said she had three children including two daughters and a son. She said for the past five years, they had been living separately. The complainant said as per the Aadhar card of her elder daughter, she was born on December 2, 2006 and even in her school ID card her date of birth is the same. The complainant alleged that on July 12, her husband in connivance with her relatives, four women who acted as mediators, forcibly married off her daughter. She said after the marriage, her husband, his brother, brother-in-law and cousin tortured her and made physical relation with her. Cops from Daba police station have started a probe into the matter. Police later booked the accused under sections of Children Marriage Prohibition Act 2006 and 376 of IPC (rape). Police officials said the manhunt has been launched to nab the accused. The complainant said she wanted action against all the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/girls-father-spouse-among-11-booked/articleshow/78182856.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vijayawada||2 workers fall into well they had dug, die||Vijayawada: Two daily wage labourers died after falling inside a well at Mallavalli village in Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district on Friday. The deceased have been identified as 60-year-old Acchi Tirupataiah and 40-year-old Acchi Ramesh. According to Hanuman Junction police, eight labourers had come from Ponasanapalli village in Nuzvid mandal to dig a well. At around 11am, when the workers were shovelling away, a mudslide occurred four workers fell into the well. While the other workers managed to rescue their two colleagues, Tirupataiah and Ramesh got stuck inside rubble and died as a result. Police had to call in an excavator to dig the ground and pull out the bodies of the two workers. A case has been registered and investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-workers-fall-into-well-they-had-dug-die/articleshow/78192891.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||CBI court denies bail to NRI Narwal in synthetic drugs case||Mohali: A special CBI court hearing the Enforcement Directorate (ED) cases here on Friday denied bail to NRI Devinder Singh Narwal in the multi-crore synthetic drugs case involving wrestler-turned-cop-turned-drug lord Jagdish Singh Bhola. Bhola, a former DSP, who allegedly ran a drug cartel in Punjab with the help of politicians and NRIs, had been arrested by the Fatehgarh Sahib police in November 2013. Since then, Bhola had been facing multiple cases and was also convicted in some of the cases. ED’s special prosecutor Jagjitpal Singh Sarao said, “The court has denied bail to Narwal. He is presently in judicial custody. He has been in jail for the past two years and had been convicted in two cases in which he had been awarded 9 months and 6 months’ jail, respectively. Despite having no income, Narwal had property worth Rs 6 crore and Rs 5.5 crore in his bank account, which had been seized by ED.” The matter relates to the ED’s probe against Bhola and his associates. Sarao said, “Investigation shows that Bhola’s associates had parked a huge amount of money generated from the illegal drug racket in buying properties in the UK and Canada. Their details are vital. Many of them are NRIs too.” Bhola, a former Indian wrestler and Arjun awardee, had already been convicted in three cases — 2013 case involving recovery of 10kg white intoxicant powder from his Fatehgarh Sahib residence; 2013 NDPS case registered at Banus police station; and a multi-crore drugs racket case. In February this year, Bhola was convicted by CBI court in sensational Rs 6,000 crore synthetic drug haul case. Bhola was convicted by a CBI court here in a multi-crore drugs racket, busted by the Punjab Police in 2013. Bhola had served as Punjab’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP), but was dismissed from service in 2012 after his links with the drugs racket were revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-court-denies-bail-to-nri-narwal-in-synthetic-drugs-case/articleshow/78195871.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||‘Focus on roads with drainage projects’||Kolkata: KMC would have to focus on some of the badly cratered roads in the city, especially where drainage upgrade projects were under way, said KMC board of administrators (BOA) chairman Firhad Hakim on Friday. He called a meeting of KMC coordinators to take stock of civic amenities in their wards. The coordinators complained about several issues, including poor road conditions and insufficient water supply for non-removal of tree uprooted in Amphan. They sought Hakim’s intervention to repair roads before the Puja. While Tarun Saha, coordinator of Tallah-Cossipore, complained of cratered roads in his area, Ratna Roy Majumdar, coordinator of Behala, alleged no effort was made to repair roads dug up for a drainage project. Hakim said he would seek explanation from KEIIP officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-on-roads-with-drainage-projects/articleshow/78194663.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Drug scandal: Two heroes and politicians’ kin on police radar||BENGALURU: Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths, who are yet to produce any concrete evidence to prove the involvement of two actresses in the drug racket being probed by them, now suspect a young male star, a popular hero and a few politically connected individuals are linked to the narcotics business. Police have been issuing notices to Sandalwood stars and questioning them about the parties they have attended in recent times. They now claim to have stumbled upon new new links and are all set to summon the young film star and his brother for questioning. This is besides the notices issued to TV host Akul Balaji, actor Santosh Kumar and former MLA RV Devaraj’s son Yuvaraj on Friday. “The investigation is proceeding in the right direction and more people will be called for questioning. We can’t divulge the details for obvious reasons,” said Gautham, assistant commissioner of police, who is part of the investigation team. For now, the spotlight is on the young actor and his brother, children of a well-known star couple. The actor was involved in an infamous car accident in the city a couple of years ago. What’s intriguing is that the investigation is learnt to have produced some vital leads to prove the involvement of another big Sandalwood star, who used to host parties in his farmhouse. Given the star’s record of alcohol abuse and brawls, his questioning is expected to help the ongoing investigation reach a logical end. This apart, police are probing links between Sandalwood stars and Sheik Faizal, owner of a casino in Colombo, whose name had cropped up during investigation pertaining to the drug racket. Sources said investigators have also stumbled upon a series dark-web transactions where a city MLA’s son had ordered drugs from Norway and got the consignment delivered at a guesthouse in Ulsoor. He had used a code, T26, as his name in the transaction. Another transaction has been traced to Russia and is also under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drug-scandal-two-heroes-and-politicians-kin-on-police-radar/articleshow/78194363.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
September 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Mega solar power projects await nod of judicial panel||AMARAVATI: Fast-tracking mega solar power projects for agriculture sector, the state government has sent tender documents to the Judicial Preview Commission (JPC). The tenders will be invited from the developers after getting the green signal from JPC. The government has targeted launch of power plants capable of producing 6,050 MW in the first phase. The plants are coming up in four district — Kadapa, Kurnool, Ananthapuram and Prakasam. AP Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL) will be the nodal agency to implement the solar generation projects in the state. The APGECL is taking up all the projects under Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) model with different capacities in different locations. The state government is planning to produce nearly 10,000 mw of solar power for supply to the agriculture sector. “We will provide land on lease basis to the developer and it will be the complete responsibility of the project proponent to procure and establish the grid-connected power plants,” APGECL CEO S Ramana Reddy told TOI. He said that they have routed all the project proposals to the judicial preview commission to maintain transparency as part of the state government’s policy to send all the projects worth more than Rs.100 crore for the scrutiny of judicial preview commission. “Anyone including general public, contractors, experts in the field could send their objections, suggestions and views on the upcoming projects to the Judicial Preview Commission chaired by retired HC Judge Sivasankar Rao. The commission will give its final nod only after going through public comments and suggest amendments to the tender conditions if required,” said Ramana Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mega-solar-power-projects-await-nod-of-judicial-panel/articleshow/78192819.cms||Samdani MN
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Use smart-parking facility on 10 CBD roads from today||BENGALURU: The smart-parking system on 10 roads in central business district (CBD) will be operational from Saturday. Those making cashless payments will get 10-minute extra parking time. While car owners paying Rs 30 per hour in cash can park for 50 minutes, those paying digitally will be allowed to do so for an hour. “The system will cover a total of 475 car spaces and 510 two-wheelers spaces,” said N Sathyanarayanan, MD, Central Parking Services (CPS), which has bagged the contract to provide smart parking using IOT technology. The project, being taken up in three phases, will have the same contractor for 10 years, paying BBMP Rs 31.7 crore per annum. The 10 CBD roads fall under the first phase. The system uses state-of-the-art technology with IOT-based space sensors connected to parking meters. A Namma Bengaluru Smart Parking App will also be launched for motorists. “Those with smartphones can use the app to look for available parking spaces and also make UPI, credit card or debit card payments,” Sathyanarayan told TOI. BBMP is encouraging people to use digital payment options by offering them additional parking time. “The system allows people to pay within a five-minute grace period. In case of non-payment or overstaying beyond the stipulated period, the vehicle would be clamped and enforcement fee of Rs 500 levied,” said Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner. “The driver will be able to find free space without going around in circles, saving fuel and reducing traffic,” he added. The parking spaces will be monitored by CCTV cameras for users’ safety. The spaces are divided into three zones — A, B, C — and tariff has been fixed accordingly. All 10 CBD roads are in A zone. Initially, users will get 100% cashback for the parking fee paid during the first seven days. This is being done to familiarise users with the new system and encourage more app downloads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/use-smart-parking-facility-on-10-cbd-roads-from-today/articleshow/78194392.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Illumination of Mysore Palace still uncertain||,Mysuru: Though Dasara is just less than a month away, the illumination of the charming Mysore Palace still remains uncertain. Its managers are awaiting a nod from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as the illuminated palace attracts thousands of visitors, making the assembly a potential threat in the wake of the pandemic. The palace, built in Indo-Saracenic style in 1912, has been fitted with 97,000 incandescent bulbs. It is illuminated on holidays, festival seasons, including Dasara, for about an hour. The lights haven’t been switched on since March, when the Covid struck. After it started attracting tourists, a decision was taken to illuminate the fascinating structure even on Saturdays for a period. With Dasara being round the corner, it is still uncertain whether the structure will be illuminated for extended hours during the festive season. Since it attracts visitors in thousands, the palace was being illuminated on all the 10 days of Dasara from 7pm to 9pm and sometimes till 10pm. Fearing the virus spread, the authorities have sought permission from ICMR for the illumination. But tourism stakeholders are unhappy over the delay in taking a decision as tourism is Mysuru’s backbone, with thousands of families being dependent on it. T Subramanya, deputy director of Mysuru Palace Board, told TOI that the ball is now in the government’s court. “We have sought a government directive as it would attract crowds during the illumination hours. We have to illuminate the palace, but the duration is yet to be decided. The government has ICRM directions in this regard. The last time the palace was illuminated was in March,” he said. B S Prashanth of Karnataka Tourism Forum said World Tourism Day is on September 27, and preparation are on to woo tourists to Mysuru. “All tourism stakeholders are trying their best to attract the tourists. Meanwhile, the government must decide on illuminating the palace at the earliest, as it is the main tourist attraction in Mysuru,” he said. Tourism joint director T Motilal said the decision on welcoming the tourists is still at the primary level owing to Covid crisis. But the department is coming out with a video message on Mysuu Dasara soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/illumination-of-mysore-palace-still-uncertain/articleshow/78192381.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||High fatalities remain grim challenge for dist||Ludhiana: Even as Ludhiana has second highest recovery rate among all the districts, the high number of fatalities remains a big challenge for the health department. As per the latest data released by the health department till Wednesday evening, the cured percentage for Ludhiana district was 86% which is 13% more than the state average. The data revealed that Ferozepur with 93% cured cases is at the top of list while Sangrur with is at number three 79% recovery rate. The district has also witnessed significant drop in active cases from 1,858 cases on September 12 to 1,465 cases on September 16. However, the fatalities (87) in the district in last seven days has been the highest in the state. Amritsar and Jalandhar are at number two and three spots with 66 and 60 deaths in last seven days, respectively. Even the case fatality rate (CFR), which is the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with the disease for a particular period, in Ludhiana district stands at 4.2%, which is the second highest in the state. Kapurthala with 4.9% has the highest CFR among the districts of the state whereas Muktsar has lowest CFR at 1.4%. The CFR for the state is 3%. In another indicator of the severity of the problem, cases per lakh population in the Ludhiana district has again started increasing. As per the latest bulletin, cases per lakh population was 421.2 whereas it is 314.25 for the state. It had touched the highest value of 469.8 on September 5, before dropping to 339.1. But it has witnessed an increase recently. “Whereas recovery rate of 86% is a good sign and falling number of active cases is an indication of improvement, the number of fatalities remains a concern. The fatalities are due to patients reporting late after appearance of symptoms and higher number of persons with comorbidities in Ludhiana. We request people to report immediately so that fatalities are checked with proper management of the disease,” said a health officer. He said they are also requesting people to wear mask, maintain social distancing and hand hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/high-fatalities-remain-grim-challenge-for-dist/articleshow/78182912.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Serious cases: Ludhiana’s count highest in Punjab||Ludhiana: At a time when Ludhiana is grappling with sharp rise in Covid cases, it has got another grave problem at hand. The district has the highest number and percentage of serious patients in the state. The data of the health department revealed that Ludhiana has 257 level-3 cases out of 1,465 active cases which means that 17.5% of the total active cases are serious patients. Amritsar with 8.7% (150 serious patients of the total 1,708 active cases) is at the second position and Jalandhar district is at number three with 7.5% (175 serious cases of the total 2315 active cases). Pathankot is the bottom of the list with 0.1% (one serious case among 864 active cases). Meanwhile, Ludhiana has 52 beds left for serious patients till Wednesday evening whereas SBS Nagar had no bed left for such patients. Among the major districts of the state, Bathinda has 16 beds left for serious patients whereas Patiala has 27 beds, SAS Nagar 42 beds and Amritsar 64 beds. Jalandhar had highest 129 beds left for such patients on Wednesday evening. Talking about the high number of serious patients, health officials said it is because of several factors. “The patients are reporting to us late and we are working on that to ensure that they are tested early and their treatment could start accordingly. Also, a number of patients with comorbidities is more in the district which is another reason for more serious cases. We are working on all such aspects and hopefully the number will decrease in the coming time,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. He said they have adequate beds and ventilators for level-3 patients. Meanwhile, many residents said there is need for those having symptoms to report early. “People should also realize that the sooner they get tested, the brighter is their chance of survival,” said Bikramdeep Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/serious-cases-ludhianas-count-highest-in-punjab/articleshow/78182953.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 19, 2020||Hubballi||Irrigation project helps fill lakes in drought-hit villages||Vijayapura: Their elevation above mean sea level has meant that drought is a disturbingly common occurrence in Tidagundi, Bommanalli and Makanpur villages in Vijayapura district. These villages rely on two lakes, the waters of which are shared among the residents of all three, to meet their water requirements, but the waterbodies have not filled to the brim, at least not in the past two decades, much to the enduring disappointment of the villagers. However, the pumping water scheme has altered this situation, with waters from the River Krishna fed to the two lakes have filled them up. On Friday, joy was writ large on the faces of residents of the three villages as they came together to offer ‘Bagina’ to the brim-full lakes, a ceremony that local legislators MB Patil and Devanand Chavan presided over. Dr Santosh Bagali, a resident of Makanpur, admitted to TOI that he had not seen the two lakes completely filled even once in the past four decades. “The water table here has dropped to below 1,000ft, and farmers were plunging deeper into distress with no sign of water no matter how may borewells were dug. Consequently, many farmers migrated to the cities in search of employment. But the 14.7km-long aqueduct, which is the tallest and longest structure-of-its-kind in India, has helped fill up the lakes and improved the water table. As a result, water is available at a depth of 50ft in fields lying downstream of the lakes, and at a depth of 200ft in those that are upstream,” Dr Bagali said. Tidagundi farmer Ramanagouda Biradar said that peasants in the villages, who were despairing owing to the lack of water, were now harbouring hopes of reaping a rich harvest with horticulture crops such as cotton, grapes, pomegranate. “We hope that there will be prosperity in all surrounding villages in the next five years,” Biradar said. Vijayapura district zilla panchayat member Rajashri Prasad Chavan attributed the filling up of the lakes to the efforts of MB Patil, who during his stint as water resources, had initiated the project. “We will fill the Balutagi Lake soon. Delay in the construction of Revanasiddeshwar Canal has, in turn, delayed the filling up the Madasanal Lake,” Rajashri said. Tidagundi viaduct The Tidagundi viaduct is an elevated canal, with a road running on top of it, and was inaugurated in April. The construction of the canal was undertaken as part of the Mulawad Lift Irrigation and the third phase of the Upper Krishna Project. The project was completed at the cost of Rs 280.3 crore. The canal is supported by 400 pillars and is built at a height of 100ft. The canal is expected to feed water to 25 lakes and ponds in the drought-prone district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/irrigation-project-helps-fill-lakes-in-drought-hit-villages/articleshow/78193223.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Elephants on the move in Uttara Kannada destroy crops||Karwar: The migration of the elephants in the Uttara Kannada district along a highly divided corridor from Dandeli to Kerala generally occurs in the months of December and January, but the jumbos have commenced their trek to the neighbouring state considerably early this year, laying to waste vast tracts of agricultural fields along the way. The farmers in Yellapur taluk have borne the brunt of the rampaging elephants, with fields on the periphery of the Kiravatti Forest Division have had maize, sugarcane, banana and areca crops across scores of acres destroyed. About a fortnight ago, two herds of jumbos, each comprising nine elephants, were spotted in Yellapur taluk, probably moving towards Mainalli and Gunjavati in Mundgod taluk, a forest department official said. Gopalakrishna Gaonkar, a farmer, said that he had spotted three baby elephants in the Kiravatti Forest Range. “They have attacked fields in Madanuru, Madekoppa, Karadanakoppa and Algeri,”said Gaonkar. Another forester said that in instances of a field being ravaged by wild animals, a photograph of the farm along with the GPS coordinates must be uploaded on a mobile application developed by the forest department. “In such cases, farmers are compensated immediately. But if a farmer has encroached on forest territory, compensation is withheld,” he added. Forest department officials said that it would not be easy to accurately assess the extent of the damage to crops till the elephants returned to Dandeli. However, they called on farmers living in proximity to the forests to be vigilant. The forest department had dug trenches along the boundaries to deter elephants from straying into human habitats, but they are invading fields nevertheless, said Pundalik Shinarkal, another Yellapur farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/elephants-on-the-move-in-uttara-kannada-destroy-crops/articleshow/78192711.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||UT to set up 300 KwP solar plant in Burail jail||Rajinder.Nagarkoti1@timesgroup.com Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration has decided to install around 300 KwP solar plant in Model Burail Jail. The plant will come up in the parking area of the jail. Recently, UT administration wrote a letter to all the departments, corporations and boards to provide details of space available with them on official buildings and on other projects for installation of solar power plants to meet solar energy targets set by the Union government. The jail administration, through AIG prison, approached Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science & Technology Promotion Society (Crest), the nodal agency for installation of solar plants in Chandigarh. After this, Debendra Dalai, director, Crest, visited the jail and checked available space. When contacted, Dalai said there is sufficient space available for installation of the 300 KwP solar plant. After completing formalities, Crest will soon start the process of installation of the solar plant, he added. A 100 kVA solar rooftop plant is functioning in the jail complex. The ministry of new and renewable energy had enhanced the city’s solar power generation target from 50 megawatt (MW) to 69 MW, to be achieved by 2022. Till date, UT has achieved generation of 35MW. According to UT officials, solar power generation figures will touch 100MW in Chandigarh. Recently, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore approved the Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model for installation of solar plants on the rooftop of residential houses in the city. The administration has also moved a petition before the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) seeking commission’s approval for UT’s ambitious project. As residents were not coming forward for installation of solar plants because of initial capital investment, Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science & Technology Promotion Society (Crest), the nodal agency for installation of solar plants in the city, had decided to install solar plants under the RESCO model. Under the RESCO model, the UT will rope in private companies, which will install solar plants on private properties. In return, the building owner will be charged much lesser tariff (Rs 3.44 per unit) for the solar-produced electricity in the tariff bills as compared to normal electricity tariffs (Rs 2.75 to Rs 5.20 per unit). The plant will be installed for around a period of 15 years (the details of exact years will be finalised after tender process), and after that the house owner will be given the power plant. The building owner and private company will sign an agreement. The plant will be installed under net metering mode whereby a solar power system is connected to the electrical connection of a building owner and solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the electricity department during a billing cycle. Box: Deadline extended till March 31 next year The UT administration recently extended the solar installation deadline till next year March 31, 2021. The recent deadline had ended on March 31 and as lockdown is in force, the UT had decided not to impose any penalty on residents till the lockdown gets over.The administration in a notification issued on May 18, 2016, had made installation of rooftop solar power plants mandatory in residential houses measuring 500 sq.yd and above and group housing societies. (eom)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-set-up-300-kwp-solar-plant-in-burail-jail/articleshow/78193231.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Deer killed in accident, biker hurt||Mysuru: A deer was killed on the spot after it was hit by a speeding bike near Udigala village in Chamarajanagar on Friday. The rider who sustained serious injuries has been admitted to the district hospital in Mysuru. The incident happened in the morning when Armugam, 60, a resident of Bhudha Nagar, was heading towards Udigala on Chamarajanagar – Gundlupet main road. Suddenly, around four deer jumped on the road to cross to the other side. Armugam, who could not control the bike, hit one of the deer. While the deer died on the spot, Armugam fell off the bike and sustained injuries. He was rushed to the nearby hospital and later shifted to KR Hospital in Mysuru. Forest officials rushed to the spot and collected the carcass. Chamarajanagar town police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/deer-killed-in-accident-biker-hurt/articleshow/78192564.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctor shows no antibodies a month after virus infection||PUNE: Forty-two-year-old intensivist Prashant Jedge remembers being stunned when an antibody test, performed a month after Covid-19 infection, returned a complete negative. In March, Jedge had attended to Pune's first critically ill patient. He went on to treat several more but on July 3, he himself tested positive for the coronavirus via RT-PCR. However, the real shocker came four weeks later, when a blood sample tested for virus-specific antibodies showed he had none. Intrigued, Jedge retook the test at two other laboratories, including a research centre, but there was no change in the result. He is now one among five known cases of frontline healthcare workers in Pune who suffered mild to moderate Covid-19, but had no antibodies to show four to six weeks after the infection. Virologists say Jedge and the four others may have not mounted an adequate antibody response. They also suspect the antibodies in their blood may have declined rapidly. This depletion is one reason why a future vaccine against Covid may come in two doses — one being a booster shot. “I had mild infection with a sore throat and body ache. There was no fever, dry cough, breathlessness and there was no oxygen requirement,” said Jedge, who is an ICU expert with Bharati Hospital. Jedge is mildly diabetic. He sought treatment immediately. “I am exposed to high aerosol-generating procedures while intubating the critically-ill infected patients. So chances of wide exposure to the virus were high.” After recovery, he submitted his blood sample for an antibody test for testing at Bharati hospital's research wing. “There, experts found that I was lacking even basic antibodies (IgG), which every recovered patient is supposed to have in the blood after four weeks of Covid-19 infection,” Jedge said. The four other healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses (making up the five cases), also tested negative for antibodies. Specialists who carried out the tests dismissed the possibility of errors. “We are using ICMR-approved kits for antibody testing. These kits have 96% sensitivity and 100% specificity rates,” said Bharati’s senior microbiologist Col Mahadevan Kumar. Senior virologist Deepak Gadkari, the former director of the National Institute of Virology said, “It is reported worldwide that the majority asymptomatic infected persons will lose their antibodies within eight weeks and about 55% of the infected symptomatic persons will also lose them over a short period of time.” He added, “That is the reason why two doses of the vaccine are recommended. Also, in all the vaccine trials, participants are being given two doses to gauge the vaccine-induced immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doc-shows-no-antibodies-a-month-after-virus-infection/articleshow/78194623.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Ejipura-Koramangala flyover may be delayed by a year||BENGALURU: Those commuting to and living in Koramangala, Ejipura and Kendriya Sadan may have to wait for another year for completion of the Ejipura-Koramangala flyover. The project aims to decongest traffic on the 100ft intermediate ring road stretch between Ejipura Main Road and Hosur Road Junction. Supposed to be over by April 2020, the work was delayed due to the pandemic and labour shortage. BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad and engineering cell officials visited the spot on Friday to review the progress. “Work began two years ago when I was the commissioner. It’s sad to see there has hardly been any progress,” Prasad told TOI. “There are numerous problems with the construction; work worth only Rs 70 crore has been completed in the Rs 250 crore project,” he said. Prasad blamed the contractor for the slow execution. “The flyover was supposed to be operational in December and the deadline was later was pushed to April. But looks like we will need another year,” he said. A total of 61 piers and 763 elements need to be cast, but only 50 piers and 110 elements are ready, the BBMP chief said. He added the Kolkata-based contractor had been complaining of payment delay, which is affecting work. “He made it clear he will continue the work only if full payment is done,” he said. There have been other problems with the project. According to information accessed by TOI, a part of land belonging to a hospital in the area had to be sold to BBMP, which is yet to happen. “There has been a verbal approval for land transfer, but no official documents have been signed yet,” said a BBMP official. However, transfer of a piece of defence land has already been approved and TDR sanctioned. Also, 38 trees in a hospital nearby have to be chopped. “Permission from the district forest officer is pending, which is also adding to the delay,” the official said. Poor coordination between the engineering cell, contractors and the commissioner is also said to be a reason for the missed deadlines. “When engineers don’t tell us the problem, we fail to understand what’s causing the delay,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ejipura-kmangala-flyover-may-be-delayed-by-a-yr/articleshow/78194465.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP banks on No. 9 while delimiting wards||BENGALURU: What do you need to do to ensure Bengaluru is not only prosperous, livable and has amenities of global standards? Ensure that number 9 is a prominent motif in its administration, believes the joint select committee of the Karnataka legislature vetting a new bill on governing Bengaluru. The committee has knocked on the doors of the government to increase the number of wards, with a request to ensure it adds up to 9. It reportedly orally requested law minister JC Madhuswamy to help it on this count. The committee’s trust in the number stems from its desire to seek blessings of the Navagraha (nine planets) for Bengaluru’s well-being. Navagraha are the nine planets that are believed to influence human life, according to Hindu astrology. It is another matter that the existing number of BBMP wards, 198, also adds up to 9 but that has not made much difference to Bengalureans’ travails. The existing KMC Act allows the government to have up to 200 wards, but the committee is in favour of allowing the number to go up to 250 and fix it at 243 since it adds up to 9. The committee comprises the law minister, the primary and secondary education minister and 11 BJP, six Congress and three JD(S) MLAs. CV Raman Nagar MLA S Raghu, who heads the committee, said, "We have asked for increasing the wards up to 252 or at least 243 or 225. The government will take a call." Asked about the logic of 9, he said, “It’s not a priority, but our elders followed it. We also need God’s grace to keep Bengaluru prosperous.” Former minister and MLA Ramalinga Reddy said, “Numerology was discussed during the meeting, but we clearly said we should stick to 250 wards.” Numerologist Adithya Narayan said that it was a wrong decision to choose the number nine and suggested that five would be lucky for Bengaluru. Miracle buster and rationalist Hulikal Nataraj said, "The ward addition must be done scientifically, and numbers cannot change the fate of Bengaluru. Despite the current number of wards adding to nine, citizens are left to suffer with bad roads and floods. Most importantly, elected representatives’ mindset needs to change." He added that superstition about numbers is there even in developed countries like the US. Tara Krishnaswamy, civic activist, was shocked over the numerology debate and asked representatives to collect public opinion before passing the BBMP bill. “There are many issues, including basic amenities and they are stuck with numbers. It’s really unfortunate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-banks-on-no-9-while-delimiting-wards/articleshow/78194371.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Funds duel: DU teachers up ante||NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi University Principal Association criticised Delhi government and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia for alleging corruption and funds misuse in 12 government-funded colleges, the DU Teachers’ Association also decided to take the fight to the state government, accusing it of not being keen to released funds and using graft allegations to divert attention from the colleges’ financial woes. On Friday, DUTA charged Delhi government with forcing the colleges to veer towards privatisation to manage their finances. The teachers’ body had called for a three-day strike against the state government for allegedly withholding funds from the 12 colleges. On the third day of the strike on Friday, DUTA members said that not only were the excuses offered by the government to defend the non-release of grants “preposterous”, but that it had now gone one step further to suggest that colleges should pay the salaries of teachers with the money collected from students. “DUTA expresses its strong objections to Manish Sisodia’s statements that are sweeping and misleading,” a statement said. The members alleged that the deputy CM was “unaware of the rules of financial administration, in which grants from one head cannot be used for any other purpose under another head. The statement said, “The fees collected from students are used to carry out myriad activities for which the government does not give grants.” DUTA president Rajib Ray reiterated the charges levelled by the DU Principals’ Association on Thursday, saying Sisodia’s suggestion that money in the students’ society account should be used to pay teachers’ salaries was “objectionable”. Ray said, “This is nothing but an attempt to withdraw government expenditure from public-funded institutions and pave the way for privatisation with the consequent exponential increase in student fees.” Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar also accused the central and state governments of trying to privatise education in Delhi University. INTEC convenor Pankaj Garg alleged that asking the colleges to use student funds to pay salaries was “an attempt to pit students against the teachers”. Garg said, “The statements of Sisodia are not acceptable to us. You take 30-40 years to build institutions, but one statement is enough to belittle the efforts.” He also wondered why if the government suspected corruption, it remained silent when the monthly expenditure documents reached it. “The chairpersons of the governing body of most of these colleges are government nominees. No financial expenditure is approved without their consent. So, if there is corruption, then the government representatives must also be questioned,” Garg said. NDTF member AK Bhagi felt Sisodia should have got his facts correct before making the controversial suggestion. “We did not expect this from the education minister of Delhi,” Bhagi said. “Delhi government should tell us if they cannot run colleges, if they cannot provide funds. Their model is to take education to a self-financing, privatised and high-fee structure mode. We will not allow it.” DUTA treasurer Abha Dev Habib opined that delays in salary payment deterred talented people from joining universities and, thus, destroyed such institutions. “DUTA will continue this fight,” she declared. Despite numerous attempts by TOI to contact them, Delhi government officials did not respond to the allegations levelled by DUTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/funds-duel-du-teachers-up-ante/articleshow/78194475.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Surat||Diamantaires adopt ‘No cash, no diamonds’||Surat: In the tough post-Covid phase, diamond industry has adopted the new mantra — ‘no cash, no diamonds’ — changing its decades-old credit business model to survive the tough times. Reeling under the new health safety rules and strict implementation of standard operating procedure (SOP), the industry is adopting the new ‘cash for delivery’ strategy to help it stay afloat as well as prevent fraud by creditors and default. Industry sources said that over 95% of the diamonds manufactured in the city are sold in cash for a number of reasons including the primary aim to to generate liquidity. Cash will also ascertain the bulk of daily business taking place in the market. After unlock, nearly 4,000 small, medium and large units have started operation of the total 7,000 diamond manufacturing units in the city. The units are working at less than 60% capacity adhering to the stringent SOP guidelines. Again, Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council’s (GJEPC) call for a voluntary ban on rough imports too has helped clear the inventories, which, in turn, has generated some liquidity for the manufacturers. But, restrictions on international flights have resulted in rough shortage thereby pushing prices up by almost 15% in the local market. President of Surat Diamond Association (SDA), Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “Since diamantaires are unable to visit Belgium and South Africa to buy roughs, prices have appreciated by almost 15% in the local market.” Nilesh Bodki, diamond manufacturer and exporter told TOI that in pre-Covid times, diamonds were sold on credit period ranging from 45 to 90 days. “But now, if we have cash on hand, we can buy rough diamonds to sustain our factory and workers,” he added. Rakesh Gandhi, another diamond manufacturer and trader said that the local diamantaires are paying cash to buy roughs at a premium rate of 15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamantaires-adopt-no-cash-no-diamonds/articleshow/78193266.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||ICMR allows states to make use of local labs||PUNE: The ICMR has allowed states to take help of local laboratories and not just depend on the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL)-accredited facilities to carry out the rapid antigen tests. As many as 1,751 laboratories in the country are currently conducting tests. “Every state has the right to take a decision on the rapid antigen tests, as it does not require a sophisticated laboratory setting,” a senior Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) official said on Friday. “The first Covid-19 swab sample was tested on January 23 at the ICMR laboratory. Now, we have 1,751 laboratories — 1,059 are run by the government and 692 are private facilities,” the official said. On an average, the country is conducting one million tests a day to diagnose Covid-19 cases for the past three weeks. Maharashtra health officials stated that they have left it to the local authorities’ discretion to use the private laboratories for ramping up the tests. State director of health Archana Patil told TOI, “The local administration can decide and coordinate with the laboratories to carry out the tests. This will ease the pressure on the regular laboratories.” Public health expert R Jotkar said, “The test positivity in Maharashtra is around 20%. This calls for more testing till the positivity lowers below 10%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-allows-states-to-make-use-of-local-labs/articleshow/78194661.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 19, 2020||Hubballi||Banned plastic gutka sachets make a comeback on the sly in Hubballi||Hubballi: The sale of gutka, pan masala and other products in plastic pouches has been banned by the Supreme Court. But, shopkeepers in the region are not bothered about the ban and are selling gutka and other tobacco items in plastic pouches. Although this practice is still rampant across North Karnataka, officials have not taken any action. Many shopkeepers are selling plastic pouches that contain both pan masala and tobacco, which is banned by the supreme court. They claim the pouches were made for export and are now being sold locally. When contacted, the distributors of gutka companies said their gutka sachets are being manufactured as per the guidelines set by the government and have a biodegradable layer which gets easily decomposed. Supplied from Maharashtra Almost all manufacturing units of branded gutka are housed only in Karnataka and production was hampered due to the lockdown. This led to the mushrooming of duplicate gutka manufacturers who are using banned plastic pouches. These illegal sachets are said to be supplied from Maharashtra and Hyderabad. Most of the duplicate gutka is packed with supari and tobacco, said sources. Sources also said the production of sweet supari was also hit during the lockdown die to unavailability of raw materials that were sourced from north India. Some people saw this as an opportunity and started making sweet supari on their own and started packaging it in banned plastic pouches. HB Shivakumar, designated food safety officer, Hubballi-Dharwad, said, “In recent days we have conducted inspections and searches at all pan beeda shops. Plastic sachets of gutka were seized in some rural areas. We are conducting searches in Hubballi-Dharwad too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/banned-plastic-gutka-sachets-make-a-comeback-on-the-sly-in-hubballi/articleshow/78193261.cms||J Abbas Mulla
September 19, 2020||Pune||NDA cadets back in classrooms for academic session from Monday||Pune: The National Defence Academy (NDA) here will resume classroom education with split student strength from Monday, according to a directive issued by the academy’s vice-principal Vinay Deep.Social distancing measures will be in place in each classroom block and in the lecture halls. A class of, say, 30 cadets will be divided into two batches — one attending classroom sessions and the other at the squadron, and vice versa. The health of all 2,000 cadets at the academy is being monitored daily and no unwell cadet will attend classes. The academy had suspended classes since the lockdown and switched to online teaching. “Classes were conducted through the in-house campus area network connecting each squadron to the departments. Our cadets have been attending their 40-minute lectures online on their laptops,” a senior NDA official, who did not wish to be named, told TOI. “Contact classes are considered crucial towards the concluding part of the term so as to prepare cadets for the semester exams. Online teaching and learning has so far helped in maintaining continuity of academic training during the pandemic,” Deep said. Usually, the academy holds classes from 6.30am to 1.30pm. Two hours are reserved for physical training such as swimming or exercise drills. “The training programmes are being chalked out,” a teaching faculty said. Another teaching faculty member said, “Taking 40-minute lessons with a mask would be a challenge, but it would be a new norm. We have to maintain social distancing and take care of each other’s health. The classes would be sanitised as per the prescribed protocol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nda-cadets-back-in-classrooms-for-academic-session-from-monday/articleshow/78194637.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 19, 2020||Chennai||In Chennai, Covid-19 infection sparks fear of diabetes||CHENNAI: Covid-19 infection, which has affected more than five lakh people in the state, is triggering diabetes in healthy people. In many diabetics, the condition has worsened with dangerously high sugar levels or patients developing complications including organ disorders. Post-Covid-19 clinics that have screened more than 250 people over the past two weeks have found at least four healthy people developing diabetes. In at least 10 others, who had diabetes, their condition has worsened, said Dr R Umamaheshwari of the department of community medicine. Doctors from several private hospitals are now reporting onset of diabetes as one of the major post-Covid complications. While diabetes is associated with increased morbidity risk among Covid-19 patients, onset of diabetes and metabolic complications, including organ failures, in pre-existing diabetics have been observed in people with Covid-19, say infectious diseases experts. Many diabetics are pumped in with high doses of insulin due to conditions such as ketoacidosis (build up of acidic substances called ketones at dangerous levels) and hyperosmolarity (high concentration salt (sodium), glucose, and other substances in blood). “Diabetes has been the commonest cause for death in Covid-19 patients, but we now think there could be a stronger relationship between the metabolic disorder and the novel virus,” Dr Umamaheswari said. Scientists say ACE-2, the protein that binds SARS-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) allowing it to enter human cells, is located in organs and tissues involved in glucose metabolism such as the pancreas, the small intestine, the fat tissue, the liver and the kidneys, besides lungs. While doctors initially asked people to stop antihypertension medications that pushed up ACE inhibitors, the recommendation was withdrawn as doctors felt risks may outweigh benefits. The most cited reasons for variations in glucose levels are high doses of steroids during their active phase of the viral infection. Steroids work well in bringing down symptoms in several patients. It mimics the action of cortisol, a hormone produced in the body, which increases insulin resistance and hence the blood glucose levels. “They block the action of insulin. The blood glucose levels go up so high that the first drug of choice for these patients are insulin shots. After a few weeks, we taper down insulin and put them on tablets. As of now we don’t know if their condition can be reversed,” he said. Work is in progress to find if the virus may cause multiple and complex dysfunctions of glucose metabolism or directly attack beta-cells causing insulin deficiency. “We are yet to see that kind of diabetes (type1) here in India,” said senior diabetologist Dr V Mohan, who has seen a few patients developing type 2 diabetes days after they were infected with Covid. Infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan says as of now there is no evidence as to why the virus influences metabolism or whether manifestation of diabetes in these patients is type 1, type 2 or possibly a new form of diabetes. “A global registry and detailed study will probably give us more data,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-city-covid-19-infection-sparks-fear-of-diabetes/articleshow/78194658.cms||Pushpa Narayan
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Four Covid deaths in Amravati||AMRAVATI: Four deaths due to Covid and a spike of 244 new cases took the district’s toll to 223 and patients’ count to 10,347 on Friday. A civil surgeon office report said that three men aged 55, 80 and 65 from Sonori village in Chandur Bazar tehsil, Fubgaon village and Arvi town in Wardha district died during treatment along with a 59-year-old woman from Shendurjana Ghat town in Warud tehsil. The report further said that 214 patients recovered on Friday, taking the count of recovered patients to 7,909. Now, there are 2,217 patients under treatment, including 10 taking treatment in Nagpur and 610 placed in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-covid-deaths-in-amravati/articleshow/78194697.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Municipal Corporation education panel seeks Rs60 lakh for uniforms||NAGPUR: Even though there is little chance to start physical classes in schools in the current academic year due to Covid19 pandemic, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s education department has sought Rs60 lakh for uniforms for students studying in NMC-run schools. A proposal has been submitted to the standing committee which has convened a meeting on September 23. A senior official from the department said the money will be utilized only if schools start functioning. The accounts department has also submitted a proposal to extend grant of leave to the then chief accounts and finance officer Anant Madavi from January 31 to March 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-education-panel-seeks-rs60-lakh-for-uniforms/articleshow/78193348.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Keeping in mind strategic importance of U’khand, 5.5 mtr width of Char Dham road will not work: CM||Dehradun: Reacting to the Supreme Court’s recent directive that the width of the under-construction Char Dham highway should not be more than 5.5 metre, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Friday that the state required broad roads, especially on routes leading to international borders. Addressing a virtual press conference, the CM said, “Keeping in mind the strategic location of Uttarakhand, a 5.5 metre width for the Char Dham road will not work. A broader and better road would not only help in quick mobility of our armed forces to reach key locations swiftly but also help people living in the hills in their movement.” A few days ago, the CM had said he will write to Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari mentioning the importance of the Char Dham road for the country and the state, and providing specific mention of width of roads leading to the international borders. On Friday, he said he has “spoken to the minister and made a request for the further widening of the route.” To recall, the Supreme Court on September 7 gave its final seal of approval to the Char Dham highway project, but restrained the Centre from widening roads in the hills beyond five and a half metres, by citing a 2018 circular of the ministry of road transport and highways. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had argued the strategic significance in widening hilly roads to pave the way for easy movement of military vehicles towards the borders. However, the bench of Justices RF Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee turned down the Centre’s plea. Earlier, in July, a 17-member committee appointed by the apex court — which was headed by environmentalist Ravi Chopra — had submitted its recommendations on the project but could not arrive at a consensus. While 13 members of the committee supported the approved project standard, that is a double lane with paved shoulder, which would make the road width around 12 metre, four members, including Chopra, opposed the idea vehemently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/keeping-in-mind-strategic-importance-of-ukhand-5-5-mtr-width-of-char-dham-road-will-not-work-cm/articleshow/78192219.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Medical store owner foils robbery bid, escapes firing||Ludhiana: Two men, who had come to rob a medical store on Giaspura road, fired at the owner when he tried to put up resistance. The owner had a narrow escape in the incident that occurred on Wednesday night. Police have booked the attackers. Suraj Srivastav, owner of the medical shop at Amardass Colony on Giaspura road, claimed he was about to close his shop at around 9.30pm, when two masked miscreants entered the shop and pointed a gun at him. They threatened him to hand over cash and other valuables in the shop. Suraj claimed that gathering some courage, he hit a miscreant on his hand with a stick. He said caught unaware, the miscreants fired at him. However, the bullet missed the target and pierced the roof. Soon the accused fled the spot following which Suraj informed the police. Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO, division number six police station, said a case under section 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC and relevant sections of Arms Act has been registered. Cops are scanning the CCTV footage of the cameras in the area to get clue about the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/medical-store-owner-foils-robbery-bid-escapes-firing/articleshow/78183004.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Highest recoveries from Covid-19 in a single day in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: In some good news among the rising number of Covid cases in Uttarakhand, the state recorded the highest cases of recoveries on a single day on Friday. As many as 1,285 patients recovered on the day, taking the number of recoveries to 26,095. The Covid-19 case tally meanwhile crossed the 38,000 mark with 868 fresh infections reported on Friday. Among those found infected on the day was Harish Dhami, Congress MLA from Dharchula. Also, the RT-PCR test report of Indira Hriyadesh, leader of the opposition in the state, was awaited at the time of filing this report. She was admitted to Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani and put in an isolation ward. Dr Arun Joshi, CMS of Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College, confirmed that she was admitted to the hospital with Covid-19- like symptoms. Besides the fresh cases, deaths of four Covid-19 patients on the day pushed the toll of the virus to 464. Meanwhile, Anoop Nautiyal of Social Development for Communities Foundation, said that that there should be an analysis of the difference in test positivity rate between government and private labs. “Among the total tests, 55% took place in private labs and the remaining 45% were conducted in government labs. There is a difference of 1.3% in the test positivity rate between the private (10.4%) and the government labs (9.12%). On Friday, 367 out of 5,094 samples tested Covid-19-positive in government labs. The test positivity rate was 7.2%. On the other hand, 825 out of 6,985 samples tested positive in private labs, taking the test positivity rate to 11.8%. This gap of 4.6% is quite big,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/highest-recoveries-from-covid-19-in-a-single-day-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/78193315.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 19, 2020||Surat||Road repairs start after public outcry||Surat: After month-long social media campaign by Rander people, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) finally woke up to address the woes of the residents. It has taken up repairs of the area’s badly damaged main roads, especially patching up the crater-sized potholes on a war footing. According to the residents, rains damaged about 80% of the internal roads in Rander town, which the SMC conveniently ignored till protests turned into a din with pasting posters across the town ridiculing the civic body with slogans like: ‘Welcome to the potholed Rander town, please get insurance of your bones’! The residents along with social groups also ran a campaign on social media, highlighting the plight of the commuters daily on the dilapidated monsoon-hit roads.President of Rander development charitable trust, Sohail Shaikh told TOI, “It seems contractors were wary of repairing roads in Rander which is still a Covid-19 hotspot. With more than 80% of the roads here damaged, residents were subject to torturous travel over potholes while commuting, especially on two wheelers.” Shaikh further said that SMC started repairing the roads for the past two days, with about 100 metres of roads being repaired daily. “My entire team of 15 volunteers is accompanying the contractor in repairing the roads,” he added. Abbas Hans, a social worker in Rander town told TOI that even emergency vehicles including ambulance could not enter into a few localities owing to bad roads. “We had to shift patients in private cars, while the ambulance would wait on the main road,” he said. A senior officer of SMC’s road construction department said, “Road repair work is going on in full swing across the city. First, we started patchwork of main roads and then shifted focus to residential streets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/road-repairs-start-after-public-outcry/articleshow/78193310.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mumbai||Crucial Covid-19 medicines must be at hospitals, quarantine centres: PIL||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Friday directed the state government to reply to a public interest litigation that wants essential Covid-19 medicines to be made directly available at hospitals as well as isolation and quarantine centres where patients are treated. The PIL also sought that they should be available at medical stores with guidelines. Filed by Jayesh Mirani of All-Maharashtra Human Rights’ Welfare Association, it urged the HC to prohibit black-marketing of drugs such as Remdesivir100 and Actimera-400 injections and FabiFlu tablets that are used for critical patients. The PIL stated that Maharashtra leads in terms of Covid-19 active cases and deaths. However, the state did not place orders for Ramdesivir, which was approved for sale on June 22. The bulk has gone to Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Assam and private hospitals that had ordered them in advance, it said. Mirani’s advocate Prashant Pandey told a bench of Justices K K Tated and Nitin Borkar that due to a shortage of these medicines, caregivers have to run from pillar to post to procure them and have also paid much more than the maximum retail price. He said in Mumbai they are available only with six distributors. He said that while the maximum retail price of Ramdesivir100 is Rs3,000, it is sold in the black-market for over Rs30,000. Pandey said hence it was necessary that these crucial drugs are made available directly at Covid care centres so that time would be saved and patients are provided with immediate care. Seeking time to take instructions, government pleader Poornima Kantharia said it will have to be seen if it was permissible and feasible for medicines to be sold over-the-counter. The judges directed the state government to reply and posted the next hearing on October 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/crucial-covid-19-medicines-must-be-at-hospitals-quarantine-centres-pil/articleshow/78194749.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Oxygen plant in Pune's Chakan may begin operations by October 25||PUNE: The new liquid oxygen manufacturing plant in Chakan is likely to be up and running by October 25, improving oxygen supply to healthcare facilities in Pune and surrounding areas. Sharing this information with TOI on Friday, Sadashiv Survase, regional joint director, industries (Pune division), Directorate of Industries, said, “All clearances have been given to the plant, the commissioning process of which began on September 5. If not October 25, it should start production latest during the last week of October this year.” He said the plant was expected to have at least four cryogenic tankers of its own to add to the existing limited capacity of such tankers in the district. “It will add another 200 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen per day to the existing production capacity in Pune,” Survase said. The current demand of liquid oxygen from hospitals in Pune district is about 290-300 metric tonne on an average per day. Survase recently visited the plant to resolve technical issues. He said the authorities were trying to augment the supply chain by converting nitrogen and argon tankers to that of oxygen. “This is a complex process too, as the the tank first has to be cleaned and flushed before approvals are sought from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oxygen-plant-in-chakan-may-begin-ops-by-october-25/articleshow/78194694.cms||Neha Madaan
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Post Harsimrat’s resignation, Akalis attack BJP on ordinances||Ludhiana: The after-effects of the resignation of SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal as Union minister are being felt in Punjab with Akali leaders in Ludhiana attacking BJP leaders for not even consulting their party heads before bringing these three ordinances in the Parliament. On the other hand, BJP leaders have claimed that the alliance would not get affected in the state over this issue. But Congress leaders mocked at both parties while saying that cracks were already visible in the alliance. District president of SAD Ranjit Dhillon said, “The resignation has been submitted by Harsimrat to prove that SAD is standing strong with farmers of this state. As far as these ordinances are concerned, even before putting these in the Parliament for approval, the BJP should have consulted the Akali leaders and farmers’ associations so that their objections could have been removed.” He further said these ordinances would give the power in the hands of corporate houses and in the coming five to ten years not only agriculture sector but also hosiery and other industries would go in their hands. Dhillon claimed that like hill states get extra benefits in industrial sector, the Union government should have given more benefits to the farmers of Punjab and Haryana in these ordinances because both states have more share in agriculture field as compared to other states. Meanwhile, when state BJP vice-president Parveen Bansal asked about impact on alliance between both parties he said, “I do not think opposition for ordinances in parliament by SAD head Sukhbir Badal or resignation of Harsimrat Badal would impact our alliance. As we are different parties and on any issue, there can be difference of opinion.” He said he feels since that the Congress instigated the farmers against these ordinances and farmers started protesting and SAD came under pressure to show resentment against these ordinances. Bansal said after the BJP had come in alliance with SAD the state became peaceful. However, Congress MLA Surinder Dawar said, “The cracks are visible in the alliance of SAD and BJP and that is why Harsimrat had to resign. Earlier, Sukhbir was in support of this ordinance and when he saw that farmers are not happy and are opposing the same, so he had to change the decision.” He said Akali Dal took this decision just to save its image in front of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/post-harsimrats-resignation-akalis-attack-bjp-on-ordinances/articleshow/78194727.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||A to Z of corona and the success mantra — Test, Trace and Isolate||Covid Dictionary: A to Z of Covid-19’s six months in Gujarat What Gujaratis talked about in past six months A: Ahmedabad Model – The Test, Trace and Isolate strategy of the state’s most populous city that was once the national Covid-19 hotspot worked wonders to reduce the number of cases and became a model for other cities to follow B: Blood plasma – One of the earliest treatment protocols for critical patients, plasma donation was initiated by the first Covid patients as the state has now recorded over 500 donations that have helped patients C: Covid testing – Testing protocols were constantly in the news, first due to the stringent restrictions and subsequent appeal by doctors to the judiciary. With the introduction of the Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs), testing increased manyfold in the state Also: Civil Hospital – for its high initial mortality rate; Curfew – as several parts of Ahmedabad and the state saw this after several years; Cytokine storm – the body’s immune reaction that caused many deaths in the initial months D: Dhaman ventilators – The Gujarat-produced ventilators created a storm due to claims that it doesn’t have all functions. The issue escalated to a political one, while the state government defended them and got the upgraded Also: Diamond markets – as they quickly became Covid hotspots in Surat; D-dimer – A marker of Covid-induced blood clotting in the body E: Exodus – State government figures showed that over 15 lakh migrant workers headed home after the lockdown was announced. Thousands walked for many kilometres, hoping to get some for of transport. The situation finally improved with the introduction of the Shramik Special trains F: Food packets – Gujarati charity and spirit of social service came to the fore as lakhs of food packets were prepared and distributed to those in need during the lockdown. In later months, police and district administrations streamlined this Also: Fines – as Gujaratis paid crores in fines for not wearing masks or spitting in public. Ahmedabad alone recorded a collection of Rs 6 crore till the second week of September G: Genome sequencing – The Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) became one of the first government labs in the country to complete genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 and sharing it with other labs tp speed up the search for a vaccine H: Home Sweet Home – Many Gujaratis did not venture out of their homes for close to three months, probably staying close to family for so long after a very long time. Many homes underwent changes to accommodate working from home and dwellings never looked cleaner Also: HCQ – Hydroxychloroquine was used as both a prophylactic and treatment before it was removed from the national treatment protocol; Heparin – the blood-thinner used for treatment of Covid-19 I: Immunity boosters – Gujaratis guzzled down thousands of litres of ‘ayurvedic kadha,’ popped ayurvedic and homoeopathic medicines or switched to foods thought to boost the immunity to fight the viral infection J: Judiciary – From constituting a high-powered committee to probing the functioning of the Asarwa Civil Hospital to hearing matters related to expanding Covid testing, the Gujarat high court played a major role in steering government actions K: Kitlis – In the latest crackdown on public places to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) shut down hundreds of tea stalls in the city Also: Kamalam – the BJP state headquarters was in the news after a large number of BJP officials got infected with the virus L: Lockdown – The word entered everyone’s vocabulary as the country witnessed 68 days of complete closure beginning March 25. Social, economic and healthcare implications of the move are still being studied M: Masks – Once limited to the medical setting or bike riders at the most, masks became an everyday accessory thanks to Covid-19 Also: Markaz – the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi came into national focus due to the purported high number of infections caused by it; Mortality rate – Gujarat ranked among the top three states in India till May in mortality of Covid-19 patients; Ahmedabad was second only to Mumbai N: No Entry – The epidemic created social barriers as no other as many societies barred the entry of any outsider. The concept spread to villages where even entry-exit pathways were blocked O: Online education – Thousands of parents were forced to buy new laptops/tablets/smartphones as education went virtual. With when school or educational institutions will re-open still not clear, several schools switched to online education Also: Oxygen shortage – Several hospitals in the state reported an acute shortage in the first two weeks of September before the government intervened. P: PPE kits – Except for those in the medical field, personal protective equipment (PPE) was an alien word to society. Covid changed that. From police personnel on duty to teachers on surveys, all donned the gear to shield themselves from the virus Also: Psychological issues – Helplines kept ringing and the psychologists/ psychiatrists saw an increase in patients with depression and anxiety caused by the lockdown; Paan shops – Unions were formed to oppose the delayed of opening these shops due to the fear that people would spit in the open Q: Quarantine – Another word that became part of everyday conversation as homes and societies were closed for periods of one or two weeks by the authorities. Cluster and area quarantine also gained currency R: Recovery rate – By the third week of September, Gujarat was among the Indian states with the highest percentage of recovered patients (83.4%) Also: RT-PCR – the ‘gold standard’ of Covid-19 testing which has become mandatory for medical procedures. The government recently made it more affordable; Remdesivir – The antiviral medicine became a go-to drug for patients with certain complications S: Social distancing – ‘Do Gaj ki Doori’ (Distance of two yards) became the norm as civic authorities prompted business establishments to demarcate the now ubiquitous circles and squares to guide people on where to stand and public transport also stopped use of middle seats Also: Sanitizers – The use of disinfectant became the new norm after Covid-19; Shrey Hospital fire – one of the deadliest incidents in India at a Covid-19 hospital, where eight patients lost lives; Sero survey – The survey for Ahmedabad showed that 40% of Covid patients had not developed antibodies, hence no herd immunity; Super spreaders – The term was used to describe many groups ranging from vegetable vendors to diamond unit workers T: Temperature scanners – Every major establishments got these devices to screen people and coupled with hand sanitizers, these have become the norm Also: Tocilizumab – the immunosuppressant drug became part of the new treatment protocol for critical patients U: UHC/ PHC – The importance of these building blocks of public healthcare – urban health centres and primary health centres (UHC/PHC) – came to the fore during this time as the majority of the non-metro patients were identified at such units V: Video conferences – Several online video conferencing tools became widely used applications in the shadow of the epidemic as webinars and virtual meetings became the ‘new normal’ Also: Viral load – indicative of the severity of the disease which decides treatment protocol; Vitamins – From Vitamin C to D, Covid times saw a rush to procure vitamin and mineral supplements W: Work from Home – Several corporate entities adopted a complete online or a hybrid model, creating new ways to work. The phenomenon also created HR and interpersonal challenges for companies and individuals Also: Ward visits – the issue was hotly discussed after several groups of junior doctors alleged that their seniors made too few visits to Covid wards; Warrior – Corona Warrior became the new term to describe those who have overcome the infection and also at the frontline of the fight such as medical/ health workers, police and sanitation workers X: X-ray and HRCT – When RT-PCR tests were as not easily available, experts devised a way to ascertain the presence of Covid-19 in the lungs through X-rays and HRCT (high resolution CT) that was found to be effective Y: Year 2020 – The year that will forever be associated with our tangle with the virus and its far-reaching impact on all sections of society Z: Zero deaths – Dangs and Narmada are the only two districts of Gujarat to not have reported any deaths of Covid-19 patients. Ahmedabad and Surat account for 76% of the state’s Covid-19 deaths||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-a-to-z-of-6-months-of-living-with-the-virus-in-gujarat/articleshow/78195899.cms||Parth Shastri
September 19, 2020||Hubballi||NWKRTC yet to issue daily passes, passengers fret||Hubballi: North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) has resumed all its city, suburban and long route services gradually. But it has not yet re-started issuing daily passes which were available between cities like Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri, Nargund among others. It has also withheld its daily passes between other cities of its nine divisions in the region. As a result, professionals, businessmen, medical representatives, sales executives and the general public are forced to pay full charge and are not getting the 15-20% concession available with the daily pass. Vijay Marathe, a medical representative, said, “Daily passes are useful for people like us, who travel to different cities and towns daily. Apart from saving money, there was no worry of having exact change to buy the ticket. The way fare between Hubballi and Gadad is Rs 60 while the daily pass would cost Rs 100.” Gadag Chamber of Commerce and Industry former president Mohan Koti said daily passes were convenient for businessmen and their employees. “Moreover, it was helpful for NWKRTC as pass buyers used to rely on its service and instead of using private buses or trains. Probably NWKRTC is trying to cover-up its losses incurred after Covd-19 by denying daily passes,” he said. The daily passes were first introduced on 28 routes at a time when private operators were giving tough competition to state-run buses. Vinayak Pujar, a sales executive with a private firm, noted that as soon as private buses stopped running, NWKRTC stopped allowing daily pass holders in its city buses. This is caused hardship to many commuters and NWKRTC should issuing daily passes again, he urged. However, some conductors said daily passes are being issued for 2-3 days, but only in some electronic ticket machines. “Because of this, we are facing the ire of passengers but our officials are not setting this option in all ETMs,” they rued. NWKRTC managing director Krishna Bajpai and chief traffic manager Santosh Kumar did not respond to calls or messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nwkrtc-yet-to-issue-daily-passes-passengers-fret/articleshow/78193323.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 19, 2020||Surat||Appointment of judge in board of nominees||Surat: Advocates practising in the board of nominees have written a letter to PM Narendra Modi for appointing of nominee judge, a post vacant for past two and half years. It will help in imparting speedy justices to litigants from the cooperative sector, they said. Advocate Deepak Chaliawala, a practicing lawyer, stated that the judge from the board of nominees in Vadodara has been given charge of Surat district who insists the litigants to travel to the board for hearing of cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/appointment-of-judge-in-board-of-nominees/articleshow/78193330.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Day’s recoveries exceed tally in Pune & Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday added 4,093 new cases as against 3,788 recoveries, with discharges exceeding the day’s tally in the municipal corporation limits of the city and Pimpri Chinchwad. As many as 1,926 patients were declared cured in the PMC limits as against 1,891 new cases. In the PCMCareas, 862 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours ended on Friday evening. The civic body added 843 new cases on Friday. With this, the region’s caseload has risen above 2.44 lakh, while the recovery count had surged past 1.96 lakh.  The PMC has so far conducted over 5.42 lakh tests, PCMC 2.81 lakh, while rural and Cantonment areas conducted 1.67 lakh tests. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated 85 patients succumbed to the infection on Friday, pushing the death toll to 5,536. Party leaders’ meet A meeting of the party leaders in PMC was held under the chairmanship of mayor Muralidhar Mohol on Friday. The leaders demanded provision of more beds for Covid-19 treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-recoveries-exceed-tally-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/78194722.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 19, 2020||Pune||PCMC-Dapodi Metro viaduct stretch to be ready by October||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) on Friday said the viaduct on the Pimpri-Dapodi section of the Metro project was largely ready, and that the entire work was expected to be completed by next month. Only a small portion near Nashik Phata Chowk is pending, and MahaMetro officials said this would be completed in the next few days. The laying of tracks and overhead traction cables for power supply are in their final stages and should be ready in a month, officials said. The MahaMetro had designated the seven-kilometre stretch between PCMC and Dapodi as a priority stretch. Most of the civil work on this stretch, including the construction of pillars and the fitting of spans, has been completed. “The work here was very challenging as two flyovers exist at the junction, but it is almost done,” an official said. MahaMetro further said signalling-related work was in full swing at the Sant Tukaramnagar and Phugewadi stations. “About 80% of the construction of the two stations has been completed. Sant Tukaramnagar will be the first station to become operational on the stretch,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-dapodi-metro-viaduct-stretch-to-be-ready-by-oct/articleshow/78194731.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Pvt schools welcome govt’s tax relief, call for more relaxations||Dehradun: The state’s private school community has welcomed the Uttarakhand cabinet’s move to waive off the tax on school buses for three months but added that more relief needs to be given for schools. Anshul Pathak, vice-chairman of Delhi Public School Ghaziabad Society, that runs the Sela Qui International School, said, “Our buses have been parked on the school campus for six months. We need to pay EMIs and the salaries of the drivers despite reduced income generation. I am thankful to the state government for waiving off the transportation tax for three months but more relief needs to be given. For instance, the government can refund a little bit of the previous annual transportation tax and give some relief on other utilities like electricity and water supplies.” He added that “there are many things which are not being used by us in full capacity but yet we are paying the entire tax.” “Due to the government orders, we are getting less than half of the fees from parents but need to pay the entire salary of the staffers, and that has affected most schools badly,” Pathak said. In a similar vein, Kunal Malla, MD of Olympus High School on GMS Road, said, “I welcome the government’s recent order but I feel it should be made a practice that taxes will be charged only when school buses are running. Our buses can’t be used for any other purpose like tourism when schools are not functioning. Our costs are the same as we have to pay the salaries and other expenses although our incomes have dipped.” When asked about the matter of giving some financial relief to private schools during the pandemic, the office of the state education minister Arvind Pandey said that “the matter will be considered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pvt-schools-welcome-govts-tax-relief-call-for-more-relaxations/articleshow/78193340.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 19, 2020||Pune||Consumer panel restrains firm MD from leaving India||Pune: The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has restrained the managing director (MD) of a realty firm in Sadashiv Peth from leaving the country till he complies with its February 18 order of refunding Rs75 lakh with 10% per annum interest, since October 20, 2016, to a woman in a matter relating to the possession of flat in a housing scheme at Bavdhan. The firm has to comply with the order by an extended deadline of December 31, 2020.Lawyer Rahul Gandhi, who represented the woman from SB Road, told TOI, “Our client’s family owned a plot in Bavdhan, which was given to the developer for raising the housing scheme. Against the development rights, the family members were to get one flat each. Our client was one of the beneficiaries, but did not get the flat and moved the commission in 2016.”During the pendency of the matter, the woman and the realty firm reached a settlement, based on which the national commission passed a consent order on February 18 giving three months to the firm to refund Rs75 lakh with 10% per annum interest from the date of filing of consumer complaint to the woman. The firm failed to comply by May 18 and sought time till March 2021 for compliance, which was partially allowed. The firm’s MD told TOI, “We have ourselves given the consent to the terms of settlement and it was only a matter of seeking some more time from the commission for the compliance of the consent order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/consumer-panel-restrains-firm-md-from-leaving-india/articleshow/78194746.cms||Vishwas Kothari
September 19, 2020||Pune||Ajit Pawar assures timely fund release for Pune Metro project||PUNE: Deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar on Friday assured that the state government would release funds for the Pune Metro project on time and also provide all necessary assistance. While inspecting the ongoing work on the PCMC-Dapodi priority section of Pimpri-Swargate Metro line, Pawar said efforts were on to start the service at the earliest, while conceding that the pandemic has caused delays. This priority stretch is expected to become the first to be operational. He also rode on a Metro rake, installed for trials, on a 1.5km stretch from the Sant Tukaramnagar station. MahaMetro has installed a QR code-based ticketing system at the station. Pawar was issued a token ticket. Later, he visited other Metro sites. He also inaugurated a model of the tunnel-boring machine at Swargate. MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit and other top officials made a presentation on present work status on the four metro stretches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-pawar-assures-timely-fund-release-for-project/articleshow/78194740.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Project to cover old drain gets under way||Ludhiana: In a bid to give relief to the residents of Shivaji Nagar and New Shivaji Nagar, the civic body has finally kicked off the project to cover an old drain starting from Shingaar Cinema to Transport Nagar on Friday. In a first of its kind the civic officials have displayed the boards at the site, where complete detail about the project is mentioned so that people know about the project details. The project will be complete by March 2021. The board has details about project, its cost, contractor, starting date, completion date and contact numbers of officers concerned of the MC so that people should contact them in case they need to do the same. This project will prove beneficial for the residents of ward number 55 and 57 because the drain was passing through these areas and at some points its walls had collapsed and commuters were facing the danger of falling inside it. Earlier, the drain from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib to Shagun Palace was also covered but that project took a very long time, so the residents were hoping that at least this project gets completed in time. The project was inaugurated by MLA from central constituency Surinder Dawar, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. The MLA Dawar shared that the project cost was Rs 17.85 crore and it had been designed by IIT Roorkee. According to area residents, this drain was carrying rainwater to the Buddha Nullah. When the population increased in nearby areas, the drain was made concrete in 90s. But the problem started when along with rainwater even domestic discharge came into the drain and for the past few years even solid waste was being thrown inside it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/project-to-cover-old-drain-gets-under-way/articleshow/78194745.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nitin Raut 9th Maharashtra minister to test Covid positive||NAGPUR: Guardian minister Nitin Raut and his wife Sumedha tested Covid positive on Friday morning. Both are now home quarantined. Raut informed about his Covid status through a tweet on Friday morning, “I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I would like to request all those who had come in contact with me in the last few days to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure. Stay safe everyone and take care.” Raut is the ninth cabinet minister in the state to test Covid positive. State assembly speaker Nana Patole had also tested positive a few days ago. Dairy development and sports minister Sunil Kedar, who hails from the city, had tested Covid positive a few days ago. He was admitted to Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai following minor symptoms. Now he is resting at his official residence in Mumbai. Patole had quarantined himself at his Mumbai residence. Earlier, cabinet ministers Ashok Chavan, Jitendra Awhad, Abdul Sattar, Aslam Sheikh, Dhananjay Munde and others had tested positive. Meanwhile, city MP and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari is doing well at home. He had tested positive on Wednesday night after coming back from New Delhi. He had gone to the national capital to attend the monsoon session of Parliament. BJP MLC Pravin Datke has also tested positive and is resting at home. Mayor Sandip Joshi’s personal staffers had tested positive twice, but he tested negative both times. Joshi had home quarantined self for a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nitin-raut-9th-maha-min-to-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78195932.cms||Ashish Roy
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Mandatory testing at borders: Confusion prevails at border checkposts||Dehradun: Amid confusion over new rules to enter Uttarakhand, several inbound people are facing inconvenience at the Asha Rodi checkpost, the main border checkpost for entering Dehradun. It’s been almost a week since the government announced the provision of conducting tests at the border for those coming from outside but to conduct the RT-PCR test at the checkpost, the teams from government and private labs are only available during the day, observers said. Anil Sukhani, a businessman from Saharanpur who stood for hours in the queue to get himself registered at the checkpost, said, “It has become confusing as every state has a different set of rules for inbound people. I didn’t know about the mandatory registration on the smart city website and ended up wasting almost two hours getting the registration done.” Amrish Singh, another traveller from Lucknow, said, “Initially, I thought the travel restriction had been removed by the Central government. However, when I had to go to Uttarakhand for an important business meeting, I realised registration was mandatory. I would request the Uttarakhand government to allow the cops to check the registration documents near the barricades only. Getting down from the car and standing in a queue makes one vulnerable to infection.” When contacted, additional district magistrate Dehardun Arvind Pandey said, “The health department team is conducting rapid tests at the checkpost during the day as majority of the people enter the state during day time. However, the team on duty at night is also recording details of the travellers and sending them for a test if they show any symptoms.” Meanwhile, according to the officials at the airport, testing is being done round the clock and the teams at the railway stations are also put on duty in advance before the arrival of a train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mandatory-testing-at-borders-confusion-prevails-at-border-checkposts/articleshow/78193362.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Dedicated team at airport to answer flyers’ queries online||Kolkata: Alarmed by the confusion about RT-PCR report and quarantine guidelines among flyers from the UK headed to the city, Kolkata airport authorities have decided to form a team dedicated to answering queries over social media and e-mails.On Wednesday, the inaugural flight had to start for Kolkata leaving behind 12 flyers — nearly 50% of total bookings for the day — as they didn’t have a RT–PCR Covid-19 negative test report with them. As per the SOP in Bengal, all passengers coming directly to the state on international flights must have the report of the test conducted within 96 hours prior to departure.“The lack of dissemination of information to the passengers by some airlines is apparent as every day we have been receiving hundreds of queries over e-mail and Twitter. We are trying to address the problem from our end, replying to all the queries at the earliest with verified information and links to the latest central and state guidelines regarding passenger arrival,” Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said.Even on Friday, a day before the second Air India flight from London is scheduled, many from abroad continued to post their queries regarding quarantine rules and RT-PCR test mandate in Bengal.“I will be travelling from London (via Dubai). Do I need to provide any Covid-related document at the airport or Aarogya Setu / Self-declartion will work?” asked Anupam Sharma on Twitter. Anisha, a British national who had been stuck in Kolkata with her two children for several months and is now planning to head home, asked: “Is Covid testing mandatory for Kolkata-London direct flight?” There have also been questions on viability of the international flights and queries on whether RT-PCR testing is possible at the Kolkata airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dedicated-team-at-airport-to-answer-flyers-queries-online/articleshow/78194753.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 19, 2020||Pune||Police investigate cellphone theft in Covid-19 ICU ward||PUNE: A 48-year-old man from Wakad lodged an FIR with the Sangvi police on Thursday alleging that his brother’s smartphone was stolen while the latter was admitted to the ICU ward of a hospital in Aundh as a Covid-19 patient last month. The complainant approached the police alleging the theft after his brother died on August 27 while undergoing treatment. Sub-inspector Vinod Shendkar of the Sangvi police said, “The man stated in his complaint that someone stole the smartphone of his brother, worth Rs12,000, between August 22 and 23. We have told the hospital authorities to give us a list of the staff members on duty in the ICU when the alleged theft occurred. We shall question them.” There were no CCTV cameras in the ICU. “We shall start our probe soon,” Shendkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-investigate-cellphone-theft-in-covid-19-icu-ward/articleshow/78194764.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||No nod from Heathrow; Mum new transit point for London-Kol flights||Kolkata: Air India on Friday announced the cancellation of the direct connection between Kolkata and London, citing non-availability of take-off and landing approvals for the flight at London Heathrow Airport (LHR). Instead, passengers bound for Kolkata will now travel both ways via Mumbai. On Thursday, the flight from London had come directly to Kolkata, but the return flight was cancelled and passengers were routed through Delhi.“In view of LHR airport slot constraints and non-availability of approval for landing and take-off at LHR for flights AI 1149 and AI 1150 between Kolkata and London, a detour has been finalised for the next date. Kolkata-bound passengers, who had booked flight AI 1150 from London to Kolkata on Saturday, will now board AI 130 to Mumbai that will take off at 12.45pm. After the halt in Mumbai, the flight will travel to Kolkata at 5.50am on Sunday. Those booked on flight AI 1149 on Sunday will board the Mumbai-bound flight — AI 129 — at 7.30am. The flight reached London at 4.25pm,” an airline spokesperson said. So far, 81 passengers from Kolkata have booked tickets on Sunday’s flight.There is no clarity on whether the subsequent ‘London-Kolkata’ flights will follow the same route or alternate between Delhi and Mumbai as transit points. However, it will sort out the confusion over mandatory pre-boarding RT-PCR test that was required for direct flights to Kolkata. On Wednesday, 12 passengers on the inaugural flight to Kolkata were not allowed to board the aircraft as they did not have the Covid-negative report. Since the flights will now be via another airport, sources said passengers who did not have the test report could travel to that point and get quarantined or have an RT-PCR test done at the airport before travelling to Kolkata. The ministry of civil aviation has allowed RT-PCR testing at the entry point as a pilot project.Many who missed their flight to Kolkata from London on Wednesday flew to Delhi on a separate flight. They will stay quarantined before flying to Kolkata. “We had booked a New Town hotel for 14 days. But since we were not allowed to fly without the Covid report, we came to Delhi that does not have such a restriction,” said Sumanta Sarathi Chakraborty, a software engineer and a resident of Barrackpore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-nod-from-heathrow-mum-new-transit-point-for-london-kol-flights/articleshow/78194751.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Half a year of living with Covid||AHMEDABAD: On March 19, Gujarat had recorded its first two Covid-19 positive cases – one each from Rajkot and Surat. In the next six months, the tally increased to 1.2 lakh cases as the global pandemic claimed 3,289 lives. On Friday, the state recorded the highest daily cases at 1,410 – breaching the 1,400 daily cases mark for the first time – which was third peak for the state in past seven days. The positive cases included 286 from Surat, 173 from Ahmedabad, 144 from Rajkot, 135 for Vadodara, and 129 from Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 34,666, 25,583, 10,462 and 7,421. The state also recorded deaths of 16 positive patients in 24 hours. The deaths included four each from Surat and Rajkot, three each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara, and two from Gandhinagar. The cumulative deaths in Vadodara and Gandhinagar reached 160 and 70 respectively as the figures for Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot were 1,775, 715 and 122. With the discharge of 1,293 patients in 24 hours, the state crossed the figure of 1 lakh recovered patients. The number of active patients reached 16,108. Share of active, discharged and deceased patients was 13.4%, 83.9% and 2.7% respectively. City-based experts, reflecting on the six months of epidemic said that there’s no time to down the guard. Dr Tushar Patel, a city-based pulmonologist and member of the state government-appointed committee on Covid-19, told TOI that the cases are on the continuous rise. “The silver lining is, we now know the infection and how to handle it. It’s reflected in the ever-decreasing number of deceased patients in the state. It’s also in our hands to ensure that we maintain all protocols to ensure safety for self and others,” he said. The hospitals have reported rise in cases from areas where the cases were not very high earlier – indicating spread of the infection in areas which are out of the city limits and also in interiors of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/half-a-year-of-living-with-covid/articleshow/78195917.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ludhiana||More water, sewerage, electricity connections than building plans approved: RTI reply||Ludhiana: Already the building branch officials are under scanner due to difference between new electricity connections and building plans approval every year. Now, an information obtained under RTI has revealed that civic officials issued almost 5,000 new water supply and sewerage connections in almost a year. The officials, however, blamed the residents who do not take connections legally which not only leads to financial loss to civic body, but is also harmful for existing structure . According to the information obtained under the Right to Information Act from the municipal corporation (MC) Ludhiana, by the RTI activist Rohit Sabbarwal, it has been revealed that between April 1, 2019 and May 31, the MC had issued as many as 5,842 water supply and sewerage connections. Maximum connections were issued by the MC Zone D (1,750) , followed by Zone C (1556), Zone A (1287) and Zone B (1249). Recently, the civic officials have started a survey in quarters to check whether there is legal connections or not. According to a rough estimate by the civic officials, almost 80% of these quarters have illegal water supply and sewerage connections. The officials had also taken data from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and it was found that in three years, they have 95,000 to 1 lakh new consumers while the MC gave nod to over 5,000 building plans. The same is the case with water supply and sewerage connections. BJP councillor from ward number 31, Sonia Sharma complained to mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu recently that most of the water supply connections in her ward are only 1.5 feet deep whereas ideally these should be at least 4 to 4.5 feet deep so that when road is constructed water supply or sewerage lines will not be damaged. Meanwhile, Congress councillor Rakesh Prashar claimed that people do not take legal connections instead get connections in illegal manner, which results in other problems like water contamination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-water-sewerage-electricity-connections-than-building-plans-approved-rti-reply/articleshow/78194784.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Man found dead at home, cops suspect murder||Dehradun: A 75-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his house in Kanwali area of Dehradun on Friday morning. Police suspect that the elderly man was murdered as his hands were found tied with a rope. The victim, identified as Brij Bhushan, used to live alone in the house while his wife lived separately in another part of the city. He had two children, a son and a daughter who is married and settled in Delhi. Superintendent of police (SP city) Shweta Choubey, who visited the house where the body was found, said, “Prima facie, it appears that the elderly man was murdered. We have got some important leads in the case and have picked up six to seven individuals for interrogation.” The incident came to light when Brij Bhushan’s neighbours found the main door of the house locked on Friday morning and despite knocking, there was no response. They immediately informed the police. The cops entered the house and found Bhushan dead in his room. “There are no injury marks on his body. The exact cause of his death will be ascertained once the postmortem report comes,” SP city said. According to police, Brij Bhushan had attended a party the previous night and had drinks with the people he knew. These people have been identified and are being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-found-dead-at-home-cops-suspect-murder/articleshow/78193365.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Criminal arrested for abusing cop||Pune: A criminal on police records was arrested on Thursday for abusing a cop inside the police station. The suspect, Rupesh Waghule (28) from Darumbre in Maval, was remanded in judicial custody after he was produced before the court on Friday. Inspector Shahaji Pawar had lodged an FIR against him. Waghule has three cases registered against him with the Talegaon Dabhade police. Pawar was probing one of the cases. “On Thursday, Waghule came to the police station and went inside Pawar’s cabin,” said an officer from the Talegaon Dabhade police. “He abused and threatening the inspector. We have arrested him,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-arrested-for-abusing-cop/articleshow/78194762.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||HC to hear petition on demolition of religious structures on public land on Oct 7||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday deferred the hearing on suo motu Public Interest Litigation concerning removal of all illegal religious structures built on public land to October 7. The move came after the standing counsel of the state informed the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe that the advocate general (AG), who is arguing the case on behalf of the government, could not appear. The court had taken suo motu cognisance of the issue after a Supreme Court’s order and in its hearing last month, the state government had informed the court that while almost all religious structures built on public land have been removed in districts like Dehradun, Nainital, and Udham Singh Nagar, it will take time to clear all such structures in Haridwar as many of these are used to host Kumbh Mela which is scheduled for the next year. While hearing the petition, the court had earlier directed the state government to clear all temples, mosques, gurudwaras, and churches from public land by March 23. The state government has since then argued that it has cleared almost all religious structures that encroach public land except in Haridwar and has sought time till the culmination of the Kumbh 2021 to follow the court’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-to-hear-petition-on-demolition-of-religious-structures-on-public-land-on-oct-7/articleshow/78193403.cms||Prashant Jha
September 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: OPS insists on steering committee||CHENNAI: AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on Friday asserted his position in the party by reiterating the need for a steering committee, which was his original demand ahead of the merger of the erstwhile factions in 2017. The AIADMK executive committee will meet on September 28, as a prelude to the general council. In a two-hour long meeting with the ministers and the headquarters’ office-bearers at the AIADMK office in Royapettah, coordinator OPS and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami sought to defuse tension among sections in the party over the chief minister candidate for the assembly election, and the poster war that played out in the state. When they arrived at the party office, the leaders were greeted with high-pitched slogans of “Ammavin Arasiyal Vaarisu OPS (OPS is the political heir of Jayalalithaa) and Niranthra Mudalvar Edappadiyar (Edappadi K Palaniswami is the eternal chief minister,” by supporters. The leaders gave an indication of the proposed general council meeting after the executive committee meeting, which will be held through video conferencing from the party headquarters. “OPS said he had been pushing for the constitution of the steering committee, and he wanted to reiterate the significance of having such a panel of leaders for the party’s welfare,” said a leader, seeking anonymity. With Palaniswami asserting his position in the government, Panneerselvam believes that having a say in the party could well begin with the setting up the steering committee in the run up to polls. The leaders urged functionaries to remain united for the party’s victory in the assembly elections. “They said that would be the only thanksgiving to our departed leader, who had vowed to run the state for a century even after her death,” said another leader. Palaniswami recalled the challenges faced by the AIADMK government from issues like the jallikattu protests, cyclone Gaja, drought-like situation and the resultant drinking water crisis and the latest Covid-19 pandemic. He added that his government had steered through all the hardships, scaling one obstacle after the other. OPS supporters and senior leaders Manoj Pandian and J C D Prabhakar complained that the demands made ahead of the merger to accommodate all sections at all levels were not fulfilled and many felt left-out. EPS and OPS also announced that they would visit twice a week to the party office to meet the cadres and address the grievances. Palaniswami also emphasised the enrolment of members for Ilaignar and Ilampengal Pasarai (Youth wing) and IT wing, the key wings of the party for the upcoming elections. Watch Tamil Nadu: AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam insists on steering committee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ops-insists-on-steering-committee/articleshow/78193409.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 19, 2020||Hubballi||KSRDPR varsity to work for doubling farmers’ income||Dharwad: The Karnatak State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University (KSRDPRU) located at Gadag will work towards realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s goal to double the farmers’ income. A committee headed by IAS officer Ashok Dalawai to study the ways and means to achieve the goal, has submitted a 14-volume report. KSRDPRU vice-chancellor Vishnukant Chatapalli, interacting with a group of people from Yogakshema Forum of Dharwad, said the varsity will be actively involved in the implementation of the scheme. He said PM Modi has evinced keen interest in seeing that the farmers in the country are well placed and their income gets enhanced by two-folds. “The Dalawai Committee has changed the very definition of agriculture. According to the committee, the scope of farming ranges from cleaning the land and tilling to marketing the produce. All the activities like sowing the seeds, protecting the crop, ensuring its healthy growth, harvesting, storing and marketing the produce come in the ambit of farming,” Vishnukant said. The concept of rural development, as envisioned by Mahatma Gandhi, are the foundation stones for the KSRDPU University, the VC said, and added that apart from rural development, the study of Panchayat Raj system also comes in the ambit of the varsity. The varsity is imparting education in 10 post-graduate courses and has 300 students studying there. The newly established university will have an independent, well-equipped building on a 350acre near Beladhadi village, 10km from Gadag. It will be on the Sabaramati Ashram model. The focus of the university will be on education, research, extension activities and training. The students and staff of the university have already taken up cultivation and demonstration activities and are donating the vegetables grown by them to social organisations, the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ksrdpr-varsity-to-work-for-doubling-farmers-income/articleshow/78193410.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Pune||Woman ends life in Bhosari||Pune: A 30-year-old woman from Phulenagar in Bhosari was on Friday morning found hanging from the ceiling of her house. Senior inspector Rajendra Kunte of the Bhosari MIDC police said the reason behind her suicide was unknown. “Her relatives from Karnataka have left for Bhosari. They have requested us to wait for the post-mortem till they reached here,” he said. Kunte said the hospital authorities informed police about the suicide. “We have filed a case of accidental death,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-ends-life-in-bhosari/articleshow/78194777.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tales of Covid warriors||Ahmedabad: Right from the start six months ago, Covid-19 has remained a dreaded word for patients, but here are a few examples where patients ranging from a 17-day-old infant to a 90-year-old woman recovered from the infection. Doctors emphasize early detection and taking precautions like stringent isolation to keep oneself and others safe, based on the experiences of these Covid warriors 90-year-old beats Covid-19 When Shakuntala Ramchandra, a resident of Meghaninagar, got discharged from IKDRC on the Civil Hospital campus after testing negative for Covid-19 in June, all the treating staff including the director bid her farewell. She was 90 years old and one of the oldest patients for the hospital. A patient of hypertension, she was hospitalized for a week. IKDRC director Dr Vineet Mishra said she responded well to treatment as her hypertension was also brought under control. “She was given antibiotics, Vitamin C, antacid and low molecular weight heparin for blood thinning. She was also given HCQ and put on external oxygen supply,” said Dr Mishra, adding that amid the fear of Covid-19, her recovery generated positivity among patients. The treating doctors said they have got only a few patients older than 90. “The majority responded well to treatment and tested negative. Of course, a few required post-discharge treatment but the message we want to send out is: It’s not necessarily the end of life if a patient is older than 60 years and has a co-morbidity,” said an IKDRC official. Tiny warrior Savita Pattani (name changed), tested positive when she delivered a baby at Shardaben Hospital in mid-May. The doctors tested the baby, but the boy tested negative. When he started developing complications, the three-day-old was tested again and the result was positive. The child and mother were then referred to Civil Hospital. Dr Rakesh Joshi, the head of paediatric surgery at Civil Hospital, said the condition the child had is called mid-jejunal atresia where the end of the small intestine is not developed properly. It was one of the first operations on a newborn child after the lockdown as it was necessary to save the child from further complications. The doctors devised special protocols and ways to keep themselves safe while ensuring that they could see the area requiring surgery. The surgical procedure was followed with Covid-19 treatment. After 13 days, the boy tested negative and also showed good recovery from the surgery. He became one of the youngest Covid patients of the hospital. Experts at Civil Hospital carried out more than 10 surgeries on infants. 12 days of anxiety What happens when one has to be admitted to the same ward where they treat Covid-19 patients? This was the experience of Sarla Modi, a 56-year-old head nurse at Civil Hospital, who had to be put on oxygen supply due to the severity of her infection. “I was among the first of the nursing staff to be associated with the earlier isolation ward. I saw the first patients and talked to them to give them encouragement. It was a difficult period. In the second phase, I got infected myself. But I got support from my colleagues who continuously gave me strength,” she said. The experience helped in communicating with patients who came to the wards scared, more affected mentally than physically. Modi also donated her blood plasma for treatment of Covid patients. “Her experience helped others on the nursing staff to understand the infection and gave them strength to give their best,” said Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital. Understanding the value of oxygen About his Covid-19 experience, Dr Jignesh Patel, 46, a medical officer with the State TB Training and Demstration Centre (STDC) who was deputed to the city airport for screening of passengers, described it as being a ‘fish out of water’. “I was gasping for breath. It was then that I realized the value of oxygen. It taught me to count my blessings,” said Dr Patel. He was infected while screening passengers at the airport for Covid-19. In June, he was admitted to a hospital and battled for his life for nearly a fortnight. He was administered tocilizumab, dexamethasone, heparin injections among other medication as his condition deteriorated over the first few days. But he did not lose hope. “Covid-19 has helped us appreciate the medical service and medical workers who are true Corona Warriors,” he said. After a month on ventilator, 33-year-old becomes awareness ambassador For Vijay Thakor, 33, the viral infection started with mild symptoms. A couple of days later his viral load had increased so much that when he came to Civil Hospital in May in an ambulance, he was directly put on a ventilator. His ordeal continued for 43 days, of which he spent 30 days on a ventilator, one of the longest spells of hospitalization at that time. Civil Hospital doctors said the infection had spread rapidly to his lungs and he could not breath properly. His immunity was also rapidly fading. After his experience, he created awareness about the infection in his community. “It’s important to take the symptoms seriously and consult doctors at the earliest,” said Thakor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tales-of-covid-warriors/articleshow/78195918.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hands off! UV disinfectants to keep metro escalators free from virus||NEW DELHI: Much before the Delhi Metro resumed its operations on September 7, a detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for regular sanitisation of trains and station premises was already in place. Apart from conventional methods of sanitising with chemical disinfectants, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is now also trying out ultraviolet (UV) disinfection technology. One of the most vulnerable common touch points inside stations are handrails of escalators and this is the area DMRC has chosen first for trying out UV disinfection technology on a trial basis. DMRC has installed escalator handrail sanitisation devices in 10 escalators at the Rajiv Chowk interchange station. The device has been designed and developed jointly by Centre for Biomedical Engineering, IIT-Delhi and Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). “The main aim of the device is to kill pathogens, including bacteria and virus, which might stick to the handrail from the hands of commuters. The handrail sanitisation device works on the principle of ultraviolet (UV-C), LED-based disinfection technology,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. “UV-C can inactivate and kill the virus by damaging its DNA and RNA. It prevents further spread of the viral infection,” he explained. He said the device is designed in such a way that it will be installed inside the escalator and will not be visible outside. “The device will sanitise the escalator handrail moving in or out using UV-C radiation. The device works in sync with handrail movement, which means that if the handrail is moving, the device will remain switched on and when the handrail is not moving, the device will be switched off,” he said. “The casing of the device is covering the complete surface area, which comes in contact with the hand while using the escalator. The device irradiates germicidal UV-C radiation at a very short distance of less than 2 cm. Hence, there is no chance of UV-C contact with commuters and it is safe,” Dayal said. While this is the first time DMRC is trying out UV-C devices for sanitisation purposes, this is not its first tryst with UV technology. UV-C lamps are used in environment control systems of 21 of its Phase-III underground stations. “UV-C lamps are mounted inside the air handling units in between the cooling coil and blower such that the UV lights emitted fall directly on the surface area of the cooling coil. The ultraviolet rays kill pathogens and prevent any kind of microbial growth on the cooling coils,” Dayal said. The UV system consists of a UV-C lamp, electronic ballast with control panel and aluminium reflectors. Dayal said air handling unit coil cleaning is a major problem in the maintenance of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems. “It is very difficult to do coil cleaning manually. By UV-C energy, it reduces manual coil cleaning problems and also reduces the need of chemical solvents and pressure wash for cooling coils,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hands-off-uv-disinfectants-to-keep-metro-escalators-free-from-virus/articleshow/78194944.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 19, 2020||Noida||Noida: Lathicharge on sanitation workers during protest||NOIDA: At least six sanitation workers were arrested on Friday for taking out a protest march against the contract system after one of their co-workers committed suicide, following termination from service by a Noida Authority contractor on Monday. The workers were marching towards the Sector 6 office of the Noida Authority when police stopped them. An argument followed, after which cops resorted to lathicharge and arrested six of the protesters. This is the fourth time in the past 10 days that police have cracked down heavily on protesters in the city. In fact, high voltage drama was witnessed across arterial Udyog Marg since Friday morning. Around 6 am, the Noida police first removed a few protesters from the protest spot outside the office of the Noida Authority in Sector 6 where they had been seated for the past three days to raise their demands. At least three of their leaders were on an indefinite fast to demand the removal of the contractual system and that they be directly attached with the Noida Authority. Subsequently, when other protesters got to know that their fellow workers had been removed from the spot, hundreds gathered at the Shimla Park in Sector 12 and tried to go towards the Sector 6 office. However, they were first stopped by the police near Sector 10 red light. “When we tried to reach the protest site near the gate of the Authority, it had been converted into a cantonment. The police beat us with sticks and kicked many of our men. Many women were also beaten up,” said Manvir Parcha, Noida city senior vice president of the Akhil Bharatiya Safai Mazoor Sangh. Cops were captured on camera resorting to lathicharge upon the protesters and kicking some of them. In one of the videos, cops could be seen dragging a sanitation worker from the neckline. Manvir alleged that while around 20 protesters, including women, suffered minor injuries due to the lathicharge, one of the workers identified as Dinesh Valmiki fell unconscious. “He is admitted to Metro hospital, where he is recuperating. He has suffered a baton shot in the chest,” he said. District vice president of the Sangh Satvir Makwana told TOI that after the arrests, the Noida Authority officials offered them to enter discussion with the Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari but they told them that no talks would happen till the arrested workers are released. “Previously, talks with the Authority CEO remained inconclusive because our main demand for attaching us with the Authority was not agreed upon,” he said. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh told TOI that while the six people were detained under CrPC 151 (breach of peace), an FIR is being lodged against scores of protesters “because their act could result in disturbance of peace” as they were throwing garbage on road. Sector 20 SHO Rakesh Kumar Singh said an FIR will be lodged against the protesters under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread an infectious disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 341 (wrongful restraint). “We have worked for six months during Covid times and carried out sanitisation in Covid affected areas. Should we not be getting the benefit of the work? Our main demand for attaching us to the Noida Authority is not being met,” Makwana said. When asked about the proposed talks with the Authority, SC Mishra, project engineer. said it was "not known" to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/lathicharge-on-sanitation-workers-during-protest/articleshow/78194812.cms||Shikha Salaria
September 19, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal lauds cops for fight against Covid||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had words of appreciation for the police personnel working hard during the pandemic. He was speaking at the inauguration of the 100-bed Covid facility set up at the police headquarters for the personnel of the city police, rural police, Nashik Road central jail staff, home guards and their family members. Bhujbal said the presence of the Covid facility was great mental support for the policemen, though he wished that no one would need to be admitted to the facility. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey, who came up with the idea to set up the facility, thanked all department heads for their support. “While working as the IG prison at Arthur Road jail, 186 inmates had caught the infection and they were treated successfully. The same pattern would be implemented in Nashik,” he said. The dignitaries present at the inauguration said the same concept should be replicated across the state as policemen were frontline warriors in the fight against coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-lauds-cops-for-fight-against-covid/articleshow/78197018.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||Swift clearances for underground cable works soon||Lucknow: Lending a leg up to internet infrastructure in UP, the state government has decided to introduce a single-window clearance mechanism for disposal of applications for underground laying of optical fibre. Urban development department has asked local bodies to appoint a nodal officer who would receive applications and issue clearance to companies engaged in laying of cables. Principal secretary, urban development, Deepak Kumar said heads of municipal bodies and directorate of local bodies have been asked to adopt the central guidelines for laying of underground cables. Talking to TOI, Kumar said laying of cables required approval from multiple departments like local bodies, PWD and others. Under the new arrangement, the information technology department would provide an online platform to help in procuring no objection certificates (NOCs) from all departments within a month. “The information technology department has come up with an integrated site through which an application would be sent across to all departments concerned in one go and get approvals,” he said. According to Kumar, the state government has received information from the UP Electronics Corporation about 53 such local bodies where work of laying underground optical fibre is pending in the absence of a smooth clearance mechanism. “Absence of nodal officer in these local bodies is causing problems in laying of internet infrastructure,” Kumar said. The department has sent a list of municipal bodies to the local bodies directorate informing it about districts where work of underground cables is pending. These districts are Varanasi, Meerut, Aligarh, Pilibhit, Mau, Etah, Sambhal, Chandauli, Banda, Hardoi, Sant Ravi Das Nagar, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Baghpat and Hathras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/swift-clearances-for-underground-cable-works-soon/articleshow/78195928.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 19, 2020||Goa||Plea in SC against extension for ore transportation in Goa||PANAJI: Claiming “widespread’ abuse of the Supreme Court order passed in January allowing ore transportation for six months, the Goa Foundation has filed an application before the apex court opposing the plea of mining a company that sought more time to transport ore citing pandemic-related delays. Goa Foundation in its application sought clarification on the Supreme Court’s January 30 order that allowed erstwhile leaseholders to transport ore lying at jetties on which royalty had been paid on or before March 15, 2018, for six months from the date of the order. The NGO said there has been continuing and widespread abuse of the order by the erstwhile mining leaseholders and traders in Goa who are enjoying the support of the state government. “It appears that after the judgment/order dated January 30, 2020, was passed by the apex court, former mining leaseholders wilfully misinterpreted the judgment/order to demand that they be permitted to sell all the ore that they had extracted and which remained on the leases after they had worked provided they now paid the royalties attracted,” Goa Foundation said. The NGO has sought clarification that the order “only applies to ore on which royalty has been paid prior to March 15, 2018”. It added that the six-month extension in transportation being sought is “also part of the same strategy to hold on to the leases illegally”. “Any permission to extend is bound to be misused by applicant companies for extracting fresh ore. Already, during the past several months, several complaints have been made by communities surrounding such leases that primary extraction has been clandestinely carried out,” Goa Foundation said. The Goa Foundation stated that the ore is the property of the state and that the state should have e-auctioned it in accordance with the present law of the land (MMDR Act, 1957). However, the state has been allowing the iron ore to be taken out and sold by the erstwhile mining leaseholders for a mere payment of royalty in violation of the letter and spirit of this court’s judgements, Goa Foundation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plea-in-sc-against-extension-for-ore-transportation/articleshow/78195968.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||Curb veggies’ price rise: Govt to DMs||Lucknow: Even as the economic activity gains pace post-lockdown, the government has raised the ante against the spiralling prices of vegetables, essentially potatoes and tomatoes, in the state. According to the horticulture department, the retail price of the two staple vegetables is almost double their wholesale price, which is a matter of great concern. In a communique sent to all district magistrates, principal secretary, horticulture, BL Meena said the wholesale price of the two veggies was Rs 18-25 and Rs 28-45 per kg. However, they are being sold at Rs 30-35 and Rs 50-50 per kg respectively, which needs to be checked. Meena said the production has been affected due to Covid and waterlogging in some areas of the state. “This has resulted in an increase in the prices of potatoes and tomatoes,” he said. According to an estimate, the department said the average consumption of potatoes in the state was between 6 and 6.5 lakh metric tonnes per month. With the production of seasonal vegetables getting affected, the consumption of potato is bound to increase. Meena said the state had 63.32 lakh metric tonnes of potatoes stored in cold storages from where the vegetable can be pooled in to arrest the rise in prices. Tomatoes are being imported from other states. Officials said the production of tomatoes would take at least two months — one of the key reasons behind the price rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/curb-veggies-price-rise-govt-to-dms/articleshow/78195940.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Surat||Pandemic unmasks Surat’s face of humanity||SURAT: If the global pandemic and its subsequent post-lockdown have left many in severe financial doldrums, it also brought to the fore many a Good Samaritan in the city who have opened their hearts and purses to help lighten others’ burden. Right from free stay in apartments to farmhouses and waving off monthly rentals of the industrial units and textile shops, these unsung heroes are doing their bit to ameliorate the woeful conditions during the these trying times. Prakash Bhalani, 45, a real estate developer in the diamond hub of Varachha became a messiah for the homeless lockdown-hit families. Bhalani, chairman of Rudraksh developers in Mota Varachha’s Velanja area, provided free accommodation to about 42 families at his newly constructed residential project. Bhalani told TOI, “My residential project was ready during lockdown. I came across few families who were rendered homeless after they were unable to pay rent. I offered them free stay at my flats. Till now, about 42 families are accommodated in the flats and I am looking for genuine people to let out 50 more empty flats.” Bhalani said he only charges Rs 1,500 maintenance for electricity, security personnel and cleanliness on the campus. “Majority of the families are associated with the diamond industry and there are people who have lost their jobs during lockdown. They can stay here for as long as they want.” While the community kinship had pushed the city to the limelight after many such samaj turned their properties like halls into Community Care Isolation Centres for isolation and treatment of Covid-19 patients, two businessmen in the city also wrote vistas in philanthropy by opening up their their private properties to accommodate Covid patients for free. Pravin Bhalala, a realtor and a Covid-19 survivor himself, threw open the doors of his farmhouse at Simadi village in Kamrej taluka, 30-odd kms from the city, to help other Covid-19 discharged patients spend their mandatory 14 days home isolation period after hospitalization — for no cost at all. “I have 15 patients at my farmhouse now who are provided breakfast, lunch and dinner and other facilities. Since it is located away from the hustle bustle of city, the farmhouse is ideal for patients’ speedy recovery amid the lush greenery,” said Bhalala. Bhalala who also has a residential project in Velanja village in Olpaad taluka said, “I have 200 flats ready for possession. Not a single flat has been sold till now. We are searching for needy people who have lost everything due to the lockdown and can take shelter here.” So did Kadar Shaikh, 59, another realtor who gave his plus office space of 30,000 sq ft to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) for treatment of Covid-19 patients in city’s Adajan area, which has set up the Hiba hospital there for Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pandemic-unmasks-surats-face-of-humanity/articleshow/78193510.cms||---
September 19, 2020||India||1,225 deaths on Friday, Covid toll crosses 85,000||NEW DELHI: Daily Covid-19 cases reported in India dipped marginally on Friday but remained over 90,000 even as deaths from the infection continued to surge. As many 1,225 fatalities were recorded during the past 24 hours, the third highest single-day count so far, taking the overall toll past 85,000. With 91,627 fresh cases, India’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 53 lakh to 53,01,891, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. India's daily tally of cases has remained over 90,000 for the past 10 days now (not counting Mondays, when cases dip substantially). Just a day earlier, India had reported its highest single-day count of cases at 98,795. The slight drop in the daily count coincided with a decrease in testing, which was almost 1.3 lakh lower than the previous day's figure, according to the covid19india.org website that has been tracking the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. India conducted less than 10.1 lakh tests on Thursday (results typically come a day later), the lowest for any weekday since August 28, as per website's database. However, Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours crossed the 1,200 mark for the third time ever. So far, the highest single-day toll of 1,275 was reported on Tuesday. At 440, the daily toll in Maharashtra continued to be high although the count had dipped slightly from 468 fatalities reported on Thursday. Karnataka recorded a big surge in fatalities, with 179 deaths reported during the day. Fatalities from the virus also surged in Uttar Pradesh, where 98 deaths were registered. Maharashtra reported a marginal decline in infections as it added 21,656 new Covid-19 cases and 440 deaths on Friday, the fourth day in a row the state reported over 20,000 cases and 400 deaths. The post-Ganpati surge in cases continued as Mumbai reported 2,283 cases and 52 deaths, highest in 41 days. Amid these grim numbers, on a positive note, the state saw a record 22,078 recoveries on Friday, pushing total recoveries to 8.3 lakh and total recovery rate to 71.4%. Andhra Pradesh reported 8,096 new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 609,558 as 67 more persons died of the disease. The Covid-19 toll increased to 5,244, but in a rare positive development, for the fifth day in a row that the state reported less than 9,000 positive cases. However, the overall case positivity rate stood at 12.2%, substantially higher than the national average of 8.7%, while the mortality rate came down to nearly 0.9%. Total number of Covid-19 infections in Karnataka breached the five-lakh mark on Friday, as the state reported 8,626 new cases and 179 related fatalities, taking the death toll to 7,808, the health department said. The day also saw the number of recoveries outnumbering new infections, with 10,949 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 8,626 fresh cases reported on Friday, 3,623 cases were from Bengaluru alone. The number of new Covid-19 cases continued to drop in Tamil Nadu with 5,488 registered on Friday. The cumulative toll rose to 8,685 with 67 more deaths. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the state was able to keep the fatality rate at 1.6% and bring down the number of deaths reported every day to less than 70 from 100 a fortnight ago. But the case fatality rate continues to remain high among senior citizens. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally breached the 2.38 lakh mark with 4,127 fresh cases on Friday. Thirty fresh fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 4,907, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1225-deaths-on-friday-covid-toll-crosses-85000/articleshow/78197453.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||23 UPSRTC bus terminals to offer world-class services||Lucknow: As many as 23 bus terminals of the state will be developed as world class stations through public private partnership (PPP). In Lucknow, the terminals will be developed at Gomtinagar (Vibhuti Khand), Charbagh and Amausi. Appreciating the UPSRTC's role in ferrying people, stuck in far off cities during the lockdown, to their homes safely, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath asked officials concerned to develop more world class bus terminals in the state which would provide upgraded amenities to people. UPSRTC will invite bids for development of these bus terminals on PPP basis. MD, UPSRTC, Raj Shekhar, said, “Sixteen bus stations would be developed in the first phase and seven in the second phase.” The bus terminals will have airport-like facilities, like screening, air conditioning, CCTVs, security check, toilets, rest rooms for crew, food plaza, waiting halls for passengers, besides having connectivity with metro and airports wherever possible. The terminals will be developed on DBFOT model (design, build, finance, operate and transfer). The space will be developed and handed over to UPSRTC in 18 months from the date of agreement. The commercial complex at the terminal will be developed in a span of five years. “Costing will depend on the design approved by the corporation,” said the official. The developer will maintain the bus station for 35 years at his own cost. The main commercial complex will be maintained and operated by the developer for 60 years before being handed over to UPSRTC. “All the investment of money will be done by developers and the developer will give UPSRTC the annual concession fee and all kinds of statutory liabilities,” said the MD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/23-upsrtc-bus-terminals-to-offer-world-class-services/articleshow/78195981.cms||Neha Shukla
September 19, 2020||Nashik||Cheers! Wine sales in India finally recovering from lockdown slump||Nashik: The country seems to be slowly going into a celebratory mood considering the uptick in the wine sales. The current wine sale volume in the domestic market has touched 4.8 lakh litre, roughly 40% of the normal sale volume in September, which is about 12 lakh litre.Interestingly, the sector's revival is being scripted by the wine lovers of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi. In fact, the bulk of the wine sale at present is happening in Maharashtra's four cities — Mumbai and its suburbs, Thane, Pune and Nashik.While Maharashtra contributes 36% of the total wine consumption in the country, Delhi and Karnataka contribute 12% and 19%, respectively. The sale is more in Mumbai and the suburbs, Thane, Pune and Nashik districts due to continuous promotions and marketing of wine. “There are a number of wineries in Maharashtra — mostly in Nashik district — and they attract a number of tourists. Wine awareness is more here ,” said Patil.The sudden imposition of the lockdown in March and closure of liquor shops till May had brought the sales down to a naught. The All-India Wine Producers’ Association (AIWPA) is optimistic that with the festive season round the corner, sales would further pick up.“ We have recovered around 40% of the total business we usually get during this period,” said Yatin Patil, president of the association.He said sales will improve when the bars and hotels start functioning like normal. Home delivery of wine is also taking place in Mumbai and is a reason for improvement in business, he said.Nashik-based Sula Vineyards, which has a 65% share in the domestic market, said things have improving over the past two three months. “There is still an impact as the tourism sector is yet to open. But sale figures are improving every month,” said Monit Dhavale, senior vice president (hospitality), Sula Vineyards.Shivaji Aher, chairman, Renaissance winery, said apart from premium wine, they are also focusing on low-range variety to attract customers in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cheers-wine-sales-in-india-finally-recovering-from-lockdown-slump/articleshow/78197032.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 19, 2020||Chennai||Reduced weightage on credit flow won’t affect TN, says Nabard chief||Chennai: The recent RBI directive to disincentivize flow of priority sector credit to all 32 districts (prior to bifurcation) in Tamil Nadu, through reduction in weightage, will not affect the credit flow to the state, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) chairman G R Chintala said. “It might have an impact on banks that are focused largely on Tamil Nadu, while mostly reflecting only in the books of other banks. Some representations have already been made to RBI for its consideration,” Chintala said. He was reacting to the Master Directions for PSL from RBI on September 4, 2020, that offered higher weightage of 125% for districts with comparatively lower flow of credit and reducing the weightage to 90% for districts with higher credit flow. Meanwhile, Chintala said women self-help groups (SHGs) in four districts of Tamil Nadu — Namakkal, Tiruvannamalai, Nagapattinam and Virudhunagar — are already on Nabard’s e-Shakthi platform, a move to digitize SHGs. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, whom Chintala met on Thursday, has instructed SHGs in all districts in the state to be on board the digitization platform by end of December. Tamil Nadu is one of the states with high number of SHGs, but credit disbursements have been low in the state, he said. “The online platform provides grading reports on SHGs to enable banks to arrive at credit decisions,” Chintala told reporters here on Friday. The new system would help increase the credit flow to Rs 8,000 crore from Rs 4,000 crore at present, based on the comfort levels of the banks. In the case of farmer producer organizations (FPOs), where Centre is keen to establish 10,000 FPOs, Tamil Nadu is the forerunner with 600 FPOs already in place. He said Nabard will sanction Rs 4,600 crore to TN under its Infrastructure Development Assistance and Rural Infrastructure Development Fund this financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reduced-weightage-on-credit-flow-wont-affect-tn-says-nabard-chief/articleshow/78193506.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Noida||UP: YEIDA to extend deadline for lease deed execution||GREATER NOIDA: In a big relief to people who had bought residential or industrial plots along the Yamuna Expressway several years back, the development authority is considering an extension of the deadline issued for getting the lease deeds executed to March 31 next year. Meanwhile, a probe has been initiated against two officials of the authority’s planning department for allegedly misleading senior officials and issuing notices to industrial allottees to get their land in Sector 32 registered at the earliest without developing the area properly. TOI had highlighted in its September 13 edition how industrial allottees were being forced to carry out lease deeds of industrial plots located in Sector 32 even though work on construction of sewerage, road network, drainage, electrification and water supply was incomplete. YEIDA CEO Arunvir Singh said, “The proposal to extend the deadline has already been sent to the board. The meeting is scheduled on September 22. Deadlines for allottees under all categories will be extended up to March 31 next year. Pending work across half-a-dozen sectors will be complete before that. Developed plots will be given to the allottees before they are told to execute deeds.” Sources revealed that disciplinary action against the general manager and a senior manager of the planning department was recommended last week and a file noting against the two forwarded to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/yeida-to-extend-deadline-for-lease-deed-execution/articleshow/78194873.cms||Shalabh
September 19, 2020||Chennai||Global investors can now see, pick Sipcot land online||Chennai: In a move aimed at doing away a major pain point of global investors scouting for industrial land in Tamil Nadu, the state-owned Sipcot has mapped around 33,000 acres of its land located in 19 industrial estates spread across the state under the geographic information system (GIS). The GIS mapping will enable corporate investors, from any part of the globe, to virtually choose the industrial land required for their project and apply for allotment. The new system will do away the need for industrial investors to depute a team for numerous site visits, involving manpower and time, to choose the apt location. Sipcot officials also used to provide AutoCad diagrams to the visiting teams for detailed processing. “Under the new system, we will just provide them the Google Pin and other coordinates. An investor sitting in Taiwan, China, Japan or anywhere in the world can virtually make a choice, based on parameters. The system is investor-friendly and all that an investor needs to do is to choose an industrial park and see for themselves the layout plan. Land parcels available for allotment will be in green, while those already allotted will be in red bearing just the name of the allottee and not disclosing any other particulars to safeguard privacy,” a senior official told TOI. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will launch the new initiative shortly. “We have already completed the ‘Drone’ survey of all the 19 industrial estates and converted them into Digital GPS. Both developed and undeveloped lands are ready for allotment with a choice of both SEZ and domestic tariff zones,” the official said. “The new system will also have layers on port connectivity and highways to enable investors to make a learned decision, based on their required logistics movement. Once they choose a site virtually, they can apply instantly, while a committee will take a decision to allot the required land,” the official said. Meanwhile, Sipcot has initiated measures to acquire more land parcels to establish industrial parks in southern districts with an aim to generate employment and boost the economy in the region. “We have taken all efforts to create a land bank by acquiring 11,575 acres. So far, we have acquired more than 8,000 acres,” state industries minister M C Sampath told TOI. The thrust will not only create an ecosystem to achieve a balanced industrial development but also enhance the state’s economic growth in the coming years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/global-investors-can-now-see-pick-sipcot-land-online/articleshow/78193563.cms||D Govardan
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||Plan to rejuvenate Yamuna in Etawah||Lucknow: The Yamuna in Etawah will be rejuvenated with the help of volunteers and community participation as part of an initiative ‘Namo Kalindi’. The biodiversity conservation and Yamuna rejuvenation project is being carried out by the Etawah district administration and an NGO, Society for Conservation of Nature (SCON). The first interaction between the district administration officers and volunteers was held on September 9 in which Etawah district magistrate JB Singh and chief development officer, Etawah, R Rajaganpati were present. “We will prepare the health index of Yamuna and rejuvenate it with the help of locals and volunteers who will be trained for water sample testing and biodiversity conservation,” said Rajeev Chauhan from SCON. Besides rejuvenating the river, the project will focus on water conservation, biodiversity assessment, applied conservation for important species, rescue and rehabilitation of aquatic life, setting up of Kalindi biodiversity information centres at schools in villages along Yamuna and panchayat buildings, and education and awareness of locals. Kalindi Mitra Samitis have been formed in villages along the river which work to improve sanitation, health and hygiene in villages so that there is no sewage discharge in the river. “We are getting about 100km stretch of the river in Etawah in four blocks,” said Chauhan. As many as 27 volunteers have been identified so far who will work with gram pradhan and others to create awareness and further the cause of conservation. At least five villages will be developed as Kalindi eco-villages. The Centre’s schemes on health and sanitation will also be implemented to develop them as model villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plan-to-rejuvenate-yamuna-in-etawah/articleshow/78196005.cms||Neha Shukla
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||HC to hear petitions on Covid every Wednesday||Nainital: The Uttarakhand High Court (HC) said on Friday that it will now hear PILs on the state of hospitals as well as the Covid-19 status in the state every Wednesday. The decision from the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe came while it was hearing a bunch of PILs that highlighted the "dismal state of quarantine centres in the state as well as the exorbitant charges by some private hospitals". Weekly hearings, too, will be held before the bench of the acting Chief Justice and Justice Khulbe. Shiv Bhatt, the counsel representing one of the petitioners in the case, told TOI that the court has said that it will hear the petitioners and pass directions if necessary. Dushyant Mainali, the counsel arguing another PIL, said that the court has also taken the affidavit filed by the health secretary Amit Negi on record. “The affidavit says that there are a dozen labs in the state that are now conducting Covid-19 tests and that it will try to boost further testing. The affidavit, however, is silent on the fact that the state still does not have any plasma bank,” Mainali added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-to-hear-petitions-on-covid-every-wednesday/articleshow/78192384.cms||Prashant Jha
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Several ex-IPS officers come out in defence of Delhi Police over February riots||NEW DELHI: Defending Delhi Police over its probe into the February riots in the city, a number of former IPS officers on Friday hit out at another group of former officials for criticising the investigations and said they cannot “usurp for themselves the office of presiding officers of courts to declare anyone innocent and try to put the police force in bad light”. A group of former IPS officers, including former Punjab DGP Julio Ribeiro, had questioned the probe, accusing the Delhi Police of going after one group of protesters while being lenient to others, including a few BJP members. Hitting back, another group of ex-IPS officers backed the police and said Ribeiro and others should not have supported such kind of “anti-India expression and communal narrative” as they referred to some controversial slogans allegedly raised by activist Umar Khalid, now under arrest, and some others. “Delhi Police has every right and duty to investigate the role of any such person, and custodial investigation is a part of due process of law. The accused has his rights under the law to seek anticipatory or regular bail, as the case may be, and the right to a fair trial where he can prove himself innocent,” they said in a statement. Former Delhi Police commissioner R S Gupta, former UP DGP R N Singh, former Tripura DGP B L Vohra and former Kerala DGP S Gopinath are among the 26 ex-IPS officers who signed the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/several-ex-ips-officers-come-out-in-defence-of-police-over-feb-riots/articleshow/78194987.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||High-security plates must from Oct 15||Lucknow: Come October, commercial vehicles plying without high security registration plate (HSRP) and third registration mark will not be issued fitness certificates. According to an order issued by transport department recently, commercial vehicles registered before April 1, 2019, will have to mandatorily get HSRP fitted before October 15. In case of heavy vehicles, the deadline is three months from the date of the order. While the vehicles manufactured after April 1, 2019, have been provided with HSRP by the manufacturer itself, those prior to this date will have to get the plate fitted from the dealer concerned. The chip-embedded plates store ownership details of a vehicle which allows easy identification of any stolen vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-security-plates-must-from-oct-15/articleshow/78196040.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Onion farmers plan sit-in in front of MPs’ houses||NASHIK: The Sharad Joshi-affiliated Shetkari Sanghatna and other organisations of farmers have decided to stage sit-in agitation in front of the residences of MPs in the state on September 23 in protest against the ban on onion export. “The government’s decision to ban onion export has come as a huge setback for farmers. The cost of onion production is around Rs 1,000 per quintal, it fetched only Rs 400 and Rs 500 per quintal in the last three to four months,” Arjun Borade, Nashik district president of SS, said on Friday. “The farmers had started getting good rates after a long time, but the government immediately imposed a ban on export. The Centre had recently removed onions from the Essential Commodities Act around three months back. At this juncture, how can it lift ban on export,” he asked. The SS leader said the Centre increases the minimum export price (MEP) of onions and imposes ban on export when the prices go up. “We are of the view that the government at the Centre is against the interest of farmers.” The Maharashtra state onion growers’ association has extended its support to the proposed sit-in agitation. “We will also participate in the agitation in front of the houses of MPs across the state along with the Shetkari Sanghatna,” said Bharat Dighole, president of the association. The association has also decided to launch an agitation on social media from Saturday tagging the Prime Minister, commerce minister, Union consumer minister, Maharashtra CM among others, seeking immediate withdrawal of the ban on onion export . The Centre’s decision to ban onion export has led to a crash in the average wholesale price of the kitchen staple. It came down from Rs 3,000 per quintal to Rs 1,900 at the Lasalgaon APCM on Tuesday. The average price has, however, stabilised at Rs 2,400 per quintal as very few farmers are bringing their produce for auction at the APCM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-farmers-plan-sit-in-in-front-of-mps-houses/articleshow/78197104.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 19, 2020||Goa||Floating jetty at Old Goa faces oppn||Panaji: A floating concrete pontoon by the side of an existing jetty at Old Goa is expected to open a navigational route to the historic former capital, boosting tourism and upgrading navigational facilities in the area. But heritage lovers are disappointed and even the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has raised apprehensions over narrow roads leading to the site and fallouts of crowds to the peaceful river front. “This will create more problems to the neglected world heritage site, which will be sandwiched between a busy national highway and more development. Despite our years-old request for a master plan, piecemeal development continues,” Save Old Goa Action Committee coordinator Peter Viegas said. Ports administration officials said that the 48m long and three-metre wide jetty will be eco-friendly and not affect the water flow dynamics. “It will be exclusively for tourism and connectivity. It will cater to vessels haphazardly anchored in the river and passenger vessels with a capacity of 6 to 140, but not for offloading cargo or for barges,” an official said. But heritage lovers said that facilities like a toilet block, information centre, waiting hall and a small restaurant will be inevitably provided at site. “This means more constructions at an endangered heritage site. A green buffer zone has vanished in the national highway widening and a concrete bridge is hardly 150m from the Basilica gate,” Viegas said. Tourists will arrive in boats and will be taken around in battery-operated vehicles for sight-seeing. “The existing jetty can be reused. The roads are narrow and the passage under the Viceroy’s Arch — the quaint old gateway to the capital is barely enough for one vehicle,” an ASI official said. The details about agencies to be engaged for various operational tasks is not yet finalised, raising issues about maintenance and other matters. As unplanned growth continued, kiosks, garages and ugly structures have sprung up within the heritage complex and its periphery, adversely affecting the heritage character of the church complex.“The roads are narrow at this congested ferry point. Chaos and garbage will increase, as tourists and ferry commuters converge there. Overall, This type of development will affect the visibility and integrity of monuments at Old Goa,” heritage activist Fatima Pereira said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/floating-jetty-at-old-goa-faces-oppn/articleshow/78196081.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Now, complaints over roosters crowing, dogs barking||Mangaluru: A week ago, Kavoor police under Mangaluru city limits faced a couple of cases which they had never had to deal with before. The complainants alleged that crowing of their neighbour’s rooster and barking of pet dogs were disturbing their sleep. Police say with people spending almost all their time at home thanks to work from home arrangements, there has been an increase in such cases. In Bantwal, a woman complained that her neighbour’s dogs were dirtying her place. “We had to call both parties and find an amicable solution. There is no other way to settle such issues,” police said. One officer said they would incur the wrath of animal activists if they take legal action. “We can ask pet owner to maintain cleanliness and stop their pets from attacking others, but how do we get dogs to stop barking or roosters from crowing? There is no way around it. Since people are spending a lot of time at home, they are coming up with these problems,” an officer said. Belliappa KU, ACP (North division) said, “Complaints like this usually happen when there is an animosity between neighbours. Many a time these issues are settled. If not, a complaint is registered under KP Act or Indian Penal Code against pet owner for public nuisance.”  In July, about 50 residents in Kana, Surathkal, filed a complaint with police saying the four pet dogs of a resident in the neighbourhood were barking “all the time”. It was causing them inconvenience and their children were unable to concentrate on studies or sleep. Police, who couldn’t handle the case, forwarded it to the animal husbandry department and health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/now-complaints-over-roosters-crowing-dogs-barking/articleshow/78194748.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||Two auto-lifters nabbed with 12 motorcycles in Manglaur||Roorkee: Manglaur police on Friday arrested two auto-lifters including a history- sheeter and recovered 12 motorcycles from their possession. The miscreants used to steal bikes from different places of Haridwar and sell them after making fake documents of the vehicles.According to police, they got a tip off in connection with two members of an auto-lifter on Thursday that they were prowling in the area for execution of auto-theft crime. Police nabbed duo from near Jhabreda when they were coming towards Manglaur on a stolen bike. The miscreants were identified as Bittu Mohar Singh,22, and 38-year-old Nipul. Bittu, a resident of Damoderpur village under Deoband police jurisdiction, told the police he and his aide Nipul used to steal motorcycles and prepared fake vehicle documents with the help of one advocate Devender Sharma from his village before selling the vehicle. “Nipul is a leader of this auto lifter gang. He is a history sheeter of our police station having registered 12 different cases of theft and other crimes in his name,” said Pradeep Chauhan, inspector and in-charge of Manglaur police station. The miscreants had stolen vehicles from various places of the jurisdiction of Roorkee, Gangnahar, Bahadrabad, Pathri, Manglaur, Nanauta, Purkazi and Deoband police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-auto-lifters-nabbed-with-12-motorcycles-in-manglaur/articleshow/78196697.cms||Tapan Susheel
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dengue a big risk in Covid times||NEW DELHI: When Sushil Gupta (name changed) was rushed to hospital with high fever, fatigue and lack of appetite recently, doctors ran a battery of tests to diagnose the illness. The 52-year-old, they found, was suffering from both Covid and dengue. Fortunately, Gupta didn’t have any serious complication and he could be managed on an OPD-basis itself. However, co-infection is emerging as a new trend and Dr Suranjeet Chatterjee of Delhi’s Apollo hospital says it can have serious consequences. “Both are viral illnesses with no known cure. In dengue, a patient can go into shock due to extremely low blood pressure, while in Covid-19, high blood pressure is linked to higher fatality,” he said. Dr Chatterjee stressed the need for timely identification of both diseases and strict implementation of measures to reduce incidence of mosquito-borne diseases. “In the last 10 days, I have seen at least three patients who suffered from both diseases at the same time,” he said. According to data shared by the municipal corporations, Delhi has recorded 131 cases of dengue and 114 cases of malaria till September 12 this year. “We have already seen more than 40 dengue cases. One of them also had Covid-19. Fortunately, the patient came within two days of the onset of fever and timely medical intervention helped reduce the risk of complications. His platelet count was very low,” Dr Ashutosh Biswas, professor of medicine at AIIMS, said. Co-infection adds to the risk of both mortality and morbidity, he added. Co-infection can also be caused due to other seasonal illnesses such as malaria, chikungunya, typhoid, common flu and leptospirosis, a bacterial disease spread through the urine of infected animals. Dr Biswas said that due to the pandemic, health infrastructure and manpower were already under duress and, therefore, public should take measures to prevent spread of other infections. “If there is a dengue outbreak, too, things may get out of control. People may not get beds,” said another doctor. National Centre for Disease Control data shows 412 people have also been diagnosed with swine flu in Delhi. Dr Atul Gogia, senior consultant of internal medicine at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said the threat of other seasonal illnesses shouldn’t be ignored due to Covid-19. “They need more focus as co-infections or outbreak of multiple illnesses can add to the crisis.” US Center for Disease Control and Prevention states that most people with dengue and Covid-19 have mild illness and can recover at home. But both may also “cause severe illness that can result in death”, it states. The warning signs of dengue include persistent vomiting, mucosal bleeding, difficulty in breathing, lethargy/restlessness and low blood pressure. In Covid-19, common symptoms include difficulty in breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion, inability to wake or stay awake, and bluish lips or face. “People should keep their surroundings clean and prevent stagnation of water to reduce the risk of mosquito-borne diseases. Elderly, children and those with comorbidities should get a flu shot to reduce the risk of seasonal influenza,” Dr Gogia said. Keeping blood sugar and pressure under control can help reduce the risk of any complication, he added. Watch Delhi: In Covid times, dengue emerging as big risk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/double-jeopardy-dengue-a-big-risk-in-covid-times/articleshow/78194977.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||Govt roots for biodiversity, plans coffee table book on heritage trees||Lucknow: To highlight UP’s rich biodiversity and promote its conservation, the state government is planning to bring out a coffee table book featuring details of more than 1,000 heritage trees. According to forest department officials, most of the heritage trees like Parijaat, Peepal, Banyan and Pakar are known to live for long. The trees identified for the coffee table book will be verified before the final list is sent to the State Biodiversity Board which will carry out conservation work. Barabanki’s famous Parijaat tree is already on the list and so is the mother tree of Dussehri mangoes in Kakori. A banyan tree at Janki Kund in Unnao has also made it to the list. Like Parijaat, Unnao’s banyan tree also has a “mythological” connect. It is believed that Lord Ram’s sons, Lav and Kush, had stopped the white horse which was released by their father after performing Ashwamedh Yajna, and had tied it to this tree. Similarly, though the age of Parijaat tree is not known, the folklore goes that the divine flowering tree was one of the treasures emanating from the ‘Samudra Manthan’ (churning of ocean by ‘devas’ and ‘asuras’ to obtain the nectar of immortality). The tree was brought to earth by Arjun, one of the Pandava brothers, from the garden of Indra, the king of heaven, for his mother Kunti who offered it to Lord Shiva to seek victory of Pandavas over Kauravas. Parijaat is an exotic tree, an African specie, with peculiar features. Similarly, mother tree of Dussehri also has several stories woven around it. According to one of the versions, soldiers from Afghanistan, who were camping in Kakori, had brought mangoes with them. Though they always collected the seeds and took it with them, one of the seedlings germinated and gave birth to the mother tree. The ‘heritage tree’ tag will entitle the ancient, rare, worshipped, endangered and historical trees to an elaborate conservation plan of the State Biodiversity Board. One of the important objectives of the exercise will be to inform people about the trees so that they can bond with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-roots-for-biodiversity-plans-coffee-table-book-on-heritage-trees/articleshow/78196073.cms||Neha Shukla
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Cov impact: CISCE slashes X & XII syllabi, second time in 3 months||Kolkata: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has decided to further reduce the syllabi of select subjects, including English, history and civics, mathematics, physics, for ICSE and ISC examinations next year. On July 3, the Council had slashed several topics for the current academic year (2020-21) as well as the Board examinations next year. In a letter to school principals, Council’s chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon pointed out that instructional hours have been lost significantly because of the pandemic and based on the findings of the online survey on the status of “Online Teaching and the Extent of Syllabus Covered”, it had been decided to reduce the syllabi further. “Connectivity is a challenge at many places. Many students do not have access to laptops or smartphones. Thus, there are multiple difficulties in the online teaching-learning process. Instruction hours are being hampered. So, the Council has reduced those chapters and topics that are not relevant to the knowledge of the child and are less important,” Arathoon said. He assured that there will be continuity in the syllabus between the classes. “For each of the subjects, it has been specified whether the syllabus was reduced in July or has been further reduced now. Subjects in which no changes have been made are marked as ‘not reduced’ for the advantage of the teaching faculty,” said the principal of a city school. CISCE has also allowed the project work, which has been already completed by students on topics that have later been removed, to be accepted and evaluated. “There has been a significant reduction in some subjects which will benefit the students. In English literature, in both classes X and XII, only one prose and one poem were reduced in July. But now, another set of poems and prose has been removed from the syllabus. Together, this is a huge waiver for the candidates. In Class X, the Fifth Act of the Merchant of Venice has been removed. Similarly, in biology, for both ICSE and ISC, the quantum of reduction will be beneficial,” said Ram Mohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-impact-cisce-slashes-x-xii-syllabi-second-time-in-3-months/articleshow/78193614.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Sikh man issued challan for ‘not wearing helmet’||BAREILLY: In a bizarre incident, traffic police in UP’s Moradabad issued a photo challan for Rs 500 to a Sikh man in a turban for allegedly not wearing a helmet while riding a two-wheeler. The photo in the challan clearly shows the man was wearing a turban. Section 129 of the Central Motor Vehicles Act exempts Sikhs wearing turbans from wearing protective headgear (helmet). Sucha Singh, a resident of 96 Kothiwal Nagar under Thakurdwara police station, said a photo challan incorporating vehicle registration details with a penalty amount of Rs 500 was sent to his address by Moradabad traffic police a couple of days ago. The official document stated that the challan was generated for not wearing a helmet while riding a two-wheeler under the Uttar Pradesh Motor Vehicle Rules, 1998, he said. “The photo challan clearly shows that I was wearing a turban when the challan was issued. I have not yet approached the traffic police about the matter, but I will soon be submitting an application against the challan that was issued illegally as Sikhs with their heads covered with a turban are exempted from wearing a helmet while riding a two-wheeler,” said Singh. Notably, the date of issuance of challan on the official document is “August 21, 2010”. Traffic police department officials, however, said the Sikh motorcyclist was “mistakenly” issued a challan for not donning a helmet. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police (traffic), Moradabad, Ashok Kumar Singh said, “The Sikh man was mistakenly issued a challan. The issue was recently brought to my notice, and the challan was revoked with immediate effect. The motorist will be informed about it shortly. An inquiry will be conducted into the matter to find out as to why the traffic police personnel issued a wrong challan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sikh-man-in-turban-issued-photo-challan-for-rs-500-for-not-wearing-a-helmet-while-riding-two-wheeler-in-ups-moradabad/articleshow/78190417.cms||Maria Khan
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Revivalist gatecrashed men’s fashion world, globalised Bengal||Kolkata: Sharbari Datta, recognized as one of the greatest revivalists of Indian fashion who redefined ceremonial wear, was found dead in the washroom of her Kolkata residence on Thursday. She was 73 and is survived by son Amalin. Not just the likes of Ian Chappell, Sourav Ganguly, Sunil Gavaskar, Kapil Dev, Imran Khan, Sachin Tendulkar, Shoaib Akhtar, Rahul Dravid, Leander Paes and Akshay Kumar whose wardrobes have her collection, even legends like Ismail Merchant and MF Husain had dropped unannounced at her Broad Street studio because they loved her designs. Also, American politician Al Gore was presented her work. She would herself talk about being overwhelmed by mixed emotions when she came to know that RD Burman was dressed in her clothes during his last journey. Kapil Dev with Sharbari DattaNot too many know that Satyajit Ray had offered her a role in ‘Pratidwandi’. “Didi came from an academic background and not everyone wanted her to do films,” said Reshmi Bagchi, partner of Datta’s brand ‘Shunyaa’. However, her connection with the film world remained. In 2005, she had designed the costumes for Rituparno Ghosh’s ‘Antarmahal’. Two years later, for the wedding of Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s mother, Brinda, had chosen Datta to design the trousseau she would gift to her son-in-law. Back in Tollywood, her designs that were chosen for the grooms of Rituparna Sengupta and Koel Mullick. As recent as February this year, Srijit Mukherji wore her creation for his wedding reception. "She was a great inspiration. She had an effervescent nature and was beautiful from inside. Both the kurtas for my husband that he wore for our marriage and reception were designed by her. She made them so classy and beautiful. Not just her designs, Sharbaridi herself had an excellent sense of dressing with a big bindi and junk jewellery. Her demise is a big void for us," Sengupta said. A file photograph of Sunil Gavaskar and Sharbari Datta Datta’s journey of becoming an iconic designer from a homemaker was possible only because of her ardent love for art. Daughter of celebrated Bengali poet Ajit Datta, Datta was deeply interested in the arts. A fine painter in her own right, she was also academically inclined, having done her graduation from Presidency College and then Masters in philosophy from Calcutta University before gatecrashing the world of men’s fashion in the early 90s. “She was an enthusiastic participant in alumni events. We remember her adding so much of life to the annual steamer party a few years back. May her soul rest in peace," the Presidency College Alumni Association condoled her death in a statement. Designing started with Datta drawing sketches on fabrics that were then embroidered by girls of the locality. Encouraged by her relatives, she chose ‘Purono Kolkata’ as her theme for her first exhibition in 1990 to coincide with Kolkata’s 300th birth anniversary. It was the first time Kolkata had seen coloured dhotis. Datta wanted to prove that there was no clash between masculinity and bright colours. Sourav Ganguly in Sharbari's creationFive years later, she was commissioned to design costumes for a project conceived by the cultural wing of the state government. Her works, inspired by Ray’s period films including ‘Charulata’, ‘Ghare Baire’ and ‘Shatranj Ke Khiladi’, had stood out. In 1996, she travelled to Delhi for a solo show titled ‘Purushotsav’. Her collection had broken away from the drab world of stripes and checks and became a celebration of swashbuckling masculinity. Ina Puri, who had presented that show, said, “As a woman designer exploring the distinctive line of men’s wear, this show broke many glass ceilings. It was choreographed by Noyonika Chatterjee and directed by Prasad Bidapa. Back then, her collection relied on muted shades and was so much about ethnic elegance.” Bangladeshi designer Bibi Russell describes her as an “icon” whom she admires as a designer and a human being. “I had lost my parents long back and Sharbaridi was like my mother figure. I remember once I was in Kolkata on my birthday. Nobody, except her, knew about it. Despite being a busy celebrity, she took time out and cooked for me. I was so touched. How many people have the time to cook and treat someone? She is the most wonderful human being I have known,” Russell said.  Remembering how she was introduced to Datta at her first exhibition in Kolkata in 1999-2000, Russell said, “Sharbaridi had come for my show. I was new then while she was an established designer. She could have ignored me but Sharbaridi showered me with love and affection. Both of us have different styles of work and yet, she was so appreciative of what I did. She has taken men’s fashion to a a new high. Before her, no one ever thought of wearing coloured dhotis. She took kantha to a different level.” Her designs would have influences from Kalighat pata and Baishnab Padabali to works of artists like Jamini Roy and even Picasso. Stylist and choreographer Prasad Bidapa described Datta as “great revivalists of India” who redefined men’s fashion. “Her works have a timeless quality. I hope design schools and colleges acquire a few of her works to show their students. She created a look that was so royal Bengal in a way.” Prosenjit Chatterjee in her creationLater on, she also experimented with womenswear and came up with kantha cocktail dress and tailed jacket paired with heat-pleat skirt that had embroidery work following Devanagri script. "Just few day’s back, I told her that my father and I would like to do a shoot for her collection. I was one of the first models to shoot for her women’s wear collection and was among the only three female models to have walked for her menswear’s collections. She was a feminist of a different order. The way she looked at men’s fashion was unlike anyone else. I have travelled with her so much. She took a lot of pride in introducing talent from Bengal," said model Ushoshi Sengupta. According Bidapa, Datta had “thoroughly modernized the kantha”. “Kantha is one of the most ancient of embroidery forms. What she did with it was extraordinary. Her early roots were raw and beautiful. From there, she took and refined them into something quite extraordinary. She painted really well and translated them to her clothes. So, there would be this achkan that would look like a canvas. In 2018, she showed a collection at the Rajasthan Heritage Week. The collection was very modern that was very modern and sleek. She set a high benchmark in revival techniques of the region and of combing art and fashion.” Beyond her work, Bidapa also wants to remember Datta as a "beautiful" lady. “She was so well-groomed and sophisticated. We would always tease her as the Jaya Bhaduri of Kolkata. Her demise is a big loss for all of us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revivalist-gatecrashed-mens-fashion-world-globalised-bengal/articleshow/78193611.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 19, 2020||Kolkata||Housing committees make Puja contribution voluntary this year||KOLKATA: Several residents’ welfare associations across the city have made contributions to organize Durga Puja within the complexes ‘voluntary’ to decrease the financial burden on families that are already under stress owing to the pandemic. Complexes depend on contributions by residents to organize Durga Puja and other activities and the latter are ‘expected’ to pay the amount. In many complexes like Sukhobrishti in New Town, the committee has suspended door-to-door collection this year. “The contribution is not mandatory. Anyone who wants to voluntarily contribute can donate any amount they want to. Door-to-door collection has been suspended this year,” said Mainak Kanrar, joint secretary of the residents’ association at Sukhobrishti. The sprawling complex in Action Area 3 organises one of the biggest housing complex Durga Pujas in the state. This year, however, the celebrations are going to be muted. “Many families in financial distress. We do not want to put pressure on them. Even if a family doesn’t contribute, they can participate in the celebrations,” Kanrar said. The residents’ association at Lake View in Bangur, off VIP Road, has decided to scale down the celebrations this year. “It will be a simple affair and we are not going to spend much. Since our main source of funds is contribution by families, we have requested them to pay only if they can,” said Arindam Karmakar, president of the association. Usually, the complexes start buzzing with activities by this time. But this year, work has just started in some complexes while it is in the planning stage in others. “The youngsters are not out practising for cultural events. Even the organizing committee members are relying more on video calls to execute the plans,” said Anirban Purkait of Rosewood High in Anandapur. Forum for Durgotsab, an umbrella body of Durga Puja organizers, has urged Puja committees to make sure every Covid safety guideline is implemented during the festival. “The emphasis should be more on awareness on how to celebrate the festival safely. Residents’ welfare associations can play a very important role in this,” said Tushar Saha, an assistant secretary of the forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/housing-committees-make-puja-contribution-voluntary-this-year/articleshow/78193620.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb posts 2,817 cases, 62 deaths||Chandigarh: A total of 2,817 fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Punjab, while 62 people lost their lives to the virus on Friday. By adding 2,194 cases to the state’s tally, nine districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Mohali, Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot — accounted for 77.88% of total cases reported in the last 24 hours. Till date, 92,833people have been tested positive in the state, while the virus has killed 2,708 people so far. The health department also removed 16 duplicate entries. The state’s fatality rate stands at 2.91%. The high death rate is expected to continue in coming days as 76 people in critical condition are on ventilator support, of which 16 are new patients, while 501 patients are on oxygen support. Of 62 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the virus claimed the lives of 12 people in Ludhiana, 10 in Jalandhar and seven in Hoshiarpur. Six people lost their lives in Mohali, five in Patiala, two each in Muktsar, Amritsar, Barnala, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Nawanshahr, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. One death each was reported in Bathinda, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Moga, Pathankot and Ropar. Ludhiana continued to post the highest cases in a day by recording 437 fresh cases followed by Amritsar which contributed 401 cases. With the health department having discharged as many as 2,645 people after they recovered, the state’s recovery rate shot up to 73.74%. So far 68,463 patients have recovered from the virus. Of total patients discharged, 502 were in Ludhiana, 382 in Gurdaspur, 228 in Mohali, 223 in Kapurthala, 208 in Amritsar, 206 in Patiala, 174 in Jalandhar, 142 each in Fazilka and Faridkot, 113 in Bathinda, 100 in Hoshiarpur, 69 in Moga, 64 in Tarn Taran, 51 in Muktsar, 49 in Pathankot, 44 in Fazilka, 41 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 31 in Sangrur, 13 in Barnala and five in Nawanshahr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-posts-2817-cases-62-deaths/articleshow/78196079.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Patients left in the lurch as speciality clinics remain closed||Mysuru: “The clinic will remain closed till Covid-19 is under control. You may consult a doctor on the following number,” auto-plays a pre-recorded message when patients or their kin dial to for an appointment with an ENT specialist in the city. Several speciality clinics in the city have remained closed since the start of the pandemic, while some have opened to care for select patients depending on their condition. Patients, denied expert consultation on their ailments, are left in the lurch. Speciality clinics, including ENT and dental that witnessed are unlikely to reopen soon. Despite hospitals resuming operations, specialists aren’t taking any chances. Patients are forced to visit government facilities or consult other available doctors. Speaking to TOI, Dr MS Natashekar, an ENT specialist and Otorhinolaryngologist, said, “Since our treatment requires examination of the ear, nose and throat we are susceptible to Covid infection. I have shut the clinic for six months and hope to reopen it shortly once the vaccine for Covid is out.” Dentist Dr N Vinod of Manipal Dental Clinic on Devaraja Urs road has been using personal protective equipment to treat patients. Orthopaedic Dr Nityanand Rao has never kept his clinic closed except for the initial period of one week in March. The closure of speciality clinics have increased the burden on government-run KR Hospital. Dr BL Nanjundaswamy, medical superintendent, confirmed the outpatient load at ENT department has increased. Only emergency and OPD services are offered in specialised departments like ENT, ophthalmology and dental, but the number is restricted due to the pandemic. Mysuru City Corporation chief health officer Dr MS Jayanth admitted that several speciality clinics have not yet resumed operations. “ Deputy commissioner B Sharat recently held a meeting with private medical practitioners on this score and directed them to reopen. Even hospitals have been asked to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients as not many of them have adhered to it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/patients-left-in-the-lurch-as-speciality-clinics-remain-closed/articleshow/78192285.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Lady Hill Circle to be renamed after Sri Narayana Guru||Mangaluru: Lady Hill Circle on MG Road in the city will soon be renamed after philosopher and social reformer Sri Narayana Guru, who envisaged the idea of ‘one caste, one religion, one God for humanity’. A resolution in this regard is expected to be part of the agenda at the second council meeting of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) which will be chaired by mayor Diwakar on Tuesday. If everything goes as per plan, the circle will be officially renamed during the Mangaluru Dasara festival at Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple. The temple was consecrated by Sri Narayana Guru in 1912. The circle is an entry point to the Kudroli temple from the northern side of the city. Several organisations and the temple authorities too have been demanding the circle be named after Sri Narayana Guru. Recently, Friends Ballalbagh – Biruver Kudla had submitted a memorandum to mayor Diwakar requesting the city corporation to rename the circle after Sri Narayana Guru. The organisation also had submitted a memorandum in this regard to the mayor and Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath in 2018. Senior BJP corporator Premanand Shetty, who is also the chief whip in the MCC council, told TOI that the mayor has responded positively to the demand. “We have received requests from various organisations to rename Lady Hill Circle after the philosopher. The mayor has responded positively to the proposal. It is expected to be part of the agenda of the next council meeting. Once it is passed, the circle will be renamed after Sri Narayana Guru,” he added. The Mangaluru Dasara festival of Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple this year is scheduled to be held from October 17 without much pomp in the wake of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lady-hill-circle-to-be-renamed-after-sri-narayana-guru/articleshow/78192857.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Diverted for Covid-19, CM’s relief fund, SDRF running on fumes||Bengaluru: As part of his routine of hosting those who visit him, chief minister BS Yediyurappa met a pontiff of a small mutt a few days ago. During the course of their conversation, the pontiff had sought an allocation of Rs 2 crore to develop the mutt. Yediyurappa, placid until then, lost his cool. He confided in his staff: “What does he think? Do I have a money printing machine?” The financial crisis in Karnataka is so deep that even the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) is today running on fumes. Normally, on any given day, the CMRF has on average anywhere between Rs 60 and Rs 70 crore. However, as on Friday, the fund had a paltry sum of Rs 8 crore to its credit. Meant primarily to tackle natural disasters, emergency requirements and to provide relief for those in need, the CMRF can also be used for administrative purposes as a “last resort”. This includes grants in aid to religious, medical and educational institutions. The fund relies on donations from central and state government agencies besides private entities and individuals. How the funds are spent is at the sole discretion of the chief minister. However, in the past two months, most of the money has been diverted to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. “With the pandemic becoming the focus of every donation, contributions to the normal CMRF fund has dried up,” said a CMO official. CMO personnel say the situation is so dire that Yediyurappa, known for his large-hearted assistance to BPL card holders, has been forced to ration financial assistance. “From giving Rs 2 and Rs 3 lakh assistance for serious cases, he is now signing cheques for only Rs 50,000 or Rs 1 lakh,” one official said. Having maintained separate accounts for Covid-19 and routine applications for assistance, the CMO has tried to keep a check on both fronts. “With this being the case, we cannot merge the two accounts to make one single pool,” said the official. Meanwhile, Karnataka has also exhausted its State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for the purpose of tackling Covid-19, leaving no recourse for assistance should another natural calamity arise in this fiscal. Revenue department officials say Karnataka has exhausted its share of SDRF after having sought for early release of the entire sum. “Of the Rs 1,100 crore allotted to Karnataka under SDRF, we have received the full share of Rs 790 crore from the Centre in two installments. The remaining share of the state government has also been received. Of this, a majority has been released towards tackling the Covid-19 pandemic with the rest going towards flood management,” said a senior department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/diverted-for-covid-19-cms-relief-fund-sdrf-running-on-fumes/articleshow/78193629.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||CISH technology to keep fruit flies away||Lucknow: Fruit flies are damaging for crops. This year, a large quantity of mangoes were damaged by the pest. To tackle this, the Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture (CISH), a Lucknow-based ICAR lab, has developed a technology using pheromones. These are chemicals used to create the same effect on the behaviour of a pest as a naturally secreted hormone would do. CISH has also made the technology available for entrepreneurs willing to take it to farmers. As of now, farmers use heavy doses of insecticides to get rid of fruit flies that affect mango, guava and cucurbits like bitter gourd, bottle gourd, parwal, snake gourd and pumpkin. However, their maggots grow inside fruits and vegetables and pesticide use does not control the damage. Trapping of adults is considered to be one of the best options in fruit fly management, said CISH scientist HS Singh. Keeping this in mind, CISH has used pheromones to attract males and then trap the pests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cish-technology-to-keep-fruit-flies-away/articleshow/78196088.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Ryots demand action to end human-animal conflict in Sakleshpur||Hassan: There has been an alarming spurt in the incidence of jumbos raiding agricultural fields in the Sakleshpur belt in Hassan district with losses mounting for farmers. Now Indian gaurs have joined elephants in raiding fields in search of food as their natural habitat shrinks owing to the slew of development projects that have been initiated in the ecologically fragile region. A recent incident of a bison, which after sustaining an injury to its eye near Baage in Sakleshpur taluk while trying to enter a human habitat, succumbed to its wounds later has turned the spotlight firmly on the magnitude of the problem. Alongside the spike in the incidence of human-animal conflict in the area, there has been a corresponding rise in the number of instances of poaching too. Sakleshpur assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Lingaraj recalled a recent incident wherein two people were arrested for poaching a bison in the forest. He added that four more individuals were involved in the racket. The ACF said that the department did not conduct a census of bison in the range, but the number of herbivorous specimens in the forest were counted once in five years. Deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Shivaram Babu said that a herd of bison was rarely seen in human habitats. Farmers willing to give up land to preserve balance The DCF said that permission had been sought from his superiors to affix radio collars on elephants to track the herd, which he said would help mitigate human-elephant conflict. “Once there is respite from the rain, we will start work on barricading the four-kilometre stretch of the railway line in Sakleshpur. This is a territorial forest range, and we do not have the manpower and resources to shoulder all responsibilities. So, we have submitted a proposal seeking classification of Sakleshpur as a separate wildlife sub-division,” Babu said. Former president of the Hassan District Planters’ Association Krishnappa said that monkeys had wrought havoc on his cardamom plantation. Pointing out that, in addition to elephants, deer, elk and monkeys were entering their farms, Krishnappa said, “Deer destroyed 450 agarwood tress – used in the manufacture of incense sticks – and elephants went on a rampage in my coffee plantation, destroying 1,000 plants, most of which were 40 years old. While 17 of the 40 elephants in Sakleshpur were shifted following a court order some seven years ago, there are 65 jumbos in the region now.” Sakleshpur-based environmentalist Kishore Kumar highlighted the need to preserve the ecological balance in Sakleshpur, nestled in the heart of the Western Ghats. Pointing to the various unscientific development projects undertaken in the region, including the Yettinahole project, Kumar said, “The increased division of the forest is forcing animals to stray into human habitat here.” He added, “When Anant Hegde Ashisara, chairman of the Western Ghats Task Force, came to Sakleshpur, we submitted a memorandum, which was signed even by 416 farmers, who are willing to part with their land close to Bisle and Kaginere reserve forest areas. The forest department can get around 3,000 acres, which will ensure a continuous wildlife corridor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ryots-demand-action-to-end-human-animal-conflict-in-sakleshpur/articleshow/78192737.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nashik||Short-staffed Covid facility at Deolali cantt taking in fewer patients||Nashik: Doctors at the Covid care centre (CCC) set up at the Deolali cantonment board’s primary school are forced to take in fewer patients at the facility due to medical staff crunch. Therefore, despite a facility being ready at the Deolali camp, Covid patients here are being told to get quarantined at home or get themselves admitted to any Covid facility in Nashik city. Many residents of the Deolali Camp area and surrounding villages have complained that the CCC does not have an adequate number of doctors, nurses and ward boys and as a result, nearly 50% of the beds here are kept empty.Senior officials, however, claimed that they were not denying admission to anyone, though patients with mild symptoms were told to opt for home quarantine.The number of Covid-19 cases has been increasing in the Deolali Camp area. In response, the cantonment board hospital was converted into a 90-bed dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC), which is now almost full. A 90-bed CCC has also been set up at the primary school of the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD). Bhagwan Kataria, the former vice-president of CBD, said: “The board is making all efforts to control the spread of Covid-19. The best treatment and facilities are being provided at the CBD hospital, which is now a DCHC. However, since newer patients are coming in, the CCC needs to be ready with adequate staff, which is not the case. We need doctors, nurses and ward boys at the CCC and have been continuously making a demand for the same.”Kataria said the CBD is also supposed to get Rs 60 lakh from the district administration for Covid management. However, till date, only Rs 30 lakh has been given. He said they were in touch with the officials concerned, seeking an immediate release of the remaining funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/short-staffed-covid-facility-at-deolali-cantt-taking-in-fewer-patients/articleshow/78197129.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||37 doctors died of Covid in Nagpur, 4 in Vidarbha, says IMA data||NAGPUR: Doctors, resident doctors and health care workers in Vidarbha have condemned the central government’s policy not to maintain data of health workers dying due to Covid-19. After Indian Medical Association (IMA) issued a list of more than 380 doctors who have died in the war against Covid-19, members in the state demanded that all those who died on duty should be acknowledged as martyrs. “All doctors and health care givers are agitated, scared and frustrated. Red tape, contradictory directives by local authorities, threats, assaults of all nature — physical, legal and financial — have led to this situation,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former national president of IMA and current treasurer of World Medical Association (WMA). “Infection rate and death rate is maximum among doctors and health care gives. Families of doctors are getting infected. At least keep their records and give them martyr status,” he demanded. “It’s highly demoralizing that government doesn’t care and doesn’t know who’s dying for them in the line of duty,” said Dr Mukul Deshpande, who is working on the front-line at GMCH Nagpur. “Government showered flower petals on us in April. Now, they are not recognizing doctors’ sacrifice. It’s like sending them into battle with a kiss on the forehead, and then denying any ties with the dead bodies,” he said. “No country has lost as many doctors and health care workers as India. Doctors suffer four times mortality of ordinary citizens and private practitioners suffer eight times mortality on the same scale,” reads a statement by IMA national president Dr Ranjan Sharma. “If the government doesn’t maintain the statistics of total number of doctors and health care workers infected by Covid-19, and how many of them sacrificed their life due to the pandemic, it loses the moral authority to administer the Epidemic Act 1897 and the Disaster Management Act,” it further reads. Out of the 37 doctors martyred in Maharashtra state, 16 are consultant doctors having small clinics and nursing homes. Four are paediatricians, three general practitioners and family physicians. Others are from many different specialities. After doctors in Mumbai, Thane, and Nashik martyred in last three months, doctors are now dying in Vidarbha too as the situation worsens here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/37-doctors-died-of-covid-in-state-4-in-vid-says-ima-data/articleshow/78196711.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Schools in Delhi won’t reopen at least till October 5||NEW DELHI: Schools in Delhi will remain closed till October 5, the government announced on Friday. Hence, under Unlock 4.0, even students of classes IX to XII will not be called to school for consultation from September 21, as suggested by the Centre’s guidelines. The directorate of education earlier sent a communication to the schools following the central guidelines, but education minister Manish Sisodia had said the final decision would be taken closer to the date. According to a DoE order issued to all schools on Friday, “Online classes and teaching-learning activities will continue as usual and the heads of schools are authorised to call teachers/staff for smooth conduct” of any work. The institutes have been asked to inform guardians through school management committee members, text messages and phone calls. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said she would call teachers to schools. “The CBSE registration for classes X and XII will have to be completed,” said Wattal. Following the previous communication, many private schools had conducted a survey among parents and most of them had said they were not in favour of children returning to school. Most institutes wanted students who will appear for the Boards next year to come for one-to-one interaction with teachers and practical classes. “The order has been changing from time to time on the basis of Covid-19. The cases are still on the rise, parents are not comfortable about sending children,” said S K Bhattacharya, chairman of the action committee, an umbrella body of private schools. It will be a welcome step by private schools if physical classes resume after October 5, Bhattacharya said. “During this period, the government should work on formulating practical SOPs for schools — regular checking, whether buses should be allowed.” Watch Schools in Delhi won’t reopen at least till October 5, the government announces||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schools-wont-reopen-at-least-till-oct-5/articleshow/78194983.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s revenue collection declines 53% in 5 months||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 has had an alarming impact on government finances. In Delhi, revenue collection in the past five months has dipped 53%, the steepest historical decline. Having offered numerous subsidies, especially to the disadvantaged sections of society, the AAP government is staring at a huge shortage of funds for welfare and development projects announced before the elections in February. Delhi government has four key sources of revenue: GST and VAT, excise, motor vehicle tax and stamps & registration duties. These have largely contributed to the steady growth of Delhi’s budget from Rs 36,766 crore in 2014-2015 to Rs 65,000 crore in 2020-2021. The current budget is now under tremendous pressure. GST and VAT revenue collections have fallen 55% compared with the corresponding period in the last fiscal, excise 53%, motor vehicle tax 59%, and stamps & registration, 61%. “Tax collected amounts to Rs 8,623 crore against the estimate of Rs 18,375 crore for the first five months of 2020-2021,” disclosed an official source. The state government was forced to borrow Rs 3,462 crore from the central government’s small savings scheme to fund the bloated expense on healthcare and other sectors. The expenditure up to August 31 this year was Rs 15,260 crore. Delhi government requires Rs 3,500 crore per month to pay salaries to its employees and to meet sundry expenses. Even after the Centre relaxed the curbs on economic activities, everything could not reopen in Delhi immediately and there were restrictions on public transport, opening of markets and shops, hotels and restaurants. An excise official said, “Even after liquor sale was resumed, people did not return in the same numbers due to Covid risk.” Indicating the inactivity in the capital, Ajay Bansal, president, All India Petroleum Dealers Association, said during the initial months of lockdown, fuel sales sank 90% from the normal. It’s recovered, but is still 35% less than normal. With sale of motor vehicles also hit, VAT, charged on petroleum products, has slipped. Despite the declining revenues, the government had to nevertheless meet unforeseen expenses such as financial assistance to autorickshaw and taxi drivers, construction workers and double the social security pensions. It also continued with the power and water subsidies. Earlier this month, CM Arvind Kejriwal requested PM Narendra Modi to consider a legally viable option to provide GST compensation to the states to help them tide over the financial crisis. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia also wrote to union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging the Centre to borrow and disburse GST compensation to the states. Under the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, states are guaranteed compensation for any loss of revenue for a transition period of five years from 2017 to 2022). Watch Covid-19: Delhi govt under financial stress, revenue collection declines 53% in 5 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govts-revenue-collection-declines-53-in-5-months/articleshow/78195025.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||LU student leader shot by uncle||Lucknow: A student leader at Lucknow University was shot dead, allegedly by his step-uncle over a property dispute, inside his house in Gola area of Lakhimpur Kheri district late Thursday night. The victim, Aman Bajpai (24), was pursuing LLB (three years) from Lucknow University and was staying at his native place for last five months in view of corovirus pandemic. The accused, Kuldeep Bajpai (35), has been arrested and a pistol has been recovered from him. According to the FIR lodged by Aman’s father Vijay Kumar at Gola police station, Kuldeep reached Aman’s house around 11.40pm when the family was having dinner. The moment Aman opened the gate, Kuldeep fired two shots at him and fled. Aman was rushed to the hospital but passed away during treatment on Friday morning. Superintendent of police, Lakhimpur Kheri, Vijay Dhull said, “A property dispute within the family led to the murder. The accused has been arrested and the pistol used to commit the crime has been recovered. Further investigations are on”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-student-leader-shot-by-uncle/articleshow/78196092.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nashik||7 of 171 roads in Nashik’s Old City area taken up for devpt||Nashik: The smart city development corporation has started developing seven of the 171 small and major roads spanning 36km in the Old City area as part of the area-based developement project. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Limited (NMSCDCL) has set a deadline of 30 months to complete the project. A corpus of Rs 237.21 crore has been set aside for upgrading the overall infrastruture in the Old City area. Development of select roads in the gaothan areas, construction of footpaths, utility conduits, street furniture, traffic signages, street landscaping works, junction improvement and creation of smart bus stops are some of the key elements of the project.The NMSCDCL had given the work order to the contractor in September last year. The project came to a grinding halt after the imposition of the lockdown.CEO of NMSCDCL Prakash Thavil said, “We started the work of developing major and minor roads in the Old City area with 20% manpower immediately after the lockdown norms were relaxed. We are planning to complete the project on time.”“The roads that are being developed will be equipped with water supply lines, sewage lines, storm drainage lines along with cable ducts so that there will be no need to break the roads in future. The longevity of these roads will be 50 years,” said Thavil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-of-171-roads-in-nashiks-old-city-area-taken-up-for-devpt/articleshow/78197135.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 19, 2020||Bhopal||Positivity rate spike scarier than rising Covid count||(FIGURES TO BE UPDATED ON FRIDAY)Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh has been hit by an avalanche of Covid cases in September but what’s more worrying is the spike in positivity rate — it shot up to 16% on September 17 and averages 8.8%, nearly twice of what it was in August.More than 31,000 Covid cases have been reported this month. But when you consider that this is the situation when MP rarely ever touches its daily testing capacity of 25,000, the implications make you shudder. For instance, if the state had tested 25k samples on September 17 instead of 15k-odd — one of the lowest in weeks — the daily count would have been close to 4,000.On an average, 22,440 tests were conducted per day this month, and a chunk of it is rapid antigen tests, which are in controversy over false negatives.Positivity rate — the number of people testing positive per 100 samples — has been increasing month-on-month, and only on one day has the number of tests crossed 25,000 (September 17). Madhya Pradesh has conducted fewer tests than majority of the states, which have a significant number of positive cases.The combination of relatively low testing and high positivity rates simply means the count would shoot up if more people were tested.In July, the positivity rate was 4.5%, which increased to 5.2% in August and now stands at 8.8%. The overall average positivity rate since March 20 — when the first case was reported in the state in Jabalpur — to September 16 is above the normal bench mark of 5%.It is considered that if positivity rate is above 5%, then the number of tests done is low and it should be increased to bring it down further.Going by the trend — positivity rate in the past five days has been above 10% — it is likely the month will end on a worrying note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/positivity-rate-spike-scarier-than-rising-covid-count/articleshow/78195019.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Fatalities continue to rise in HP as 12 more succumb||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh on Friday saw 12 more Covid deaths and 432 new positive cases, taking the tally of cases in the state to 11,622 and death toll to 108. At the day’s close, the state had 4,430 active cases, while the count of cured patients stood at 7,054 with 135 recoveries reported during the day. Of the 12 fatalities, four were reported from Kangra, three each from Solan and Shimla districts, while Mandi and Sirmaur districts recorded one death each. Maximum 82 new cases surfaced in Una district, 70 in Mandi, 67 in Sirmaur, 41 in Solan, 30 in Bilaspur, 24 in Kangra, 17 in Kullu, 14 in Chamba, nine in Hamirpur, six in Lahaul-Spiti and three in Kinnaur district. Among the latest recoveries, 33 were cured in Una, 32 in Kangra, 29 in Bilaspur, 15 in Solan, 14 in Chamba district, eight in Hamirpur and four in Kullu district. So far, Bilaspur has seen 598 cases, of which 206 are active; Chamba has recorded 677 cases, of which 93 are active; out of Hamirpur’s total 762 cases, 88 are active; and Kangra has witnessed 1,759 cases, of which 632 are active. Shimla district recorded 826 cases, of which 466 are active; Sirmaur has reported 1,482 cases, of which 494 are active; Solan has seen 2,566 cases, of which 1,001 are active; and 1,057 cases surfaced in Una, of which 460 are active. Kinnaur has so far registered 138 cases, of which 38 are active; Kullu has reported 433 cases, of which 101 are active; Lahaul-Spiti has seen 96 positive cases, of which 76 are active; and Mandi has thrown up 1,228 cases, of which 775 are active. A total of 261,117 samples had been tested till Friday in the state, of which 11,622 tested positive, while results of 1,039 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fatalities-continue-to-rise-in-hp-as-12-more-succumb/articleshow/78196091.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||ED attaches three south Delhi hotels linked to money laundering case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has attached three hotels in south Delhi worth over Rs 100 crore allegedly linked to the main accused Rakesh and Sarang Wadhawans in the Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank money laundering case. The attached hotels are owned by Libra Realtors Pvt Ltd, Deewan Realtors, Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan, Romy Mehra, and Libra Hotels Pvt Ltd and its directors, ED said. All the hotels are now known as Fab Hotels situated in Kailash Colony, East of Kailash and Kalkaji. The agency has already filed a chargesheet in this case against Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and others. Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan were arrested by ED on October 17, 2019 and are presently in judicial custody. The Wadhawans along with chairman and MD of the PMC Bank are accused of causing ‘wrongful loss prima facie to the tune of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank and corresponding gain to themselves’. “Earlier assets belonging to accused Rakesh Wadhawan and Wadhawan family trust totalling to Rs 193 crore were also attached and jewellry worth Rs 63 crore was seized, the agency said. It has been found that Wadhawans, the promoters of HDIL, had taken loans to the tune of Rs 6,500 crore from the PMC bank and defaulted on payments. The huge credit extended to Wadhawans was illegal as it was more than 73% of the total assets of Rs 8,880 crore of the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ed-attaches-three-south-delhi-hotels-linked-to-money-laundering-case/articleshow/78195042.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: First 8 months of 2020 see marked drop in road accident fatalities||PANAJI: A slew of Covid-induced restrictions resulted in fewer people venturing out of their homes, consequently bringing down road accident deaths in Goa roughly by one quarter during the first eight months of 2020. Earlier, the state would witness one such casualty every day on an average. Government statistics indicate that a total of 1,522road accidents were reported in the state till August this year. The same period in 2019 saw as many as 2,286 accidents. “Last year, fatal accidents amounted to 178 while this number dropped to 138 till August this year,” a senior police officer said. “Till August, 145 people lost their lives in accidents while 191 died last year.” Police sources said there has been a marked reduction in road accidents even after the ‘unlock’ process was implemented in the state. “Going by August 2020 figures, there has been a 44% drop in the accident rate and fatal accidents have reduced by 23%,” the senior officer said. This trend, police said, indicates that people are still taking precautions to avoid the spread of Covid-19 and are not venturing out with their vehicles unnecessarily. They said that except during office hours, there has been negligible traffic rush across the state. On an average, one person died every day due to road accidents in 2019, as per the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). As many as 3,490 accidents were recorded in the state in which 349 people died. In most of the accidents, the drivers were seen to be at fault as the accidents had occurred due to speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-8-months-of-2020-see-marked-drop-in-road-accident-fatalities/articleshow/78196138.cms||Murari Shetye
September 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Take-home dose of buprenorphine increased again||Chandigarh: After reducing the take-home dose of de-addiction medicine buprenorphine, a scheduled drug, the Punjab government has taken another U-turn, this time by again enhancing the take-home dose. The government has gone back-and-forth on the issue thrice amidst the Covid-19 outbreak. The coronavirus is spreading at a rapid pace in the state, infecting 90,032 people and claiming 2,646 lives as on September 17. To safeguard substance-abuse patients from catching the infection, the health department has again decided to increase the take-home dose for patients undergoing treatment at government-run outpatient opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics. About 4.5 lakh patients are getting treatment at 198 OOAT clinics, 35 government de-addiction centres, and 106 private de-addiction centres across the state. The director health services has instructed all civil surgeons to start dispensing the take-home dose for two weeks to patients who were being given medicine on daily basis, while patients who were given medicine for two or more days would now be allowed to take home the medicine for 10 days. After imposition of lockdown, the government on April 8 allowed patients to take home detoxification medicine for 21 days. The move aimed at ensuring that addicts faced no inconvenience and were able to continue treatment, which was important as discontinuity could be fatal. However, the enhanced take-home dose led to a spike in demand for medicine, leading to shortage. There were also reports of medicine being misused. Later, the department reduced the take-home dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/take-home-dose-of-buprenorphine-increased-again/articleshow/78196089.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Creating memories, safe spaces for kids help them cope better||Bengaluru: “I feel like we are stuck somewhere and just can’t go out anywhere,” said seven-year-old Samaira when asked what she hates about the pandemic and the lockdown. Another child said she feels bad she cannot go out, meet her friends or play with them. Samaira and a few other kids shared their perspective about the pandemic during the webinar ‘Childhood Interrupted’ organised by the Bangalore International Centre on Thursday. Calling the phase difficult, the children, between 6 and 16 years, felt constricted in the past few months as they were forced to stay indoors 24/7 and almost zero contact with the outside world. This has long-lasting effects on young brains, the panel said. Rohini Nilekani, philanthropist and session moderator, referred to reports from Italy, Spain and China and said there are significant emotional and behavioural changes in children and adolescents who spent time in quarantine. “Children in quarantine are more likely to develop acute stress disorder, adjustment disorder and grief. They have four times higher chances of developing Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) than other children,” she said, adding that while younger children become clingier or regressed, older children become anxious, angrier, restless or withdrawn. Dr Shekhar Seshadri, senior professor, department of child and adolescent psychiatry and associate dean of Behavioral Sciences, Nimhans, said the pandemic is affecting children in a multi-fold manner and has different effects on children with different needs – like children from migrant workers’ families. “There is a loss of routine, structure, predictability, learning spaces, opportunities, social spaces and play areas. These have a significant developmental impact. The ecologies of our lives have changed, and it generates a loss of developmental experiences,” he said. Kavita Gupta Sabharwal, founder of Neev Schools and Neev Academy, agreed and said with no schools, a whole chunk of a child’s life is gone. “It is very confusing as there is social isolation and everything is being done through screens,” she said. Vishal Talreja, cofounder & trustee of NGO, Dream A Dream, said such early experiences of adversity in children can have lifelong impacts. He said it is worse for children from marginalised communities. “In crammed communities, there is a rise in uncertainty, anxieties, misinformation, heightened abuse and violence. For many such children, schools were safe spaces and without these safety nets, there is an increase in distress as they are witnessing sickness and death every day so closely,” Talreja said. Deepika Mogilishetty, chief of policy and partnerships, EkStep Foundation, said with so much adult scrutiny and virtual classes and engagements, children are forced to mimic adult behaviour. “They are also adulting along with their parents,” she said pointing at the loss of childhood. The experts agreed that creating healing spaces within homes and in communities is the answer. Like Parents Pod, where small social bubbles and learning groups can come together regularly will help children, they said. Dr Seshadri said building a fort-like structure indoors, creating ‘Hawaii beaches’ with bedsheets and chairs, and helping children associate the lockdown period with fond memories is a way forward. “If children cannot go out in the world, bring the world to children inside the homes,” he said. Focusing on adolescents, experts said they need to be trusted, treated as individuals, and given a chance to contribute to the crisis in their own ways. Children from families of migrant workers must also be included in the process of healing by creating better community learning spaces, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/creating-memories-safe-spaces-for-kids-help-them-cope-better/articleshow/78193659.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: New isolation facility for prisoners||GURUGRAM: The district administration on Friday designated Begumpur Khatola community centre as the new isolation facility for prisoners who test positive for Covid-19. The decision has been taken considering the increase in the number of cases in Bhondsi jail. Till now the prisoners who were testing positive were being shifted to an isolation centre at Government College in Sector 9. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri also assigned duties to officials who will have to manage the prisoners at the isolation facility. “A proposal to have a separate isolation facility for prisoners was under consideration and a few officials were asked to identify a location. The SDM Badshapur has been asked to hand over the Begumpur Khatola community centre to the jail superintendent so that arrangements can be made to set up the facility,” said a district administration official. There will be two vehicles at the isolation centre, an ambulance to take the patients to the hospital and one jeep to transport food and other essential commodities to the isolation centre. The city police chief will deploy security guards. The superintendent of the district jail has been directed to depute an assistant or deputy superintendent along with other staff members for internal management and maintaining records of Covid positive prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/new-isolation-facility-for-prisoners/articleshow/78196104.cms||Vishakha Chaman
September 19, 2020||Surat||1,500 units collected in blood donation camp||Surat: The members of the Youth For Gujarat Charitable Trust have organised a four-day blood donations camp in the city to help voluntary blood banks and for patients who need blood at hospitals. According to officials, as many as 355 people have donated their blood in the last two days and 1,500 units of blood have been collected. More people are expected to donate blood in the next two days.“We came to know that the blood banks across the city are facing blood shortage as people are reluctant to donate blood in Covid-19 time. These blood units will be given to blood banks in Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital and New Civil Hospital,’’ said Youth For Gujarat Charitable Trust president, Jignesh Patel.“We have been organising blood donation camps for the last 12 years. Due to Covid-19 fear, people are not coming forward to donate blood in hospitals and blood banks and we appeal to people to come and help save lives,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1500-units-collected-in-blood-donation-camp/articleshow/78193665.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||LDA to develop rental flats for outstation students||Lucknow: Lucknow Development Authority (LDA), which till now used to build and sell housing units, will soon also develop rental apartments on public private partnership (PPP) basis. The first such 13-storey apartment block will come up in Aishbagh for which LDA has identified over 10,400 square metres of land. Officials said that each flat will consist of an attached bathroom, ventilated bedroom, balcony and a kitchen. The rent will be around Rs 5,000 per month. The target group is students who come to the city from various parts of the state and country, besides single persons employed here. LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh said, “The tender for construction work of the apartment will be finalized on Saturday. This will be the first time that LDA will rent out flats after construction. Around 150 1 BHK flats will be constructed with an estimated cost of Rs 163 crore. The deadline is January 2022,” he added. The development authority will invite architects and builders to submit their designs and layout maps for the construction work. In the presentation, developers will have to explain the design of the rental complex along with its financial model. LDA will provide the land to the builder, while construction will be done by the promoter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-to-develop-rental-flats-for-outstation-students/articleshow/78196112.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Give gadgets, internet package to poor kids: Delhi HC to schools||NEW DELHI: Bridging the “digital divide” to end what it called “digital apartheid”, Delhi high court on Friday directed private and government schools to provide gadgets plus internet package to poor students left stranded due to online classes. A bench of justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula broadened the scope of Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, while noting that absence of such facilities prevent children from pursuing elementary education. “Inequality in education has been around long before Covid-19, but the pandemic has exacerbated the same by adding another strand/element to it, namely, digital divide. The unparalleled education disruption from the pandemic is far from over, as despite a lapse of nearly six months, Union of India and government of Delhi are yet to announce a date for reopening of physical classrooms for elementary schools,” the bench noted. It added that to separate such students from others in the same class due to non-availability of a gadget or a device would generate “a feeling of inferiority” that may “affect their hearts and minds unlikely ever to be undone” while setting up a committee of senior officials of Centre and AAP government and a representative of the private schools, to expedite and streamline the process of identifying and supplying the gadgets to poor and disadvantaged students. The high court said if a school decides to voluntarily provide synchronous face-to-face real time online education as a method of teaching, “They will have to ensure that the students belonging to economically weaker section (EWS) or disadvantaged group (DG) also have access and are able to avail the same”. As, merely because the online education is being provided “due to the temporary nature of the present pandemic, it will not place the said mode of imparting education outside the purview of the RTE Act.” The court added, “Segregation in education is a denial of equal protection of the laws under Article 14 of the Constitution and in particular RTE Act” and also rejected the attempt by private schools to link supply of gadgets to poor children to its fee structure, noting that under the RTE Act, such schools are duty-bound to provide free and compulsory elementary education to 25% EWS/DG students. “Section 12(1)(c) obligation is in no way dependent upon what school gives to the fee paying children, free or otherwise. For example, uniform, reading materials and textbooks are provided free to 25% EWS/DG students, even though the other 75% have to pay for them,” the court said in its 94-page judgement. In a small concurring note, justice Narula struck a note of caution, saying the RTE Act is meant for formal schooling, to which all students must return as soon as possible. The court’s verdict came on a PIL by NGO Justice for All, represented by advocate Khagesh Jha, seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor kids so that they can access classes online during the Covid-19 lockdown. The court, however, protected the private unaided schools by its further direction that while providing gadgets and internet pack to the EWS students, they “shall be entitled to claim reimbursement of reasonable cost” from the state for procuring the same under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, “even though the State was not providing the same to its students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-gadgets-net-package-to-poor-kids-hc-to-schools/articleshow/78195100.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 19, 2020||Dehradun||HC refuses to grant relief to former principal of MKP College||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday refused to grant relief to the former principal of Dehradun’s MKP College, Kiran Sood. This comes after Sood moved a recall application against the court’s order (dated June 18, 2020) that directed the principal secretary (higher education) to hear her and the secretary of the MKP Society and take action within four months on the allegation of misappropriation of scholarship funds in the college. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe has now given the principal secretary two more months to complete the probe, which was earlier scheduled to have been completed by the month of October. As reported by TOI on Friday, the court had heard the arguments of Kiran Sood in detail on Thursday and had said that it will pass its order on Friday. Sood had argued that the court had not heard her before issuing the order while adding that all the allegations made against her are “false and baseless”. Meanwhile, a counsel present in the hearing said, “The court heard Sood's arguments and observed that it is not appropriate to recall the June 18 order. The court has said the principal secretary should conduct the probe in an impartial manner and that all the sides should be heard either through physical or virtual meetings,” the counsel said. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed by a former student of the college alleging that there was gross misappropriation of funds in the college which has been highlighted in both the audit report prepared by the government as well as by the CAG. The PIL said that the police investigation had also found prima facie that the funds have been misappropriated and wrote to the secretary home seeking further directions. Following this, the court had passed a judgement in June directing the principal secretary (higher education) to hear the former principal of the college and secretary of the MKP Society and take action within four months. “The entire exercise culminating in a reasoned order being passed, and action being initiated thereafter, shall be completed with utmost expedition and, in any event, within four months from the date of production of a certified copy of this order,” the court had then said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-refuses-to-grant-relief-to-former-principal-of-mkp-college/articleshow/78192460.cms||Prashant Jha
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Centre’s farm reforms cause loss for state||Jaipur: The state agriculture board fears a 50% dip in revenues collected from farmers who sell their produce at mandis in the wake of the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 which was passed in Parliament.The new law allows farmers to sell their produce directly to producers without giving mandi fee. Rough estimates say the state generates a total revenue of Rs 1500 crore from its 144 mandis and sale outside the mandis.The FPTC was introduced in June through an ordinance by the central government. An official said they collect mandi fee in three categories: 0.5%, 1.5% and 1.6% on sale and purchase under the agriculture yard and outside the yard. The sale and purchase are done through Point of Sale at designated areas under the licensed system. The provisions in the new Act say a farmer can sell its products anywhere other than the designated mandis and also the producer can reach the farmer directly. In both cases, the mandi fees are not applicable leading to a revenue loss of farmers. Jaipur has 14 mandis for its eight tehsils. The farmers sell to the producer at these mandis by paying the fees in accordance with the product. Last year, the revenue generated by these mandis was Rs 72 crore which includes Rs 50 crore for the produce reaching the agriculture yard while the rest Rs 22 crore was from sale of produce outside the yard. The official suggested that the new Act will not allow them to charge anything from any dealing taking place outside the agricultural yard. “In addition to the Rs 22 crore, the revenue generated out of sale and purchase in the yard will also reduce by 30% to 40%,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centres-farm-reforms-cause-loss-for-state/articleshow/78195101.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nashik||MKM members protest outside Bhujbal’s residence||Nashik: Members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) staged a protest outside district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal’s residence on Friday after the minister failed to meet them after attending an official programme in Trimbakeswar. Several members of the community had gone to Bhujbal’s residence around 10:45am on Friday to present a memorandum seeking to stop the recruitment process for the state police department. Karan Gaykar, a member of the MKM, said, “We had sought time from Bhujbal and requested him to take our memorandum. However, Bhujbal said that he had to leave for Trimbakeshwar and promised to return by 12:30pm. Since he did not turn up, we staged a protest and stuck our memorandum on the gate of his residence.” The members cast aspersions on the timing at which the recruitment drive is being held. “After the Supreme Court put a stay on reservation for the Maratha community, the state government quickly announced the recruitment drive for the police force. The state government is depriving reservation benefits to the Marathas ,” said Gaykar. “All we want is this recruitment process to stop till the reservation petition is decided or the stay is vacated so that members of the community get a chance to avail the benefits of reservation,” said Ganesh Kadam, another member. While addressing the press, Bhujbal said, “I was not aware that the members were coming to see me before my departure for Trimbakeswar. Besides, I returned home at the time decided with the members over phone. They moved out before I returned home. I have always met them whenever they have asked for me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mkm-members-protest-outside-bhujbals-residence/articleshow/78197143.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Parking woes continue to trouble motorists in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Parking problem in the city is a never-ending issue. Jaipur Municipal Corporation has 36 parking lots out of which only 11 have been tendered while the others without any regulations have become a nuisance. In Kishanpole market, tender for the parking lot was floated four years ago. Since then, people are finding it difficult to get a space to park their cars in the market. Kishanpole Vyapaar Mandal president Manish Khunteta said, “The municipal corporation has put some boards in the market identifying space for four-wheelers and two-wheelers. There are however some problems. In front of a bank building, four-wheeler parking space is given although most people come on two-wheelers. Many a times, police have challaned people which have led to rifts. Soon, our vyapaar mandal will have a meeting to find a solution.” At Chandpol Market, parking lot has been encroached by street vendors and there is no regulation anywhere. Chandpol Vyapaar Mandal president Subhash Goyal said, “Entire parking area in the market has been encroached by street vendors. There is no space in the market to walk and despite complaints, Jaipur Municipal Corporation hasn’t taken any steps to remove the squatters.” Naveen Bhardhwaj, deputy commissioner (revenue) at Jaipur Municipal Corporation said very soon tenders would be invited for the remaining parking lots. “We have invited tenders earlier as well, but no one came forward to bid.” Sources in the Jaipur Municipal Corporation said, “The reason no one came forward to bid is that the minimum amount has been kept very high. This was deliberately to prevent people to bid and keep the parking without contractors. This helps officials to charge more amount or to give parking on temporary contract to people they know.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parking-woes-continue-to-trouble-motorists-in-city/articleshow/78195090.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhopal||Infants more prone to COVID-19 that elders above 70 years, shows data||Bhopal: Children aged between one day and 12 years have been more susceptible to Covid-19 in the city compared to elderly aged between 71 and 95 years. As per the demographic data of positive city patients analyzed by TOI, while more than 575 children aged below 12 years have tested positive in the city till Sept 15, only around 475 elderly aged between 71 and 95 years had tested positive. However, the most vulnerable section seems to be those in the age group of 26 to 35 as maximum cases were reported from this section. A total of 3,434 people from this age bracket had tested positive in the city till September 15. It is noteworthy that the first positive patient in the city was found on March 22. Samples of a girl who had returned from abroad had tested positive. Following this, her journalist father also tested positive. And since March 22, more than 13,000 people had tested positive for Covid-19 in the city till September 15. An analyses of the demographic data of these patients reveal that children are more susceptible to the disease compared to elderly aged above 71 years. Among the 575 children aged below 12 years, there were at least 20 infants who were aged between and day and 11 months. And overall, around 149 were less than five years of age. This means more than three children aged below 12 years had tested positive every day in the city from March 22 onwards. In other words, a child got infected every eight hours in the city. However, the most vulnerable section — as per the data — seems to be the people in the age group of 26 to 35 years as a maximum 3,434 in this age bracket had tested positive. Sources said that this age group remains vulnerable because people in this age group move outside the house the most and are therefore at the risk of getting more exposure to the virus. A majority of the case load came from the age bracket of 26 years and 55 years as more than 8,000 out of over 13,000 positive patients reported in the city till September 15 were from this age group. And it is the same age group which is considered as working age group, i.e. they are in employable ages and hence were more exposed as they had to undergo more movement, sources said. It could also be inferred from the data that measures like lockdowns, which restrict movement, could directly affect the number of cases and it is likely that there will be lesser cases if movement of people is restricted, sources said. GFX COVID in CITY Age Group Number of Positive Cases* Under 12 years 575 13 years—25 years 2688 26 years—35 years 3434 36 years—45 years 2461 46 years—55 years 2146 56 years—60 years 903 61 years—70 years 917 71 years—95 years 465 *approx. figures||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/infants-more-prone-to-covid-19-that-elders-above-70-years-shows-data/articleshow/78195099.cms||Amarjeet Singh
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||NR speeds up goods trains to boost revenue amid slowdown||Lucknow: Setting aside fears of heavy losses accrual due to economic slowdown amid Covid-19 pandemic and its passenger train services heavily curtailed because of prolonged lockdown, the Lucknow division of Northern Railways focused on improving its freight services and has achieved remarkable results over the months. It ran its freight trains at 100kmph under ‘Mission Sheeghra’ launched in April in comparison to 23kmph in pre-Covid times, thereby increasing its monthly trips by 1,200 and boosting its revenue collection in times of worldwide economic slowdown. As the passenger train services were severely hit due to lockdown, the division shifted its focus on freight services and managed to increase the average speed of goods trains from 23kmph to 51kmph by June. Since the second week of July, the division had run 40 freight trains at a record speed of 100kmph from Lucknow to Mughalsarai via Sultanpur and Varanasi. Lucknow divisional railway manager (NR) Sanjay Tripathi told TOI, “The increase in speed of goods trains has increased trips with minimum crew and saved time. We were able to complete one consignment delivery in eight hours. With an average increase of 1,200 trips monthly, the projected earning has increased to Rs 5.5 crore per month by greater utilization of section capacity.” Under ‘Mission Sheeghra’, NR had set a target of 5,700 freight train trips per month on an average, compared to 4,500 earlier. Lucknow division with track length of 1,728.39km has 11 freight terminals transports are coal, fertilizer, food grains and cement. Meanwhile, Northern Railway on Thursday recorded highest single-day goods loading in 104 rakes, which was 101 on Wednesday. The 104 rakes carried food grain (39), fertilizer (7), cement (3), petroleum, oil and lubricant (6), containers (32), sugar (3) and other miscellaneous items (14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nr-speeds-up-goods-trains-to-boost-revenue-amid-slowdown/articleshow/78196133.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Not fair! 78% living organ donors in India are women||AHMEDABAD: In India, there are odes galore to women for their selfless nurturing and supreme sacrifices made for their families. However, when in need they are largely meted out a raw deal. This gender inequality is highlighted in a pan-India study which analysed organ donation trends in the country. The study revealed that women accounted for 78% of living organ donors in India, whereas their share among the organ recipients was only 19%. The research was carried out by Dr Vivek Kute, a professor at Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Center - Institute of Transplantation Sciences (IKDRC-ITS) and secretary of Indian Society of Organ Transplantation (ISOT) between years 2013 and 2019. Dr Kute presented the findings at the 28th International Congress of Transplant Society that was held from September 13 to 16. “The data from National Organ & Tissue Transplant Organization (NOTTO) for 2019 reveal that there were 12,625 total organ transplants out of which 72.4% recipients were men. Among the living organ recipients last year, 70.6% were men,” he said. His analysis of past 20 years data revealed that the majority of the donors (75-80%) were women, whereas the same share of recipients were men. In comparison, 60% of the living organ donors were women in the same period. He also analysed the local data for IKDRC in Ahmedabad that revealed that out of the living donors for kidney among couples, 90% donors were females – the ratio was 78% for grandparent donors and 75% for parents. “It’s a socio-economic issue that has continued for the past several decades. If a man requires a kidney, the first choice for family is wife or mother,” said Dr Kute, adding that stringent steps is need of the hour to improve the sex ratio. Donor of same gender preferredDr Vasanthi Ramesh, director of NOTTO, said male organs should be preferred as female organs are comparatively smaller, thereby increasing the chances of mismatch. “We do not want to discourage women donors but male donors are better suited for a male patient. Barring Australia and New Zealand where the ratio is nearly 50:50, the ratio is skewed in favour of men,” she said. Dr Mahesh Desai, managing trustee of Nadiad-based Muljibhai Patel Urological Hospital, said that promotion of cadaver donations can be one of the ways to improve the gender imbalance. “Factors such as education and financial independence also play a major role,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/not-fair-78-living-organ-donors-in-india-are-women/articleshow/78197494.cms||Parth Shastri
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Consumer bodies back agri mkt reforms, but risks not ruled out||Jaipur: The three agriculture reforms bills passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday have kicked up a storm with views from both sides of the political aisle trying to prove each other wrong while farmer producer organisations and farmers are taking to the streets in protest.TOI spoke to experts in the field to understand what it means for farmers and their wellbeing which has been the main objective of these reforms. Uday Mehta, deputy executive director of CUTS, said the institutional structure of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) raised in the 1950s and 1960s not only provides fertile ground for collusion among buyers, but is also somewhat outdated in this digital age and it certainly needed deep reforms. "Since the state governments, under whose jurisdiction the APMC regimes come, failed to bring in reforms, the Centre had to take this step in the interest of farmers. The presence of vested interests within states has been preventing such reforms," Mehta said.The reforms are expected to give the farmers and traders freedom of choice to buy or sell agri-produce without the barriers of intra- and inter-state and the mandis. Farmers are also exempted from any tax on sale under the bills. Similarly, the reforms seek to link farmers with processors, wholesalers, large retailers, exporters and eliminate commission seeking middlemen while allowing them to access new technology and better inputs. It is expected to open up avenues for private investment for developing supply chains and other infrastructure. As per the new norms, a dispute resolution mechanism will be in place for farmers.Sharad Godha, who last month retired as the director of State Institute of Agriculture Management, said the reform measures may help the farmers in the initial years, but it will have a serious cultural impact on the agricultural economy which supports over 60% population of the country."If deep pocket corporates enter the agriculture sector, the farmers will get some more money in their hands, but they will be reduced to daily labourers in their own land. Large sections of agriculture dependent-population will be without any work as farming gets mechanized with the entry of these big players. The problems Punjab face is well-known in the country," Godha said.Godha said our traditional food habits are the reflection of the diversity in our agriculture process, but as big players enter, the production will be decided by what the outside world wants to eat.As contract farming grows apace, Godha said it would be hard to revert to the situation as we are in now. "What we need is cottage industries and farmer-driven processing units where people engaged in agriculture can still be there and employed with better productivity," added Godha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/consumer-bodies-back-agri-mkt-reforms-but-risks-not-ruled-out/articleshow/78195124.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 19, 2020||Nashik||Pandemic stalls 3 ropeways in Nashik dist planned to boost religious tourism||Nashik: Three ropeway projects planned in rural Nashik to boost religious tourism here have been stalled by the Covid-19 pandemic, the officials of the state public works department (PWD), Nashik, have said.Two of the planned ropeways are linked to the Saptashrungi temple in Kalwan taluka — connecting the temple to Naduri in one case and the Markandeya Rishi temple in the other. The third ropeway is to connect Chandwad taluka's Hatti village to the Dhodap Fort to boost tourism in the rural areas of the district.“The detailed project report (DPR) for the ropeways was to be prepared after the feasibility report was filed. But because of Covid-19, the DPR process has been stuck,” an officer said.“The collective project cost is estimated to be Rs 205 crore. This is a very rough estimate prepared by the Indian Rail Port Corporation Limited (IRPCL) that has been assigned the responsibility of making the detailed project report for the three ropeways,” the officer said.He added that the pandemic has affected the preparation of the detailed project report as well as the spending on the project.“The detailed project report would have been readied by this time, the lockdown has delayed it. At the same time, the government has also stopped spendings on any new project now. The spending is required on the initial report even if the entire cost is to be borne by a private party bidding for the same. The project will be constructed on build-operate-transfer basis,” the officer said.He pointed out that the IRPCL has estimated that state government could earn an annual concession fees (AFC) of Rs 354 crore from the two projects at Saptashrungi temple alone over a period of 35 years under the PPP model. It would require the government to participate with funds to make the third project viable and the revenue-sharing would be on the lower side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pandemic-stalls-3-ropeways-in-nashik-dist-planned-to-boost-religious-tourism/articleshow/78197154.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Patients from other states hide positive status, seek help in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Covid-19 patients from neighbouring states, especially Andhra Pradesh, are checking in at outpatient departments (OPDs) of private hospitals in Bengaluru for treatment but are not disclosing their infection status, say doctors who have treated many such cases. These people could potentially be super-spreaders of the virus and doctors say the lack of restriction on crossing state borders and the government’s policy not to quarantine travellers from other states is to blame. Dr Sudha Menon, director, internal medicine, Fortis Hospital, Bannerghatta Road said she and her colleagues have treated multiple such cases from Madanapalli and Kuppam in Andhra Pradesh. “Entire families are checking in to be treated,” Dr Menon said. “Sometimes all the family members are infected, but only after we have detailed conversations and counselling with them do they reveal that they had tested positive in their home districts. They travel to Bengaluru seeking better treatment. They do not understand that they could have potentially spread the virus to many others along the way.” Dr Menon said she has come across at least two such examples. All 11 members of two families were found positive in the past one week, but not everybody required hospitalisation. “When those infected with the virus move around, infections are bound to spread. Positive patients must stay isolated to ensure they do not infect others. But now with no check on the borders, it’s hard to contain the spread,” she said. Doctors say withdrawal of checks on borders is a huge worry. They say some patients could be moving to Bengaluru to avoid stigma that they might face in their home districts. “Rapid antigen tests need to be conducted on the borders to ensure infected people do not move around freely,” Dr Menon said. Dr Hirenappa Udnur, consultant pulmonologist, Columbia Asia hospital, Hebbal said he too has come across several such cases. “At our OPD, unless they give us proper details, we don’t get to know [about the infection],” Dr Udnur said. He said many from Andhra are seeking treatment in Bengaluru because doctors in districts like Anantapur and others in Andhra Pradesh are not working. “If they disclose they are positive it makes it harder for them to travel and ambulances they hire could charge exorbitantly,” Dr Udnur said. Dr Satynarayana Mysore, HOD, department of pulmonology, Manipal Hospitals, also said Covid-19 patients are coming to Bengaluru from other states. “But we have several checks to ensure those who come to our OPDs don’t spread the virus,” he said. Besides putting people at risk, doctors said the trend could also lead to duplication of data. “Though Aadhaar is submitted during Covid tests, there is no software to detect duplication of data. This cannot be sorted out immediately,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/patients-from-other-states-hide-ve-status-seek-help-in-bluru/articleshow/78193789.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||‘Waive fine for not selling 10% more’||Jaipur: With tourists remaining out of bound and liquor prices going up, the consumption demand has shrunk. That’s not the only challenge the government licensed retail liquor shop owners are facing. They have been now receiving notices from the excise department to pay penalties for not reporting 10% increase in sales for the April-June quarter.As per the excise department policy, the liquor retailers and bar owners have to sell 10% more every quarter compared to the sales of the same period in previous year. If they don’t show 10% increase in sales, they are liable to penalty.“We are trying to stay afloat during these difficult times. Many sectors of the economy have been given relief in different ways. Pandemic is not the right time to put penalties. That’s why we urge the government to waive the norm till the demand stabilizes,” said Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society.He said the retail shops have been receiving letters from the government to pay the penalty for failing to meet the target. “Liquor has become costlier by up to 30% because of various taxes, cess and duty levied in recent months. Moreover, there are no tourists coming to the city due to the Covid pandemic. It’s really difficult to sell more in these circumstances,” added Mewara. In fact, IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor) sales have declined significantly in the past four months after the shops were opened on May 4. Liquor shops were closed during the first phase of the lockdown announced on March 24.While the target to sale 10% more every quarter goes against the grain of the state liquor temperance policy, the government says that it is one of the ways to check illegal liquor entering the state. The government assumes that the sale of liquor increases by around 10% every year and that additional demand should be met from the state only not through bootlegging as rates are cheaper by over 22% in neighboring states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waive-fine-for-not-selling-10-more/articleshow/78195112.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||After six-month delay, work on civil enclave at Chakeri airport set to take off next month||Lucknow: After a six-month delay due to coronavirus pandemic, work on the proposed civil enclave at Kanpur’s Chakeri airport is set to take off next month. The project is expected to be completed by January 2022. After the civil enclave is ready, the airport will be able to handle 40% more passengers annually against its current capacity. A civil enclave is an area at a military air base which is allotted for civil aviation. "At present, only two flights operate in a day but after 16 months, the airport will handle 12-14 flights, including international ones," said director, Chakeri airport, Bhrigu Kant Jha. With the handling capacity of 300 passengers an hour, the Chakeri airport terminal will spread on an area of 6,218 square metres. "According to our estimate, over 2 lakh passengers will use the airport service annually as against 85,000 passengers currently. The airport will have space for parking of three Airbus-321 aircraft and a car parking area to accommodate around 150 vehicles," Jha said. "The project was to start earlier this year but got delayed by six months due to Covid-19 outbreak," he added. The terminal will be a four-star GRIHA (Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment) rated energy-efficient building equipped with eight check-in counters, in-line baggage handling system, two conveyor belts for passengers, and will be well connected with lifts. The centrally air-conditioned terminal will have interiors depicting the culture of the city. To make it energy-efficient, the building has been designed in such a manner that it uses maximum natural sunlight for illumination. Further, eye-soothing lights and greenery with drip irrigation wall plants will be used at the airport to give it an aesthetic look. The Airport Authority of India, in association with Uttar Pradesh government, is working for upgradation and development of new airports in the state to meet the increasing passenger traffic. In Lucknow, Amausi airport is being upgraded to handle 10 million passengers, both domestic and international, per year. Kushinagar airport will be ready for international flights within next two months. The state government is working on a blueprint to expand current airstrip of Sonbhadra into an airport to boost tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-six-month-delay-work-on-civil-enclave-at-chakeri-airport-set-to-take-off-next-month/articleshow/78196156.cms||Arvind Chauhan
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Congress criticism on farmers reform shows their feudal mindset: Poonia||Jaipur: Reacting to the allegations of the Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on the farmers produce trade and commerce Bill, BJP state chief Satish Poonia said the Congress doesn’t want to see empowerment of farmers. “The farmers’ community is a victim of a feudal mindset of the Congress who doesn’t want them to become independent. The outgoing provisions in the Bill will end the Congress sponsored ‘Agent Raj’ and pave the way for PM Narendra Modi’s dream of doubling the income of farmers,” said Poonia. The Congress had accused that the move would see decline in the state revenue and was against the cooperative federal structure of the country. Poonia fired a series of questions to counter the allegation. He said, “Is state revenue more important than more income of farmers? The state has a hundred other ways to generate revenue but our farmers don’t have. What’s wrong if our farmers are making more money by selling its produce in Gujarat or Maharashtra?” Sensing that the Congress will continue to raise the issue especially in the Congress-ruled states, the state BJP has decided that they will launch a campaign on the lines of New Education Policy to spread their party’s view at the grassroots level. Calling the amendment a move to liberate the farmers from the jaws of obsolete laws, former education minister Vasudev Devnani said, “Narendra Modi government has passed sweeping reforms empowering farmers. The bill will give farmers the freedom of choice to sell their produce at remunerative prices. It will change the face of farmers making them the most empowered in the world.”Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria released a video in support of the Bill. He said, “I request Dotasra to read the amendment before making an unpleasant comment. The reforms have empowered the farmers to sell it anywhere it feels like where they can have more profit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-criticism-on-farmers-reform-shows-their-feudal-mindset-poonia/articleshow/78195115.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhopal||Five docs among 291 test +ve for Covid-19||Bhopal: A total of 291 people including a minister and one of his personal staff tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Friday. The minister is asymptomatic and is in home isolation at his official resident, member of his personal staff is also asymptomatic and he too is in home isolation, said sources. With these new patients, tally of positive cases in the state reached 14,448 on Friday. Among those tested positive include 8 children aged below 12 years which also includes 3 under the age of 5 years. And a total of 36 people aged above 60 years were also tested positive for Covid-19 in the city on Friday. The list of positive patients also includes five doctors and four cops posted across various police stations. The areas from where these positive patients were reported includes seven people who were tested positive in Arera colony and 11 people from Kolar also tested positive. Among others were three people from 74 bungalow area which includes two of a family. Two people from posh Char Imli locality also tested positive for Covid-19. The other areas from where positive patients were reported includes 8 people tested positive from Bairagarh area, 5 people who had tested positive from TT Nagar area, and five people from Saket Nagar area also tested positive. Among the new hotspots like Bagsewani only person tested positive who is a cop. Similarly two people from Katara hills are of the city also tested positive. Among others who tested positive on Friday were 9 people from Piplani locality of the city. It also includes four members of a same family, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/five-docs-among-291-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/78195126.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Active cases touch new high in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The state on Friday reported the biggest single-day spike of 1,817 new Covid taking the overall count to 1,11,290. Jaipur’s active cases also touched new high of 6,035, riding on 333 new infections taking the overall tally to 16,741. The city’s Mansarovar and Malviya Nagar continued to remain among the worst-hit areas as they reported 33 and 50 cases, repectively. Jagatpura reported the highest 57 new cases in the city. In the last 24 hours, 15 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the state casualty count to 1,308. “The recovery ratio of the state is around 82% and the death rate is also constantly coming down. At present, the fatality rate is 1.17%. Tests are being continuously increased. The number of beds in hospitals is being increased constantly. There is a sufficient number of ventilators,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. He said there was no dearth of resources in the state to combat Covid. In Jaipur, the number of beds has been increased in RUHS Hospital. Recently 500-bed Jaipuria Hospital has been declared as a Covid dedicated hospital and work is constantly on to increase beds equipped with oxygen supply. The 200-bed ESI Hospital has also been acquired. He said if required, beds will be taken from the army, but the government will not allow the general public to be disturbed at any cost. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (333), Jodhpur (301), Kota (144), Ajmer (105), Udaipur (98), Alwar (93), Bhilwara (59), Pali (50), Sikar (50), Bikaner (46), Nagaur (41), Tonk (35), Baran (33), Jaisalmer (32), Jalore (31), Sriganganagar (30), Dholpur (29), Bundi (28), Churu (28), Sirohi (27), Rajsamand (27), Dausa (26), Dungarpur (25), Chittorgarh (24), Jhalawar (23), Banswara (21), Sawai Madhopur (16), Jhunjhunu (15), Barmer (12), Hanumangarh (12), Karauli (11), Bharatpur (9) and Pratapgarh (3). Udaipur reported 40th Covid-19 death, Pali 53rd, Kota 92nd, Alwar 32nd, Baran 14th, Bharatpur 74th, Bikaner 101th, Chittorgarh 14th, Jaisalmer 7th, Jodhpur 130th, Karauli 9th, Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 307, with two more deaths, Ajmer’s toll rose to 93.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-touch-new-high-in-jaipur/articleshow/78195128.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Not bound to take Jamia Millia Islamia admin’s nod before entering campus: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Friday asserted there was no requirement under law for it to consult the Jamia Millia Islamia administration before entering the campus to quell disturbances. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi submitted before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that Delhi Police Act and Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) itself provided police powers to access any part of the country for detection and prevention of crime and Jamia was no exception. “Unless they are saying Jamia is not part of India, there is no requirement for the police to seek prior permission,” Lekhi argued. The submission led the bench to interject and remind the ASG to “avoid this kind of exaggeration” whether Jamia is a part of India. The high court said it only wanted to know why police did not deem it fit to first reach out to the university administration before entering the campus. Lekhi maintained there was no such “requirement in law” for police to seek permission while performing its lawful duty. The senior law officer was opposing a bunch of petitions alleging that ruthless and excessive use of force and aggression was unleashed by police and paramilitary forces on students at the university. The petitions have sought setting up of an special investigation team or a commission of inquiry to look into the violence at Jamia in December last year in relation to student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and also lodging of an FIR against the alleged police high handedness. But police maintained that the chargesheet had already been filed and the affected people must go before the trial court instead of invoking the high court’s jurisdiction. The court will next hear Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta on October 1, the next date of hearing. The court earlier pointed out that the report of National Human Rights Commission had suggested that police did not handle itself “professionally” to deal with the violence at the Jamia Millia Islamia during the anti-CAA protests when there was a law and order problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-not-bound-to-take-jamia-admins-nod-before-entering-campus/articleshow/78195134.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik ZP to procure 88,000 VTM kits & antigen test kits||Nashik : The Nashik Zilla Parishad (ZP) has already procured 25,000 Viral Transport Medium (VTM) kits and is set to acquire another 88,000 VTM and antigen testing kits to conduct Covid-19 tests in the rural areas of the district. The number of Covid cases are increasing across the rural district with a large number of residents expressing concerns about the non-availability of testing facilies at the village-level. In order to ensure Covid tests are conducted fast in the rural areas, the Nashik ZP will be procuring more testing kits, said Kapil Aher, the district health officer of the ZP Aher said the results of the antigen kits are provided on spot while through the VTM kit, the throat swab samples of the suspected Covid patients are transported to the RTPCR testing facility for examining. Health officials said the testing kits are extremely necessary as the contagion is spreading fast despite various attempts made by the health department like conducting health screening, raising awareness among people about wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands regularly. A campaign called ‘My family my responsibility’ has been started across the district. Currently, over 3,600 are undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Of the active cases, Niphad taluka has 891 cases, followed by Nashik taluka (438), Sinnar (399), Malegaon rural (312), Baglan (301), Chandwad (190), Dindori (160) among others. Officials said there were sufficient number of Covid Care Centres and beds in the rural district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-zp-to-procure-88000-vtm-kits-antigen-test-kits/articleshow/78197149.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid survivors complain of breathing difficulties even after beating virus||JAIPUR: The battle against Covid does not end on the day a patient tests negative but continues till the person overcomes residual symptoms. Covid is taking a toll on mental health too. Even after treatment and recovery, a lot of people complain of difficulty in breathing as they have residual effects. Dinesh Chand Sharma (61), a retired government officer, is on oxygen support at his Kartarpura residence in Jaipur even after being discharged from hospital. His son Gunjan Sharma narrated the ordeal they had to face even after recovery. Covid has affected his lungs, and even after his recovery, he has difficulty in breathing. “His condition has improved significantly. At the time of admission, his oxygen saturation was 83%. We admitted him to a private hospital from where he was discharged five days ago. But doctors have asked us to keep my father on oxygen support for treatment of residual effects. His oxygen saturation is now 96% to 97%,” said Gunjan. Along with oxygen support, Sharma has to do some deep-breathing exercises. He adds milk with turmeric in his diet for healing. Like Sharma, a lot many Covid patients after being recovered are facing residual effects. “I am fine now but I have got high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) done of my lungs to ensure that the virus has not done any damage,” said Dr Pradeep Sharma, state nodal officer, the National Oral Health Program (NOHP), who is helping the recovered patients in dealing with the residual effect of the virus. Sharma said he is continuously going on a walk now to rejuvenate lungs and also advising others to do so. For healing of tissues, he said milk with turmeric is quite helpful. Manish (name changed) said, “After being infected with the virus, I had a thought in mind that it is the end of everything, but after recovery, I have overcome my fear. Even after recovery, my CT scan report suggests that I still have pneumonia and other lung infections for which I am taking medicines. I still have a bad throat. I am taking hot water regularly and other home remedies for early recovery from residual effects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/survivors-complain-of-breathing-difficulties-even-after-beating-virus/articleshow/78195122.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
September 19, 2020||Goa||Not right time to study river salinity: Ramkrishna Dhavalikar||PANAJI: Raising questions over the hydrology study being conducted in the Mhadei basin, former deputy chief minister and senior MGP functionary Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that the timing is not proper and that salinity study in monsoon could lead to another backdoor plan to allow Karnataka in diverting Mhadei water.  “Goa witnesses one of the highest rainfalls in India, and just when we are at the end of this rainy season, there is no doubt that salinity in Mhadei river will be lowest if compared throughout the year,” Dhavalikar said Marcaim MLA said if this salinity report is considered by the ministry of Jal Shakti to give any NOCs (like they did in the past) for river diversion, then it will be a catastrophic disaster. “I request the chief minister to keep a watch on the developments after this report is submitted,” Dhavalikar further said. He also said that salinity study have to be started from March 15 and to be conducted in various intervals upto May 15 which will give exact situation of rise in salinity in the Mhadei.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-right-time-to-study-river-salinity-dhavalikar/articleshow/78196198.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Home food allowed for Covid positive patients in hospitals||JAIPUR: The health department has allowed family members to meet Corona patient and serve them home-cooked food, but with riders. The state government is also taking steps to prevent patients from suffering from anxiety, fear, sleep problems, uncertainty and depression due to Covid while undergoing treatment in hospitals. Principal health secretary Akhil Arora on Friday issued orders mentioning that the family members will be allowed to meet their patient but they will have to follow certain protocols such as they have to wear personal protection equipment, mask, gloves and have to maintain certain distance from the patient while meeting them. A time slot will be fixed for meeting the patient for family members. A patient undergoing treatment for Covid has to stay in hospital for a long time and during this period a patient often develops anxiety. In the first week of August, the health department had allowed the use of mobile phones by Covid patients admitted to ICUs and wards while undergoing treatment. The step will help patients ease their mental stress. Besides, the state government had taken the decision of installing CCTV cameras in dedicated Covid hospitals for monitoring the care of patients by hospital staff. One of the concerns raised by patients’ attendants is that they have to depend on hospital staff to know how their patients are doing. As of now, the patients are communicating with the families directly through video conferencing or through phone calls to ease their stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/home-food-allowed-for-ve-patients-in-hosps/articleshow/78199785.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Home food allowed for Covid positive patients in hospitals||JAIPUR: The health department has allowed family members to meet Corona patient and serve them home-cooked food, but with riders. The state government is also taking steps to prevent patients from suffering from anxiety, fear, sleep problems, uncertainty and depression due to Covid while undergoing treatment in hospitals. Principal health secretary Akhil Arora on Friday issued orders mentioning that the family members will be allowed to meet their patient but they will have to follow certain protocols such as they have to wear personal protection equipment, mask, gloves and have to maintain certain distance from the patient while meeting them. A time slot will be fixed for meeting the patient for family members. A patient undergoing treatment for Covid has to stay in hospital for a long time and during this period a patient often develops anxiety. In the first week of August, the health department had allowed the use of mobile phones by Covid patients admitted to ICUs and wards while undergoing treatment. The step will help patients ease their mental stress. Besides, the state government had taken the decision of installing CCTV cameras in dedicated Covid hospitals for monitoring the care of patients by hospital staff. One of the concerns raised by patients’ attendants is that they have to depend on hospital staff to know how their patients are doing. As of now, the patients are communicating with the families directly through video conferencing or through phone calls to ease their stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/home-food-allowed-for-ve-patients-in-hosps/articleshow/78199787.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Home food allowed for Covid positive patients in hospitals||JAIPUR: The health department has allowed family members to meet Corona patient and serve them home-cooked food, but with riders. The state government is also taking steps to prevent patients from suffering from anxiety, fear, sleep problems, uncertainty and depression due to Covid while undergoing treatment in hospitals. Principal health secretary Akhil Arora on Friday issued orders mentioning that the family members will be allowed to meet their patient but they will have to follow certain protocols such as they have to wear personal protection equipment, mask, gloves and have to maintain certain distance from the patient while meeting them. A time slot will be fixed for meeting the patient for family members. A patient undergoing treatment for Covid has to stay in hospital for a long time and during this period a patient often develops anxiety. In the first week of August, the health department had allowed the use of mobile phones by Covid patients admitted to ICUs and wards while undergoing treatment. The step will help patients ease their mental stress. Besides, the state government had taken the decision of installing CCTV cameras in dedicated Covid hospitals for monitoring the care of patients by hospital staff. One of the concerns raised by patients’ attendants is that they have to depend on hospital staff to know how their patients are doing. As of now, the patients are communicating with the families directly through video conferencing or through phone calls to ease their stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/home-food-allowed-for-ve-patients-in-hosps/articleshow/78195135.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Govt ropes in MPs for road revamp in adopted villages||LUCKNOW: The UP government would be carrying out a special drive to repair roads in villages adopted by Members of Parliament under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath pressed for making roads pothole free. Sources said, PWD has been asked to carry out week-long drive till September 25, which coincides with birth anniversary of Jan Sangh leader Deen Dayal Upadhyay. The Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana was initiated to bring MPs of all political parties under one umbrella and make them assume responsibility to develop physical and institutional infrastructure and turn them into model villages. “If some villages adopted by MPs don’t have road connectivity, legislators should submit a proposal, which will be taken up immediately,” said principal secretary, PWD, Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, while speaking to TOI. The move comes amid the government’s emphasis to keep public representatives in the loop, while carrying out development work. Officials said, MPs and MLAs have been asked to keep vigil on road repair in respective constituencies. Besides, development work in each of the 403 assembly seats would be executed till October 2. For this, the department sought feedback and received at least five proposals from MLAs, sources said. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who also holds the PWD portfolio, is expected to tour the state to take stock of the situation. PWD also decided to expedite repair of roads connecting religious places. “The department would monitor repair work at the micro-level so that changes are reflected on the ground,” a senior PWD engineer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-ropes-in-mps-for-road-revamp-in-adopted-villages/articleshow/78196182.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||T’s fgn edu scheme a hit among students||Hyderabad: Students are making a beeline for Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Overseas Vidya Nidhi scheme, as part of which the TRS government is sponsoring candidates from backward classes (BCs) and other economically backward communities (EBCs) to pursue higher education in foreign countries. Though the government has capped the sponsorship at 300 students annually, with Rs 20 lakh assistance to each to pursue higher education abroad, the BC Welfare department is being flooded with 800 applications on average every year. The number of applications are only increasing since the scheme was introduced in 2016-17 financial year. While BC welfare associations are demanding the quota be increased, even ruling party MLAs are pressuring the government to not only increase the quota but also include several other countries where students can study. Presently, students can go to the US, the UK, Australia, Canada, Germany, Singapore and six other countries. BC students are demanding that the financial assistance be given on saturation basis and not confine it to just 300 candidates per annum. Also, various other courses, universities and countries be added to the list. “The government is sponsoring for only post-graduation courses. There is a huge demand from the community for sponsorship for MBBS or medicine course at graduation level in foreign universities, followed by masters in medicine,” said R Krishnaiah, president of National BC Welfare Association. TRS MLA, Bollam Mallaiah Yadav, said the BC community is a huge garland of over 100 castes, comprising over 50% of the state’s population. “The community is thankful to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for coming out with this scheme. The government should increase the scheme’s budget,” he said. BC welfare minister Gangula Kamalakar said over 1,200 students have been sponsored by the government under this scheme so far, and nearly Rs 200 crore have been spent on their higher education. The government will look into the demand to increase the quota, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-fgn-edu-scheme-a-hit-among-students/articleshow/78195203.cms||Roushan Ali
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||JDA’s 4 housing colonies draw huge response||Jaipur: Despite economic slowdown because of the pandemic, Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) received an overwhelming response for its four proposed housing schemes. The civic body has received 33,569 applications against the proposed 1,229 plots in these four schemes named Gokul Nagar, APJ Abdul Kalam Nagar, Hiralal Shastri and Nilay Kunj Scheme. The JDA will draw lotteries for these schemes on September 25. Out of the schemes, the JDA has received highest 22,441 applications for Gokul Nagar situated in Privthiraj Nagar, North-I. It is followed by APJ Abdul Kalam Nagar (5,125), Hiralal Shastri (3,833) and Nilay Kunj (2,144). Residents applying for plots can expect timely possession. Like private developers, the JDA has registered two housing schemes under Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Authority, Rajasthan, as per rules. A senior town planner said, “Two colonies Hiralal Shastri Nagar and APJ Abdul Kalam Nagar have been registered under RERA as these have been launched for the first time. After remodelling, Nilay Kunj and Gokul Nagar schemes have been launched again. Since, these two schemes were developed earlier, it does not come under RERA ambit.” Cash-strapped JDA is planning to mop-up Rs 450 crore by developing plots in the new housing schemes. To give facilities on time, administrative approval of approximately Rs 8 crore to carry out development works in all the schemes has been given in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jdas-4-housing-colonies-draw-huge-response/articleshow/78195139.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers to protest against agri reforms||Jaipur: Farmer organisations have given a call to register protest against the farm reforms on September 21. Former president of All India Kisan Sabha Amra Ram on Friday said the new law will make lakhs of farmers in Rajasthan extremely poor. The unions are also considering a state-wide bandh on September 25. Ram said they have already started consultations with farmer associations and individual farmers in Rajasthan and in the country. “The farmer community is very angry,” said Ram, a former MLA from Dantaramgarh in Sikar from CPI (M). The farmers will register their protest at the district headquarter on September 21. Reports said farmers in Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh have started building a strategy for protest in their districts. Both the districts are bordering Punjab which is raising a strong protest against the government. Accusing the Union government of again taking the stakeholders for granted without taking any national-level farmers association into the account. “It will give absolute powers to the buyer who will play with the insecurities of farmers forcing the respective state to be a mute spectator,” said Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-to-protest-against-agri-reforms/articleshow/78195136.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhopal||Jobs gone, crop damage drive migrant workers to debt trap||Bhopal: Stuck in the vicious circle of poverty after job losses and migration from metro cities following the pandemic, many migrant labourers in Bundelkhand region have slipped into debt trap of money lenders. After the reverse migration, when many of them failed to get a desired job, they started contract farming after taking loans from private money lenders. But as the luck would have it, their crops failed due to bad weather. Many such farmers held demonstrations at the chief minister’s public meeting at Lidhora village in Chhatarpur on Tuesday demanding compensation. A resident of Bagmau village of Luvkush Nagar, Santosh Ahirwar took a loan of Rs 20,000 from a money lender and started cultivating land and sowed ground nut, moong and urad. But, a long stretch of dry spell and high day temperatures ruined his crops. Ahirwar had returned from Gwalior along with his wife and two children in May. He said that he did not get a proper job. For some time, he remained idle and as his little savings started dwindling, he took a loan from a man and tried his luck in farming. As, luck would have it, his crops failed because of bad weather leaving him and family clueless about their future. District collector Sheelendra Singh told TOI, “no one would be allowed to have a debt burden. They will get compensation after a survey.” “Though the survey is still continuing, crops under 9,000 hectares of land have been found damaged,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jobs-gone-crop-damage-drive-migrant-workers-to-debt-trap/articleshow/78195156.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||High court fines GPSC Rs 5L, tells it not to play with careers||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has slapped a penalty of Rs 5 lakh on the state’s top recruiting agency, the Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC), to teach it a lesson that in these desperate times, when “youth of the country is gripped in the spectre of unemployment,” the agency does not play with careers of unemployed youth by deliberate misinterpretation of rules. On Thursday, Justice Ashutosh Shastri lambasted GPSC for its “outrageous and whimsical” interpretations of laws to cause delay in granting appointment to an eligible candidate and for making him to approach the court repeatedly. The court imposed fine on the agency with observation, “It is expected that Respondent No 4 (GPSC) should awake itself and take appropriate steps against the concerned officers who are compelling the unemployed candidates for dragging them in undue litigation. The Court expects some serious consideration by taking appropriate measures.” The case involved a veterinary doctor Niteshkumar Chaudhary, who was first in the wait list prepared by GPSC in 2018 for the post of veterinary officer. One selected candidate resigned from job and the post fell vacant. Chaudhary reminded GPSC of his candidature, but to no effect. He moved the HC and GPSC assured that it will take action. Yet, nothing happened and Chaudhary came to court for the second time in a year. GPSC put forth a lame excuse that Chaudhary’s eligibility was required to be assessed and cited provisions laid down in circulars. This infuriated the court, which further observed, “It is very surprising to this court that to what extent, this Commission which is dealing in public employment is arbitrarily and with impunity taking the stand in contrast to the settled proposition of law laid down by the Court, in which it is very much a party. This outrageous and whimsical interpretation has dragged the petitioner again and again to this Court and has consumed a period of more than 10 to 11 months in seeking his legitimate claim of appointment.” The court further said, “When the youth of this country is gripped in the spectre of unemployment, to allow such kind of whimsical stand of the authority, if not dealt with, would be giving a license to act arbitrarily, unreasonably and rather allowing at the behest of such officers who are taking decision to play with the career of so many candidates and this is a classical example in which, the authority though quite aware about the fact of its stand, deliberately appears to have misinterpreted the circular and has deprived the petitioner from his legitimate claim, which exercise of power deserves to be deprecated, so that in future, this very Commission may not mishandle the career of youth who are anxiously waiting for employment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-fines-gpsc-rs-5l-tells-it-not-to-play-with-careers/articleshow/78195171.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Mysuru||Anjaneya temple in Mandya village burgled||Mandya: Thieves broke into Anjaneya temple near K Shettihalli of Malavalli taluk on Thursday night and made away with gold jewellery and cash from the hundi. The CCTV footage showed four thieves breaking open the door, entering the temple and taking away the valuables. A senior police officer said that since the CCTV camera has captured the faces of the theieve they will be easily caught. He advised the temple authorities not to leave valuables on the deity and cash in the collection boxes. The theft in Anjaneya temple has shaken Mandya people who are yet to come out of the shock caused by the murder of three priests at Arakeshwara temple a week ago. People fear that more thieves targeting temples might be prowling in the region. “Police should act swiftly and in a transparent manner arrest the thieves,” said Nagaraju Hulivana, a farmer leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/anjaneya-temple-in-mandya-village-burgled/articleshow/78192682.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Delhi||Kin search for merchant navy cadet who went missing five days ago||NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old merchant navy cadet has been reported missing from his ship since Sunday. The cadet, Dhananjay Arora, is from Delhi and his family has been trying to contact the shipping company to trace him, but to no avail. Arora’s family has alleged that he was being harassed by a senior, and had sent them a picture of the employee sleeping on the deck before he went missing. Arora was working with Fleet Management Limited (FLEET) and, at the time of the incident, his ship was en route from N’Goma FPSO, Angola, to Ningbo, China. The ship, which was carrying crude oil, had departed N’Goma FPSO on August 27 and was scheduled to reach Ningbo on September 30. In a statement, FLEET said, “Fleet Management Limited regrets to report that the much-valued seafarer from the MT New Horizon has not been found. Following an extensive search and rescue operation for over four days, the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre has now suspended the search.” The company said that his family has been informed. “All our thoughts go out to his family and friends, and support is being offered at this difficult time. A full investigation is underway into the disappearance of the seafarer. The manager is fully cooperating with all the appropriate authorities, insurers and flag state,” the statement added. However, speaking to TOI, the cadet’s father, Virendra Arora, said that on Sunday, the sailor had sent him a picture of a senior sleeping on the deck. The family were informed by the company that he was missing around midnight. “Dhananjay sent me the picture and asked me to save it. Ten days before that, he had told us that the same senior had been harassing him. The senior’s role in my son’s disappearance needs to be investigated,” Virendra said. “Usually my son would call twice a week around 10pm, but he didn’t call last Sunday. Around midnight, we got a call from the company’s Gurugram office that he was missing.” The family has written several mails to the ministry of external affairs and the company’s headquarters in Mumbai, asking them to investigate their son’s disappearance. “I suspect the senior may have harmed my child or even hidden him somewhere,” said Virender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kin-search-for-merchant-navy-cadet-who-went-missing-five-days-ago/articleshow/78195181.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Farm bills will benefit big industrialists, traders: Raj Cong chief||Jaipur: Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra on Friday alleged discrepancies in the three farm bills passed by the Lok Sabha and said the bills have been brought in to benefit “big industrialists”. The bills, passed by the Lok Sabha, will now to be tabled in the Rajya Sabha. He claimed the bills would result in the collapse of the ‘mandi’ system and black marketing will proliferate. “The three bills will profit big industrialists. Contract and corporate farming will be the order of the day and farmers will become labourers. These bills will be a loss for the farmers and win for big businesses,” he told reporters at a press conference here. The Union government had on Monday introduced ‘The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill’, ‘The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill’, and ‘The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill’. The Central government has argued that these measures will free farmers from the existing government-controlled markets and prices, and that they would be free to sell their produce to private parties as well if they get a better price for their produce. Dotasra alleged that the Centre did not hold discussions with farmers and brought the ordinances in a hurried manner to benefit big industrialists. He said that the NDA government in its previous tenure had made amendment in the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act to acquire farmers’ land at “throw away” prices but the farmers and the Congress did not let it happen. The state Congress chief said that farmers are agitated, and the party will raise their voice. “We will be submitting a memorandum to the governor on Saturday to raise voice of the farmers as the party stands by them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farm-bills-will-benefit-big-industrialists-traders-raj-cong-chief/articleshow/78195132.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Home food allowed for Covid positive patients in hospitals||JAIPUR: The health department has allowed family members to meet Corona patient and serve them home-cooked food, but with riders. The state government is also taking steps to prevent patients from suffering from anxiety, fear, sleep problems, uncertainty and depression due to Covid while undergoing treatment in hospitals. Principal health secretary Akhil Arora on Friday issued orders mentioning that the family members will be allowed to meet their patient but they will have to follow certain protocols such as they have to wear personal protection equipment, mask, gloves and have to maintain certain distance from the patient while meeting them. A time slot will be fixed for meeting the patient for family members. A patient undergoing treatment for Covid has to stay in hospital for a long time and during this period a patient often develops anxiety. In the first week of August, the health department had allowed the use of mobile phones by Covid patients admitted to ICUs and wards while undergoing treatment. The step will help patients ease their mental stress. Besides, the state government had taken the decision of installing CCTV cameras in dedicated Covid hospitals for monitoring the care of patients by hospital staff. One of the concerns raised by patients’ attendants is that they have to depend on hospital staff to know how their patients are doing. As of now, the patients are communicating with the families directly through video conferencing or through phone calls to ease their stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/home-food-allowed-for-ve-patients-in-hosps/articleshow/78199786.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Business||FM: Extra spending for people-centric schemes||NEW DELHI: Lok Sabha on Friday approved the supplementary demand for additional spending of nearly Rs 2.4 lakh crore in 2020-21 as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted that the extra spending was largely aimed at people-centric activities to help them tide over the difficult times. Replying to the debate on the first supplementary demand for grants,she said it was probably one of the highest supplementary demands that Budgets have seen. But she said in challenging times, the additional resources were going largely to people who needed the money. She cited the Rs 40,000 crore additional amount sought under MGNREGA and said taken together with the Rs 61,500 crore announced in the Budget, the total amount was Rs 1 lakh crore for the rural jobs scheme. She said this was the highest ever spending under MGNREGA and with the help of DBT, would go to people who needed the resources. She launched a scathing attack on the opposition parties, saying that launching MGNREGA was one thing and using it effectively another. The FM said according to CAG reports, MGNREGA funds were sent into ghost accounts during the previous regime. The FM also said the additional devolution of funds to states, funds for the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna and credit guarantee schemes were other large components of the supplementary demand for grants. Sitharaman also said argument that states have not been given adequate share of tax collected by the Centre did not hold ground. She said the issue of GST compensation to states would be discussed in the GST Council and there was no provision to give compensation from the Consolidated Fund of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fm-extra-spending-for-people-centric-schemes/articleshow/78197504.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Free coaching for tribal students||Jaipur: The state government will provide free coaching facility through reputed institutions to talented Schedule Tribe and Sahariya community students who wish to join administrative services. To give such students an edge, the Tribal Regional Development Department is launching the TAD Super-30 project. Tribal minister of state for regional development Arjun Singh Bamnia said, “TAD Super-30 project is being started in accordance with the budget announcement of the Union Public Service Commission and Rajasthan Public Service Commission for selection of free coaching for competitive examinations. Selected 30 students will get benefit of this scheme.” Under the project, 20 male students and 10 female students will be given online coaching for Rajasthan Administrative Service. Providing information about the selection process, Neha Giri, joint secretary to the government in Tribal Area Development said, “Selection of candidates will be done on the basis of merit by a committee constituted by the department. Minimum qualification will be graduation. We will focus on selecting candidates families who are below taxable income.” As classroom teaching is not possible due to pandemic, students will be provided with tablets by the government for the time being. To take advantage of this scheme, it is necessary for the candidate to pass the graduation examination with minimum 60 per cent marks. Along with that, it is necessary to have ST certificate and online coaching facilities. Such candidates desirous of preparation will be required to complete the age prescribed by the Rajasthan Public Service Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/free-coaching-for-tribal-students/articleshow/78195180.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Man held for hunting deer||Vijayawada: Police on Thursday intercepted a two-wheeler and a vehicle check post at Govindapuram in Guntur district and found that the biker was carrying the carcass of a deer. The incident took place in the early hours, said sub-inspector Machavaram. The accused, Sheik Dhariaywali, was allegedly planning to sell the venison. Cops said that they were conducting raids to check illegal liquor smuggling in the area and were shocked to find a dead female deer with the biker wrapped in newspapers. According to the police, Dhariywali confessed that he had hunted the deer and was bringing it home to extract meat. Police further said that the accused has told them that he would try to hunt rabbits and other animals for exotic meat. Upon discovery, cops informed the district forest officials who took the accused into custody and seized the deer carcass. Guntur forest officials said that the accused has been booked under several sections of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. The carcass has been sent for post mortem. Officials said that they observed a stab wound on the deer’s neck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-for-hunting-deer/articleshow/78175808.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI selects new office-bearers||Ahmedabad: The secretary and treasurer of GCCI were appointed on Friday. Pathik Patwari of Nexus Infratech, was made the honorary secretary, while V P Vaishnav, president, Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was made honorary secretary (regional). Sachin Patel became GCCI’s honorary treasurer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-selects-new-office-bearers/articleshow/78195200.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Mines dept to e-auction 4 limestone blocks||Jaipur: After discovering 716 million tonne cement-grade limestone in Jaisalmer, Nagore and Jhunjhunu, the mines and geology department has developed four blocks covering 15 sqkm, mines minister Pramod Jain Bhaya said on Friday. Bhaya said the new deposits of limestone will further attract investments from cement manufacturers and increase revenues of the state. He said since limestone is classified under major minerals, the blocks would be auctioned on the central government portal of MSTC where investors from across the country can participate. ACS mines Subodh Agarwal said all the processes have been completed for the e-auction of the mines and these news blocks will attract investors to set up new plants and expand capacity in existing ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mines-dept-to-e-auction-4-limestone-blocks/articleshow/78195152.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Hanumangarh cops find the getaway vehicle in bank heist||JAIPUR: Hanumangarh police found the getaway vehicle which was used in the bank heist in Sangariya police station area on Thursday evening. The car used by the robbers who decamped with approximately Rs 1.13 crore was found in Haryana. Although the three accused are visible on the CCTV camera, they are yet to be identified. Police are also looking at the involvement of bank employees in the loot. Around 8 pm when the private bank was about to close for the day, the three accused entered the bank and threatened the security guard as well as another employee with weapons following which they took the cash from the locker and locked the two individuals inside the vault. Sangariya SHO Inder Kumar said, “Few hours after the loot, we found the vehicle used by the accused in Dabwali in Haryana. The vehicle was the one used by the bank and the accused had made their escape in it. We are trying to trace them in Haryana since there are high chances that the accused are hiding there.” Meanwhile cops are also looking at the loot as being an inside job. “In such matters, usually an employee is hand in gloves with the accused. In this case also, there are certain discrepancies including the fact that the staff did not attempt to sound the security buzzer. Also the accused took off with the bank vehicle which conveniently had the keys in the ignition.” While the cops have accessed the CCTV camera footage placed outside the bank where the accused are visible though their faces are covered, the bank is yet to provide the footage from inside the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hanumangarh-cops-find-the-getaway-vehicle-in-bank-heist/articleshow/78195201.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 19, 2020||Bhopal||Nine gas victim COVID patients die in BMHRC isolation ward||Bhopal: Nine gas victims, suffering from coronavirus and kept in the ‘isolation ward’ of Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre over the past fortnight, have lost their lives. They were kept at the isolation ward as they could not get ICU or Oxygen bed at any of the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.In fact, the isolation ward created at the BMHRC to keep patients found coronavirus positive, till they are transferred to a Covid care hospital, is actually serving as an ICU for seriously ill gas victims who are diagnosed with Covid-19 infection.The isolation ward has a total of 10 beds and four ventilators. And, of late, all the beds remain occupied and ventilators engaged though there are no expert doctors in the hospital to treat the patients according to coronavirus protocol and they are largely left under the supervision of paramedical staff.Husain, son of Naseem, 61, who died at BMHRC’s isolation ward after being diagnosed with coronavirus, had earlier told TOI, “My mother is being treated in consultation with experts from Covid care hospitals”. His mother was on ventilator and BMHRC doctors had failed to get her a bed after 36 hours of enquiry at all Covid care hospitals, including the control room under CMHO office.“We have asked everyone. When she came, she needed Oxygen, but later she was put on ventilator as her condition worsened and she can’t be transferred from the isolation ward now,” said a doctor at BMHRC on the condition of anonymity.Naseem, later, developed kidney-related complications and diedOther than Naseem, five patients who have died at BMHRC’s isolation room are Fija, Rameshwar Dayal, Seeba Sultan, Shekh Shariq and another man, who identity could not be ascertained.According to sources, all the 10 beds are still occupied and all four ventilators engaged. More gas victims may lose their lives as they are hardly treated at the hospital and left to the care of paramedical staff.“That they are not getting ICU beds in Chirayu, J K Hospital, Hamidia or AIIMS is one thing, but so long as they are at BMHRC, it is their duty to provide them teeatment, which they don't do despite the fact that they know about the medical history of the patients as they regularly go there for treatment,” said activist Champa Devi of Chingari Trust.When asked how many gas victims are in Covid isolation ward of the hospital, BMHRC’s public relations officer, Ritesh Purohit, said, “I will have to find out, but we keep them there till they get a bed in a dedicated Covid hospital.”Member of Supreme Court Monitoring Committee, Purnendu Shukla, said, “We have sought details of gas victims who were found coronavirus positive and how many of them were referred to Covid hospitals for treatment, but we have not received any response till now. Director of the hospital had gone out of station and is in quarantine now.”The Monitoring Committee was set up undrr the chairmanship of a retired high court judge, Justice V K Agrawal, for supervision of treatment to gas victims at gas relief hispitals, including BMHRC, and report it to the court.CMHO, gas relief, Dr Ravi Verma, when asked whether there was any peoblem in getting beds for gas victims at the Covid hospitals, said, “I don't know about BMHRC. They don't ask us either. May be they have written to district administration but not to me.”A doctor at one of the Covid care hospitals, when asked about status of ICU beds in his hospital, said, “The problem is not so much beds, but ventilators. An ICU patient may need ventilator any time and once he is on ventilator, the ventilator will remain engaged till he recovers or.... In Bhopal, when coronavirus cases are spiralling, we need 1,000 ventilators but have only 300.”District admimistration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, said, “Occupancy of beds is a dynamic proposition. There can be pendency at times, but patients should now understand that there are not just four hospitals for treatment of Covid now. There are 24 Ayushman hospitals, where treatment would be provided free to Ayushman card holders. State government employees and those who can afford may opt for private hospitals. Bills of treatment of government emloyees and their dependands will be reimbursed by the government. Leave these dedicated hospitals for those who can't go anywhere else.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nine-gas-victim-covid-patients-die-in-bmhrc-isolation-ward/articleshow/78195204.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘Ensure help to potential investors’||Lucknow: Reviewing the MoUs signed by the government for investments in the state, additional chief secretary, IT & electronics, Alok Kumar directed nodal officers to pursue matters with potential investors and ensure that they are provided all possible help in setting up units. In a meeting held recently, the progress on some of the MoUs was discussed in detail. Among them, UPSIDA CEO Rajesh Rai informed the ACS that he had not been able to contact representatives of Walmart despite repeated attempts. Kumar said in all such cases, nodal officers should get in touch with Udyog Bandhu. There were also reports that some companies had dropped plans of investments. Kumar said nodal officers should stay in touch with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-help-to-potential-investors/articleshow/78196194.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Launch campaign against mafia: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to police||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot directed the police to launch a campaign against organized mafia in the light of the post-lockdown situation. He said when mafia is eliminated, people faith in administration and police increases. The chief minister was holding a high-level review meeting with police officials on Friday. More than five-hour long meeting, the chief minister reviewed the overall law and order and various organized mafias including land, liquor, sand, illegal mining, and royalty and directed to initiate strict action against The Chief Minister said that industrial and commercial activities have increased in western Rajasthan in the last few years due to solar and wind energy, exploration of crude oil and refinery. This has provided employment and prosperity to large section of people. But he said at the same time some local mafia also flourished unduly pressurizing the industries. It needs to be tackled vigorously in time so that the confidence of investors will not be lost. Gehlot directed to take strict action against illegal sale and smuggling of narcotics in the state. He said that the increasing prevalence of narcotics in the name of synthetic drugs and pills is a matter of grave concern. To stop this messing up of the health of the youth studying in colleges and educational institutions, the police should curb the activities of the drug mafia with international coordination. Chief minister also launched the Analytics Dash Board of Rajasthan Police prepared by the Department of Information Technology and Communications. Analytical information related to state, range, district, circle and police station crime will be available on a click in this dash board. This will help high officials in monitoring of crimes and will also save time taken in compilation and collection of necessary information. Director General of Police, Bhupendra Singh said that the State Government has been providing necessary human and material resources to the police to improve its functioning and efficiency. He said that 1,682 new vehicles have been made available at a cost of about 75 crores, which has improved the response time of the police. Besides recruitment process for the vacant posts of Sub Inspector and Constable would be completed soon. This will help to overcome the shortage of manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/launch-campaign-against-mafia-gehlot-to-police/articleshow/78195207.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||EVMs or ballot papers: SEC in dilemma over mode of conducting GHMC polls||Hyderabad: With no relief in sight from Covid-19, Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) is in dilemma on whether to conduct elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) through EVMs or ballot papers. The SEC has not taken any decision on the mode of conducting elections as of now and is likely to take opinions from various political parties on the issue. SEC chief C Partha Sarathi held the first official preparatory meeting on GHMC elections with the civic body officials on Friday. “In view of Covid-19 pandemic, elaborate discussions were held whether to hold elections by using EVMs or ballot boxes in the ensuing elections. A decision has to be taken,” the commissioner said. It was decided to reduce the number of voters per polling station and each polling station will have only 800 voters per station instead of 1,200 to 1,500 voters earlier, he said. It was also decided to extensively use information and communications technology (ICT) for expeditious, error free and transparent election process with the help of Centre for Good Governance (CGG). “The SEC had used face recognition software at some polling stations on pilot basis in municipal polls held early this year. This software will be used extensively to weed out bogus and impersonation in the GHMC elections,” an official said. The commissioner directed the GHMC officials to come up with an action plan to train the GHMC officials’ right from zonal to circle level so as to acquaint them with software applications in the Te-Poll application, developed by the CGG for preparation and publication of electoral rolls, randomisation of polling and counting personnel and election process etc. “Another meeting with zonal commissioners and deputy commissioners of GHMC on preparedness and to chalk out a plan for the elections will be held in second week of October,” the SEC chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/evms-or-ballot-papers-sec-in-dilemma-over-mode-of-conducting-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78195210.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Smugglers open fire on DRI team, 1 hurt; 5.5kg gold seized||JODHPUR/JAIPUR: An unarmed team of Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) chasing gold smugglers from Jaipur was taken aback when the smugglers shot at a person accompanying them as independent witness near Bilara town of Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon. The 22-year-old person was critically injured while with the intervention of local police, the DRI team managed to seize 5.5kg of gold from the possession of the three persons in a jeep. All three were also arrested by the Bilara police on charges of attempt to murder and causing hindrance in government work. According to a senior officer of DRI, Jaipur, they had got a specific input on a jeep having three smugglers who were heading towards Jodhpur with some smuggled gold. “Our team was unarmed and we started chasing them. Also, we intimated our Jodhpur team to be alert. While the Jodhpur team intercepted them near Bilara, three persons in the jeep opened fire, in which a person identified as Sumer Singh (22), whom we had brought as independent witness, was injured,” a senior officer of DRI, Jaipur told TOI on condition of anonymity. Sleuths of DRI were unarmed and were shocked before they intimated the local police for immediate assistance. Police intercepted the jeep and arrested the three persons. “We also managed to check the vehicle and found 5.5kg of smuggled gold which has been seized. We have also given an FIR at Bilara police station on the basis of which the three persons identified as Manohar Singh (41), Babu Singh (34) and Ratan Kachchawa (24) were arrested,” the officer added. The injured person was rushed to AIIMS, Jodhpur. The DRI has seized the gold and has initiated an investigation, if the entire material or a part of it was smuggled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/smugglers-open-fire-on-dri-team-1-hurt-5-5kg-gold-seized/articleshow/78200835.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP conducts over 1.5L tests in 24 hours||Lucknow: Targeting to touch one crore Covid-19 tests by the month-end, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday announced that various labs in the state had conducted over 1,55,000 tests in the past 24 hours. This is the highest number of tests done in a single day. The total number of tests conducted by the state crossed the 82-lakh mark. “Expressing satisfaction over the achievement, the CM has asked the stakeholder departments to maintain the momentum as the testing has been the single most important component of Covid control measures,” said additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Awasthi. Secretary to CM Alok Kumar, monitoring testing work, attributed the surge to the hard work put in by government and private labs and stated that addition of the new labs played an important role in achieving the milestone. Meanwhile, 6,584 fresh cases in the past 24 hours took the state's Covid-19 tally to 3,42,788. Of the new cases reported, Lucknow alone accounted for about 19% of the cases, while Kanpur (407), Prayagraj (336), Varanasi (239), Meerut (225) and Gorakhpur (203) added another 21% cases. Spikes were recorded in Lakhimpur Kheri (230), Jhansi (145), Saharanpur (119), Ayodhya (116), Hardoi (103) and Bareilly (101).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-conducts-over-1-5l-tests-in-24-hours/articleshow/78196214.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Aparna appointed secretary in GOI||Gandhinagar: S Aparna, who recently returned to Delhi after completing her tenure as World Bank director in the US, has been appointed secretary, department of pharmaceuticals, ministry of chemicals and fertilisers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aparna-appointed-secretary-in-goi/articleshow/78195222.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bareilly||Decks cleared for smooth transfer of subsidy into sugarcane farmers||PILIBHIT: To protect the interests of sugarcane farmers and to bring parity in economic rights of cane-dominated districts in UP, state sugar administration has given the right of withdrawal and disbursement to district cane officers of the districts of Ambedkarnagar, Sambhal, Shamli and Hapur by allocating separate DDO (drawing and disbursing officer) codes to them. With this, farmers of these districts will get benefits of government-sponsored schemes directly through their respective treasury offices. Prior to this, their financial transfers were subject to the decisions taken by the authorities of those districts from where these four districts had been carved out. Sanjay R Bhoosreddy principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, government of UP, said Ambedkarnagar district was formed in 1995, Shamli and Sambhal districts in 2011, while Hapur was announced as a separate district in 2012 by the state government. Since the days of their segregation from the earlier districts, (eg ShamlI from Saharanpur and Hapur from Ghaziabad), the farmers in these districts faced a tough time in getting transfer of money, in the form of various kinds of subsidies under Rashtriya Krashi Vikas Yojana, Rashtriya Khadya Suraksha Mission and the zila yojana, into their respective bank accounts. Bhoosareddy added the decision of allocating separate DDO codes to these districts would directly benefit 68,000 sugarcane growers of Ambedkarnagar, 1.60 lakh growers of Shamli, 73,000 farmers of Sambhal and 51,000 cane growers in Hapur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/decks-cleared-for-smooth-transfer-of-subsidy-into-cane-farmers-a/cs-in-4-dists/articleshow/78192527.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Smugglers open fire on DRI team, 1 hurt; 5.5kg gold seized||JODHPUR/JAIPUR: An unarmed team of Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) chasing gold smugglers from Jaipur was taken aback when the smugglers shot at a person accompanying them as independent witness near Bilara town of Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon. The 22-year-old person was critically injured while with the intervention of local police, the DRI team managed to seize 5.5kg of gold from the possession of the three persons in a jeep. All three were also arrested by the Bilara police on charges of attempt to murder and causing hindrance in government work. According to a senior officer of DRI, Jaipur, they had got a specific input on a jeep having three smugglers who were heading towards Jodhpur with some smuggled gold. “Our team was unarmed and we started chasing them. Also, we intimated our Jodhpur team to be alert. While the Jodhpur team intercepted them near Bilara, three persons in the jeep opened fire, in which a person identified as Sumer Singh (22), whom we had brought as independent witness, was injured,” a senior officer of DRI, Jaipur told TOI on condition of anonymity. Sleuths of DRI were unarmed and were shocked before they intimated the local police for immediate assistance. Police intercepted the jeep and arrested the three persons. “We also managed to check the vehicle and found 5.5kg of smuggled gold which has been seized. We have also given an FIR at Bilara police station on the basis of which the three persons identified as Manohar Singh (41), Babu Singh (34) and Ratan Kachchawa (24) were arrested,” the officer added. The injured person was rushed to AIIMS, Jodhpur. The DRI has seized the gold and has initiated an investigation, if the entire material or a part of it was smuggled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/smugglers-open-fire-on-dri-team-1-hurt-5-5kg-gold-seized/articleshow/78195220.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Coimbatore||When gardens bloom amid gloom||Udhagamandalam: With a cap on issuance of e-pass to tourists entering the Nilgiris, tourist spots such as the Government Botanical Garden (GBG), Government Rose Garden (GRG) in Ooty and Sim’s Park in Coonoor have not witnessed more than 200 visitors per day since reopening on September 9. The district administration has fixed a cap of 100 tourists per day while issuing e-pass, keeping in mind the spike in Covid cases in the Nilgiris. GBG, which used to witness 7,000 visitors a day, saw only 181 on Tuesday. Only 163 people visited on Wednesday. “The average visitors to GBG is around 150 per day. Other parks such as GRG and Sim’s Park get around 50 visitors,” joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj told TOI. Though the gardens remained closed for over five months due to the pandemic, authorities performed routine maintenance activities and even introduced new species in GBG. While most of the permanent staff and workers numbering around 110 attended duty, only 20 of the 180 casual workers were present, the official said. The department introduced six new species including New Guinea balsam (Impatiens hawkeri), calla lily (Zantedeschia hybrid), Agastache, lisianthus and crown daisy (Glebionis coronaria) in GBG. “We concentrated on the sprawling lawn in front of the garden, seedlings, planting and weeding. We cannot leave the garden unmaintained just because we have no visitors,” said Samraj. As a visual treat to the limited visitors, 7,000 flower pots that have over 140 varieties of flowers, including dahlia, French marigold, salvia and petunia have been displayed in GBG. At least 2,30,000 seedlings were planted in GBG, extending over 50 acres. All flower beds are in full bloom, Samraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-gardens-bloom-amid-gloom/articleshow/78193778.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT-H unlocks game on child trafficking victims||Hyderabad: In an attempt to spread awareness about child trafficking, students of International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) have developed a unique computer game named “unlocked” that revolves around a player who is unwittingly handed over to traffickers by his own parents. In the game, the player is made to work forcibly under unhygienic and atrocious conditions in a glass bangle making factory (one of the industries known to employ child labour) along with other children. The storyline weaves in complexities of bonded child labour as the victim and his friend try to escape. The game — shortlisted and presented for best paper award at IEEE Conference on Games 2020 — has been developed by three final year engineering students, Adhithya Arun, AadilMehdi Sanchawala (both computer science), and Rahul Sajnani (electronics and communication). “As part of our game design course, we were given various themes such as human trafficking and child labour,” said Adhithya Arun. “Other games around this theme make the player sympathise with the situation. Whereas, the game developed by us places ourselves in the victims’ shoes and understand their internal conflicts better,” said Adhithya Arun. During the course of the game, the player assumes the role of the victim and is led through various scenarios. “The player is trafficked, and he tries to escape but his comrades are not ready. During his attempt to escape, he also gets caught and is pushed back into the job,” said Sanchawala. To evaluate the game’s efficacy, the students undertook pretest and post-test surveys. The pretest survey tested the players’ understanding of the current state of child trafficking, while in the post-test survey, players rated the experience, effectiveness of the game in educating them about the problem. They also had the game vetted by an NGO, Prajwala, whose activists acknowledged its potential in increasing awareness. “It’s rare to see course work being submitted and accepted for conferences. It shows a high level of commitment from the students. Importantly, we hope to work further on this trafficking game and transfer it for learning purposes to NGOs,” said Kavita Vemuri, professor of cognitive science.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-unlocks-game-on-child-trafficking-victims/articleshow/78195234.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested for murder of border home guard in Dausa||JAIPUR: Dausa police have arrested two accused behind the killing of a border homeguard by alleged mining mafia and are on the hunt for the main accused in the matter. They have also seized the vehicle which was used to help the tractor driver with the illegal bajri get away. The guard, who was on the tractor, was pushed off it by the accused and mowed down on Thursday. Manish Aggarwal, SP Dausa told TOI, “We have arrested two persons who were involved in the crime but are looking for the other prime accused in the case who will be arrested soon. The SUV used by the alleged mafia was also seized.” The team reached the spot where the accused were getting illegal bajri from the river bed and each tractor had approximately 8 tonne each of the gravel in it. On Thursday afternoon, a team of officials found four tractors filled with illegal bajri in Mandawar police station area. According to officials, after the vehicles were seized, they were being taken back to the police station when one of the tractors went off the road and got stuck in mud. Following this, a SUV with four persons reached the spot and while Singh was travelling on the tractor, the driver allegedly pushed the home guard off it after being urged to do so by the passengers of the SUV. The tractor driver ran over Singh who suffered fatal injuries and died after being taken to the hospital. The case was registered against four named accused and search is on for two of them. After the incident, the department also announced monetary compensation for the deceased home guard’s family. Rajeev Dasot, DG, homeguards said, “Singh will be awarded posthumously and given a commendation disc. He will also be awarded the commendation roll along with his family being given Rs 2 lakh from our welfare fund.” Along with this, a family member will be given a job along with Rs 20 lakh as ex gratia from CM’s relief fund. The deceased’s body was taken to his native village in Barmer on Friday after autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-murder-of-border-home-guard-in-dausa/articleshow/78195214.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||What’s govt doing to feed monkeys: HC||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has asked the state government what was being done to eradicate the hunger of arounf 15,000 monkeys who came to the city leaving places of pilgrimage. A division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta gave this order while hearing the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) of Mahesh Jhalani. DD Khandelwal, counsel for the petitioner, told the court that thousands of monkeys live in the city’s Galta Tirtha and were given food by people. Due to the closure of the religious site due to corona, people are not going there for months leaving the monkeys hungry. He further said that nearly 15,000 monkeys are wandering from place to place in the city because of hunger. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/whats-govt-doing-to-feed-monkeys-hc/articleshow/78195232.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Covid testing in private labs to be limited now, smaller cities may suffer in Nagpur||NAGPUR: After three private Covid-19 testing facilities in the city faced disciplinary action from NMC’s health department, testing in private facilities in Vidarbha has changed in many ways. Labs are now accepting limited number of samples so that they can complete the entire testing, real-time update and reporting process within 24 hours of prescribed time frame. Due to this, it has become tough for labs to accept samples from other districts like Amravati, Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Akola. As a result, other parts of Vidarbha have left with no private testing facilities. This is definitely creating problem for districts like Yavatmal, Akola, and Amravati — where the pandemic outbreak is at its peak and all government testing facilities are overburdened. “We have stopped accepting samples for testing after Nagpur’s Dhruv Lab was closed (temporarily),” said an official from Yavatmal’s Dr Shah Hospital. “It takes three hours to reach from Yavatmal to Nagpur. We have to collect a certain number of samples and then travel to Nagpur. Here, it used to take nearly six hours to complete tests. It’s not possible for us to complete this task in 12 or 24 hours,” he added. Private testing facilities in other districts of Vidarbha have left with no option but to go for Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), which has accuracy issues. The RT-PCR test is considered as gold standard in Covid-19 testing. Dhruv Lab in city used to accept samples from comparatively faraway places like Yavatmal, Akola and Amravati. Other two labs mostly test samples from Bhandara, Wardha, and Gondia. Sources at Su-Vishwas Diagnostic Lab, which has resumed testing, said they have reduced the number of samples. “We had to comply with the real-time update rule. Updating data real-time needs dedicated time. Due to this, we are accepting limited number of samples,” said Dr Sandhya Saoji. As far as Nagpur city is concerned, two of the three labs have resumed testing and one more private lab has added into Nagpur’s capacity. Due to this, the number of tests in private set-up is still more or less the same. The only effect on Nagpurians is that ‘door-to-door’ sample collection has reduced. This process is taking more time. Due to this, elderly, ailing people who can’t report to the private lab or to any government sample collection centre due to their health issues are at a loss. As far as Dhruv Lab is concerned, it has decided to wait for NMC’s written order to resume operations. “We have been trying to comply with all the parameters the NMC has asked us to match. I was summoned by the NMC health department. As soon as we get written orders from NMC, we will resume operations,” said Dr Shailesh Mundhada, Dhruv director. However, even after resuming, it would be difficult for Dhruv to conduct as many number of tests they used to conduct earlier. “Real-time reporting is a tedious job and it takes nearly 3 to 4 hours. We will be able to receive limited samples only,” said Dr Mundhada. Statistically, overall testing in city is not affected, so far. On September 10, private labs had tested 26% of total samples of the day. Between September 11 and 15, this number remained somewhere between 20% and 23%. The NMC took action on the labs on September 15. On September 16, total 20% of day’s tests were conducted in private set-up. The number remained under 20% on September 17. On September 18, it was less than 19%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-testing-in-pvt-labs-to-be-limited-now-smaller-cities-may-suffer/articleshow/78195227.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||All India & state service officers to be ‘guardians’ of tribal schools||Jaipur: The tribal area development department has taken a new initiative to make all India and state service officers ‘guardians’ of department schools and hostels. This will infuse new enthusiasm and inspiration among teachers and students, while giving the officers an opportunity to showcase their innovation and creativity. Minister of state for Tribal Area Development (TAD) Arjun Singh Bamnia said, efforts have been made through educational and residential schools to increase tribal representation in employment and business. These schools and hostels were being inspected by officials of the district administration, police and other officials. He said new initiatives have been taken to make this informal visit and discussion more formal by giving an institutional form. He informed that all district collectors have been instructed to nominate All India Service and State Service officers and other district-level officers as school and hostel guardians, so that these institutions could get more support and guidance of district administration. This would help teachers and students establish regular contact and guidance with these enthusiastic and accomplished officers. Besides, officers will also be able to show innovation and creativity beyond their work area. Additional chief secretary TAD, Rajeshwar Singh said that these ‘guardian’ officers would visit these institutions every month and guide the teachers and students. After consulting with them, they would give advice for educational, cultural and sports-related development of students. Students will also be given guidance regarding courses and career options. Singh said officers appointed as guardians will work within the advisory role of schools and hostels. They will not interfere with the school and hostel administration, but any serious irregularities could be brought to the notice of the additional chief secretary and commissioner of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-india-state-service-officers-to-be-guardians-of-tribal-schools/articleshow/78195229.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Schedule of panchayat elections announced||Jaipur: Nomination papers will be filed on September 19 from 10am to 5pm for elections to 1,003 posts of sarpanchs and 9,355 ward panchs, in the first phase of Panchayati Raj elections. Commission secretary and Chief Electoral Officer Shyam Singh Rajpurohit informed that scrutiny of the nomination papers will be held on September 20. Candidates can withdraw their nomination by 3pm on the same day. The allocation of election symbols and the list of candidates contesting the elections will be published on September 20, after the withdrawal of nominations, he said. Rajpurohit said that polling parties will reach the polling station by September 27 and voting will be held on September 28 (Monday) from 7.30am to 5.30pm. Counting of votes will be done at all panchayat headquarters after the end of polling. Sarpanchs will be elected on September 29. Secretary said strict compliance of corona protocol has to be maintained all through the poll process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schedule-of-panchayat-elections-announced/articleshow/78195230.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Goa||Scientists discuss salinity of Mhadei||KERI: Scientists from the Indian Institute of Hydrology (IIH), Roorkee, on Friday met with officials of the water resources department (WRD) , besides other experts from the state, and discussed various aspects pertaining to the salinity of the Mhadei. They also held a virtual conference with director of the National Institute Oceanography (NIO), Sunil Kumar. IIH has been appointed by the Union ministry of jalshakti to examine the salinity of the Mhadei and scientists, Gopalkrishna and Nitesh Patidar, had visited the Kalasa Bhandura project site in Kankumbi on Thursday in this connection. They also visited the confluence site of the main tributaries of the Mhadei. “Today, during the virtual conference, the two scientists discussed various aspects of salinity with scientists from the NIO. The Union ministry of Jalshakti has assigned them a period of two months to submit the report of their findings.However, while the scientists have recorded the salinity in the monsoon, there is need to study it during the summer,” WRD’s chief engineer Shrikant Patil told TOI. The monsoon rainfall and associated freshwater inflow into the estuaries of the Mhadei play an important role on tides, salinity distribution, sediment transport and ecosystem. The freshwater inflow provides necessary nutrients and maintains appropriate flushing to assure the biological productivity of the system. “The ecosystem of an An estuary experiences freshwater inflow deficit either due to reduced rainfall or diversion of water into other basins from its upstream regions of the estuary. Diversion may change the transport of sediments into an estuary and coast, and this may lead to erosion of banks and shoals,” N T Manoj, a scientist then associated with the NIO in the research conducted in 2008, had stated in his findings. The Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal has allowed Karnataka to divert 1.72tmc feet of water from the Kalasa nullah for diversion into the Malprabha and 1.5tmc for in-basin use, besides 2.18tmc water from the Bhandura for diversion into the Malprabha. Maharashtra has been allowed to divert 0.56tmc water from the Virdi project. However, both Karnataka and Maharashtra have filed special leave petitions before the Supreme Court for the enhancement of their water share for diversion from the Mhadei basin. “They will submit the report of their findings to the Union minister of jalshakti,” WRD’s assistant engineer Dilip Naik, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/scientists-discuss-salinity-of-mhadei/articleshow/78196266.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi orders swift nod to new oxygen plants||Lucknow: In an effort to boost availability of medical oxygen in the state for treatment of Covid-19 patients, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to provide immediate clearance for permissions, land, etc, for setting up of new oxygen plants. During the meeting with Team 11 on Friday, the CM said if someone wants to convert their industrial oxygen production to medical oxygen, they should be given assistance on priority. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said: “The CM has said that oxygen and other essential medicines should be available at all times in Covid hospitals. To meet the mandate of keeping 48 hours of oxygen supply at all times, the CM has said that all assistance should be provided to someone who wants to set up an oxygen manufacturing plant,” he said. The CM asked officials to focus on availability of facilities, treatment and contact tracing in Lucknow and Kanpur, both of which are recording highest of cases in the state. He added that the treatment being given to successfully treated patients should be studied in the two cities in order to exercise control over the spread of the virus. For this, ACS (health), in consultation with doctors, shall study the treated patients in district hospitals, while ACS (medical education) will carry out a similar exercise for patients in medical colleges and institutes. The CM asked officials to focus on creating mass awareness about protection from Covid-19. Awasthi said that all DMs and SSPs have already been instructed to implement the awareness campaign through the public address system in all districts. To increase the state’s revenue, the CM has asked for the preparation of an action plan for more registrations under GST. He said that the commercial tax department should ensure absolute crackdown on tax evasion as the state is in urgent need of funds. He also asked for a meeting of the Udyog Bandhu to be convened through which problems of investors and entrepreneurs can be resolved. In light of the upcoming festival season, the CM has issued specific instructions on maintaining vigil and taking precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-swift-nod-to-new-oxygen-plants/articleshow/78196227.cms||Neha Lalchandani
September 19, 2020||Bhopal||48th COVID case found in secretariat||Bhopal: The number of corona positive cases in the state secretariat reached 48 on Thursday. In the fresh case, a home department employee was found corona positive. The department is in Vallabh Bhavan II building. Officials said that those who came in contact with the positive employee were advised to be in quarantine. Of the total number of corona positives in Vallabh Bhavan building I, II and III, two employees have lost their lives due to coronavirus so far. More than half of the total corona cases in the secretariat have taken place in the Vallabh Bhavan II building. The same building houses offices of the chief minister and chief secretary. The departments in which corona positive patients have been found in all three Vallabh Bhavan buildings are the commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM secretariat, health department, finance department, law department, medical education, home department, transport department, forest department, panchayat department, science and technology department, general administration department, Ayush department, sports and mining besides staffers in different ministers’ offices in the secretariat. MP is probably the only state in the country where coronavirus has hit the power centre as hard as it hit the masses. So far, the CM, ten ministers, 29 MLAS, and senior leaders from both the BJP and Congress have been found corona positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/48th-covid-case-found-in-secretariat/articleshow/78195236.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Murder of Suresh Raina’s kin: 6 accused belong to Rajasthan||JAIPUR: A day after arresting three persons from Chirawa town of Jhunjhunu in connection to the twin murders and robbery at cricketer Suresh Raina’s uncle house in Tharyal village of Pathankot district of Punjab, the Punjab police on Thursday stated that six more members of the same gang who are yet to be arrested also belong to Rajasthan. Except a few accused, majority of them are natives of slums of Chirawa and Pilani towns on Jhujhunu. On the intervening night of August 19-20 at 2am, an incident of house-breaking took place in the Tharyal village under police station Shahpurkandi of district Pathankot in Punjab. Unknown assailants had attacked the uncle and other family members and looted cash and jewellery. Ashok Kumar, uncle of the cricketer, died on the spot, while his cousin Kaushal Kumar succumbed to injuries on August 31. Raina’s aunt Asha Rani is undergoing treatment. “After an intense investigation, we zeroed in on three accused from Chirawa town of Rajasthan. With the help of Rajasthan police, we have arrested three persons identified as Sawan, a native of Uttar Pradesh, Muhobbat and Shahrukh Khan for the murder and robbery,” said a senior officer of Punjab police on Thursday. During the interrogation of all the above suspects, it was revealed that they were living in slums of Chirawa and Pilani of Jhunjhunu district, Rajasthan. “Before committing the robbery, few of them visit the locality to do recce so as to identify the target house, which is especially on the outskirts of the locality. They reached the spot in the groups of two or three persons following the natural land marks like canals, railway lines, high voltage electricity wires etc. After committing the crime, they moved back in group of two or three people and meet at pre-designated place. They have committed such crimes in Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and various parts of Punjab,” said an officer. Police added that others accused from Rajasthan who are yet to be arrested included – Rashid, Rehan, Jabrana, Waphila and an unknown associated of the gang members. “All of them are natives of Chirawa and Pilani situated slums. Our teams are in Rajasthan and they would also be arrested soon,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/murder-of-rainas-kin-6-accused-belong-to-raj/articleshow/78195238.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Chanda civic body auditors to check unfair practices by private hospitals||CHANDRAPUR: Taking note of complaints pouring in over irrational charges being levied and hefty advance deposit up to Rs1.50 lakh being asked for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals, Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) has appointed officers of Maharashtra finance and accounts service to audit the bills raised by the hospitals. Sources in the CMC said bill raised by private hospitals against Covid-19 treatment will have to be approved by the civic administration-appointed auditor for finalization. Commissioner Rajesh Mohite has warned of stringent action against hospitals violating the government directives regarding Covid treatment. He emphasized that private hospitals need to charge the patients as per government-approved rates and CMC has appointed 17 teams of two auditors each to curb unfair practices. Meanwhile, in a major respite to Covid-19 patients being treated at Chandrapur GMCH, secretary of medical education department Saurabh Vijay has assured to provide 40 new nurses to the hospital by next week. The process of filling the posts of doctors in GMCH Chandrapur is being carried out on priority basis, he told in a videoconference held with people’s representatives of Chandrapur. Chandrapur is faced with sever crunch of doctors and paramedics for treatment in Covid Hospitals and guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar has proposed acquiring necessary manpower through private agencies. Following queries raised by people’s representatives, GMCH dean Dr SS Morey informed that the process of procurement of MRI machine is underway, while CT scan machine is going to be installed in women’s hospital very soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-civic-body-auditors-to-check-unfair-practices-by-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78195270.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||45% engineering seats likely to go vacant in Gujarat’s colleges||AHMEDABAD: The Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) today announced the provisional merit list for engineering courses according to which 27,261 candidates have been chosen. This will leave about 45% seats or about 22,791 seats vacant for the admission committee. In all there are 64,782 seats this year of which ACPC is given the task to fill 50,051 seats. The remaining seats are to be filled by the self-financed colleges. In the provisional merit list, 23,483 candidates are from Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Board, 3,390 are from CBSE, 256 are from ICSE, NIOS 87 and 45 are domicile candidates. This year, the total number of seats for engineering has reduced as compared to 73,345 engineering seats last year. As many as 6,000 seats have been reduced after closure of five self-financed colleges. In the case of government colleges, there is a reduction of 2,130 seats in faculties like EC, IC, power electronics, mining and production engineering. Earlier this week, 900 new candidates were registered after ACPC extended the deadline for online registration for the third time. The final merit list is expected to be announced next week. The deadline was first extended from August 8 to August 28. It was later revisited and a new deadline of September 5 was given for registration. By then, as many as 29,000 students had registered online. The admission committee however decided to extend the deadline given the large number of vacant seats in engineering colleges. But only 900 fresh candidates have registered, leaving about half of the total engineering seats empty. There are currently 66,128 seats available in degree engineering colleges. Of these, 9,086 seats are of 16 government run colleges, 1,622 seats of four grant-in aid colleges, 543 are of 2 engineering institutes run on PPP model, 29,134 are of 72 self-financed institutes (SFIs) affiliated with Gujarat Technological University and 24,013 are of 38 SFIs associated with private universities in the state. The remaining 204 seats are of an autonomous college. The admission process for engineering and medical courses is expected to be completed only by November following which students will start attending college from December, according to sources. As a result, students are likely to be behind schedule by at least one semester in the new academic year, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/45-engineering-seats-likely-to-go-vacant-in-gujarats-colleges/articleshow/78195242.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhubaneswar||City rooftop gardens supply ‘kadha’ ingredients as families develop a green thumb||Bhubaneswar: Staying at home during the lockdown has prompted gardening enthusiasts to devote more time to growing vegetables. It not only ensured fresh food on the table, it led to the creation of green corners at home and provided relief to families stuck indoors. Maheswar Khillar, managing trustee of Kitchen Gardeners Association and himself the owner of a rooftop garden, said he had received countless inquiries during the lockdown from people about the correct way to grow organic vegetables, edible leaves and spices at home. “The fear of the virus has prompted most people to stay indoors but food is a necessity. The situation has driven home the importance of growing one’s own food,” said Khillar, adding that nutritious leafy green vegetables could be harvested within a fortnight. Khillar, who has participated in around 20 webinars on kitchen gardens, said the trend indicated the keenness of people to grow their own food. The avid gardener has been growing seasonal vegetables and fruits like mango, banana, chiku and lemon in his rooftop garden for over 30 years now. The ministry of Ayush, which has stressed on the benefits of drinking kadha, a medicinal concoction, has also encouraged seasoned gardeners to cultivate some of the ingredients that go into kadha, besides other medicinal plants, at home. “It is easy to make the drink with spices grown in a kitchen garden,” said housewife Runa Mahapatra who grows three types of tulsi, cinnamon, carom, bay leaves, fennel and lemongrass, apart from cucumber and bottle gourd in her kitchen garden. “With our children away, gardening is the best way of pass the time,” said Mahapatra, whose husband helped her tend to their rooftop garden during the lockdown. To rope in family members in the garden’s care, Khillar started growing green chillies although he himself does not like them. “I grew them because my wife likes chillies,” he smiled. Gardening enthusiast Puspalata Panda shared seeds stored from previous years to help people raise vegetable gardens during the lockdown, when seed shops were shut. “I make a green smoothie from the ingredients plucked from my garden. It is important to make food your medicine,” said Puspalata, who added that a friend of hers preferred to spend time in her garden than go for a drive when the lockdown was eased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-rooftop-gardens-supply-kadha-ingredients-as-families-develop-a-green-thumb/articleshow/78193794.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
September 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Close call for commuters as road caves in at Jubilee Hills||Hyderabad: A truck had a narrow escape at 11am on Friday after a portion of Road No. 1 in Jubilee Hills near the metro rail pillar caved in. This is the second incident of a busy road caving in the last two days. Traffic police, who were the first to notice the pit, alerted the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) and immediately barricaded the road. The water board visited the site and deduced that the incident occurred to sewer water leaking from the main sewer trunk. “Water board had shifted the water and sewerage network at the time of metro rail pillars construction. But the water has managed to leak from the trunk main and the board is in the process of rectifying it,” M Prabhu, the HMWS&SB general manager, O&M Division-VI (SR Nagar), told TOI. The water board took nearly six hours to track damaged sewer trunk. Manholes on the stretch were buried during laying of roads under Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP), said water board officials. A water board official also opined that the sink-hole incidents are occuring due to incessant rains in the city for the last two days. “Earth movers have been deployed and are attending to the work at the site. The work will be completed by evening to avoid inconvenience to hundreds of road users,” S Srihari, HMWS&SB Jubilee Hills section manager, told TOI. Works replacement of 10 meters length of sewer trunk will be completed by late night, said officials. Cops diverted the traffic of this stretch to an alternate road. The series of caving-in incidents has left commuters scared, who blamed the civic body for poor maintenance. “I feel that travelling on city roads has become highly risky,” said a commuter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/close-call-for-commuters-as-road-caves-in-at-jubilee-hills/articleshow/78195246.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Mental health counselling for coronavirus patients||LUCKNOW: Acknowledging the spike in cases of anxiety and post-traumatic stress and depression due to Covid-19, the UP government has come up with a mechanism to help people in need. “To help patients and recovered persons tide over any mental health issue, the state government has included mental health counseling in the official Covid-19 helpline. Our experts will be available online and those in need of help may speak to the counselors,” additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad on Friday said, adding that the helpline number is 1800-180-5145. On the insistence of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, NIMHANS, Bengaluru came out with a policy paper titled ‘Mental health in the times of Covid-19 pandemic’. Faculties in department of psychiatry, NIMHANS, YC Janardhan Reddy and TS Jaisoorya noted: “Mental health issues following the Covid-19 pandemic stem from 'normal' people being exposed to 'extraordinary situations'. Children, elderly, pregnant women, people with pre-existing mental illness, people living alone and families of those who have died in the Covid-19 pandemic may belong to this group.” The two also pointed out that the spectrum of problems included emotional difficulties like anxiety, depression, biological effects like sleep, appetite disturbances as well as severe mental illness and substance misuse. Stating that though in most, these symptoms are mild and transitory, but a minority may develop severe mental health issues that require additional mental health support. The WHO also came out with a policy document to address mental health challenges due to the pandemic. “Fear, worry, and stress are normal responses to perceived or real threats. So it is normal and understandable that people are experiencing fear in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic,” stated the opening part of the document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mental-health-counselling-for-corona-patients/articleshow/78196247.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||HD cameras installed at 20 railway stations across NWR||Jaipur: In order to enhance security of passengers and railway stations, the North Western Railway in association with RailTel has installed video surveillance system (VSS) with HD cameras and other gadgets at 20 stations across NWR and its various divisions. Each station under the VSS have 50 cameras including 27 bullet cameras, 6 fixed dome cameras, 3 PTZ and 4 UHD cameras. NWR general manager Anand Prakash on Thursday unveiled the VSS at 20 stations. “The server of the VSS has storage of 10TB and it is enabled with video management software for live monitoring and playback of the archived videos. All cameras are attactched with the divisions of various railway stations and NWR headquarters,” said Sunil Beniwal, chief public relations officer, NWR. Officials said all cameras would have large format display having full HD quality. “At Jaipur divison of NWR, the system has been installed at Alwar, Bandikui, Gandhi Nagar, Phulera and Rewari stations,” said a senior officer. Likewise at Ajmer division of NWR, the system has been installed at Bhilwara, Falna, Marwar, Abu Road, Udaipur and Rani stations. “The Jodhpur division, the system has been installed at Jaisalmer, Nagaur and Pali Marwar railway stations,” the officer added. For Bikaner division of NWR, the system is at Hanumangarh, Lalgarh, Sriganganagar and Suratgarh stations. Box - Sunil Beniwal takes charge as CPRO NWR Sunil Beniwal, a 2005 batch officer of Indian Railway Traffic service took charge as the Chief Public Relations Officer of North Western Railways(NWR) on Thursday. Beniwal prior to this was associated with Delhi division of northern railway as Senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) at Delhi. He is an engineering graduate from Malviya National Institute of Techology(MNIT), Jaipur and has held various positions in northern railways. “These different cameras have its range varying from 200 meters to 30 meters,” the officer added. The system was already functional at four railway station. “This is revolutionary change in terms of the safety and security at various railway station and can curb petty crimes like stealing of bags and belongings of the passengers. Also in case of any serious offence it will enable the investigative agencies to get incriminating evidences to trace and solve any crime case,” said a senior officer of Railway Protection Force(RPF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hd-cameras-installed-at-20-railway-stations-across-nwr/articleshow/78195235.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Leopard scare in Bharatpur||Alwar: Panic gripped at Bhusawar town in Bharatpur over the movement of a leopard in the area on Friday. While farmers are scared to come out of their homes during the evenings as the feline is lurking in the green fields, forest officials’ are giving efforts to trap and release the leopad inside the forest. The movement of the leopard inside the town was caught on a CCTV camera footage of a house. The leopard has reportedly killed cattle in the area and pugmarks were found by the villagers. Bharatpur DFO Mohit Gupta said, “Trap has been laid to catch the animal. Our team is constantly monitoring the movement. Villagers have been warned not to go outside in the evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopard-scare-in-bharatpur/articleshow/78195240.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Time ground rules are laid for live wires||CHENNAI: A 35-year-old woman was electrocuted last week when she stepped into a puddle of rainwater at Pullianthope. A live wire that fed a streetlight had become exposed. Exposed live wires, whether underground or overhead, are an ever-present threat across the city and its suburbs, and with the rains on their way the danger increases. Power cables that feed streetlights maintained by the Greater Chennai Corporation get tangled up in everything. If a telecom company lays lines, if the water mains are repaired or the drains are relaid, there’s always the danger that live wires will be exposed. It doesn’t help that there’s little coordination between the government and private agencies that do the work. And it’s not as if the corporation’s electricity department keeps a strict watch. Everyone cuts corners. Corporation commissioner G Prakash held a meeting on Wednesday and asked his electrical engineers to ensure the cables don’t pop out, they are well insulated and there is better coordination among various departments. The norms clearly specify that underground power cables that supply streetlights should be laid in trenches 75cm (2.5 feet) deep and 45cm wide. But in most places, they can be found one to two feet below the road surface. A corporation official told TOI that this was because metrowater and Tangedco lines that are supposed to be laid 3.5 feet underground never are. “We are scared that if we dig deeper we will damage these pipes. So we only dig down to two feet usually. Our [the corporation’s power] cables pop out when metrowater or Tangedco do repairs or relay lines. We are usually not informed when they do repairs. We find out only when residents complain our cables are exposed,” said a senior official in the corporation’s electrical department. There’s another problem too. The corporation’s contractors carrying out repairs often don’t follow the rules. Asked why assistant engineers and junior engineers who are supposed to inspect these service lines after repairs don’t visit the spot, the official said it was difficult to inspect every work carried out. The rules also specify that the road should be relaid with bitumen or cement after repairs to power cables, but this is rarely done. The spot is just covered with debris. Monitoring is a weak spot. Annual contracts totalling Rs25 crore are in place for maintaining streetlights in the extended areas of the city. In core city areas, permanent workers of the corporation undertake repair work. But who makes sure the work is done properly? That’s where the problem lies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/time-ground-rules-are-laid-for-live-wires/articleshow/78193796.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Coimbatore||NHAI to lay 4-lane road to Sathyamangalam from dist||Coimbatore: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is planning to lay four-lane road from Kurumbapalayam in the district to Sathyamangalam in Erode district, from where two-lane road will be upgraded till Bannari. In addition, there are plans to upgrade Dhimbam ghat road till Tamil Nadu-Karnataka inter-state border.With the help of district administrations in Coimbatore and Erode, the NHAI would acquire 731 acres of land for the four-lane road project. There would be two toll plazas on the 98km stretch from Kurumbapalayam to the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border.The two-lane Coimbatore-Sathyamangalam road (NH 209) has been witnessing heavy traffic during the peak hours every day. In some places, the road is very narrow. Accidents are also common on this stretch. A few years ago, the Union government had decided to expand the road and a feasibility study was also done. However, the project didn’t take off. Now, the NHAI has taken up the project to lay four-lane road from Kurumbapalayam to Sathyamangalam.An NHAI official said, “We will start the four-lane road work from Kurumbapalayam near Kovilpalayam. We will use the existing road and acquire land at adjoining areas, which would also be used to lay two service roads. The road width will be 60 metres. The four-lane will end at Sathyamangalam.”He said they would construct flyovers, if needed, to decongest the traffic.“Sathyamangalam-Bannari stretch will be two-lane as we cannot acquire land from the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve for road expansion. However, we are planning to expand the road to 10 metres from seven metres on the stretch that passes through the reserve forest. The stretch from Bannari to Tamil Nadu–Karnataka border on Dhimbam ghat road would also be upgraded. The project cost for the same is pegged at more than Rs 1,200 crore,” the official said.He said a detailed project report for the land acquisition was sent to the road transport and highways ministry. “A private consultancy has been working on the same. Once the Union government allots funds, we will approach the respective district administration to acquire land. Once the project is completed, people can travel to Karnataka from Coimbatore without any major traffic.”The National Highways (NH) wing of the State Highways Department is, meanwhile, planning to expand the road from Gandhipuram to Kurumbapalayam.K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the project would help reduce the traffic on Coimbatore-Sathyamangalam stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nhai-to-lay-4-lane-road-to-sathyamangalam-from-dist/articleshow/78193792.cms||A Subburaj
September 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Shrugging off rising Covid numbers, more residents choosing to dine out||Coimbatore: The food and beverage industry players say they have been seeing an uptick in business amid the pandemic. They say they have clocked nearly 45% to 50% of their usual business and are seeing a growth in their dine-in customers which they say is a positive sign. Customers at restaurants say while safety is a priority, eating out again is part of their efforts to live with Covid-19. According to industry players, their business has improved since August last week. Ranjhana Singhal, managing director of That’s Y Food, says, “We are seeing a gradual but steady growth in dine-in crowd. While there are some erratic days, business has improved and touched 50% of usual business.” A senior official with ITC Welcomhotel also says the business has improved by almost 30% to 35%, compared to June. “We are seeing groups of women and families coming to enjoy a meal and our bar has begun seeing traction. Last week, some of the in-room guests had come down to the bar for a drink and snack while working on their laptops. For us this signifies lesser fear and positivity among customers.” However, the profile of guests and their preferences have changed since the Covid-19 outbreak, say restauranteurs. “We see more families, but without elders and very small children. It is more of two young couples or younger families,” says Singhal. The Welcomhotel official also admits their customers are choosy on safety measures and appreciate contactless food serving, ordering and parking their own cars. Customers say eating out, despite the virus spread, is part of living with Covid-19. Abhirami Murthy, an advertising professional, says, “Cases are going to keep dipping and increasing, but we cannot stay without doing something as normal as stepping out for a meal with a family member or a tea with colleagues once in a while. But yes, my mother feels safer at restaurants which take multiple precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shrugging-off-rising-covid-numbers-more-residents-choosing-to-dine-out/articleshow/78193801.cms||---
September 19, 2020||India||CPM gives communal tint to Kerala gold case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The loaded questions asked by CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday whether Quran is a banned holy text in India and if there is an order by the Modi govt banning distribution of the holy book in the country gave a new dimension to the gold smuggling scandal that has rocked the political sphere of Kerala. In a bid to corner Muslim League, which is baying for K T Jaleel’s blood, the CPM state secretary pointed out that it was Quran distribution that has put in a spot the higher education minister, who is under investigation by NIA and ED. “RSS is an organization that stands for eliminating Muslims, minorities and Communists. Modi government is acting in tune with this Hindutva line. Why do Congress and Muslim League express an allergy to Quran like RSS?” he asked. BJP state president K Surendran, said, “They [CPM] are trying to stoke communal tensions in the name of Quran. They think they can cover up the allegations raised against them by doing so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cpm-gives-communal-tint-to-kerala-gold-case/articleshow/78197519.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Infant killed by mom as she wanted baby boy||BHOPAL: In a shocking development, Khajuri police investigating the mysterious death of 31-days-old baby girl, whose body was found in a 50-litre water filled drum, on Friday registered a case on charges of murder against the girl’s mother. Police said that the accused 25-year-old woman wanted a baby boy. After she gave birth to the deceased girl, she was not happy and hated the baby girl. SHO Khajuri SI LD Mishra said that Sachin Mewada (27), a resident of Dehariya Kalan village in Khajuri, is a farmer. He was married to Sarita around 14 months back. Around a month back Sarita gave birth to a baby girl — Kinjal. The couple has a joint family with Sachin’s parents, his two brothers and their families. SI Mishra said that on Wednesday, Sachin and his brothers had gone to their farm while his parents were sitting out in the courtyard. Sarita was alone with Kinjal in her room. Around 11.30 am Sarita suddenly came out and said that Kinjal was missing. Cops initially suspected that the girl was killed by some animal and searched for her in the farms. When they failed, they returned to Sachin’s home and searched every nook and corner after which the girl’s body was found inside the drum filled with water which was closed. Police found Sarita’s activities suspicious. She was sitting quietly even after knowing about her new-born daughter’s death. The family members told police that she was inclined towards occult practices and was undergoing treatment from a witch-doctor. The family members told police that Sarita was possessed by some evil spirits. SI Mishra said that the family members also told police that Sarita wanted a baby boy and told them that she was not happy after giving birth to a baby girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/infant-killed-by-mom-as-she-wanted-baby-boy/articleshow/78195275.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Patel tests +ve||GANDHINAGAR: Former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The 92-yearold leader is however asymptomatic and has not reported any complications yet. Bharat Patel, Keshubhai’s son, said: “One of Keshubhai’s personal staff members who works at his residence had tested positive.” Bharat Patel went on to say: “My father’s antigen test was positive, so doctors advised him to undergo the RTPCR test. The result of the RTPCR test is awaited.” Bharat Patel added that Keshubhai does not have any symptoms of Covid-19 and no health complications either. “His CT scan is normal. Doctors have advised blood tests and caution, as he has gone through a prostrate operation and a heart bypass surgery,” Bharat Patel said. “At present, he is taking rest at home.” Keshubhai is the second ex-CM to test positive for Covid-19. Earlier, Shankersinh Vaghela had recovered from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-gujarat-cm-keshubhai-patel-tests-ve/articleshow/78197530.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Chennai||This artist helps women reclaim online spaces||Chennai: Do you think twice before posting a photo of yourself on Instagram? Or blogging about something you feel passionately about? Not because you are worried the world will judge you but because your partner or spouse may find it ‘dirty’, ‘provoking’ or ‘offensive’? If so, you are not alone. And now you can share your stories of privacy violations, control, surveillance placed by intimate partners that make you hesitate to leave a virtual footprint in to Mumbai-based artist Indu Harikumar's new project #LoveSexandTech, which helps some women reclaim online spaces. “It aims to document the shrinkage of internet space occupied by women due to gender-based violence in intimate relationships and the restrictions, surveillance and control placed by intimate partners, which can sometimes lead to abuse and an unequal access to this virtual space and how some women have reclaimed this space,” says Indu, who has received a grant from ‘Take back the tech!’, a global campaign run by Association for Progressive Communications (APC) aimed at empowering women to take control of technology to prevent violence against women, for her project. “Indu’s is one of 18 grants that are part of our All Women Count – Take Back the Tech initiative, with innovative grants in gender and tech challenging online gender-based violence in a multitude of ways throughout Africa and in India, Sri Lanka and Pakistan,” says Erika Smith, APC Women's Rights Programme. As part of it, Indu invites women to mail their stories, which are then illustrated and shared on her Instagram handle, induviduality. As someone who has faced gender-based violence in an intimate relationship, she feels that it is important for people to have safe spaces to share. “There is so much shame because violence -- emotional, physical or sexual --immediately makes you feel like you don't belong. So spaces where others are sharing too helps one feel less alone and heal in some ways,” says Indu, who launched the project, which will run for one-and-a-half months, on August 29. The response has been immense – from the woman who uploads pictures of her baby daughter so creeps keep away, to women who have talked about being slut-shamed and their photographs called ‘dirty’. You hear stories of people installing spyware on women’s phones, asking them for live locations. And of the couple in a long-distance relationship, where the girl had to share her Facebook password with her boyfriend because he was insecure, but she didn't have access to his. Many women end up restricting themselves -- not putting up their photos, never arguing with folks, never sharing a political opinion, not showing cleavage, cigarettes or alcohol, never mentioning location, and never accepting follow requests from strangers. Since the stories are personal and often emotionally triggering, Indu does tell contributors to only share what they are okay with, and not divulge any details that are difficult for them to process. “But many tell me that though it was difficult to relive and write about their trauma, it has been cathartic,” says Indu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-artist-helps-women-reclaim-online-spaces/articleshow/78193829.cms||Priya Menon
September 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Number of active Covid cases surges past 4,000||Coimbatore: Even as most of the districts in the state are witnessing a drop in Covid cases, Coimbatore remains a cause of concern showing no signs of a fall in the number of fresh cases.On Friday, Coimbatore recorded 543 new cases, taking the total cases reported in the district so far to 24,778, an increase of more than 3,500 cases in the last 10 days, one of the sharpest surges since June when cases started spiking. All these days the number of discharged people was more or less equal to the number of new cases, thus maintaining the active cases on the same level. However, on Friday the number of active cases undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals in the district surged past 4,000 as the people discharged dropped to 108. Till date, 20,372 people admitted for Covid treatment in various hospitals of the district have been discharged.At present, the number of people undergoing treatment in Coimbatore account for 16% of the total infected in the district, while in places like Chennai and Madurai, those under treatment account for 6% and 4% respectively. In fact, the proportion of people under treatment was higher in western zone compared to other regions indicating that rest of Tamil Nadu was witnessing a fall in Covid cases while in western TN cases are still surging. Tirupur district had the highest percentage of people under treatment followed by Salem. In Tirupur, 1,746 people, accounting for 30 % of total cases are undergoing treatment. The textile hub, however, saw a marginal drop in the number of fresh cases on Friday as only 187 people tested positive as against 200-odd people testing positive over the past few days.The Coimbatore corporation has once again issued an ultimatum to traders and commercial establishments to enforce social distancing and wearing of face masks. “Social distancing should be maintained in meat shops, groceries, commercial complexes, textile and jewellery outlets, markets and other public places. Face masks is mandatory for everyone. Meat shops should have markings with two metre distance for people to stand,’’ corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/number-of-active-covid-cases-surges-past-4000/articleshow/78193811.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Coimbatore||1 more accused in Kodanad burglary case surrenders||Udhagamandalam: One more accused in the Kodanad murder and burglary case surrendered before the district magistrate court here on Friday.Sathesan, of Kerala, has been on the run ever since the court issued an arrest warrant against him and seven others in the case on August 21.Earlier, Santhosh Samy, another accused in the case, had surrendered before the court on Tuesday.On Friday too, police failed to produce all the 10 accused before the court for hearing. They could produce only eight accused. With the surrender of Sathesan, they have nine accused in the custody. The court subsequently adjourned the hearing and posted the same on September 23.In a direct examination, however, four witnesses were questioned during the hearing on the day. Eight of the accused were taken to the Coimbatore Central Prison after the court proceedings. The ninth accused, Jamseer Ali, who is in the custody of Kerala police, was sent back.The 10th accused, Deepu, is still at large. At least five hearings in the case had come up before the court in the past one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-more-accused-in-kodanad-burglary-case-surrenders/articleshow/78193820.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases drop to 589 in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 72 new cases of novel coronavirus on Friday, taking the count to 2,750.The active cases, however, dropped to 589 with 101 patients getting discharged from treatment centres on the day. At least 2,144 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the hill district so far at a recovery rate of 78%.Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said, “Almost 80% of the 589 active cases is from rural areas.” According to him, most of the new cases were reported from rural areas, while Ooty and Coonoor towns recorded only a few cases. While 90% of the new cases were primary and secondary contacts of the earlier patients, the remaining had travel history to other districts.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-drop-to-589-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78193824.cms||---
September 19, 2020||Jaipur||Woman raped in Alwar, accused force nephew to rape her as well||Alwar/Jaipur: A 45-year woman was raped in Alwar district’s Tijara police station area while she was returning from a village along Haryana border with her nephew. The assault got worse when the accused forced the woman’s nephew to rape her, the video of which they uploaded on social media. Two persons including the main accused in the case have been arrested while a minor has been detained. According to the complainant, the assault happened on September 14 when she along with her nephew were returning home and were going across the hill to reach their home when the accused who were carrying axe and sticks stopped them. According to the FIR, the accused started abusing the duo and when the complainant asked them to stop, they started sexually assaulting her. Bhiwadi SP Ram Moorty Joshi said, “The woman registered the case with us on Thursday night and seeing the gravity of the matter, we immediately started an investigation. We have arrested two accused and and detained a minor. Four teams have been sent to Haryana to find the remaining. The survivor’s medical examination was also done.” The accused were identified as Aasam Meo and Sahud Meo along with one juvenile. Elaborating on the ordeal, the complainant in her statement said they beat up her nephew when he tried to intervene and while one person raped her, others helped him in holding her down. The statement also said that after the assault, the accused forced her nephew to rape her as well to ensure that she would not report the matter to police and took a video of the act as well which apparently surfaced initially in Haryana. Sources claimed that the video was circulated on social media by the accused which was possibly seen by the survivor’s family as well following which they decided to register the case. This is not the first time when such a heinous crime has been reported in Alwar. In April 2019, a woman travelling with her husband was waylaid by five persons. They took turns to rape her, recorded the video of the act and shared it on social websites. The police had come under fire after it was revealed that they had delayed the registration of an FIR in the case. The police team later arrested the five accused for rape and one for sharing the video online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-raped-in-alwar-accused-force-nephew-to-rape-her-as-well/articleshow/78195252.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
