September 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Rs6 crore worth of drugs seized so far, this year||The ongoing drug scandal, which links the Kannada film industry and the nightlife industry to substance abuse, has grabbed a lot of attention over the past three weeks. The daily updates of the probe and the names that have come up have left many shocked. Sandeep Patil — Joint Commissioner, Crime, Bengaluru — says that their fight against drugs has been relentless, and it shows in the number of raids and subsequent seizures that have been done so far, this year. Phenomenal increase in substance abuseUntil September 2020, the police have seized more than `6 crore worth of drugs, which is nearly twice the amount when compared with that of last year. Elaborating on the same, Sandeep says, “We have seen a phenomenal increase in the consumption of synthetic drugs, such as LSD. So far, we have seized over 2,700 strips. The hike is seen in terms of hashish oil as well. Last year, we had seized around 1.6 litres, while this year, we have already seized around 23 litres of oil. When it comes to marijuana, in 2019, we had seized around 1,000 kgs. This year, it is already about 2,600 kgs.” Apart from these, some of the newer items that seem to have caught the fancy of the youth include marijuana jellies. New avenues of drug trafficking surfaceThe police have also made some major breakthroughs in different ways of trafficking. Sandeep says, “We broke through some new procurement areas, like the dark web. This is a newer phenomenon, and we have registered four cases, in which the procurement has been done from abroad. Our quest to crack drug trafficking on the dark web will continue.” Another shocking discovery was that trafficking is now also being done through postal ways. “We have found instances where there is involvement from other agencies like the postal department. Four postal department staff members have already been arrested for connivance in this regard,” he adds. Zero tolerance 20202019: 768 cases registered; Rs 3.46 crore worth of substance seized 2020: 1,700 cases registered; over Rs 6 crore worth of substances seized until September||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rs6-crore-worth-of-drugs-seized-so-far-this-year/articleshow/78208445.cms||Sunayana Suresh
September 20, 2020||Business||Govt working to reduce e-vehicle tax: Niti Aayog CEO||GUWAHATI: Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said the government was pushing for electric motilities with FAME and FAME 2 schemes, bringing down the rate of taxes on electric vehicles at 5%, as compared to 28% for other vehicles and 43% for hybrid vehicles. “We also give tax exemption, up to Rs 1 lakh, to people who are buying electric vehicles. As a consequence of all this, the focus on electrification will be huge and if India has to emerge as a leader in clean, connected and shared mobility, there are two important things to keep in mind — one is that India is a major user of two- and three-wheelers and 80% of people travel in these vehicles. Second, battery will be an important component. Battery manufacturing and storage will be a key component and storage will have to be linked to renewable energy integration with the grid,” he said in an interactive session for students of the first batch of MS (Research) in e-mobility programme, organised by IIT-Guwahati on Saturday. Kant congratulated the IIT-Guwahati fraternity for starting the unique course on e-mobility at the premier technology institute. “This is a path-breaking initiative because India is in the middle of a mist of technological disruption and revolution. This disruption will lead to a huge and massive shift from combustion vehicles to electric vehicles and we are heading towards a shared and connected zero-emission world,” he said. Anil Srivastava, mission director of Niti Aayog, said it was looking forward to making more energy-efficient and less-costing batteries. “The e-vehicles are not required to give much tax. India is a great user of two and three-wheelers and e-vehicles will make a great opportunity in it,” said Srivastava. Speaking during the session, Prof TG Sitharam, director of IIT-Guwahati, said, “From this year, we have introduced a policy such that every academic department should have at least three successful industry advisors who are successful in research and development in industry, so that the curriculum can be inclusive of industry relevant problems over a period of time. If we look at the government’s policy, India wants to achieve 30 percent of e-mobility by 2030”. Prof. Praveen Kumar, coordinator of the MS(R) programme also spoke at the programme. He said that industry expert lectures, from India, European Union (EU), and Japan, on topics related to e- mobility such as vehicle design philosophy, light-weighting, new battery chemistries, are planned. "Professors of Practice (PoPs) will deliver lectures on niche topics like AUTOSAR, advanced control techniques, vehicle design, and we will develop a centre of advanced research in e-mobility at the Institute," Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-working-to-reduce-e-vehicle-tax-niti-aayog-ceo/articleshow/78210495.cms||Kangkan Kalita
September 20, 2020||Thane||This visarjan, artificial lakes were cleaner than before||THANE: A study carried out by the civic body’s pollution control cell to check the pollution levels in the artifical lakes in the city during the Ganesh festival showed that the water quality this year was better than the previous years. The report stated that the water quality was within the permissible levels of the Central Pollution Control Board. “The water quality was at the optimum this year as per the CPCB standards. The pH level of the creek was around 7.5 to 8,” said Prasad Karnik, environmentalist and president of Paryavaran Dakshata Manch (NGO). Meanwhile, the civic body has attributed the drop in pollution levels to the decrease in the number of visarjans. “This year, the number of immersions was less as compared to the previous years due to coronavirus. Many sarvajanik mandals cancelled the celebrations. The size of the idol was also decreased. Another reason was that many opted for eco-friendly idols. Some devotees also immersed their idols at home,” said Manisha Pradhan, head of the TMC’s pollution control department. “We use potassium permanganate, alum and carry out an aeration system in the artificial lakes. This helps to maintain the oxygen levels in the water and ensures that the quality is not deteriorate,” she added. After the virsarjan, the water from the artificial lakes is released into Thane creek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/this-visarjan-artificial-lakes-were-cleaner-than-before/articleshow/78210570.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
September 20, 2020||India||More power to NSUI as Congress appoints 85 national coordinators||LUCKNOW: Strengthening its student’s body, the National Students’ Union of India, the Congress Party appointed as many as 85 national coordinators across different states. In UP, 12 national coordinators were given the charge of different parts of the state by a committee comprising party president Sonia Gandhi, who is also the chairperson of central advisory committee, and NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan. The list of 12 included separate NSUI national coordinators for Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University campus. While Ziaul Haque was delegated the responsibility of DU, Vinay Yadav was handed over the charge of JNU. The other national coordinators from UP included: Manya Sharma, Amlendra Tripathi, Aditya Chaudhary, Jitesh Mishra, Parbhleen Kaur, Abhishek Pratap Singh, Pranav Pandey, Amir Chouhan, Vivek Patel and Rahul Raj. Party insiders were of the view that there is a lot of resentment among youth on account of unemployment and it is the right time to channelise their sentiments and consolidate them against the ruling BJP government whose faulty policies are responsible for their suffering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/more-power-to-nsui-as-congress-appoints-85-national-coordinators/articleshow/78210595.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Sixth day of online cultural event brings together varied talent||Online Kala Mahotsav 'Nayi Umeed Nayi Pehel' organised by North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala (Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India), entered day six on Saturday. Artistes from different parts of the country are being given a platform to reach out to a bigger audience and get financial support in the times of the pandemic. Director NZCC Prof Saubhagya Vardhan addressed the audience and the artists attending the online meet.Starting from 2 pm, everyday five painters and sculptors are demonstrating live works on specific themes. Painters Parveen and Sanjay Kumar from Himachal Pradesh, Nagesh Maruti and Prasad Mistri from Maharashtra, Kadambari and Sarabjeet from Punjab, are painting Lord Krishna mostly in acrylic colours in the batch two that started from Thursday.Manisha Verma, a sculptor from Khairagarh, Chhatisgarh, says that the series of wooden installation she is making has been named 'I need my space'. Her work depicts the story of seeds that do not want to get crushed for flour. They want to grow to become a tree. She further explains that if a seed dares, it can have its own strong roots.Sculptors Vishal, Rajender, Jagdeep and Shankar also gave live demonstration of the making of their sculptures (wooden installations).The performers from Snobar Folk Theatre, Gulgam, Kupwara, presented the play 'Luk Pather', in the traditional Bhand Pather style. The artistes lead by Fayaz Ahmed Bhagat and group, portrayed the story of the modern era, where the youth consider their friends and technology over their parents and family. Fifteen artistes presented the act with great fervour playing shehnai, dhol, nagada and harmonium.As part of the series, writer and poet Shri Vijay Kumar Puri from Palampur, spoke about the life and works of Saint Guru Nanak. Puri gave a glimpse of Nanak's shabad and kirtan style. Belonging to the Nirgun Shakha (those who believed that God has no form) of the Bhakti Movement, Nanak wrote in a soft and pleasant language that included vocabulary from Braj Bhasha, Gurmukhi and Khadi Boli. He believed that 'God is one' and was thus called 'Sarveshwarvadi'. Nanak undertook long journeys as a saint and his travels were named as 'Udasiyan'.Bachan Ram and group from Chandigarh, amused the audience with Boliyan, Bhangra, Jhoomar and Gidda. The artistes sang and danced to the tunes of algoza, bugchu, dhol and tumba. Senior artiste Dr Kulbir Kaur from Mehtab Arts Society, narrated the story 'Nasha' by Munshi Premchand. Its' a story of two friends. One is poor and the other is rich. The poor one realises that the rich are addicted to their ways and feels the same on visiting his friend's house. But later due to some events, he comes out of that state of mind. Kulbir has directed many plays and has a rich experience in the field. Some of her noteworthy works are Meera by Gulzar, Mrityunjaya, Gilli Danda and Sophia.Kathak Guru Shobha Koser from Jaipur Gharana taught primary lessons of the dance form to the learners and aspiring dancers. Everyday she included foot work, hand movements, kavit and todas and gave live demonstration with musicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sixth-day-of-online-cultural-event-brings-together-varied-talent/articleshow/78210685.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||NCERT officials involved in book piracy?||NEW DELHI: The finger of suspicion of large-scale piracy of textbooks published by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) now points at its officials. Documents, internal inquiry reports of the NCERT submitted to the ministry of education (MoE), transcripts of phone conversation, and messages (copies of which are with the TOI) reveal that the council sat on a whistleblower’s alert for five days. It initiated action only after the intervention of secretary of MoE (then called HRD ministry). NCERT insiders say that the recent seizure of pirated textbooks in Meerut and Amroha are just the tip of the iceberg and need independent investigation on involvement of council’s officials. On December 20, 2018 the whistle-blower passed on a tip to Ashutosh Mishra, vigilance and security officer (VSO), that a large number of pirated books were stored at one of the empanelled printing presses in Greater Noida. The same message was also sent to Hrushikesh Senapaty, director, NCERT, and Rina Ray, the then school education secretary. It is claimed that the official also happened to make a visit to the empanelled press for a different matter the very next day. He saw the books and immediately informed the VSO of the exact location of the pirated textbooks. As revealed by the documents, neither the VSO nor the director NCERT initiated any action for five days, until Ray intervened on December 24, 2018. The raid was conducted the next day, and nothing was found. A report on this raid, prepared by the VSO, was forwarded by the director to Ray on December 27, 2018, wherein it claimed that after receiving the tip-off “immediate action” was taken, where in actual fact action was delayed by five days. A set of questions were emailed to the director and secretary of NCERT. Replying on behalf of the NCERT, the VSO didn’t provide any reasons for the inaction for five days. “The official did not wait for authority response in the matter and himself made a visit to above printers in the morning hours… The proprietor of firm lodged a complaint against the official and informed about his unauthorised visit. The owner did not allow the official to inspect the press,” and “When not allowed by firm owner, the official contacted VSO telephonically around 1015 AM…. The VSO told him that by making such visit without having any approval of competent authority, you have alerted the firm owner and there is possibility that unauthorised books as claimed might have been shifted from the premises.” However, the transcript of the telephonic conversation revealed there was no discussion on unauthorised visit and the proprietor emailed to NCERT on December 26 alleging the “unauthorised” visit after the surprise check was conducted by the VSO-led team. In fact, as per the conversation, the whistleblower on December 21 told the VSO that any delay will lead to an unsuccessful raid. A retired NCERT official on condition of anonymity said that “this nation-wide industry of piracy of the NCERT textbooks cannot flourish without the active connivance of NCERT officials... It starts with creating artificial shortage, following which demand for pirated textbooks and textbooks of private publishers shoots up. Even half the total requirement is never printed by the time the academic session begins. The printing continues even well beyond December. It is no surprise that NCERT meticulously stonewalls its real-time data related to the status of printing of textbooks. And any action against the piracy is mere eyewash. Generally, before any raid is actually conducted based on any complaint, the erring printers are alerted by these officials.” He added that “Prakash Javadekar, the then HRD minister, raised serious concern over this issue of piracy in a meeting. Then under the pressure of the MHRD, NCERT had to start on-line delivery of textbooks through India Post.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncert-officials-involved-in-book-piracy/articleshow/78212118.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
September 20, 2020||India||Govt presses ahead on labour reforms||NEW DELHI: The government on Saturday introduced three new Bills to amend and consolidate labour laws with an eye on expanding the social security net to include migrant and gig economy workers, while also seeking to provide greater flexibility to businesses to hire and fire employees. Coming amid political protests over changes in the regime governing mandis, the labour law overhaul signals the Narendra Modi government’s resolve to press ahead with reforms. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar introduced the three crucial bills : Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code 2020, the Code on Social Security, and the Industrial Relations Code, amid stiff opposition from the Congress, Left and a few others. A key element of the proposed Social Security Code is to clearly define migrant workers and also enlarge the scope of the current scheme to cover the gig economy and those outside the organised sector, while recognising the emergence of online platforms and aggregators that provide access to workers. The Bill has mandated registration of all unorganised and gig and platform workers and provision of insurance, maternity, creche and old age protection benefits. Besides, companies with not less than 300 workers are proposed to be allowed to hire and fire workers without seeking prior government permission as part of the Industrial Relation Code Bill 2020, which was also introduced in Lok Sabha. This has been a contentious move for years with trade unions opposing change of the current norms where only those industrial establishments with less than 100 employees are permitted to hire and fire employees without government permission. Although government has stopped well short of conceding the demand by entreprenurs for leeway for "hire and fire", the relaxation of the threshhold should help the medium enterprises. As part of its "Atma Nirbhar Bharat" push, the government has decided to encourage the medium enteprises to grow in size. The bill also reflects the changing nature of the economy; the growth of the gig sector and the vulnerability of sections of workers, from migrant labour to house helpers, who despite playing a crucial role did not fit into the traditional defintion of " worker". The three Code Bills replace the three eponymous legislations that were moved in Lok Sabha last year, and which were subsequently deliberated upon by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour. Amid protests from the Opposition, Gangwar justified the new Bills, arguing that they will amalgamate 29 existing labour laws and pave the way for simplifying laws and take welfare measures to India’s 50 crore workers spanning the organised and unorganised sectors. Gangwar also said the labour ministry had accepted 74% of the 233 recommendations made to it by the Bhartruhari Mahtab-led standing committee on labour, and included key additions like the extension of making all categories of workers eligible for minimum wages, as against only 30% of the workforce being eligible at present. Minimum wages, the minister added, would also be extended to the entire service sector, domestic workers, unorganized workers, and teachers, among others. On Saturday, key contentions raised by Congress MPs Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor were that the three bills were fundamentally changed versions of their earlier forms. Tewari said the Code on Social Security is discriminatory and that while 9 laws were amalgamated, many were left out. Congress also opposed too much in the proposed legislations being left to the executive. “Labour rights are hard won fundamental freedoms and cannot be left to the vagaries of the executive,” Tewari said. He also contended that the Code Bills suffered from “definition nightmares” pointing to the lack of unanimity in defining “workers” in different parts of the Code Bills. With respect to the industrial relations code, Tharoor said it severely restricts the right of workers to strike and also allows state or central governments to amend the threshold for applicability relating to layoffs and retrenchment. Describing it as a blow to the rights of workers, both Congress MPs opposed the Bill, sought their withdrawal and asked for wider consultations before introducing them. Gangwar, however, said the government had engaged in wide consultations over these bills, receiving over 6,000 online comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-presses-ahead-on-labour-reforms/articleshow/78212129.cms||Swati Mathur
September 20, 2020||India||TRS joins opposition to agri bills, but govt remains confident||NEW DELHI: Amid determined resistance to the three farm sector-related bills by Congress and others, government managers remained confident of the passage in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday of the troika of legislations aimed at liberalising trade in agricultural commodities. On a day when BJP’s estranged ally SAD, Congress, DMK and TRS instructed their members in the Upper House to vote against the bills, government managers dismissed the suggestion that the legislations might get blocked in the RS where BJP does not have a majority of its own. “They will go through 200 percent. In fact, numbers are so heavily stacked in our favour that chances are they may be passed by a voice vote,” said a senior BJP member. Twelve parties — Congress, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, Telangana Rashtriya Samithi, DMK, AAP, RJD, CPM, CPI, Shiv Sena, NCP, IUML — had signed a joint resolution two days ago and submitted it to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asking for the bills to be sent to the Select Committee. They all will obviously be opposing the legislations cleared by the Lok Sabha on Friday, when it comes up in the Upper House. NDA which has a strength of 110 excluding SAD in the House with existing strength of 242, is also assured of the support of 24 other members belongings to regional formations like AIADMK, BJD and others. The SAD has issued whip to its three MPs in Rajya Sabha to vote against the three bills. The party has three members in the Rajya Sabha – Naresh Gujral, Balwinder Singh Bhunder and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. Talking to TOI, Gujral said the party remains part of the NDA but strongly opposes the bill in its current form. “We are opposing the bill as our demand is that it should be sent to the select committee. All doubts be cleared by taking all stakeholders into confidence,” Gujral said Congress managers have reached out to non-NDA parties, the "unattached block", but were not sure of the success of the effort. Further, at least 10 of its members who are above 65 and have not attended the House due to Covid are unlikely to take part in the voting. There were indications that BSP might abstain from voting. Although chief of the Dalit outfit Mayawati had on Friday tweeted to oppose bills, sources said that it was likely to avoid taking sides. The sudden switch to caution was being attributed to persuasion by a Union minister and a senior BJP functionary. Government managers are leaving nothing to chance to ensure the smooth passage of the bills which Prime Minister on Friday termed as "historic pro-farmer measures". BJD, which supported the three bills in Lok Sabha despite misgivings and wants government to address them, avoided spelling out its stand. Sources, however, ruled out the possibility of the party voting against the legislations. "We might insist that government satisfies us during the debate, but are not going to cast a ‘no’ vote. We have never done that against this government", said a senior party source on the condition of anonymity. The House has allotted four hours for discussion and voting, if it happens, on Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, The Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 for discussion and passage. The legislations are aimed at liberalising trade in agricultural produce by ending the monopolies of APMCs, the mandis, and marginalising the grip of the aadhatiyas or the middlemen. Although BJP's oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) pulled out of the Modi government to protest against the legislations meant to restructure agricultural trade and amid continuing opposition from Congress and others, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asserted about importance of the bills, terming them " historic" pro-farmer measures and has dismissed the resistance posed by various parties. DMK leader Dayanidhi Maran said, “We will be voting against it as we did in the Lok Sabha. Our leader M K Stalin is having an all party meeting in Chennai on Monday to discuss and chart out a strategy to protest throughout the state against this anti-farmers bill. Another Tamil Nadu party, MDMK also announced its opposition to bills. Watch TRS joins opposition to vote against farm bills, govt remains confident||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trs-joins-opposition-to-agri-bills-but-govt-remains-confident/articleshow/78212146.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
---||Business||Myths About Wealth Creation||UTI Mutual FundHuman Beings learn critical life lessons in two ways Instructional way and Experiential way. Lessons that humans learn from others experience are easy lessons … for example we all were taught in the childhood that fire can burn our skin. We did not have to experience it to learn it. But there are lessons that are unfortunately not taught to most of us and hence are learnt hard way. Financial lessons are mostly learned the hard way as our formal education system barely touches them. It is for this reason that a lot of basic financial lessons, like the power of compounding or real returns are not known to masses during their active working life. These lessons are learnt after paying a huge cost in real life and most times at an advanced age.I also learnt a few financial lessons during my 25 years of working life the hard way. One pays a heavy price for each of the lessons. In order to share these lessons to the younger generation, I share here the Myths about Wealth Creation that were there in my mind early in my career and got busted over the years.Creating wealth in long term to achieve financial freedom is a goal for many of us. It’s like diligently investing in yourself, education and knowledge, learning the basics, understanding risk and reward, taking appropriate risk where required.But people generally have misconceptions which pull them back from building wealth and eventually puts a full stop to their financial independence.Myth – People who earn more are rich.One of the biggest myths that becomes a hurdle in the journey of wealth creation. My grandfather taught me at a young age a lesson that I believe should be imbibed into every youngster.Its not what you eat, but what you digest that makes you HealthyIts not what you read, but what you absorb that makes you WiseIts not what you Earn but what you save (and judiciously invest) that makes you WealthySaving is the first step in the journey to Wealth Creation. Someone who earns 10 lakhs a month may not progress on the path to Wealth Creation if he doesn’t save any money while his driver who earns 30 thousand a month may be able to create Wealth, if he diligently saves a part of his earnings and invests judiciously.The value of this lesson – Spend less than what you earn - is immense if someone learns this at a young age.Myth – Investment requires a lot of moneyMany people think they need to wait until they have accumulated a large sum of money to be able to invest but honestly that’s just a limiting belief. The fact is you can start investing in mutual funds with a sum as less as ₹500 per month. Choose a fund that fits your risk profile perfectly or take a help from an advisor to start your journey of wealth creation.Myth - We know all wonders of the WorldWe were taught about 7 wonders of the world in our school. But no one taught us what Albert Einstein called the 8 the wonder of world – Magic of Compounding. He said “Compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. He who understands it earns it… he who doesn’t… pays it.” Compounding essentially works on 2 principles: Reinvestment of earnings Time The concept is based on time value of money, which means the value of money changes depending upon when it is received.You do not need a large investible corpus to create wealth, the power of systematic investment is unlocked through compounding and the key to its success is discipline.The two most critical aspect of Magic of Compounding is Return and Time. The true magic can not be witnessed in the absence of any one of them. Regular reploughing the return earned over a long period of time can create Wealth that is unbelievable to mostbyDeepak MehtaHead – SIP, National Distributors and Retail BanksUTI Mutual FundAn Investor Education Initiative by UTI Mutual FundMutual Fund investments are subject to market risks, read all scheme related documents carefully.To know about the KYC documentary requirements and procedure for change of address, phone number, bank details, etc. please visit https://www.utimf.com/servicerequest/kyc. Please deal with only registered Mutual funds, details of which can be verified on the SEBI website under "Intermediaries/market Infrastructure Institutions". All complaints regarding UTI Mutual Fund can be directed towards service@uti.co.in and/or visit www.scores.gov.in (SEBI SCORES portal). This material is part of Investor Education and awareness initiative of UTI Mutual Fund.This is a PART IFor PART II Please visit https://rb.gy/ztzlu7Disclaimer: Content Produced by UTI Mutual Fund||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/myths-about-wealth-creation/articleshow/78212151.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||17% of teaching posts in govt schools vacant||NEW DELHI: A total of 17.1% of the teaching posts in government schools are lying vacant at present. In terms of absolute number, the largest vacancies are in Bihar (2.7 lakh) followed by Uttar Pradesh (2.1 lakh). Percentage-wise Sikkim with 57.5% vacancies has the highest vacancies, followed by Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Replying to a written question at the Lok Sabha on Saturday, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said: “The recruitment of teachers is a continuous process and the vacancies keep arising due to retirement and additional requirements on account of enhanced students’ strength. Education is in the concurrent list of the Constitution. The recruitment, service conditions and deployment of teachers come under the purview of the concerned State/UT Government.” As per the data released by the ministry, there are six states with more than 20% vacancies which include Jharkhand (40.1%), Bihar (39.9%), Uttar Pradesh (28.8%), Uttarakhand (24.3%) and Chhattisgarh (21.7). There are a total of 61.8 lakh sanctioned posts in government schools in the country of which there are 10.6 lakh posts lying vacant as of 2020-21 academic session. Among the states which have the lowest number of vacancies include Mizoram (no vacancy), Maharashtra (0.8%), Tamil Nadu (1.4%), Punjab (2.2%), Gujarat (2.6%), Nagaland (2.7%) and Kerala (2.8%). Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha and Meghalaya too have vacancy percentage lower than 5%. There are 10 states that have vacancies between 11.1% and 19.5%, which include Madhya Pradesh (19.5%), Jammu and Kashmir (16.6%), Karnataka (14.2%), Andhra Pradesh (14.1%), Manipur (13%), Telangana (12.7%), Rajasthan (11.6%), West Bengal (11.3%) and Delhi (11.1%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/17-of-teaching-posts-in-govt-schools-vacant/articleshow/78212162.cms||---
September 20, 2020||World||Trump will nominate a woman next week to succeed Ginsburg on Supreme Court||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said on Saturday he will nominate a woman to sit on the U.S. Supreme Court, a move that would tip the court further to the right following the death of liberal Ruth Bader Ginsburg. "I will be putting forth a nominee next week. It will be a woman," Trump said at a campaign rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina. "I think it should be a woman because I actually like women much more than men." As Trump spoke, supporters chanted: "Fill that seat." Earlier, he praised two women as possible choices for the US Supreme Court: conservatives he elevated to federal appeals courts. Trump, with a chance to nominate a third justice to a lifetime appointment, named Amy Coney Barrett of the Chicago-based 7th Circuit and Barbara Lagoa of the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit as possible nominees. Ginsburg's death on Friday from cancer after 27 years on the court handed Trump, who is seeking re-election on Nov. 3, the opportunity to expand its conservative majority to 6-3 at a time of a gaping political divide in America. Any nomination would require approval in the Senate, where Trump's Republicans hold a 53-47 majority. Not all Republican senators supported the move: Maine's Susan Collins on Saturday said a nomination should wait. "In fairness to the American people, who will either be re-electing the President or selecting a new one, the decision on a lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court should be made by the President who is elected on November 3rd," Collins, facing a tough re-election race herself, said on Twitter. Democrats are still seething over the Republican Senate's refusal in 2016 to act on Democratic President Barack Obama's Supreme Court nominee, Merrick Garland. Conservative Justice Antonin Scalia died 10 months before that election, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell then said the Senate should not act on a nominee during an election year. He has reversed that stance now. Even if Democrats win the White House and a Senate majority in the November election, Trump and McConnell might be able to push through their choice before the new president and Congress are sworn in on Jan. 3. Senior congressional Democrats raised the prospect of adding more justices next year to counterbalance Trump's nominees if they win control of the White House and Senate. "Let me be clear: if Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans move forward with this, then nothing is off the table for next year," Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer told fellow Democrats on a Saturday conference call, according to a source who listened to the call. McConnell, who has made confirmation of Trump's federal judicial nominees a priority, said the chamber would vote on any Trump nominee. Democrats, with few tools to block passage of a nominee, plan to try to rally public opposition. "The focus needs to be showing the public what's at stake in this fight. And what's at stake is really people's access to affordable healthcare, workers' rights and women's rights," said Democratic Senator Chris Van Hollen in a telephone interview. Obama on Saturday called on Senate Republicans to honor what he called McConnell's "invented" 2016 principle. "A basic principle of the law — and of everyday fairness — is that we apply rules with consistency, and not based on what’s convenient or advantageous in the moment," Obama said in a statement posted online. AMY CONEY BARRETT AND BARBARA LAGOAEven before Ginsburg's death, Trump had made public a list of potential nominees. Barrett has generated perhaps the most interest in conservative circles. A devout Roman Catholic, she was a legal scholar at Notre Dame Law School in Indiana before Trump appointed her to the 7th Circuit in 2017. Abortion-rights groups have pointed to Barrett's conservative religious views and said that as a judge, she would likely vote to overturn the landmark 1973 Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision that legalized abortion nationwide. Lagoa has served on the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for less than a year after Trump appointed her and the Senate confirmed her in an 80-15 vote. Prior to that, she spent less than a year in her previous position as the first Latina on the Florida Supreme Court, after more than a decade as a judge on an intermediate appeals court in the state. Another candidate Trump had considered previously is Amul Thapar. He was a district court judge in Kentucky - the first federal judge of South Asian descent - before Trump appointed him to the Cincinnati-based 6th Circuit in 2017. During the 2016 campaign, Trump promised to appoint justices who would overturn Roe v. Wade, a longtime goal of conservative activists. Even with the current conservative majority, the court voted 5-4 in July to strike down a restrictive Louisiana abortion law. Trump has already appointed two justices: Neil Gorsuch in 2017 and Brett Kavanaugh in 2018. Kavanaugh was narrowly confirmed after a heated confirmation process in which he angrily denied accusations by a California university professor, Christine Blasey Ford, that he had sexually assaulted her in 1982 when the two were high school students in Maryland. SENATE RACES IN FOCUSHouse of Representatives Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler on Saturday said that rushing a court pick through the Senate if Democrats win in November would be "undemocratic." He said on Twitter: "Congress would have to act and expanding the court would be the right place to start." With Democrats fighting hard to win control of the narrowly divided Senate, confirmation votes could also add pressure to incumbent Republican senators in competitive election races, including Collins and Arizona's Martha McSally. Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, a Republican who is not up for re-election this cycle, told local media on Friday, prior to Ginsburg's death, that she would not vote for a Supreme Court nominee so close to the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-likely-to-nominate-a-woman-to-succeed-ginsburg-on-supreme-court/articleshow/78212175.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mysuru||Kisan Rail to chug away from Friday||Mysuru: The first Kisan Rail special covering six major cities of the state - Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hassan, Davanagere, Hubballi, and Belagavi - will start its journey on September 19, from Bengaluru to Nizamuddin in Delhi. As per a notification issued by South Western Railway (SWR) five trips are planned on both the directions till mid-October. This train is expected to help farmers from the state to reach out to their customers in northern and western states of the country. Ashok Kumar Verma, deputy regional manager, Bengaluru, confirmed the first Kisan Rail will start its journey from Bengaluru on Saturday. This train will have 12 LHB coaches. According to the draft schedule, this train will leave from Bengaluru on every Saturday between September 19 and October 17. On the opposite direction, it will be operated on every Tuesday between September 22 and October 20. The train will depart Bengaluru at 4.45pm and reach Mysuru at 7.30pm. It will travel via Hassan, Arasikere, Davanagere, Hubballi, Belagavi, Pune etc. “Mysuru, Hassan, Davanagere, Hubballi and Belagavi etc are known for farming activities and several farm products from these regions are sent to north Indian states. This train will provide a link between the farmers and buyers. The train will take two and half days to cover the distance,” officials said. According to SWR sources, a final schedule is expected in a couple of days as officials are busy with farmers and agriculture stakeholders to ensure the train will operate with full capacity. “If the demand is lukewarm, the schedule may be altered as per the requirements of the stakeholders,” added sources. “Our officials are now meeting APMC authorities, agro industries, farmers’ groups etc. The response is encouraging,” said a source. S Yogendra of Mysuru Railway Commuters Forum said, “Everyone are curious about the response for this train which is exclusively launched for the benefit of farmers. Hope, it will get a good response.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kisan-rail-to-chug-away-from-friday/articleshow/78174666.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 20, 2020||Surat||Braveheart doctor responds to ECMO treatment in Chennai||Surat: Dr Sanket Mehta, the corona warrior anaesthesiologist who risked his life to intubate a critically ill Covid-19 patient, has regained consciousness and his lungs are fully expanded within seven days of treatment at the MGM Hospital in Chennai. Dr Mehta was admitted at the BAPS Hospital in Adajan for 47 days-- on the ventilator for 25 days and on ECMO treatment for 22 days. As his condition did not improve, Dr Mehta was shifted to the MGM Hospital in an air ambulance on September 13. Family members said that when he was brought at the MGM Hospital, the doctors there found his both his lungs had collapsed with excessive purulent discharge from bronchus. He was immediately put on 100% advanced ECMO treatment. Doctors said that after seven days of treatment, Dr Mehta is fully conscious and the secretion is decreasing fast. His ECMO settings have been reduced from 100% to 50%. Dr Hiral Shah, vice-president of Surat Anaesthetists Association (SAA) told TOI: “This is a very good news for the doctors fraternity and people from across the country who have donated funds for Dr Mehta’s treatment. He is fully conscious and that his lung secretion has decreased to a considerable level.” Dr Shah added, “His tracheotomy was done on Saturday and aggressive physiotherapy for critical care neuropathy is going on. We are hopeful that Dr Mehta will recover soon and will be back in Surat to serve the people.” Dr Jayesh Thakkral, president of SAA, who is accompanying the family members in Chennai said, “We had appealed for prayers to the doctors and general public in Surat. It seems the prayers have worked for Dr Mehta. It’s a miracle that his condition has improved drastically within a week’s time. If things are good, his ECMO treatment may be stopped in the coming days as his lungs have expanded” WHAT IS ECMO TREATMENT? Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) treatment involves a machine somewhat similar used in heart-lung bypass. The machine virtually carries out the functions of lungs and heart where patient’s lungs cannot release carbon dioxide and heart cannot pump enough blood. In April this year, the US Food & Drugs Administration (USFDA) had approved ECMO treatment for critically ill Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/braveheart-doctor-responds-to-ecmo-treatment-in-chennai/articleshow/78209795.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Patna||Minister launches projects worth Rs 32 crore in 2 districts of Bihar||PATNA/ARA: Union minister of state (independent charge) for power and new and renewable energy R K Singh on Saturday laid foundation for the corporate social responsibility (CSR) projects to be undertaken by REC Ltd worth Rs 24 crore in Muzaffarpur through videoconferencing. The projects include construction of a 100-bed waiting hall for the attendants of patients, multipurpose hall and incubation centre at Muzafarpur sadar hospital and procurement and installation of 25 incubators at district hospital and PHCs. Also, a 200-bed rest room for patient’s attendants will be constructed at Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital. Earlier, the minister dedicated CSR projects undertaken by REC Ltd (formerly Rural Electrification Corporation) worth Rs 1.64 Crore at Koilwar in Bhojpur district through videoconferencing on Friday. According to officials, altogether 14 schemes were launched, including eight schemes for construction of PCC roads, three for LED, solar and high-mast lights and three for the construction of community halls. “The aim of the schemes is to improve and provide basic infrastructure to villages in Koilwar block,” the minister said. Earlier on Thursday, the minister had launched 77 schemes worth Rs 6.99 crore on Barhara block office premises in Bhojpur district through videoconferencing. These schemes were under the CSR initiative of REC Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-launches-projects-worth-rs-32cr-in-2-districts/articleshow/78209865.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Surat||Surat: Former MPhil student masters motorcycle thefts||SURAT: Crime branch sleuths nabbed two persons, including a former M.Phil student, on Friday for allegedly stealing 24 motorcycles from various parts of the city since February. Police nabbed Rikesh Mangroliya, 34, and Divyesh Patoliya, 27, from Kapodra following receipt of specific information about their whereabouts. As many as 23 motorcycles worth Rs 6.45 lakh were recovered from Gayatri Nagar locality. Mangroliya was studying MPhil earlier, but he discontinued and started working as a broker in the textile market. Since there was no business, Mangroliya was in search of some other work when he came in touch with Ajay Bharwad alias Ajay Happy and then planned to steal the vehicles to make quick money. Investigation revealed that Mangroliya single handedly stole 23 motorcycles while Patoliya’s role was found in theft of only one bike. Ajay, who is believed to be technically sound, is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/former-mphil-student-masters-motorcycle-thefts/articleshow/78209858.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 20, 2020||Patna||Forest department plans to curb illegal trade in rare animal species||PATNA: Bihar has emerged as the transit hub for poached animal body parts and even live animals, which are mainly sent to China and some South Asian countries. To control this menace, the state forest department plans to train its officers and staffers to catch poachers and build airtight cases against them with evidence. According to environment and forest department additional chief secretary Dipak Kumar Singh, the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau has already given a presentation on the subject and proper training of forest officials will begin in November. “My department officials will be imparted training mainly on how to catch hold of poachers with evidence. To collect evidence is very important in wildlife crime, or else it is difficult to get the poachers convicted,” Singh said. He appreciated the efforts of his department in busting several gangs involved in smuggling of animals to China. Forest department officials claimed most of the animals are sent to China where they are used in making traditional medicines. Forest officials said Bihar is an important transit point as poachers either go via Nepal, or they move towards WB and then to Myanmar and finally to China and other South Asian countries. The latest haul for the forest department came on Thursday when officials recovered a ‘Tokay Gecko’, a rare nocturnal lizard, from a city hotel in Kankarbagh locality and arrested two persons. “One person was from West Bengal and another from Katihar. They had brought this Tokay Gecko from WB and were going to sell it to some middleman in Patna. They have a chain,” said Ruchi, adding, this nocturnal lizard is sold at exorbitant prices and mainly sent to China. Pangolins, also known as scaly anteaters, are also in huge demand in the Chinese markets. The mammals have hard scales, which is believed to increase immunity and is used in traditional medicines and even its flesh is eaten. However, the International Union for Conservation of Nature has listed the Indian pangolin as an endangered creature. Kaimur DFO Pradyumn Gaurav said in April this year, their team had caught Pangolin smugglers. “A local community which resides in Kaimur hills is involved in its trade. They have their relatives staying in the foothills. When they get customers, they climb up the hill to catch live pangolins as buyers look for live ones to assure themselves that they are getting original scales. Our team members had gone as buyers to catch the culprits.” He further said these mammals are dipped in boiling water and their scales are removed, adding, “This animal is also mainly sent to China.” His team also caught a man from Sasaram involved in selling leopard skin. Gaurav said, “We caught him a fortnight back and an investigation is on to nab all those involved in the trade.” This raid was a part of WildLife Control Bureau- Operation Wild Net 3 and officials in Bihar were alerted from Kolkata regarding a man who had shown interest in selling leopard skin online. Gopalganj DFO Abhishek Kumar Singh said they had caught a gang with 1,100 turtles in September last year. These turtles were packed in sacks with their feet tied with string. “They were brought from Uttar Pradesh and were supposed to be sent to Muzaffarpur and then to West Bengal and North East regions. On interrogation, we got to know that these turtles are finally sold in the China market. Their shell is ground to powder and used in traditional medicine,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/forest-department-plans-to-curb-illegal-trade-in-rare-animal-species/articleshow/78209973.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Three LGBT community members hear Lok Adalat cases||KOLKATA: Three members of LGBT community doubled up as Lok Adalat judges in Kolkata’s city civil court on Saturday. Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Justice TBN Radhakrishnan inaugurated the e-Lok Adalat where HC judges Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice IP Mukherjee were also present. Rajkumar Das, who works with Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, Rajib Das, an actor-dancer, and Pradip Ghosh, who works with the district legal services authority (DLSA), Kolkata, and is a PhD scholar, were on the panels as social workers. Supriya Khan, DLSA, Kolkata, secretary, said they had to make a last-minute replacement since Lokenath Bhattacharya, another member of the LGBT community, opted out. Justice Banerjee, executive chairman of SLSA, said, “The first e-LokAdalat will hear about 15,000 cases across the state.”Justice Mukherjee described the e-Lok Adalat as a novel endeavour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-lgbt-community-members-hear-lok-adalat-cases/articleshow/78210247.cms||Debashis Konar
September 20, 2020||Patna||Assaduddin Owaisi finds partner in Bihar for assembly polls||PATNA: The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi has formed an alliance with Samajwadi Janata Dal Democratic led by former MP from Jhanjharpur, Devendra Prasad Yadav, to contest the upcoming Bihar election. Announcing the new formation, christened United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA), at a press meet in Patna on Saturday, Owaisi hit out at the opposition for criticizing his party for taking a slice of their votes. Both Owaisi and Yadav said they were ready to welcome other like-minded parties. “We will sit together and formulate strategy about the number of seats we will contest,” said Owaisi. His party had earlier claimed to contest 50 seats. When asked about the allegations by RJD and other opposition parties that AIMIM intentionally contests elections to cut their votes and favour BJP, he replied, “This is their old cassette. In the parliamentary election, my party had contested three seats — Hyderabad, Aurangabad and Kishanganj. And we won two. What was the performance of RJD? Also, we had won Aurangabad seat against Shiv Sena, which was then the BJP’s ally, and Hyderabad against BJP itself,” said Owaisi, adding, “We are twinkle-twinkle little star. Who is responsible for the BJP government in Bihar? Let them put the blame. People are watching everything.” Yadav said there was a need for tripolar politics in the country as well as in Bihar. He said their aim was to bring the deprived sections of the society into the mainstream. “We are open to welcome others with similar ideology,” he said. He also said their alliance will not give tickets to any person with criminal background and dared the other parties to do the same. “We will work for corruption and crime free state and take out Bihar from the floods and drought it faces. In the past 30 years, all the sugar mills and several industries have been closed down and both big and younger brothers are responsible for this situation,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/owaisi-finds-partner-in-state-for-assembly-polls/articleshow/78209887.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 20, 2020||---||‘NDA to fight polls on development plank’ in Bihar||PATNA: BJP national spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain on Saturday said the NDA constituents would fight the assembly elections in the state on development plank under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar that has been repeatedly underlined by PM Narendra Modi in his recent addresses to the people of the state. Referring to the mega bridge on Birpur-Bihpur national highway 106 which PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate on Monday, Shahnawaz said, “Birpur lies in Supaul district where I was born and Bihpur in Bhagalpur, my ‘karmbhoomi’. The mega bridge was my dream project and I am happy that the PM will inaugurate it,” Shahnawaz said. Hitting out at the opposition parties, including the RJD and Congress, Shahnawaz said the NDA government’s development works in the state, which are visible to others, are not visible to these political parties. “It was reflected in the 2019 parliamentary elections when the RJD and Congress were routed,” he added. “The party that did not win even a single parliamentary seat in 2019 has been criticising the state government,” Shahnawaz said. “After the RJD government was replaced by the NDA in 2005, the state budget increased from Rs 22,000 crore in 2005-06 to Rs 2.11 lakh crore in 2020-21,” Shahnawaz said, adding the budgetary allotments for the works and other departments have increased manifold since 2005-06.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/nda-to-fight-polls-on-devpt-plank/articleshow/78228365.cms||Abhay Singh
September 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Woman ‘buys’ son to grab portion of former husband’s property||RAJKOT: A sinister conspiracy by a woman to grab a portion of her former husband’s Rs two crore cash, which he had received from property sale, was exposed when Rajkot police solved a one-yearold boy’s abduction case lodged in May last year. The woman Salma alias Seema Qadri had involved a history-sheeter Salim Subhania and his wife Farida, who abducted the boy Jiga of Bhuria family sleeping on the footpath of Lal Bahadur Shastri Vidhyalaya in Rajkot on the night of May 22, 2019. Salma had offered Rs two lakh to ‘purchase’ the boy and paid Rs one lakh to the Subhania couple. Police arrested Salma and the Subhania couple on Saturday and rescued the boy from her house in Khambhaliya where she was staying with her former husband Nathalal Somaiya. Salma hatched the plot after getting to know that Somaiya had received Rs two crore from the sale of land and property. “Even as she had divorced Somaiya in 2016, Salma emotionally trapped him by showing him the child and said he was born out of their marriage,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector, Rajkot detection of crime branch (DCB). Salma had even got a fake affidavit made stating that the child was the son of Somaiya and had obtained his birth certificate from Jamnagar Municipal Corporation by registering his name as Jaideep. Jiga’s parents Jamsingh and Mamta are natives of MP and work as casual labourers in the city. “For the past one-and-ahalf years, this remained a blind case as there were no clues at all. However, we created a network of human intelligence and got to know about Salma who lived at Shankar Tekri in Khambhaliya, and had bought a one-year-old child,” said MV Rabari, DCB sub-inspector. Salma named the Subhania couple following which they too were arrested from Dwarka town. Salim has several cases under Prohibition Act, thefts, house breakins lodged against him in Dwarka, Rajasthan’s Badmer, Limkheda in Dahod, Amreli and Gir-Somnath districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-buys-son-to-grab-portion-of-former-husbands-property/articleshow/78209743.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Jews in Kolkata usher in a new year with prayers and atonement||KOLKATA: The Jews in the city have dwindled in number to less than 30 and they rue the fact that they do not have the quorum for official service at the synagogues here. But that hasn’t stopped the small community from ushering in the Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, with utmost solemnity at home. The community welcomed the year at sunset on Friday and the prayers will continue till Sunday. Unlike gaiety and festivities that mark the new year celebrations of other communities, the Rosh Hashanah is quite different. It marks the beginning of the 10-day penance that that ends with the Yom Kippur, when the community will fast for 28 hours — from sunset to sunset and an hour more, according to the Old Testament that the community follows. A ram horn is blown, which heralds the annual time for atonement and to seek forgiveness for sins committed during the past year. “It is a time to clear debts and to call on others we might have wronged and seek forgiveness. It is only when our kin have forgiven us and we have been able to express our love for them that we can stand face to face with God and seek blessings,” said Flower Silliman, one of the senior-most members of the community in the city. She, along with daughter Jael, have been painstakingly chronicling the community for years now. The prayers are continuous for the entire length of Rosh Hashanah and families take breaks to gather around the table to feast in between. The feast starts with a bite of apple dipped in honey and pomegranates to symbolize heralding of a sweet and bountiful year. This is followed by partaking of Kosher food, permitted by the book. In the city, the community feasts on fish, chicken and mutton, but since the slaughter has to be done following a prescribed pattern, most people have desisted from using mutton this year, keeping in mind the Covid situation. Even the chicken has to be slaughtered following rules — not a single drop of blood should remain in the sacrificed animal. There is advice on the kind of fish that can be eaten and the pattern of cooking as well. “The food eaten during the new year differs from country to country. In Kolkata this year, people are mostly eating chicken pulao with almonds and raisins along with Kosher chicken and fish,” said Silliman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jews-in-kolkata-usher-in-a-new-year-with-prayers-and-atonement/articleshow/78210204.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 20, 2020||Patna||‘NDA to fight polls on development plank’ in Bihar||PATNA: BJP national spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain on Saturday said the NDA constituents would fight the assembly elections in the state on development plank under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar that has been repeatedly underlined by PM Narendra Modi in his recent addresses to the people of the state. Referring to the mega bridge on Birpur-Bihpur national highway 106 which PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate on Monday, Shahnawaz said, “Birpur lies in Supaul district where I was born and Bihpur in Bhagalpur, my ‘karmbhoomi’. The mega bridge was my dream project and I am happy that the PM will inaugurate it,” Shahnawaz said. Hitting out at the opposition parties, including the RJD and Congress, Shahnawaz said the NDA government’s development works in the state, which are visible to others, are not visible to these political parties. “It was reflected in the 2019 parliamentary elections when the RJD and Congress were routed,” he added. “The party that did not win even a single parliamentary seat in 2019 has been criticising the state government,” Shahnawaz said. “After the RJD government was replaced by the NDA in 2005, the state budget increased from Rs 22,000 crore in 2005-06 to Rs 2.11 lakh crore in 2020-21,” Shahnawaz said, adding the budgetary allotments for the works and other departments have increased manifold since 2005-06.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-to-fight-polls-on-devpt-plank/articleshow/78209833.cms||Abhay Singh
September 20, 2020||Surat||Businessman’s suicide: Accused to be booked for extortion||Surat: The cops investigating the suicide of Surat businessman Durlabh Patel (74) have sought permission of court to book the ten accused, which include four policemen, for extortion and destruction of evidence.The police on Saturday approached the Mandvi court in Surat district with an application to book the accused already charged for abatement of suicide, under IPC sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt, 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 269 (negligent act which is likely to spread an infectious disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). Patel’s body was found September 6 from a water-filled quarry in Khanjroli village of Surat district. His son Dharmesh has alleged in his complaint that his father killed himself due to harassment by the accused over a land deal. The 10 accused include police inspector L P Bodana, constables Ajay Bhopala, Kiransinh Parmar and Vijay Shindi. Meanwhile, police custody of two arrested in the case Raju Bharwad and Bhavesh Savani was extended till September 23 by a court in Mandvi. Police also questioned Patel’s chartered accountant on Saturday in connection with land deal because of which Patel ended his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/businessmans-suicide-accused-to-be-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/78209761.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drunk man bangs head on cop’s table||Ahmedabad: Police have registered two complaints in a case involving the alleged assault of a man over an affair. Akshay Makwana was reportedly beaten up on Friday night by Karan Meda. Makwana and Meda’s sister are in a relationship. Sola police have registered a complaint against Meda and another against Makwana. In his complaint, Makwana said that Meda tried to stab him. A sudden twist occurred when both parties were taken to the Sola police station. “Makwana, who was drunk, suddenly rushed towards the glass table of the police station officer and banged his head against it,” a Sola police official said. “We have sent him and Meda for the pre-arrest Covid-19 test.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunk-man-bangs-head-on-cops-table/articleshow/78210494.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Surat||Members override opposition to select Vekariya as SDA president||Surat: Amid the high-pitched drama and opposition from a few members, the office-bearers of the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) on Saturday selected Nanu Vekariya, 68, as its new president.Vekariya, owner of Rajkishore Gems, a polished diamond trading company, was unanimously selected in a meeting organised at the SDA headquarters at Mini Bazaar in Varachha on Saturday. Few members led by senior office-bearer, Kirti Shah registered strong opposition to selecting Nanu Vekariya as the president and staged a walk out stating that the chief should be elected, not selected by the members. Talking with TOI, Shah said, “This time, I was running for the post of SDA president. However, the past president and few members ganged up and decided to select the new president on their own. I am going to file a complaint with the charity commissioner on Monday to conduct free and fair election for the SDA president.” Meanwhile, the SDA office-bearers stated that the decision to select Vekariya was unanimously taken by the office-bearers. Vekariya garnered 32 votes and was selected for the top post. Damji Mavani, secretary of SDA told TOI, “It is not the right time to conduct election when the city is facing unprecedented rise in the Covid-19 cases. Since the term of the existing president, Babu Kathiriya was expiring, we decided to select a new president.” Vekariya, newly appointed president of SDA told TOI, “The diamond industry has many challenges to face in the coming days. If people do not walk with the times, they are not going to see progress in their business. All of us have to work hard to take the diamond business at a different level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/members-override-opposition-to-select-vekariya-as-sda-president/articleshow/78209829.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Surat||First-ever online 7-day Kavi sammelan from Sept 21||Surat: In a unique initiative, the Rashtriya Kala Kendra (RKK) has organized a seven-day long virtual kavi sammelan through webinar from September 21. Poets from across Gujarat, Mumbai, and Manipal will present their poetries which will be live-streamed starting from 9 pm from September 21 to 27. Office-bearers of RKK stated that this is first time that the poets will come on a single platform through online webinar. Rupin Pachchigar, general secretary of RKK told TOI, “This is first of its kind initiative where the poets will present their poetries online. About 112 poets, the majority from Gujarat and few from Mumbai and Manipal will participate in the online Kavi sammelan.” Pachchigar further said that this will be an extravagant event as the organizers have invited renowned poets from across three states. Renowned poets like Bhagyesh Jha, Dr Mukul Choksi, Raees Maniar, Kiransinh Chauhan, Ravindra Parekh, Gaurang Thakar and Harshad Brahmbhatt who will lead the online Kavi sammelan on different days, he added. Dr Mukul Choksi, a renowned psychiatrist and poet told TOI, “It is going to be a very different experience for the poets to present their poetries through online medium. We are used to presenting our poetries in live auditoriums, but this will also have a unique feeling of going virtual.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-ever-online-7-day-kavi-sammelan-from-sept-21/articleshow/78209881.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Patna||Covid tally crosses 1.66 lakh-mark in Bihar||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state jumped to 1,66,987 on Saturday with 1,616 more people testing positive for the virus. With two fresh deaths (official) in the last 24 hours, Covid toll in the state has increased to 861. However, with 1,52,956 people recovering from the disease so far, active cases in the state stand at 13,168. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Saturday that 1,556 people have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking state’s recovery rate to 91.60%. Altogether 1,24,332 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. The total number of tests in the state since the outbreak of the virus has jumped to 5,53,825. As per the information shared by the state health department, Begusarai and Sitamarhi districts reported one death each on Saturday, taking the toll in these two districts to 24 and 11, respectively. AIIMS-Patna has recorded three fresh deaths and the victims included a 41-year-old man from Chhoti Saunkh village in Begusarai, a 49-year-old man from Tajpur in Samastipur and a 85-year-old man from Rastogi Mohalla in Maner. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 13 people were admitted to the hospital and nine discharged on Saturday. Two new patients are from East Boring Canal Road and Bihta in Patna. No fresh death was recorded at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. According to the hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal incharge (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, two people were admitted and four discharged on Saturday. The hospital now has 17 Covid patients. Of 1,616 fresh cases recorded in the state on Saturday, 263 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 25,356. However, with 23,254 recoveries and 196 deaths, active cases in the district stand at 1,906. Among other districts, Araria recorded 107 fresh cases, Supaul 93, Madhubani 91, Nalanda 63, Muzaffarpur 63, Saharsa 59, East Champaran 52, Goplaganj 52 and Purnia 52.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-crosses-1-66l-mark-in-bihar/articleshow/78210028.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RJD faces herculean task to satisfy allies on seat sharing||PATNA: Bihar assembly election is to be announced soon. But RJD led by Lalu Prasad is yet to discuss the seat-sharing issue with its partners despite several one-on-one meetings with the political parties, which are supposed to be part of the Mahagathbandhan. CPI (ML) has already expressed its displeasure over the way RJD has been treating the alliance issue. The party has demanded at least 50 seats. VIP founder Mukesh Sahni is not ready to agree on less than 25 seats. It seems to be a herculean task for RJD to manage so many alliance partners ahead of the election. Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha is in Delhi to discuss the seat-sharing formula with his senior party leaders. On Friday, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha met leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. CPI and CPI (M) leaders are likely to meet RJD state president Jagdanand Singh on Sunday to sort out the seat-sharing issue. On Saturday, Kushwaha and Sahni had one-on-one talks at the former’s residence. Without disclosing much, Sahni said, “Since we are parts of the same alliance, it is natural for us to meet.” Sources said RJD may contest 136-140 seats and leave around 60 seats for Congress. RJD is willing to give 25-30 seats together to the three Left parties and may ask RLSP and VIP to distribute the rest among themselves. A senior RJD leader said CPI (ML) among the Left parties will be given the maximum 15-20 seats. “The VIP’s demand for 25 seats or even 50 by CPI(ML) cannot be fulfilled. Even RLSP has to accept around 12 seats. They will have to come down. As far as Congress and RJD are concerned, we will divide the seats as per the previous assembly election ratio,” a senior RJD leader said. But RJD MLA Bhola Yadav said all was well in the alliance and they would soon come with the final figures. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan cited the example of NDA and said, “Even NDA has not made its stand clear on seats. We are at least in a better position than them.” Though Sahni also said ‘all is well’ in the alliance, he denied getting around 10 seats. “Technically, I need to contest at least 10% of the seats to save my party’s symbol. Hence, my party will contest at least 25 seats. Also, I have 15% of the voteshare and my party deserves a good number of seats,” he said. Sahni further said he was in regular touch with Tejashwi and there was no issue over seat sharing. “Has Tejashwi ever said publicly how many seats we will fight? Once everything is clear, we will inform the media. So don’t go by rumours,” said Sahni. RLSP national secretary general Madhav Anand said, “We will have more meetings with alliance partners and our party people. Right now we cannot comment on it.” Congress’s Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil said the seat-sharing issue will be discussed at an appropriate time. When asked about that appropriate time, he replied, “There is no definition of appropriate time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-faces-herculean-task-to-satisfy-allies-on-seat-sharing/articleshow/78209820.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 20, 2020||Patna||Consume health supplements, herbs in moderation: Doctors||PATNA: With the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, many people in the city have started consuming various health supplements and herbs to boost their immunity system. However, doctors and Ayush practitioners have cautioned them against the excessive intake of such supplements and herbs. Busting the myth that vitamin C supplements fight Covid, Dr Nargis Shamin, senior doctor of medicine at the Patna Medical College and Hospital, says, “They do play a vital role in maintaining good health, but taking them without consulting a doctor can be harmful. People, who are more prone to seasonal flu or have a history of weak immune response, should consume them. Healthy individuals, on the other hand, can get an adequate amount of vitamin C by eating a diet rich in green vegetables and citrus fruits.” She adds, “Excessive consumption of vitamin C supplements may cause nausea, diarrhoea and disruption of the antioxidant balance in the body.” While the side effects of vitamin C overdose are mild in nature, other vitamins and minerals, if consumed in higher quantities than recommended, may prove to be harmful. President of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics-Bihar, Dr Arun Shah, points out that there is no harm in taking health supplements, but an overdose of essential vitamins and minerals like zinc and vitamin D can lead to toxicity in the body. “If the recommended daily dose of zinc exceeds 50mg, it can cause fever, coughing, stomach pain and fatigue. Similarly, 1,000-2,000 IU per day of vitamin D from a supplement is considered safe, but beyond that it can lead to hypercalcemia, vomiting, weakness and frequent urination. It can also cause bone pain and formation of calcium stones,” Dr Shah says. Besides, Ayush practitioners warn people that excessive consumption of herbs like ‘giloy’ and ‘tulsi’ as well as ‘kadhas’ can do more harm than good. “These should be used in moderation as they release heat and their overdose can lead to dysentery and other complications. Consuming too much ‘kadha’ can also cause serious side effects,” claims Boring Road-based Ayush practitioner, Dr K K Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/consume-health-supplements-herbs-in-moderation-doctors/articleshow/78208983.cms||Arunima Lal
September 20, 2020||Surat||Fashion masks shield textile business from viral uncertainty||SURAT: At a time when the coronavirus pandemic has taken the sheen off the famous six-yard wonder called the Surti Sari, textile entrepreneurs in Surat — the country’s largest polyester fabric hub — are weaving another success story. In just four months, Surat has emerged as the centre of innovative ‘fashion masks’ made with anti-bacterial and anti-viral finish. About 48% of the fashion masks are exported to the US, Europe, and Australia. Unlike regular masks, these eco-friendly reusable fashion masks are made with digitally printed cotton, linen, and polyester fabrics. They have three to four layers of protection with Bacterial Filtration Efficiency of 95%. Industry sources said that about 40 textile companies in and around Surat have been manufacturing fashion masks. These masks have turned the fortunes of textile entrepreneurs since the central government banned the export of N95 masks in February amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The masks come with attractive designs and many are bespoke to match the colours and designs of outfits and fabrics. The monthly production of fashion masks in Surat is pegged at 25 lakh pieces worth Rs 17 crore, of which about 12 lakh pieces worth Rs 7 crore are exported to the US, the UK, and Australia. Girdhar Gopal Mundra, the chairman of Global Fabric Resource and Research Centre, a Surat-based organization, told TOI: “Surat has emerged as the hub of fashion masks with a huge export potential.” Mundra went on to say: “The fabric used in fashion masks is given anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anti-pollution, and anti-dust treatment to protect the wearer.” According to Mundra, there is no ban on the export of fashion masks. In fact, the entrepreneurs of Surat are competing with Chinese manufacturers in the fashion masks segment in the US. The biggest advantage for Surat is the easy availability of raw material and skilled workers. Paresh Parekh, the director of Angarika Digi Tex at Sachin, told TOI: “We are manufacturing 25,000 digitally printed fashion masks per day with anti-viral and anti-bacterial finish. About 60% of the masks are exported to the US and the UK. The rest are sold in the domestic market.” Parekh’s company has partnered with HealthGuard AMIC, Australia, to manufacture fashion masks. “We started with 10,000 masks per month and now we manufacture 2 lakh masks per month. About 70% of our masks are exported to the US, the UK, and the UAE. There is stiff competition from Chinese manufacturers as their masks are 10-12% cheaper than ours,” said Sudarshan Mundra, director, Madhusudan Textile Group. Stating that fashion masks have gained popularity in India and abroad, Sanjay Saraogi, managing director, Laxmipati Group, added, “We switched from manufacturing N95 to fashion masks to cater to the growing demand. We are manufacturing about 5,000 masks per day and most of them are exported to countries such as the US.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fashion-masks-shield-surat-textile-biz-from-viral-uncertainty/articleshow/78210076.cms||Melvyn Thomas
September 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Ensure representation of all sections in police station postings’||PATNA: Bihar police headquarters has directed all senior field officers to ensure proper representation of all sections of society in the posting of station house officers (SHO) of police stations or incharge of a police outpost. A SHO or incharge heads the police station or outpost. IG (headquarters) Nayyar Hasnain Khan has written a letter in this regard on September 16 to all IGs and DIGs along with SSPs and SPs posted in the field across the state. The senior officers have also been directed to review the situation under their respective jurisdiction in this regard. Khan, in his letter, mentioned that the state police headquarters had issued similar direction to all districts in the past as well. He has cited instances of the violation of earlier direction on the specific issue. But Bihar Police Association president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh has questioned the police headquarters order. In a letter, he wrote that experience, eligibility and hard work are the conditions for getting posted as SHO or outpost incharge. Singh also suggested the police headquarters to refrain from issuing such orders as police personnel wearing ‘khakhi’ are a family in themselves and they were surprised by such a letter from the police headquarters. He also wrote that if that is to be the criteria for posting of SHO and outpost incharge, it should also be followed while in the case of posting of senior police officers in the department and in the districts. Singh said different orders keep coming from the headquarters and those should also be reviewed periodically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ensure-representation-of-all-sections-in-police-station-postings/articleshow/78209888.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ECR plans to switch over to solar energy||PATNA: Railways has decided to ensure green mode of transportation and maintain zero carbon emission by switching over to solar energy at its all vital establishments and offices under the ‘save energy’ mission. Railways has also taken various initiatives to ensure uninterrupted power supply with the help of solar energy plants in all its five divisions – Danapur, Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya, Dhanabd, Sonepur and Samastipur. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the railways has at least 1,370kw solar energy power capacity in Danapur division alone. “While Danapur DRM office has already shifted to solar energy, the solar energy plants at Patna Junction also has the capacity of 420kw,” he said. Danapur divisional railway hospital, railway superspecialty central hospital at Karbigahiya, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Rajendra Nagar washing pit depot, new officers’ rest house in Patna, Danapur railway station building, guards’ lobby and Danapur railway high school are other beneficiaries of the solar power facilities. “The ECR is eyeing to set up solar plants on its vacant land to extend solar power to other essential establishments of railways. A blueprint in this regard will be made soon in consultation with technical experts,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-plans-to-switch-over-to-solar-energy/articleshow/78209925.cms||Kumod Verma
September 20, 2020||Mysuru||Muda to develop satellite town near Dhanagalli||Mysuru: Mysore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) chairman HV Rajeev said the civic agency is planning to build a satellite town near Dhanagalli with the support of the farming community. Speaking to the farmer leaders of D Salundi, Doddahundi, Dhanagalli and Kerehundi villages at Murada Basaveshwaraswamy temple on HD Kote Road, Rajeev said the agency plans to acquire agriculture lands from farmers under 50:50 sharing basis to build the satellite town. Layouts for the town will be developed by the authority, he added. “Farmers will be taken into confidence before acquiring land. The authority will take up the development of the region based on the cooperation given by the farmers. I will ensure that the layouts will be developed and distributed to the beneficiaries before the end of my tenure,” he said. Rajeev said that the T Narasipura, Nanjangud, Hunsur and Bannur roads which connect Mysuru have been developed, but Mysuru -Gaddige and Mysuru -Jayapura roads are yet to be developed. Earlier, taluk panchayat member CM Siddarame Gowda said several layouts have come up in the village. “The layouts in the neighbouring panchayats have adopted villages for development. We want layouts in Dhanagalli to adopt our village and develop it,” he said. Gowda added that during the Siddaramaiah-government, MUDA had developed roads and underground drainage system in Dhangalli, Daaripura and Badagalapura and surrounding villages. “Tenders were also floated for Rs 3 crore for the development of roads and UGD works in D Salundi and Doddahundi villages. The tender process was stopped after Muda amended its rules. Later, Muda had to bring the villages under its jurisdiction and take up development,” he said. Gowda also urged Rajeev to sanction Rs 50 lakh for the development of Basaveshwara Samudhaya Bhavan in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-to-develop-satellite-town-near-dhanagalli/articleshow/78209585.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||Sensational revenge killing cracked||Vadodara: Two history-sheeters and an accomplice were arrested on Saturday for murdering another ruffian on the outskirts of Dumad village near the city. The decomposed body of the deceased was found by Vadodara rural police on September 17. Police investigation revealed that Dharmesh Kahar was killed by the three accused – Ajay alias Bhurio Tadvi, Jignesh Marwadi and Karan alias Chhote Sardar – over an altercation in August. Kahar and his friend Raj alias Kara had an altercation with Tadvi in August and the duo had stabbed him in chest. Tadvi recovered from stab wounds and Kahar and Kara were jailed for the crime. Since the time Kahar was released on bail, Tadvi was itching for a revenge and took the help of Marwadi and Sardar to execute his plan. On September 13, Kahar met Tadvi and the other two accused at Gadheda Market in Kishanwadi. As a truce, the four decided to have dinner together at a roadside restaurant. The three accused then took him towards Dena village on a ‘kutcha’ road and stopped in the middle of nowhere. Police said that Sardar held Kahar while the other two stabbed him repeatedly on the chest and stomach. After Kahar fell down, all three accused stabbed him on his back. Suspecting their involvement, rural and city police were hunting for the trio. On Friday night, a team of prevention of crime branch on receiving information about Marwadi and Sardar and kept a watch in Gadheda Market and nabbed them. Tadvi was already arrested in an assaults case registered at Bapod police station. Police said the assaults case was staged by Tadvi so that if he will be sent to Vadodara Central Jail, cops will not suspect him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sensational-revenge-killing-cracked/articleshow/78209119.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Varanasi||Kidnapping accused’s property attached||Gorakhpur: Property worth sixteen crore rupees of Deoria’s zila panchayat chairman was attached on Friday evening. He is accused in a kidnapping case. The Zila Panchayat chairman Ram Pravesh Yadav is in jail under the charges of kidnapping, gangster act and capturing land illegally , registered at Deoria Kotwali police station. Deoria’s Deepak Mani was kidnapped and was made to register a piece of land forcefully in 2018. Police took action against 11 people including the Zila Panchayat chairman. Ram Pravesh Yadav was arrested and jailed and also his powers as chairman were seized. Later he came out of jail after getting bail and on district magistrate order his property was seized and police locked his ancestral house in Deoria and ousted him and his family members from the house. Police on Friday evening sealed chairman’s house, poultry farm, brick kiln and seized his three cars and four motorcycles to police station. “The entire action is totally against the law and it’s a conspiracy against me. My house, brick kiln, poultry farm and everything is property of my father. We’ll go to court.” Ram Pravesh Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kidnapping-accuseds-property-attached/articleshow/78210320.cms||Arjumand Bano
September 20, 2020||Surat||Survey ordered to identify illegal shrimp farms in Olpad||Surat: Following the order from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Surat district collector has ordered the survey and measurement of the shrimp farms constructed on the government land near the Tena and Sena creeks in Olpad taluka on Saturday.The city-based Brackish Water Research Centre (BWRC) had filed a petition with the NGT’s Pune bench demanding the removal of the illegal shrimp farms, constructions, salt pans etc on the flood plains falling under the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) and Critically Vulnerable Coastal Area (CVCA) of the Tena and Sena creeks in Olpad and Hansot taluka of Bharuch. BWRC has alleged that hundreds of illegal shrimp farms have been constructed after cutting mangroves in large scale and levelling of the land. This has destroyed the Tena and Sena creeks and its sub-creeks, it added. The NGT, in its hearing on August 24, 2020, had issued notices to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MOEFCC), forest and environment ministry of Gujarat government, Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), state fisheries commissioner, irrigation department and the Surat collector to submit their replies within six weeks. Talking with TOI, president of BWRC, MHS Shaikh said, “The (Surat) district collector has ordered the measurement and survey of the government land in the CRZ and CVCA of Tena and Sena creeks. Once the survey is done, the administration would start the process of removing the illegal shrimp farms from the government land.”Shaikh added, “Every year during the monsoon season, the low-lying villages of Olpad and Hansot get flooded due to heavy rains. This mainly because for the illegal shrimp farms bunds have been constructed to stop the flow of water from the creeks. This results in the floods in the villages. There are over 1,000 illegal shrimp farms on the government land in Olpad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/survey-ordered-to-identify-illegal-shrimp-farms-in-olpad/articleshow/78210008.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Patna||Three arrested with arms in Patna||PATNA: A team of Special Task Force (STF) of state police arrested three arms smugglers and recovered eight country-made semiautomatic pistols of 7.65mm from their possession at Mithapur bus stand under the Jakkanpur police station area in Patna on Saturday. STF sources said the raid was conducted around 12.30pm when an arms smuggler from Munger was about to deliver a bag filled with the firearms to two smugglers from Bhojpur. The arrested people were identified as Raju Yadav from Nandlalpur in Munger, Mahendra Singh from Begampur and Ajit Kumar of Nawada, both in Bhojpur district. “Raju is a notorious arms smuggler. Besides the eight pistols of 7.65mm, 16 magazines, three cellphones and a bike were seized from the possession of the arrested smugglers,” police sources said. They said Raju had reached Patna from Munger in a bus and was about to hand over the consignment to Mahendra and Ajit when they all were arrested. The STF had earlier seized 1,100 live cartridges of 7.65mm near a bus stand in Khagaria on September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-arrested-with-arms-in-patna/articleshow/78209866.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Patna||8 held for attack on JD(U) MLA in Bihar||PATNA: Eight persons have been arrested for alleged involvement in the attack on JD(U) MLA Sarfuddin at Mesodha under Piprahi police station area in Sheohar district late Friday night. Sarfuddin, who represents Sheohar assembly seat, was travelling in his car after attending a dinner at the residence of one Mohammad Irshad in the village. Police sources said the MLA’s driver and a bodyguard received minor injuries. They said the attack was due to political rivalry. Sheohar SP Santosh Kumar said raids were on to nab several others involved in the attack. He said a mob of around 40-50 people had attacked the MLA when his car was leaving Mesodha village at around 9.30pm. “The MLA’s vehicle was attacked with cow dung. Some people also pelted stones on the car,” he said. The SP said the MLA remained unhurt but the mob attacked his driver and bodyguard when they stepped outside the vehicle in an attempt to disperse them. “Police rushed to the spot after which the crowd dispersed and the MLA was taken to safety,” he added. SDPO Rakesh Kumar said the MLA was returning to his residence at Mahuawa village from Mesodha. “The incident took place when his vehicle reached the main road from the village on way back home,” he said. The SDPO said the MLA has lodged an FIR against 28 named and 30 unknown people. “The main accused, Mohammad Wanik, has been arrested along with seven others named in the FIR. Wanik is a native of Mahuawa village from where the MLA hails from,” he said. He further said that the MLA alleged that the attack was pre-planned in order to malign and tarnish his political image. “The injured driver and bodyguard were allowed to go home after being provided with first aid,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-held-for-attack-on-jdu-mla/articleshow/78208974.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 20, 2020||Patna||IIM-Bodh Gaya students to study in Greece-based business school||GAYA: Three students of Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Bodh Gaya have been selected to study management course from a Greece-based business school under the international Student Exchange Programme (SEP). Not only students of IIM- Bodh Gaya are studying abroad, but five students from Italy and one from Nepal have been enrolled here. Chairperson of International Relations Committee at IIM- Bodh Gaya, Medha Shrivastava said, “Students of the institute selected under the international SEP, include Yachi Agarwal from Kishanganj, Ujjwal Choudhary from Ranchi, and Srinivas Yatirajan of Hyderabad. While Yachi is studying financial econometrics, the two boys have been enrolled in Realities of Entrepreneurship and Marketing Analysis and Implementation course. Classes are being organised online and courses will be completed by November,” Medha said. IIM-Bodh Gaya director Vinita S Sahay said the international relations office at the institute works to establish exchange programmes for students and faculties with reputed B-schools of the world. “The international SEP is designed for students from IIM- Bodh Gaya to spend one academic term from reputed management institutes across the world,” she said. Among the students from Italy-based institutes enrolled here, Debojyoti Basu and Annalisa Gionni are studying operations strategy and technology management, while Sunil Chittuluri and Maria Khukhalaev have been enrolled for study of Fundamentals of Business Intelligence and Ganapati Gejam is studying Mergers and Acquisition. The only student from Nepal, Rupam Karn, is enrolled in full time MBA course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iim-bodh-gaya-students-to-study-in-greece-based-business-school/articleshow/78208958.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘ML wants to contest 53 assembly seats’||PATNA: The state assembly election tempo has started gaining momentum and seat-sharing issues dominate the political discussions in both the major alliances. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya tells Abhay Singh about his party plans. Excerpts: How do you feel about elections being held amid coronavirus pandemic? The movement has to be restricted, but there is so much to be done and hear from party workers and people. I have decided to stay in Bihar for as much time as possible till the elections are over. What is the state of seat-sharing talks in the grand alliance? The seat-sharing issue has not yet been resolved in any combine. It is the same in the grand alliance, too. We gave the list of 53 seats to the RJD from among the seats that we have been contesting for long. At present, the seat-sharing talks are stuck. Our three-member state committee meant to hold talks with the RJD on seat-sharing has now written a letter to them. RJD has not yet responded. Where actually is the hitch? It is the position that the RJD has taken. RJD has positioned itself on the results of the 2015 assembly elections. At that time, neither the CPI(ML) nor any of the Left parties were in alliance with them. We are telling the RJD to be flexible on it, because in 2015, they had alliance with JD(U). Today, the grand alliance and the Left parties are fighting against the other political combination — NDA — which has Nitish Kumar as its face. Therefore, 2015 should not be the sole basis for holding seat-sharing talks in the grand alliance. Sometimes, RJD takes into consideration the votes polled in the 2019 parliamentary elections. It is only in four parliamentary constituencies where the opposition candidates could garner more than four lakh votes, but it was with the support of the Left. In Patliputra parliamentary constituency, RJD polled more than four lakh votes with the reciprocal support from the CPI(ML), but they are in no mood to give Paliganj assembly seat to the CPI(ML). It sounds ridiculous. What can be the formula acceptable to all the constituents of the grand alliance partners and even the CPI(ML) and other Left parties? It is the relative strength of the political parties that has to be taken into account for sharing the seats. We have been contesting around 100 assembly seats. After RJD, it is the CPI(ML) and the Left parties which have the biggest base in the state. Talks should be on rational grounds. We will decide the next course when RJD responds to our letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ml-wants-to-contest-53-assembly-seats/articleshow/78209937.cms||Abhay Singh
September 20, 2020||Patna||JD(U) connects with people & party workers through ‘Sunday Samvad’||PATNA: With digital means having taken the centrestage in electioneering due to Covid-19 pandemic, the ruling JD(U) claims to have spread its footprint on the virtual platforms and reaping its benefits by connecting with party workers as well as the electorate ahead of the Bihar assembly election due in October-November. JD(U) functionaries say the party’s weekly ‘Sunday Samvad’ event has played a key role in ensuring communication with party workers up to booth level. It also helps in spreading awareness about the works done by the state government. Total 17 such sessions have been held so far and at least 1,000 Facebook handles are connected in every meeting. Deliberating on the JD(U)’s Sunday Samvad, party spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said: “The party’s national president and CM Nitish Kumar started communicating with party cadres through the virtual medium from May itself. Someone who is known for people-to-people contact was swift to adapt to the digital and virtual medium. This was his unique response in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Taking a cue from his decision, the party read the writing on the wall and started its communication and digital operations in May with the commencement of Sunday Samvad.” He said JD(U) geared up and greased its operational machineries in the run-up to the assembly elections much before its competitors. JD(U) insiders said a war room was set up and the party reached up to booth level digitally in June. Now, JD(U) can communicate directly with tens of hundreds of people across the state just at the click of a mouse. Under the ‘Sunday Samvad’ event, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, party’s district presidents, spokespersons, presidents of its different cells, block presidents and booth level workers go live. JD(U) sources said the content to be discussed in the Sunday event is generated centrally and disseminated on Saturday to party men through WhatsApp groups. A graphical template is also sent to the participants on Thursday, so that the party workers under their command and common people get to know of the content of the Sunday event. The topics on which deliberations are held in Sunday Samvad include concurrent issues such as floods, Covid-19 pandemic, developmental works, social issues and updates on public utility services. “Today, some four and a half months down the line, the early start has reaped huge benefits. With around 400 dedicated WhatsApp groups being managed and populated with relevant data, content, info-graphics and videos being circulated 24X7, we are in direct communication with party cadres down to the booth level. The comprehensive set-up consists an integrated mechanism of massive Facebook operations, weekly digital rallies, newsletters, monitoring, reporting, creative lines for slogans and other aspects to reach out to people,” a senior JD(U) functionary and cabinet minister said, wishing anonymity. Most JD(U) functionaries admit the benefits of getting acquainted with digital means and attending events such as Sunday Samvad. “There were no other means to connect with the common people due to coronavirus. So, the digital medium is being used for the same. Many people faced difficulties in learning how to use the technology. But we now feel that it has immense potential to connect to masses instantly and with minimal cost,” said Ashok Kumar Singh, MLA from Rafiganj in Aurangabad district. He said the Sunday Samvad has been highly beneficial for MLAs and other elected representatives to interact with people amid Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-connects-with-people-party-workers-through-sunday-samvad/articleshow/78209807.cms||Piyush Tripathi
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||New Town complexes bring seniors together to help them fight Covid fear||KOLKATA: Several housing committees and block associations in New Town are organizing programmes for elderly citizens so they can combat the fear of Covid and interact with others their age who have successfully fought the virus. At Shukhobrishti in New Town’s Action Area III, which has close to 1,500 apartments, residents have formed a volunteer force to assist senior citizens in the complex. “Most elderly residents are confined to their homes since the outbreak and this has affected their quality of life. Many of them have even been cut off from their families. This has instilled fear of the virus in them and confused them. We want them to be cautious, not scared. Our volunteers chat with the seniors and organize online activities so that they don’t get bored and have something to look forward too,” said Mainak Kanrar, a joint secretary of the residents’ association. “These interactions are helping them overcome their fears and resume limited activities with all safety precautions in place,” he added. At CE Block in New Town, residents organized a get-together for 40-odd senior citizens in the block for Mahalaya on Thursday. Among them were some who have defeated Covid or dengue. They met for an adda around songs and poetry recitals, as well as tea and refreshments. “Since senior citizens are considered to be at high risk of contracting Covid, most of them have been staying indoors, stepping out occasionally for emergencies. Many of them had not interacted with friends of their age for over six months. We thought Mahalaya was an auspicious occasion to bring them together. We are planning many more events like these in the run up to Durga Puja. However, we will have all the safety measures in place according to guidelines,” said Samir Gupta, joint convenor of New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum and a resident of CE Block. Debabrata Ghosal, 62, a resident of a complex in Action Area III who had only stepped out twice since March, was elated to meet and hang out with his friends in the garden of their complex on Thursday. “I am retired and my social life revolved around my friends whom I met on my morning and evening walks. We even had a club which organized several activities. But since March, we have been imprisoned in our homes. These small adda sessions, with all safety precautions in place, will help us fight our fear of the virus,” said Ghosal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-complexes-bring-seniors-together-to-help-them-fight-cov-fear/articleshow/78210153.cms||Zeeshan Javed
September 20, 2020||Patna||13 universities get new vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors in Bihar||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Saturday appointed new vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors for 13 universities in the state. These appointments were made by him in consultation with CM Nitish Kumar at Raj Bhavan here. Patliputra University pro-VC and NIT-Patna’s professor Girish Kumar Choudhary has been appointed VC of Patna University. Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University’s botany department head Ajay Kumar Singh has been made its pro-VC. Lucknow University’s former VC Surendra Pratap Singh and Patna University’s former pro-VC Dolly Sinha have been appointed VC and pro-VC of L N Mithila University, respectively. Kanpur-based Chhatrapati Sahu Maharaj University VC Neelima Gupta and Ramesh Kumar of BRA Bihar University have been appointed VC and pro-VC, respectively, of Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University. Madhepura-based B N Mandal University’s economics teacher Ram Kishor Prasad Raman and Abha Singh of Patliputra University have been made VC and pro-VC, respectively, of B N Mandal University. B N Mandal University’s former pro-VC Faruque Ali and Magadh University teacher Lakshmi Narain Singh have been appointed VC and pro-VC of Jai Prakash University, Chapra, respectively. Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University’s retired teacher Shashi Kant Jha has been made its VC. Patna University teacher Ravindra Kumar has been appointed pro-VC of BRA Bihar University, Muzaffarpur, and BRA Bihar University’s Persian department head Idd Mohammad Ansari has been appointed pro-VC of Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University. These appointments were made from the panels submitted by the search committees following their interactions with the shortlisted candidates at Raj Bhavan here from September 3 to 9. All these appointments have been made for a period of three years from the date of joining, according to a Raj Bhavan notification. The appointments clearly indicate that the state government has not taken any risk in the election year by appointing “outsiders” as VCs and pro-VCs in the universities. Unlike previous years, the ‘sons of the soil’ have been given a fair deal in all these appointments. Only two incumbents are from outside the state, said sources. Meanwhile, the governor has appointed Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU)’s pro-VC S M Karim as its officiating VC in place of A K Agrawal, who completed his three-year term on Saturday. The chancellor’s secretariat has also advertised the posts of VCs of AKU and Purnia University, inviting online applications from the eligible candidates. The last date for submission of applications is November 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-universities-get-new-vcs-pro-vcs-in-state/articleshow/78208964.cms||B K Mishra
September 20, 2020||Patna||Rare species of butterflies spotted in Patna||PATNA: The drop in noise and pollution level during the coronavirus lockdowns not only proved beneficial for the human beings and the environment, even birds and insects are are finding their way back in zoo areas, gardens and parks. Recently, a rare species of butterfly—Papilio Polymnestor—popularly known as ‘Blue Mormon’, has been spotted by environmentalists in green covers of Gaya and Nalanda districts. Lepidopterists (people who collect and study butterflies) are excited with the sighting of black coloured velvet-winged Blue Mormons, primarily found in south India and Sri Lanka. A field biologist Ahbar Alam associated to an organization working on environmental issues said, “During a study of faunal diversity of the Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary in Gaya, we spotted Blue Mormons. It is a matter of immense joy for the people of Bihar as well as the researchers, as it will open a new dimension in the research field in terms of awareness about rare and undiscovered species of the state.” “Blue Mormon is the state butterfly of Maharashtra and it is generally found in the Western Ghats, southern India and Sri Lanka. Sighting of this rare insect adds a new dimension to the biodiversity of Bihar. It has been declared as an endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature,” Alam said. The research team, which sighted the butterfly about a couple of days back, comprises organization’s state coordinator Gaurav Kumar, director Kislay Utkarsh and field biologists Alma, Maaz, Shahbaz and Priyaranjan. City-based lepidopterists Rahul Kumar, who spotted more than 64 species of butterflies in Rajgir and Biharsharif, also sighted the Blue Mormons in Noorsarai and Pant Wildlife Sanctuary. He added that he recently came across other rare species of butterflies like Daniad Eggfly, Great Eggfly, Common Jay, Common Rose etc. “These are generally spotted during the monsoon season, however, sighting of such butterflies in Bihar is rather uncommon” Rahul said. Gopal Sharma, deputy director, Zoological Survey of India (Bihar and Jharkhand) told this newspaper on Friday that Blue Mormon species is the second largest butterfly in India, after Southern Birdwing. Even a large number of common butterflies like Peacock Pansy, Common Leopard, Common Castor, White Orange Tip, Psyche, Lime butterfly and small branded swifts are spotted these days in the state, he said. “In the last few years, the butterfly population had declined due to high use of insecticides and pesticides in paddy fields and gardens. However, with the pollution level dropping, the count is increasing,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rare-species-of-butterflies-spotted/articleshow/78209003.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 20, 2020||Business||Trump supports deal to allow TikTok to continue to operate in US||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump said he supports a deal that will allow TikTok to continue to operate in the United States, after threatening to ban the Chinese-owned app in August. He told reporters at the White House he backs the deal with Oracle and Walmart that would see the creation of a new company that will assume TikTok's US operations. Trump said the new TikTok company will be "totally controlled by Oracle and Walmart.... All of the control is Oracle and Walmart." Trump offered strong support for the deal he said would create 25,000 US jobs. "I have given the deal my blessing," Trump said. "I approve the deal in concept." About 100 million Americans use TikTok and US officials have expressed concern about user data and the potential for China to access that data. "The security will be 100%," Trump told reporters. Reuters reported on Thursday the new company, dubbed TikTok Global, will have a majority of American directors, a US chief executive and a security expert on the board. Oracle and Walmart are expected to take significant equity stakes and ByteDance - TikTok's parent - has agreed to significant security safeguards on the data of US users with Oracle housing all data and getting the right to inspect the TikTok source code. TikTok, Oracle and Walmart did not immediately comment. The Commerce Department did not immediately respond to a question Saturday on whether it will rescind an order set to take effect late Sunday that would force Alphabet Inc's Google and Apple Inc from offering TikTok in their US app stores. Trump expressed annoyance this week that government lawyers told him it was not permissible to demand a "chunk" of any TikTok sales price for the Treasury. He said there would be a $5 billion US education fund as part of the deal. "That's their contribution I've been asking for," Trump said. He said the new company will most likely be incorporated in Texas and have at least 25,000 employees. China still must approve the deal. "We'll see whether or not it all happens," Trump said. Texas Governor Greg Abbott said earlier on Twitter he had talked to Trump about the deal. "I let him know that if he approves the deal Texas would be the perfect place for the HQ," Abbott said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/trump-supports-deal-to-allow-tiktok-to-continue-to-operate-in-us/articleshow/78212184.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kanpur||‘India can become powerful with its vitality’||Varanasi: Former BJP think tank KN Govindacharya said India can become a powerful nation with its all-encompassing, self-dependent vitality, which is also an inherent element of the Indian society. “The society is mostly operated by this ‘self’ element. The only thing needed is that the government should recognize this fundamental power and be helpful,” said Govindacharya while interacting with localsat Shooltankeshwar on Saturday. After completing two decades of his study leave, Govindacharya arrived here from Mirzapur on a study trip on Saturday. He performed Ganga puja, offered prayer at Shooltankeshwar Mahadev temple and also recited Hanuman Chalisa. He has spent a considerable time in Shooltankeshwar after taking study leave in 2000. Later, he attended a civic dialogue organised by Shri Kashi Vishwanath Mukti Mahaparishad at Ved Bhavan in Piyari locality. During his three-day stay in Varanasi, he will interact with different groups of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/india-can-become-powerful-with-its-vitality/articleshow/78210349.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bareilly||Two, including woman, held for smuggling spurious liquor in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Two persons, including a woman, were arrested on Saturday for smuggling spurious liquor. The Moradabad police caught them during a vehicle inspection drive that was carried out at Khabadiya Ghat under the Bhagatpur police station limits. Around 85 litres of spurious liquor (rectified spirit), urea and other manufacturing equipment was seized. According to cops, the accused woman, in order to escape from the police radar, used to pretend as a patient and smuggle the spurious liquor in her car. “During a vehicle inspection, a Scorpio car was intercepted on suspicion. The vehicle was checked thoroughly during which we recovered around 85 litres of illicit liquor. The accused are identified as Sanjay and Radha, both residents of Moradabad,” SHO Bhagatpur Dharmendra Singh said. “During interrogation, the accused revealed that an interstate gang of liquor smuggling has been operating in Moradabad and they are part of that gang. Three others—Ram Singh and Jagdeesh of Moradabad and another Pinky from Rampur are the other gang members,” he added. The accused have been booked under IPC section 272 (adulteration of food intended for sale) and relevant sections of the Excise Act. “Efforts are underway to apprehend three others,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-including-woman-held-for-smuggling-spurious-liquor/articleshow/78208721.cms||Maria Khan
September 20, 2020||Kochi||Employers, neighbours of arrested men in shock||Kochi: “Mosaraf Hossen is a father of two. His daughter studies in an English medium school in Perumbavoor and his son is hardly four years old. Why would anyone suspect that this family man was a terrorist,” says Abu Bakkar, employer of Hossen who was arrested by NIA on Saturday for his alleged association with al-Qaida. Hossen has been in the service of Bakkar for the past seven years and used to manage his shop often. “People here know me and my history. So, I don’t worry about anyone doubting me about employing such a person. But I am genuinely worried about helping his family now. His wife and children are in an isolated situation and I hope that police would take action to help them,” said Bakkar. Hossen was his trusted employee. Bakkar had even allowed him to open the shop for him, on most days. At Pathalam near Eloor, from where Murshid Hasan was arrested, the situation was no different. Neighbours say Hasan was a quiet person who was spiritual and a regular at the nearby mosque. “He used to work as a help at construction sites. He was of short stature and hardly had any bad habits. It was a shock when I heard the news in the morning,” said a neighbour who requested anonymity. The house where he stayed was an old one where migrant labourers used to camp. Earlier, even 20 labourers used to stay at the house. The roommates were questioned by the NIA and they told the media that Hasan used to skip work a lot and spent a considerable time before his laptop and mobile phone. Iyakub Biswas, the third person to be arrested, was again a commoner who used to work at a readymade paratha and chapati shop at Kadavanthra. Harris, who employed Biswas, says that he was not at all suspicious in his mannerisms or his speech. “He was around 26 and he had told me that he was married. He had left my service about a year-and-a-half ago, complaining about the pay. It has been three months since he had come back,” said Harris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/employers-neighbours-of-arrested-men-in-shock/articleshow/78210502.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||SoBo resident cheated of Rs 8L||Ahmedabad: A resident of Safal Parisar-1 in South Bopal, Nitin Deshmukh, lodged a complaint with Bopal police on Friday that some men posing as administrators of a share trading company lured him into investing Rs 8.61 lakh in the company. Deshmukh, who works as a manager in a car-making company, mentioned in the FIR that on June 20 he got a phone call. The caller said their company is into share trading and marketing. “The caller told Deshmukh that if he invests in their company he will get 72% of the profit and the rest will go to the company. The caller made Deshmukh give his aadhaar card, PAN card and a cancelled cheque for KYC, and at different stages made him pay Rs 8.61 lakh in two bank accounts given to him,” said an official of Bopal police station. To gain Deshmukh’s confidence, the cheats gave him a phone number of one Kavish Mishra. “Kavish Mishra told Deshmukh that the company is genuine and that he is earning profit from them. This satisfied Deshmukh and he kept on investing in the company,” said the official.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sobo-resident-cheated-of-rs-8l/articleshow/78210501.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Car dealers woo buyers with doorstep test drives in Goa||PANAJI: The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way Goans shop for cars with more and more people asking automobile dealerships to bring the car home for a test drive. While automobile dealers are not sure if this is a permanent trend, they are going all out to woo customers, even offering on-site sanitisation of vehicles before the test drive and home delivery of the fresh purchase. Car and two-wheeler dealerships in the state are yet to see any revival in demand for personal vehicles but are counting on the coming festive season to help lift demand. “Before Covid, it was just 30% of the customers who asked for test drives at their homes but now 70-80% of the people are asking for the car to be brought home for a test drive,” president of Goa automobile dealers association (GADA) Prashant Joshi said. Joshi also said that automobile retailers are also offering customers the option of purchasing vehicles without visiting the showroom, but the move has yet to enthuse customers. The culture of asking dealerships to bring the car home for a test drive had started before Covid, but the pandemic has sped up the trend. “At the same time, there are people who are avoiding test drives too,” said past president of GADA and chairman of Caculo group of companies Manoj Caculo. Caculo also said that along with poor footfalls at showrooms, after-sales turnover is also down. Passenger vehicle sales in India rose by 14% in August driven by pent-up demand, the society of Indian automobile manufacturers (Siam) said. However, Goa has bucked the trend, said automobile dealerships. Joshi said that unlike other states where dependence on public transport is high, in Goa the density of private vehicles is high and as such there is no pent up demand. “The only segment showing revival in Goa is the Rs 5 lakh to Rs 7 lakh segment which is at around 75% of pre-Covid levels, but for cars in the Rs 10 lakh and above bracket, sales are at 25% of the earlier levels,” Caculo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/car-dealers-woo-buyers-with-doorstep-test-drives/articleshow/78211707.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Early Covid birds got timely care, never faced bed shortage||Nagpur: In the prevailing times of long queues outside hospitals and scramble for beds, citizens who tested Covid positive in the early days of the pandemic feel they were indeed fortunate to get full attention of administration and doctors. While the bickering ones from Satranjipura, Mominpura, Naik Talao Bangladesh have changed their views about the administration, others are thanking their stars to have got infected early and recovered long before the health care system collapsed. “It appears now no one cares about Covid patients. The government has now adopted stringent procedures for admitting patients. So not everyone is able to get easily in. It was the best phase of the Covid19 when we got a royal treatment,” said Khamla businessman Santosh Totwani who was the city’s 5th patient in March. Totwani, his four relatives and four staff members were among those admitted to the medical colleges. “I was treated at IGGMCH. Got good treatment and doctors would come regularly for check-ups. Doctors were working with high energy levels,” he said. After his recovery, Totwani had been helping many people overcome Covid fear. As the situation is worsening with huge surge in cases, he says he is unable to help even friends. “A friend of mine didn’t get admission anywhere for two days despite breathlessness. Ultimately, a bed got vacated at a private hospital and his life was saved. He was there for 15 days in an ICU in August,” recalled Totwani. “Considering today’s situation, we are thankful all of us were tested free of cost, isolated in good buildings and provided food. Now, patients are not getting any facility. Not just Covid, other patients too were examined and treated,” said Akhil Bharatiya Bairagi Samaj city head Kamlesh Bhanwar, a resident of Naik Talao Bangladesh (NTB). NTB was the last area in the city where proactive measures on trace and treat on a mass scale was followed. Satranjipura, Mominpura and NTB were on the only places where NMC health teams proactively held door-to-door for surveys. “Look at how people are forced to run pillar to post. No one is ready to test or treat them,” said Bhanwar. Sabir Ali, a 47-year-old scrap dealer, said that the NMC’s mass quarantining plan saved Satranjipura from a major health scare. “We are thankful to Allah. We are feeling safe today because of NMC’s efforts. Only one more death after my father-in-law’s demise was reported from here three months ago,” said Ali. His father-in-law was the first person to die of Covid in Nagpur in April first week. The only regret Ali has is the communal colour given to Satranjipura’s containment drive. “Muslim community shouldn’t have been blamed for the spread. Now, all those voices have been silenced,” he said. Ali, his three brothers, their families and several neighbours were among over 2,000 people quarantined for over 14 days and many subsequently hospitalized even though being asymptomatic. “None of us even developed any symptom,” said Ali. As per the previous policy, high-risk contacts used to be quarantined and tested twice before being allowed to go home. Those testing positive in second sampling had to spend another fortnight or even longer duration in hospitals. Javed Ansari, a shopkeeper from Mominpura, said, “It is a pity that Covid patients continue to be exploited. I have tested twice but not got infected. Yet, my family and I are taking precautions.” A central government official, who was among Delhi returnees, however slammed the NMC. “People like me were forcibly quarantined for no reason. It was a complete waste,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/early-covid-birds-got-timely-care-never-faced-bed-shortage/articleshow/78210505.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 20, 2020||Varanasi||It’s official, Banaras back on Railways map after 64 years||VARANASI: Manduadih railway station is now Banaras railway station ‘officially’ as the North Eastern Railway has received the final approval from the Indian Railways and its code has changed from MUV to BSBS. Divisional railway manager of NER (Varanasi) Vijay Kumar Panjiyar told TOI on Saturday, “NER received the approval letter of Indian Railway Conference Association on Friday night. After getting the letter we have started replacing old name Manduadih with Banaras on name board, retro reflective boards, signages, notice, glow sign and electric lighting boards in and around the station.” The station name and code on railway tickets will be changed after Railway Board makes the alterations in Centre for Railway Information System (CRIS) and Freight Operations Information System (FOIS) and is likely to be implemented by Monday evening, he added. Panjiyar carried out inspection of the station with additional DRM (infrastructure) Pravin Kumar, senior divisional commerce manager Sanjiv Sharma and senior divisional engineer (coordination) Rajiv Agrawal and told officials to replace Manduadih with Banaras on destination strips on the bogies of trains originating from the station. The renaming process took almost one and half years to complete. NER officials said former minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha had put up the matter of renaming it as Banaras station in February 2019 with the Yogi Adityanath government, which gave its nod and forwarded it to ministry of home affairs. Manduadih railway station has witnessed a lot of infrastructure development since Prime Minister Narendra Modi won the Varanasi seat in 2014 general elections. So far, over Rs 36 crore have been spent and the number of platforms increased from three to eight, while ensuring world class passenger amenities. Now the station has entry and exit facilities from platform 1 and 8. Most prominent trains from Varanasi junction, especially for Delhi like Shivganga Express and Kashi Vishwanath Express were also shifted to Manduadih.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/its-official-banaras-back-on-railways-map-after-64-years/articleshow/78210384.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 20, 2020||---||PM Narendra Modi to launch 9 highway projects worth Rs 14k crore in Bihar||PATNA/BHAGALPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday lay foundation for nine highway projects worth Rs 14,258 crore and also launch an ambitious programme to provide optical fibre internet connectivity to 45,945 villages in poll-bound Bihar under the Centre’s Ghar Tak Fibre project. This will be the PM’s fifth consecutive pre-election project launch event in Bihar through videoconferencing. Bihar will get a major boost in bridge sector too as the PM will inaugurate three mega bridges during the event. As per a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Saturday, the bridges include a new 14.5km four-lane bridge parallel to existing Mahatma Gandhi Setu in Patna (Rs 2,926 crore), 28km four-lane bridge over the Kosi river on NH-106 (Rs 1,478 crore) and 4km four-lane bridge parallel to existing Vikramashila Setu in Bhagalpur (Rs 1,110 crore). Some prominent highway projects to be launched by the PM Modi are six-laning of 39km stretch of Patna Ring Road (Kanhauli-Ramnagar), four-laning of 54.53km Ara-Mohania section of NH-30 at a cost of Rs 885 crore and four-laning of 60km Ara-Mohania section of NH-30. The Ara-Mohania four-lane project has been divided in four packages for execution purpose. The official programme will be held through videoconferencing in which the PM will participate from New Delhi and CM Nitish Kumar from Patna. Union minister and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted on Thursday, “All the villages of Bihar will be connected to optical fibre internet by March nest year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the implementation of this programme on September 21.” The programme will be implemented jointly by the Union communications and information technology departments. “The common service centres (CSCs) are providing several digital services to the people of Bihar. At present, there are 28,003 CSCs providing digital facilities in gram panchayats of Bihar,” Prasad further tweeted. Lauding the initiative, BSNL-Bihar circle chief general manager G C Srivastava said the move would not only bring every village in Bihar on the digital map of the country, but also uplift the socio-economic status of people in rural areas. “All gram panchayats in Bihar have already been connected with high-speed broadband networks under BharatNet. The next step will be extending the internet connectivity to the villages under gram panchayats. Wi-Fi will also be installed at many public places and people would be able to avail this facility from their homes,” Srivastava added. He added, “Village people will be able to apply for digital documents such as PAN card and Aadhaar card from cyber cafes or through household broadband connections. They will also be able to use Wi-Fi and hotspot facilities for entertainment and information purposes.” Meanwhile, Patna Ring Road and bridges parallel to Gandhi setu in Patna and Vikramshila Setu in Bhagalpur are part of the PM’s special package for Bihar, which he had announced prior to 2015 assembly elections. The PIB said under the PM’s package, total number of bridges over the Ganga in state will increase to 17. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar said a physical foundation-laying event for bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu will be held near ITI for women at Barari. M K Pandey, executive engineer (NH wing of state road construction department), said the process for acquiring nearly 19.1 hectares of land for the new bridge has been expedited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/modi-to-launch-9-highway-projects-worth-rs-14k-crore/articleshow/78228379.cms||Arunima Lal
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Padubidri Beach is now in Blue Flag ecological-label shortlist||Udupi: Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said, “Padubidri Beach is a step closer to getting the coveted Blue Flag eco-label. The beach has fulfilled criteria for development as per norms laid down for this international tag.” In all, 13 beaches in India vied for this tag. A national selection committee has shortlisted eight beaches for this eco-label. Spain has the highest number of Blue Flag tagged sites. India is yet to get a beach with this label. The beaches shortlisted are Shivrajpur in Gujarat, Ghoghla in Daman and Diu, Kasarkod and Padubidri in Karnataka, Kappad in Kerala, Rushikonda in Andhra Pradesh, Golden Beach of Odisha and Radhanagar Beach in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. An international jury is likely to take its call for Blue Flag certification in October. Thus far, the jury has given the Blue Flag label to 4,664 beaches, marinas and boats from 46 countries so far. Jagadeesha, who launched a cleanliness campaign of the Union government at the beach on Friday, told STOI that it is matter of pride that Padubidri Beach is in the national shortlist. “The international jury will inspect the beach shortly,” the DC said. “I am confident that the jury will accept the claim for this coveted eco-label. We have met various parameters including cleanliness, quality of water and environmental protection,” he said. Reports have indicated that the water quality at the beach is pure. The district administration has submitted a proposal for Rs 5 crore to the state government to further develop the beach, the DC said. This will spur tourism and create employment opportunities for the locals, he said. The development will in no way affect their livelihood or threaten their lifestyle, the DC said. The Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE)—an international, non-governmental, non-profit organisation – runs the Blue Flag programme for beaches and marinas. It started in France in 1985. It is being implemented in Europe since 1987, and in areas outside Europe since 2001, when South Africa joined. Blue Flag has become a global programme, with more countries participating in it. “The programme promotes sustainable development in freshwater and marine areas. It challenges local authorities and beach operators to achieve high standards in four categories – water quality, environmental management, environmental education and safety. The Blue Flag over the years has become a respected and recognised eco-label. It brings together tourism and environmental sectors at the local, regional and national levels,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/padubidri-beach-is-now-in-blue-flag-ecological-label-shortlist/articleshow/78209447.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 20, 2020||Patna||PM Narendra Modi to launch 9 highway projects worth Rs 14k crore in Bihar||PATNA/BHAGALPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday lay foundation for nine highway projects worth Rs 14,258 crore and also launch an ambitious programme to provide optical fibre internet connectivity to 45,945 villages in poll-bound Bihar under the Centre’s Ghar Tak Fibre project. This will be the PM’s fifth consecutive pre-election project launch event in Bihar through videoconferencing. Bihar will get a major boost in bridge sector too as the PM will inaugurate three mega bridges during the event. As per a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Saturday, the bridges include a new 14.5km four-lane bridge parallel to existing Mahatma Gandhi Setu in Patna (Rs 2,926 crore), 28km four-lane bridge over the Kosi river on NH-106 (Rs 1,478 crore) and 4km four-lane bridge parallel to existing Vikramashila Setu in Bhagalpur (Rs 1,110 crore). Some prominent highway projects to be launched by the PM Modi are six-laning of 39km stretch of Patna Ring Road (Kanhauli-Ramnagar), four-laning of 54.53km Ara-Mohania section of NH-30 at a cost of Rs 885 crore and four-laning of 60km Ara-Mohania section of NH-30. The Ara-Mohania four-lane project has been divided in four packages for execution purpose. The official programme will be held through videoconferencing in which the PM will participate from New Delhi and CM Nitish Kumar from Patna. Union minister and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted on Thursday, “All the villages of Bihar will be connected to optical fibre internet by March nest year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the implementation of this programme on September 21.” The programme will be implemented jointly by the Union communications and information technology departments. “The common service centres (CSCs) are providing several digital services to the people of Bihar. At present, there are 28,003 CSCs providing digital facilities in gram panchayats of Bihar,” Prasad further tweeted. Lauding the initiative, BSNL-Bihar circle chief general manager G C Srivastava said the move would not only bring every village in Bihar on the digital map of the country, but also uplift the socio-economic status of people in rural areas. “All gram panchayats in Bihar have already been connected with high-speed broadband networks under BharatNet. The next step will be extending the internet connectivity to the villages under gram panchayats. Wi-Fi will also be installed at many public places and people would be able to avail this facility from their homes,” Srivastava added. He added, “Village people will be able to apply for digital documents such as PAN card and Aadhaar card from cyber cafes or through household broadband connections. They will also be able to use Wi-Fi and hotspot facilities for entertainment and information purposes.” Meanwhile, Patna Ring Road and bridges parallel to Gandhi setu in Patna and Vikramshila Setu in Bhagalpur are part of the PM’s special package for Bihar, which he had announced prior to 2015 assembly elections. The PIB said under the PM’s package, total number of bridges over the Ganga in state will increase to 17. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar said a physical foundation-laying event for bridge parallel to Vikramshila Setu will be held near ITI for women at Barari. M K Pandey, executive engineer (NH wing of state road construction department), said the process for acquiring nearly 19.1 hectares of land for the new bridge has been expedited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-to-launch-9-highway-projects-worth-rs-14k-crore/articleshow/78210510.cms||Arunima Lal
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spurious cow ghee seized||Ahmedabad: A facility manufacturing spurious cow ghee was raided by the state’s Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) on Saturday in Deesa. The FDCA team seized material worth Rs 26.81 lakh. Viki Modi, who ran the facility, had been booked earlier for the same offence and was fined Rs 4 lakh, according to FDCA commissioner H G Koshia. He said that 11,900kg of raw and packed material was recovered from the godown of Veer Marketing located at Sriram Chowkdi in Deesa town. “The offender had permission to manufacture and supply interesterified fats,” Koshia said. “But he sold this as cow ghee under various brand names.” Koshia said that interesterified fats are major contributors to the overall fat intake as cream spreads in bakery products, and are used in manufacturing biscuits, dairy cream alternatives, and confectionery. “Such fats are to be used for packaged food and not sold as cow ghee,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spurious-cow-ghee-seized/articleshow/78210509.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Varanasi||Bhadohi MLA Mishra’s daughter threatens witness, FIR registered||Varanasi: Gopiganj police in Bhadohi district lodged an FIR against jailed MLA Vijay Mishra’s daughter Seema Mishra, grandson Vikas Mishra, Girdhari Pathak and four others for allegedly threatening the prime witness against her father in the property grabbing case. SP Bhadohi RB Singh told TOI on Saturday, “One Surya Kamal Tiwari of Dhanapur village has filed ade a complaint that Seema Mishra, Vikas, Girdhari and four others had visited stormed his house on September 15 and threatened him and his family members to avoid giving evidence against her MLA father in court.” Complainant Surya is son of Krishna Kanth Tiwari, who had lodged an FIR against Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra, his wife MLC Ramlali Mishra and son Vishnu with Gopiganj cops on August 8 alleging they forcibly grabbed his property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhadohi-mla-mishras-daughter-threatens-witness-fir-registered/articleshow/78210423.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||At least 16 lawyers duped||Ahmedabad: They used to arrive at the metropolitan court campus in luxury cars, introduced lawyers to different investment schemes including those with daily returns, and promised high returns in every scheme. On Friday, Pratik Naik, 33, a lawyer, filed a complaint with Karanj police against the father-son duo — Trivendrakumar and Saurin Bhandari — alleging they had cheated him of Rs 8.3 lakh with lure of high returns in investments. Soon, 15 more lawyers joined in the complaint, and the number of accused went up to nine. “The complaint has been lodged against nine persons, Saurin Bhandari, his wife Neha, his father Trivendrakumar and Dharmendra Nirmal (all from Maninagar) Bipin Naik of Bopal, Jagat Sandhani of Vasna, Damyanti Nagar of Ramol, Amit Nagar of CTM Crossroads and Darshan Bhatt of Isanpur,” said a police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-least-16-lawyers-duped/articleshow/78210511.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kochi||Don't link Quran & gold smuggling: Samastha||Kozhikode: Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema, the supreme body of Sunni scholars, has resented the move to link Quran with gold smuggling. In a statement issued on Saturday, Samastha president Syed Muhammad Jifri Muthukoya Thangal and general secretary Alikutty Musaliar said discussions on gold smuggling shouldn’t be taken to the level of destroying the communal amity in society. “There should be action against those who violate laws. Religious institutions, symbols should not be degraded by using them as cover. Quran is a holy book and linking it to gold smuggling isn’t justified. Dragging the issue to the streets using Quran as a cover should be discouraged, especially when there is a concerted move from some quarters to alienate Muslims,” said both leaders. They asked all democratic-secular forces to maintain vigil against such moves. Meanwhile, IUML mouthpiece Chandrika said that CPM is consciously trying to divert attention by dragging Quran and Islam in gold smuggling case. In Saturday’s editorial, Chandrika said CPM’s ulterior motive, which was evident in Sharia and Babri Masjid issues, is clear in the case of gold smuggling too. Recent developments have shown that the government will descend to any level to protect the ministry for its remaining tenure, it claimed. Chandrika alleged that CPM is at the receiving end for protecting Jaleel, who is not even a party member. The party is shielding him to block the investigation from reaching other important figures, it added. “There are claims that CM is indebted to Jaleel and hence he is not asking for the latter’s resignation. CM should clear this matter,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dont-link-quran-gold-smuggling-samastha/articleshow/78210526.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 49 Covid deaths, 2,696 fresh cases||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded a total number of 49 Covid-19 deaths and 2,696 new Covid positive cases on Saturday. This has taken the total number of deaths from the deadly virus in the state to 2,757 till date and the total number of positive cases to 95,529. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of 12 deaths on Saturday, followed by Amritsar (9), Jalandhar (7), Kapurthala (5), Pathankot and Hoshiarpur (4 each), Patiala (3) and Bathinda (2). Mohali, Gurdaspur and Faridkot district recorded one Covid-19 death each. As many as 12 Covid-19 patients were critical on Saturday and were admitted in intensive care unit in Jalandhar, besides 11 patients were put on ventilator support. Total 1,910 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Saturday. Ferozepur district registered highest number of 351 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday, followed by Mohali (326), Ludhiana (312), Jalandhar and Amritsar (227 each), Patiala (218), Hoshiarpur (130), Gurdaspur (124), Bathinda (103), Pathankot (81), Nawanshahr (77), Muktsar (65), Kapurthala (63), Mansa (62), Ropar and Faridkot (59 each), Sangrur (53), Fazilka (46), Moga (33), Fatehgarh Sahib (30), Barnala (27) and Tarn Taran (23). Out of the total 2,696 patients who were tested positive on Saturday, 11 had a source of infection from outside Punjab, 18 were health care workers, 13 prisoners, two police personnel and one frontline worker. Out of the total 22,399 Covid-19 active cases in Punjab on Saturday, Mohali is at the top with 2,824 cases, followed by Jalandhar (2,396), Patiala (2,171), Amritsar (1,823) and Bathinda (1,706).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-registers-49-covid-deaths-2696-fresh-cases/articleshow/78211709.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Surge in cases leads to 35% jump in hospital bed occupancy in 12 days||MUMBAI: The sudden surge in Covid-19 cases since the first week of September has led to up to 35% rise in occupancy of various types of hospital beds across the city, forcing the civic body to re-include private nursing homes into the care chain. Occupancy of ICU beds alone rose 28% in the 12 days between September 7 and 19. The BMC also instructed its ward-level officials to ensure no asymptomatic patient is allotted a hospital bed and opts for home isolation instead. The BMC has various types of beds earmarked for Covid care. These range from regular and oxygen-support beds in Covid care centres to ICU beds in hospitals. An analysis of the BMC’s data showed that occupancy has increased by 21% to 35% for different kinds of beds. The analysis showed occupancy of ICU beds jumped from 1,240 on September 7 to 1,583 on September 19. The number of patients on oxygen support increased from 4,563 on September 7 to 6,081 on Saturday—indicating a 31% increase. The occupancy of ventilator beds rose 21%. The number of people put under quarantine has increased too, with occupancy of beds in the BMC’s dedicated Covid hospitals and dedicated Covid health centres rising the most. From 7,567 beds on September 7, the occupancy rose 35% to 10,193 in exactly 12 days. As the government had relaxed travel norms during Ganeshotsav, people moved across cities and into homes for darshan. While the BMC anticipated an increase of up to 200 additional cases a day, the number has doubled since. “But we have to consider the fact that we are conducting more tests than before. If we tested around 7,000 people in August, the number is between 13,000 and 15,000 now,” said a civic official. More tests will unearth more cases, he added. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said most cases were now from residential buildings rather than the slums. “Most of these patients belong to middle- or upper-middle classes and prefer beds in the private sector. This demand for exclusivity has led to a problem because it appears there are no vacant beds in the city while the truth is that we have adequate beds,” said Kakani. The BMC’s Covid war rooms, which are located in every ward and coordinate admission to public or private hospitals, manage more than 17,000 Covid beds. Roughly 6,000 beds are vacant but mainly in quarantine centres, said a BMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/surge-in-cases-leads-to-35-jump-in-hosp-bed-occupancy-in-12-days/articleshow/78212000.cms||Vijay V Singh
September 20, 2020||Bareilly||BDA mulling to revise Kudeshiya-Shahdana road widening project||BAREILLY: The Bareilly Development Authority (BDA) is mulling to revise the proposal of road widening project of the Kudeshiya-Shahdana stretch from 12 metres to 24 metres to cater to heavy vehicular movement on the road. Approximately 12.68 hectares of vacant space with a non-functional railway line was to be developed into a shopping complex, which includes a 12-metre road connecting Shaidana and Kudeshiya. BDA secretary Ambrish Srivastava, at a recent meeting, proposed that the upcoming road should be wider by up to 24 metres. The proposal will be forwarded in the next board meeting and if passed, the necessary changes would be added in the project. The road construction will probably be taken up by the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA). “After the proposal is passed in the board meeting, a revised proposal will be made for the project and a final project cost will be ascertained which will be forwarded to the state government for its approval,” the BDA secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bda-mulling-to-revise-kudeshiya-shahdana-road-widening-project-to-cater-to-heavy-vehicle-movement/articleshow/78208744.cms||Maria Khan
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Govt will manage reluctant private hosp staff to treat Covid patients: Mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi has indicated that the staffers of private hospitals, who refuse to attend to Covid patients, will be made to work compulsorily by routing their services through the government. During a meeting of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and private doctors, the latter had complained that they were facing manpower crisis. The meeting was held on the directions of the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. According to some hospital managements, not only employees are resigning during the Covid-19 period, paramedical staff too are demanding revision in their salaries. Some are demanding monthly salary of up to Rs50,000. On Saturday, TOI had highlighted that of the 102 private hospitals, only 39 have started treating Covid-19 patients. This has led to shortage of beds in the state’s second capital. The panel led by Joshi on Saturday conducted hearings for 63-odd private hospitals to assess the problems being faced by these institutions and what can be done to sort them out. As many as 26 hospitals remained absent from the meeting, while representatives of others aired their grievances to start treatment of Covid patients. The committee expressed displeasure over the absence of any representative of the hospital after being called for a hearing. The panel, however, also decided to issue show cause notices to all hospitals which evaded the hearings. “Subsequently, such hospitals will be called again on Monday at 4pm,” Joshi said. Representatives of all the hospitals, while presenting their concerns, informed how many beds can be made available to NMC for Covid. The hospitals promised to solve the problems within the next 7-10 days and provide the much needed beds. Due to technical difficulties of some hospitals, the decision regarding them was reserved. “All are facing difficulties. However, the panel has been formed to find a way out of this and instead of pointing out the problems, everyone should come up with solutions and suggestions,” said the mayor. Meanwhile, Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) has strongly opposed the order of municipal commissioner wherein he has authorized officials to visit hospitals and conduct document check and verify accounts. According to VHA, there is no legal foundation for issuance of such letter. “The hospitals are submitting income tax returns along with audited balance sheets to competent authorities. The private hospitals are not liable to produce our accounts to other person than the officers from IT department,” the association stated in a press release. “VHA has questioned the authority and under which law the municipal commissioner is empowered to depute someone to search hospital premises, ask for documents and verify our accounts. This action amounts to interference in day-to-day working system. Such act infringes the fundamental right guaranteed under the Constitution of India,” it stated. Dr Pramod Giri, VHA’s vice-president, stated that the order regarding audit of accounts has been challenged before the high court which has granted interim relief about the direction of audit. Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nagpur, president Dr Archana Kothari, however, said that the order has been issued by the state government. “This was raised before the committee appointed by the HC. The NMC pointed out that the order was being implemented across the state. Local doctors have decided to agree to it,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-will-manage-reluctant-private-hosp-staff-to-treat-covid-patients-mayor/articleshow/78210539.cms||Ashish Roy
September 20, 2020||Patna||CM unveils schemes for Bihar worth Rs 602 crore||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar launched different projects of rural development department (RDD) and urban development & housing department (UDHD) worth Rs602.58 crore through videoconferencing on Saturday. The CM also transferred Rs273.56 crore in the bank accounts of 13.68 lakh registered construction sector workers through direct benefit transfer (DBT). An amount of Rs2,000 per worker was provided under the state government’s Covid-19 Special Assistance Grant Scheme to help them. Out of the total 602.58 crore, RDD projects were worth Rs347.37 crore. The CM inaugurated 97,525 completed projects under the state government’s ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan’. The projects included the renovation of 6,097 ponds, ahars or pynes and construction of 85,233 soak pit structures around the public handpumps and wells, 1,701 check dams along small rivers and rivulets, rainwater harvesting structures in 1,328 government buildings and 3,166 community sanitation centres. “The 3,166 community sanitation centres were constructed under the Lohia Swachh Bihar Abhiyan, while the other RDD works were done under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS),” RDD minister Shrawan Kumar said. The 298 projects of the UDHD launched are worth Rs255.21 crore. Nitish launched the commencement of work for the Integrated Command and Control Centre and e-governance based smart city solution under the Biharsharif Smart City project. This project will cost Rs102.94 crore. He also launched the commencement of installation work for the Integrated Command and Control Centre under the Patna Smart City Project at the cost of Rs15.97 crore. Nitish also inaugurated an online integrated portal for mobile towers and optical fibre application process and disposal system under the Patna Smart City Project. During the event, CM also interacted with the district magistrates (DMs) of Gaya, East Champaran, Purnea and Samastipur and observed some completed projects through videoconferencing. The DMs briefed him about the projects completed under the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan. Nitish also interacted with some of the beneficiaries in the four districts. The beneficiaries lauded the CM’s efforts to provide necessary relief to poor people during the lockdown period. Speaking on the occasion, Nitish said the works done for environment protection under the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan were now being discussed abroad. Recently, the UN sent a letter inquiring about the works being done in the field of environment protection in Bihar. “Still, a few people in the state are engaged in ‘byanbazi’ (issuing statements against the state government) without being aware about the facts and impact of the state government’s good works in other states,” Nitish said, without taking the name of any opposition leader. The CM also said teachers of madrassas and other minority schools and all Sanskrit schools would now be provided the benefits of Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) and 15% hike in their salary from April 2021, on par with the teachers employed by the PRIs and ULBs. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma and labour resources minister Vijay Kumar Sinha lauded the CM for taking up several measures for the poor people during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-sets-in-motion-schemes-worth-rs-602-crore-in-bihar/articleshow/78210540.cms||Madan Kumar
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Job continues to be risky for Covid warriors||CHANDIGARH: At hospitals or on the field, medicos and paramedics dealing with Covid-19 patients and their families continue to brave the risk of assault or misbehaviour. Though many such incidents have reached police stations, most have been settled on the intervention of superiors in health department as well elders in villages, according to sources. Most recently, on September 2, residents of a village in Fatehabad district damaged the kits of health workers and assaulted them. A health department team had gone to collect samples of the family members as well as contacts of locals who died of Covid-19. Police had registered a case against the accused . Another such incident happened in Hisar this month when a DSP-level officer allegedly threatened the health team which had gone to paste a poster outside his residence in Hisar. A video of the DSP’s mobile phone conversation with the health team and his wife’s argument with the health team had gone viral . Acton is still pending in the incident. Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who holds the charge of home department, has maintained that health teams had been provided adequate security. “There are standing instructions to all cops to support and protect Covid warriors. Else, there is a law protects medics and paramedics at their workplace as well as on the line of duty,’’ said the minister. In a similar incident in April, a doctor posted at the civil hospital in Panchkula was assaulted by group and a case was registered. In March, a confidant of a political party, who has ties with senior politicians in Haryana, was quarantined and the team headed by district nodal officer had pasted poster outside the house. Instead of taking action against the person, the health department had proceeded against the medico.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/job-continues-to-be-risky-for-covid-warriors/articleshow/78211710.cms||Manvir Saini
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal adds 286 new cases as tally nears 12k||Shimla: With 286 new cases and five deaths recorded on Saturday, the overall tally of Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh reached 11,908 with 113 deaths, while there are 4,308 active cases now. The state also reported 403 recoveries, taking the count of cured patients to 7,457. Of the five deaths reported during the day, one patient each died in Kangra, Shimla, Chamba, Una and Kullu districts. The fresh positive cases include highest 58 in Solan district, 52 in Kangra, 33 in Shimla, 30 in Bilaspur, 29 in Sirmaur, 24 in Mandi, 19 in Una, 16 in Hamirpur, 14 in Chamba, 10 in Kullu and one person tested positive in Kinnaur district. Maximum 128 recoveries were reported from Sirmaur, 120 from Solan, 42 from Shimla, 30 from Una, 29 from Mandi, 26 from Chamba, 12 from Kangra, nine from Bilaspur and seven from Hamirpur district. So far, Bilaspur has recorded 628 cases, of which 227 are active; Chamba has seen 691 cases, of which 80 are active; of the Hamirpur’s total of 778 cases, 97 are active; and Kangra has reported 1,811 cases, of which 671 are active. In Shimla, total 859 cases have surfaced till now, of which 456 are active; Sirmaur has seen 1,511 cases, of which 395 active; Solan district recorded total 2,624 cases, of which 939 are active; and Una has registered 1,076 cases, of which 448 are active. Similarly, Kinnaur has so far reported 139 cases, of which 39 are active; Kullu has witnessed 443 positive cases, of which 110 are active; Lahaul-Spiti has seen total 96 cases, of which 76 are active; and out of Mandi’s 1,252 positive cases, 770 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-adds-286-new-cases-as-tally-nears-12k/articleshow/78211713.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Schools, PU colleges unlikely to reopen from tomorrow||MANGALURU: Uncertainty continues to loom over resumption of classes at schools – for students of class IX and X – and colleges across the state with the health department yet to approve conducting of classes from Monday. Department of public instruction commissioner KG Jagadeesha said that the decision to resume classes in schools had been left to the discretion of each state. “We submitted a proposal to the health department seeking permission to reopen schools and colleges selectively. But given the recent spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, we are yet to receive any response from the health department. This might mean that the schools might not open from Monday. It will take a few more months for normal operations to resume. But academic activities under the government’s ‘Vidyagama’ initiative will continue,” Jagadeesha told TOI. Interestingly enough, minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar had stated that classes would resume from Monday. District-level DPI officials confirmed that they had not received official intimation on resumption of classes. “We cannot plan unless we receive a circular from the government informing us about the guidelines,” they said. Furthermore, the department of pre-university education too has not received any official intimation on commencing regular classes. However, a residential college in Dakshina Kannada has already resumed classes, circumventing official channels. However, high-school teachers and PU lecturers said that most students were keen on returning to the classroom, a sentiment which most parents in the villages shared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/schools-pu-colleges-unlikely-to-reopen-from-tomorrow/articleshow/78209471.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||Slandered on Twitter, doctor files defamation complaint||Vadodara: After he complained of being cheated by a popular gym owner and his associates, Dr Devang Shah, city-based gastroenterologist and endoscopist, has now filed a defamation complaint with Cyber Crime police station. Although Dr Shah had given a complaint on August 4, police registered an offence under section 499 (defamation) of Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act on Friday. Dr Shah alleged that a Twitter account – Cyber Leaks India – had tweeted his email address along with four others’ mentioning these addresses to be involved in child pornography and involved in bitcoin trading through dark web networks. The Twitter handle tagged President of India, Prime Minister’s Officer, Gujarat chief minister’s office, Vadodara city police in various tweets and also tweeted that it has evidence of such wrongdoings and can expose the owners of these email addresses. Shah told cops that the Twitter account was activated in July and through a local news video on Facebook he also learnt that the Twitter account is being operated through a virtual private network (VPN) and is based in Lyon city of France. “The complainant has no enmity with anyone. It is possible that he has been targeted because of a litigation and a legal dispute which started in January,” said Shah’s advocate Hitesh Gupta. Police officials said that they are investigating the case through all viewpoints including his business rivalry or personal enmity among others. On September 1 too, Shah had registered a complaint of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against the owner of Alivez Gym and Fitness Centre, Kailash Jadhav and his wife Vinita Patil and associates Nilam Mir, Sanjay Haliyal and Ketan Bhatt. He had alleged that the gym owner and other accused had cheated him of lakhs of rupees by forging his signature for obtaining loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/slandered-on-twitter-doctor-files-defamation-complaint/articleshow/78209154.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Kadu, Mungantiwar test Covid positive||Amravati/Chandrapur: Two more politicians from Vidarbha tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Bachchu Kadu, Maharashtra minister of state for school education, from Amravati as well as former finance & forest minister and MLA from Ballarpur Sudhir Mungantiwar have been infected with the virus. Kadu, who distributed cheques to MSEDCL contract employees at circuit house in the afternoon, tested positive in the evening. Mungantiwar’s RT- PCR test was carried out at Chandrapur GMCH and his reports came positive on Saturday. Sources close to Mungantiwar claimed that he is healthy and asymptomatic. He has opted for home isolation at his residence in Chandrapur. Mungantiwar has called upon the people who came in contact with him to observe Covid protocol and get themselves tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kadu-mungantiwar-test-covid-positive/articleshow/78210553.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Goa asks green body for more time to prepare coastal plan||PANAJI: Goa has requested for yet another extension to prepare its Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP). In a submission before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), it has sought time up to March 10, 2021, stating that the Covid-19 pandemic had affected work on the plan. “It is most respectfully submitted that there has been a sharp rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state of Goa, which has also resulted in hampering of the work,” Goa has told the NGT. Earlier, the tribunal had given the state an extension of up to January 31, 2020 to submit its comments to the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai. Accordingly, the NCSCM was asked to carry out the work of preparing the CZMP for Goa by April 30. Following the NGT’s 2019 order, Goa had immediately written to the NCSCM informing it about the deadlines set by the tribunal. As local bodies had asked the state to explain what the CZMP would constitute, field visits were organised through officials of the directorate of settlement and land records from November 25-29 and on December 5, 2019, in North Goa and from November 25-December 5, 2019, in South Goa. On December 10, Goa asked all its local bodies to prepare their own CZMPs and submit them on or before December 20 so that they could be forwarded to NCSCM. The CZMPs, as prepared by the local bodies, were forwarded on January 7, 2020, in compliance with the NGT’s directions that the process should be completed before January 31. In the meantime, Goa also filed a representation before the Union environment ministry to amend the CRZ Notification 2011 so as to limit the high tide line up to bunds or sluice gates constructed prior to the CRZ Notification of 1991. This representation was approved by the National Coastal Zone Management Authority on January 13, 2020. The state received the minutes of the meeting only on January 31. On that day itself, Goa informed the NCSCM about the change. On February 19, the NCSCM asked Goa to submit details of its bunds, sluice gates and khazan lands, and the body was provided with plans of 1974-75. The NCSCM then asked for details of CRZ Class II areas in municipal areas, which were provided to it. Goa wrote to the NCSCM on April 1 to remind it to send the draft CZMP at the earliest. “However, the NCSCM, vide communication dated April 2, 2020, replied saying it is unable to carry out any work due to the lockdown and curfew restrictions in Chennai,” Goa has told the NGT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-asks-green-body-for-more-time-to-prepare-coastal-plan/articleshow/78211725.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No prior intimation received, hints Kerala chief minister||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan hinted that the state did not have any prior information regarding the arrest of the three Al Qaeda terrorists in Kerala. During a news conference on Saturday evening, he said that such arrests are usual matters, and at this stage, things may not be in an appropriate stage to be revealed in the public domain or to him. "Arresting those who have terror links is a usual thing in our country. Such actions are taken after multiple deliberations. All such matters may not be at a stage where they can be disclosed at present, or right now it may not be a time when I should know about it. Such things are to be clarified later," he said. Commenting on the NIA probe in the gold smuggling case through diplomatic channel, Vijayan said if the agency is facing a difficulty in interrogating the diplomats of the UAE consulate, the agency should admit it. "Under usual circumstances, all steps relating to the investigation need to be undertaken by the investigating agency. If permissions are being denied, the agency itself has to deal with it. If the agency is not able to investigate, it should openly reveal it. Public expects that evidence should be collected from such people as those who received it were part of the consulate," he said, when asked about the progress of NIA probe. Vijayan added a major question that has come up in society is why the diplomats are not being questioned. "The agency should not cause any further delay in that matter. Investigation should go on properly," he said. The seized parcel containing gold was addressed to charge’ d’affairs of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram and the official was summoned back by the UAE after the investigation in the case began. Though NIA’s delegation visited the UAE as part of the probe, there is no clarity whether they had interrogated any of the officials who had worked at the consulate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-prior-intimation-received-hints-chief-minister/articleshow/78215141.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Varanasi||UP: NBWs issued against Mukhtar Ansari’s wife, her 2 brothers||VARANASI: The Gangster court in Ghazipur district has issued non-bailable warrants (NBWs) against jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s wife and her two brothers. They trio had been booked under Gangster Act a week ago. SP Ghazipur OP Singh said that the Gangster court on Friday issued non-bailable warrants against Mukhtar’s wife Afsha Ansari and her brothers Sharjil Raja and Anwar Shehjad. They had been booked under Gangster Act on September 12 for their involvement in grabbing land confiscated on district magistrate’s order in different cases, embezzlement and other criminal activities. In the cases of illegal trespass and embezzlement registered in 2019 against Mukhtar’s wife and her brothers, police had filed charge sheets, he said adding, on the basis of which the action of booking them under Gangster Act had been initiated. According to police, Afsha and her brothers were operating like an organised gang. They had captured a land confiscated on the order of district magistrate in Chhavani Line area under the limits of Kotwali police station. Another confiscated land in Baveri area under Kotwali police station had also been captured by them. To grab government contracts, Sharjil and Anwar had furnished fake documents. Separate FIR had been lodged in these three cases. Another case of embezzlement and other criminal activities had been registered against Afsha with Saidpur police station in 2016, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nbws-issued-against-ansaris-wife-her-2-bros/articleshow/78210468.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kochi||No prior intimation received, hints Kerala chief minister||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan hinted that the state did not have any prior information regarding the arrest of the three Al Qaeda terrorists in Kerala. During a news conference on Saturday evening, he said that such arrests are usual matters, and at this stage, things may not be in an appropriate stage to be revealed in the public domain or to him. "Arresting those who have terror links is a usual thing in our country. Such actions are taken after multiple deliberations. All such matters may not be at a stage where they can be disclosed at present, or right now it may not be a time when I should know about it. Such things are to be clarified later," he said. Commenting on the NIA probe in the gold smuggling case through diplomatic channel, Vijayan said if the agency is facing a difficulty in interrogating the diplomats of the UAE consulate, the agency should admit it. "Under usual circumstances, all steps relating to the investigation need to be undertaken by the investigating agency. If permissions are being denied, the agency itself has to deal with it. If the agency is not able to investigate, it should openly reveal it. Public expects that evidence should be collected from such people as those who received it were part of the consulate," he said, when asked about the progress of NIA probe. Vijayan added a major question that has come up in society is why the diplomats are not being questioned. "The agency should not cause any further delay in that matter. Investigation should go on properly," he said. The seized parcel containing gold was addressed to charge’ d’affairs of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram and the official was summoned back by the UAE after the investigation in the case began. Though NIA’s delegation visited the UAE as part of the probe, there is no clarity whether they had interrogated any of the officials who had worked at the consulate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-prior-intimation-received-hints-chief-minister/articleshow/78210554.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2,691 cases, 28 deaths||Chandigarh: Showing no signs of abating, 2,691 new Covid cases surfaced and 28 more succumbed to the virus in Haryana on Saturday, which took the state’s nCov count to 108,952 with 1,120 deaths, though the doubling rate lowered slightly to 26 days. With 2,272 recoveries reported during the day, the count of cured patients has gone up to 86,150, posting a 79.07% recovery rate. With the Covid positivity rate rising to 6.62%, there are total 21,682 active cases in the state, out of which 389 are critical. Gurgaon topped the districts with maximum 360 new cases, while Panchkula recorded the highest five fatalities. With the fresh cases and two deaths, Gurgaon’s overall tally has reached 17,437 with 159 deaths and the district has 2,780 active cases now. Faridabad recorded the second-highest of 290 cases and two deaths. With 1,838 active cases, the district’s case total has reached 17,560 with 203 deaths. Ambala recorded the third-highest of 220 cases and three deaths. The district has seen 6,910 so far with 70 deaths. Panipat reported 164 cases and one death, followed by 162 cases in Panchkula, and 151 cases and one death in Hisar. Sonipat crossed the 7,000-mark as 149 more cases were reported, while Rohtak saw 147 cases and two deaths. Kurukshetra and Karnal reported 119 cases and two deaths each, Sirsa 118 cases and one death, and Rewari 101 cases. Jind reported 96 cases and two deaths and Kaithal 91 cases. Mahendragarh saw 79 cases, followed by 77 in Fatehabad. Yamunanagar reported 69 cases and two deaths and Bhiwani recorded 61 cases and one death. Palwal reported 43 cases, followed by 42 in Jhajjar, 20 in Charkhi Dadri and 13 in Nuh district. With the testing rate of 65,145 tests per million per day, a total of 16.51 lakh persons have been tested so far. There are 125,847 persons in quarantine and 108,997 have completed the surveillance period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-reports-2691-cases-28-deaths/articleshow/78211715.cms||Manvir Saini
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Couple, 2 adult sons commit suicide in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A family of four — a couple and their two sons — committed suicide in Jaipur’s Kanota police station area on Friday night. They were found hanging at their residence on Saturday morning, reports Yeshika Budhwar. The deceased were identified as Yashwant Soni (45) — who owned a jewellery shop in the Walled City area — his wife Mamta Soni (41) and their sons Ajit (23) and Bharat (21). As per a suicide note recovered from the spot, the family was under financial duress which led them to take the extreme step. A case of abetment to suicide has been registered against one person who was named in the suicide note. The person was apparently not returning the deceased’s money because of which they were unable to pay the lenders. He will be questioned by cops. “Prima facie it appears the reason behind the suicides is financial constraint, as the money they were expecting from a person was not forthcoming while they were supposed to return money to someone else as well, which they were unable to come up with,” DCP (Jaipur East) Rahul Jain said. “This is the reason mentioned in the suicide note which we recovered. We will question the person named in the note as well,” he added. While the bodies of Yashwant and his sons were found hanging in the courtyard of their residence, Mamta’s body was found hanging in one of the bedrooms. They all had used sarees to hang themselves. The sons’ feet were also tied together loosely to ensure that they do not touch the ground, claimed officials, which suggested that they could have been hung by another person. There was, however, no official confirmation of the same. “While the family was financially well-off, it appears that during the lockdown they perhaps incurred losses due to which they were facing a monetary crisis. Initial investigation suggests that both sons were working with their father. The time of death will also reveal who committed suicide first,” Kanota SHO Narendra Khichar told TOI. The bodies were found by Yashwant’s brother who visited the house on Saturday morning but found the upper floor door locked. After looking through the window, he saw the bodies and called the neighbours, following which cops were informed. The autopsies will be conducted on Sunday as the Covid-19 test results are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-2-adult-sons-commit-suicide-in-city/articleshow/78211718.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mormugao PDA to move SC over Navy nod for works||VASCO: The Mormugao Planning and Development Authority (MPDA) will file a petition in the Supreme Court challenging the norms which state that no-objection certificates (NOC) from the Indian Navy are required for construction and development works within a four kilometre radius of the Dabolim airport. MPDA chairman Clafasio Dias said the requirement would cause “unnecessary harassment” to the common man and builders as they would find it difficult to approach the Navy to seek permission. He was speaking during a recently held meeting that was attended by all four legislators from Mormugao urban development minister and Mormugao MLA Milind Naik, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, panchayats minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho and Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mormugao-pda-to-move-sc-over-navy-nod-for-works/articleshow/78211716.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bareilly||Two get life imprisonment in 2016 murder case||Bareilly: In a first major judgment delivered since the imposition of the lockdown by a Shahjahanpur court, two convicts were handed down life imprisonment on Friday for killing a man in Roza area in 2016. Handing down the sentence, Additional District and Sessions Judge (ADJ) Pramod Kumar also slapped Rs 11,000 fine on each of them. A total of four people were booked for the murder, while two of them died during the trial. On April 23, 2016, accused Amarjeet, Chandrasen, Sukhveer and Jaiveer barged into the house of one Ballister Singh and shot him dead in front of his wife Munni Devi. All the four accused were booked under IPC section 302 (murder) and relevant sections of the Arms Act. A charge-sheet was filed in the court of ADJ (3) Pramod Kumar. During the trial, Chandrasen and Sukhveer died while Amarjeet and Jaiveer were convicted for the murder. Additional district government council Vinod Shukla said, “We have produced sufficient evidence, along with the statement recorded by the victim’s wife, in the court. The murder weapon was also recovered. After hearing arguments of both parties, the ADJ delivered the judgment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-get-life-imprisonment-in-2016-murder-case/articleshow/78208760.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 20, 2020||Kanpur||3 cousins killed in mishap in Etawah||Kanpur:Three cousins riding a motorcycle were killed when a speeding bus hit them in Civil Lines area in Etawah district on Saturday. Police said the bodies were sent for post-mortem examination and investigations are underway to make the arrest of the bus driver possible. Police said all three youths, Aman, 23, Shivam, 18, and Govind, 16, died on the spot. While Aman was a native of Mainpuri district, Shivam and Govind were residents of Etawah. Cops said Aman had visited his maternal uncle’s place in Etawah on a two-wheeler from Mainpuri on Saturday morning. After picking his cousins Shivam and Govind, the three were on their way to somewhere when the accident took place on Saturday evening. They said the bus driver escaped with the vehicle after hitting them near Civil Lines railway underpass, they added. Additional superintendent of police Etawah Om Veer Singh said the eyewitnesses claimed that an overspeeding bus hit their vehicle at railway underpass in Civil Lines. “We are scanning CCTV footages to zero in the offending vehicle and it’s driver,” he said and added, “Bodies have been shifted to mortuary for autopsy.” Till the time this report was last updated, no arrest has been made in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-cousins-killed-in-mishap-in-etawah/articleshow/78210496.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Patna||Woman held with smuggled gold bars worth Rs 52.6 lakh in Patna||PATNA: A Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) team seized 1kg of 24-carat gold worth at least Rs52.6 lakh and arrested a 55-year-old woman from the special Rajdhani Express train at Patliputra Junction in Patna late Friday night. The woman was travelling in B-2 coach of the train from Guwahati to Delhi. “The woman had concealed six gold bars of different weights on her body,” DRI sources said. They said the woman was intercepted on the moving train on specific intelligence input. “DRI sleuths from Muzaffarpur boarded the train at Barauni Junction and took the woman in custody and made her alight at Patliputra Junction,” they said. “The consignment is Swiss gold and was probably first smuggled to Myanmar from where it was brought to India. This consignment was to be delivered in the bullion market of Delhi. Serial numbers and marks on bars were omitted,” sources said. They said the carrier woman, a native of Amritsar in Punjab, had reached Guwahati four days back for receiving the consignment. “The gold was handed over to her on Thursday for smuggling it to Delhi,” sources said. They said it was yet not clear if she was acting as a carrier for the first time or had done so earlier also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-held-with-gold-bars-worth-rs-52-6-lakh/articleshow/78210587.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Village head shot at over land dispute||PRAYAGRAJ: A gram pradhan was injured after a group of unidentified men allegedly shot at him over a dispute involving the construction of a panchayat building in Piparhata village, under Kaundhiara police station, late Friday night. The village head, Krishna Raj Singh aka Deepu (45) is undergoing treatment at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital. Station house officer (Kaundhiara) Umesh Kumar Singh said that Krishna Raj was busy overseeing the construction of a panchayat building when he was shot at. “The attackers arrived on motorcycles, opened fire and fled. Krishna Raj sustained a bullet injury on his chest,” the SHO added. The SHO said that a complaint has been registered and police were trying to identify the shooters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/village-head-shot-at-over-land-dispute/articleshow/78211160.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kanpur||Unverified corona cards may put users at risk||Kanpur: Corona has taken many lives and impacted the livelihoods and economy severely, but some companies and businessmen are busy cashing the fear of the pandemic and selling unverified products like cards worn around the neck claiming to provide a protective shield against the virus. These cards being sold under various names like ‘Corona Go’ and ‘Corona Get Out’ are in great demand. The fear of coronavirus is so much that even well-educated people are purchasing these cards and wearing them like identity cards. Medical stores are earning a handsome amount and owners say these cards are selling like hot cake. The price range of these cards varies from Rs 75 to Rs 130, but people are purchasing them without knowing the ingredients inside them and whether they are really beneficial or not. Pranshu Goel, a medical store owner, said he himself does not know what is inside the card as it is fully packed and gives some smell. In June, we used to sell four-five cards every day, but since July the sale has gone up manifold as the number of Covid cases started rising, he added. Goel further said that the span for which the card is effective is also not known but even then people buy them and keep wearing them for several days. Rakesh Malviya, a local, who purchased the card said his friend had advised him to use it saying it acts like a shield against the virus, so he bought it for personal protection. Sanjay Mehrotra, chairman retail medicine market association, said nobody knows what is inside the card. The card gives a camphor-like smell. Earlier, Made in Japan was printed on these cards, but now Made in India cards are also available. Dr Vikas Mishra, associate professor, GSVM medical college, said there is no word or guideline about such cards from ICMR and WHO. Believing that any unverified and untested product would save one from the virus is foolishness and also exposes people to the danger of catching the infection, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unverified-corona-cards-may-put-users-at-risk/articleshow/78210489.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||After 6 years, UP woman’s 41kg tumour removed in complex surgery||Dehradun: Since she turned 18, a woman from Bijnor had been weighed down by a niggling pain that would not go away. The pain kept growing and, unknown to her, so did the tumour that was causing it. In six years, it grew into a massive 41kg, more than half her body weight. The ovarian tumour was finally removed by surgeons at AIIMS-Rishikesh in a gruelling three-hour surgery this week. It turned out to be the second biggest ovarian cancer tumour removed in India, the first being a 50kg one, that was removed by doctors in Delhi earlier this year. “When she had first come to the hospital, she had a lump and complained of an unbearable stomach ache,” said Dr Kavita Khoiwal from the women and obstetrics department at AIIMS. Tests revealed a 50cm by 40 cm growth on an ovary. “It was a large tumour and removing it was complex since it was 60% of her body weight by then,” Khoiwal said. The size of a tumour can indicate how long it has been present. As it keeps growing, removing it becomes a challenge — the larger a tumour, the more difficult it is to avoid metastasis or spread while cutting it out. “The case was a reminder of the problem of healthcare access, especially for women, in remote villages. Many don’t get medical attention until the problem turns too serious,” said Dr Jaya Chaturvedi, head of the department of obstetrics and gynaecology. Director of AIIMS-Rishikesh Prof Ravi Kant said the hospital is coming up with a dedicated gynaeco-oncology division soon. The patient was discharged on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-6-years-up-womans-41kg-tumour-removed-in-complex-surgery/articleshow/78209490.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 20, 2020||Allahabad||Technical glitches mar AU online final year exams||Prayagraj: Even as the Allahabad University holds online exams for final year students of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses, its authorities are faced with the problem of multiple upload of answer sheet by the students. Of the first three days of the exams, several examinees uploaded their answer sheets even five times. The exams began on September 14 and will continue till October 19. “Problems are being faced by both students and the varsity. All this could be avoided if the students stick to the guidelines,” said controller of examination Prof R K Singh. Explaining further, he said that as the website opens for the question paper of a given course, far too many unauthorised persons log on to it although they are not enrolled in any course. “Likewise, when we have given two hours for writing the paper and additional two hours to upload the answer sheet, students keep on writing for around three and half hours and then start uploading the answer sheet in the last half an hour. And because of the rush, the server becomes slow and causes problems,” said Prof Singh. However, to solve the problem, AU has opened several options in the larger interest of the students. “We have opened a separate counter at the Arts campus office where the examinees can submit the hard copy of the answer sheets. Besides, students are mailing me, sending copies through speed post, registry, courier, etc., and we are accepting them,” the controller assured the students. The problem, being faced by the varsity authorities could be gauged by the fact that on the first three days of the final examinations some students uploaded their answer sheets even five times. On one such day, 782 students were registered for the examination, to be held for both the shifts, whereas at 10am, around 5,500 people started searching the paper on the website slowing down the server. “I would request the students to stick to the time limit given to them to solve the paper (two hours) and upload the paper as soon as they complete the same. I assure them that there would be no problem in the server,” said Prof Singh. He added that the counter for taking the hard copy, would be open till 6pm and students can submit their copies their too, but that should be the last option in view of corona crisis, he suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/technical-glitches-mar-au-online-final-year-exams/articleshow/78211122.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Tillari canal breach: Kalna river caters to Pernem’s water needs||PANAJI: The right bank canal of the Tillari reservoir, carrying water to Goa, was damaged on August 5 at Satoli in Maharashtra following heavy rainfall. Due to the continuing rainfall, the canal is yet to be repaired. Officials said that, in the meantime, 15MLD water is being drawn by the PWD from the Kalna River to meet the water requirement of Pernem taluka. A landslide following weeks of heavy rainfall led to the canal being damaged. The canal carried raw water for treatment and supply to parts of North Goa, especially Pernem. “As the rainfall continues, the machinery for the repair work is unable to access the area,” said an official. The PWD is therefore drawing water from another source for supplying drinking water to Pernem. The lone 15MLD Chandel plant supplies water to entire Pernem taluka. In 2019, a canal carrying water to Goa from the Tillari reservoir collapsed on the Maharashtra side, following heavy rainfall. The PWD then discontinued the use of water flowing from the Tillari reservoir in Maharashtra altogether due to high turbidity. This led to reduced supply of water to Bardez taluka, especially Mapusa and Porvorim. To address this issue, the PWD in November 2019 started drawing water from Sal and Assonora rivers till the repairs at Tillari are completed. Meanwhile, the water reservoirs of Selaulim, Chapoli and Gaunem in the state continue to spill over at over 100% full, due to plentiful rainfall received by the state this monsoon. The Tillari reservoir is 84% full at present. On an average, the dam is seen to be around 60% full during monsoon. Anjunem reservoir is currently filled to 99% of its capacity, and the water level at Amthane reservoir currently stands at 98%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tillari-canal-breach-kalna-river-caters-to-pernems-water-needs/articleshow/78211745.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Hotels allowed to sell rooms directly: Lobo||PANAJI: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo on Friday said that chief minister Pramod Sawant has agreed to allow hotels not registered with the tourism department to start taking online bookings directly through travel portals. Sawant also assured to write a letter to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor to extend the loan moratorium by two months for stakeholders in the tourism industry, Lobo said. Speaking to reporters, Lobo said that most of the online portals do not promote all the hotels in Goa because there has been a restriction put by the tourism department that only those hotels registered with the department can accept booking. Lobo said he had met Sawant to discuss revival of the industry in Goa, especially tourism. “I have told the chief minister to remove that clause and make it easy for businesses,” Lobo said. “We should put a system in place and not block the 4,000 rooms sold on travel portals,” he said, adding, “This issue has been solved on Friday and the chief minister has given directions to the tourism secretary and tourism director.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hotels-allowed-to-sell-rooms-directly-lobo/articleshow/78211747.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Allahabad||House owned by Atiq’s relative demolished||Prayagraj: Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) on Saturday demolished a house in Salahapur which was registered under the name of a relative of former MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmed. The house is registered under the name of Mohammad Zaid, who is the brother-in-law of Atiq’s younger brother Khalid Azim alias Ashraf. The house spans over an area of around 600 square yards in Hatwa village, bordering Puramufti police station in Kaushambi district. The land is under the revenue jurisdiction of Prayagraj district. The property is estimated to be around Rs 10 crore. PDA’s zonal officer Sat Shukla said, “The house was built without getting a map approved from PDA. We had issued several notices to the owner, but received no reply. Later, we decided to raze the building.” He said that the drive started around 10.30am. All belongings of the people living in the house were shifted out before the building was demolished. Apart from the area on which the building was constructed, around a thousand yards of land were lying vacant around the house. The entire area was converted into a Cantonment and a large number of policemen and PAC personnel were deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/house-owned-by-atiqs-relative-demolished/articleshow/78211151.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Siridao’s historic bridge ‘restricts’ traffic flow in Goa||PANAJI: An unusual ‘no entry’ board at the southern entrance of Siridao’s quaint arched bridge — a heritage landmark — often draws the attention of motorists. The board even threatens offenders with fines, but two and four-wheelers drive on regardless, rattling and crowding the narrow parallel bridge over the scenic Siridao river. It still stands in fairly good condition, a few decades after a new one was built. “We were annoyed when vehicles started diverting from the highway onto our village road,” Siridao-Palem sarpanch Camilo Marques said. The panchayat took the initiative to prevent traffic on the bridge. The narrow link necessitates slow movement. For one, there is not enough space for two cars, and, two, over the arched slope approaching vehicles are barely visible from the other side. “We avoided using the bridge after the sign came up, thinking it was unsafe,” a motorist Gaurish Naik said. The unique arched bridge, a smaller version of the centuries-old one over Rua de Ourem creek at Patto, was an important link to the Agasaim ferry point from Panaji at one time. “This is an old bridge from the Portuguese era,” one villager said. Another arched bridge, now abandoned after a new one was built, can be seen in the river’s upstream at Curca. “There are hardly four arched bridges in Tiswadi and are heritage structures by their own right,” Marques said. Siridao panchayat has approached the public works department (PWD) for its maintenance. “Some trees and vegetation growing on it need to be trimmed, as these loosen the stones and weaken the structure,” a panch member said. The coastal village on the northern banks of the Zuari is steeped in history and may have been part of the Gopakapattana port, comprising coastal areas of Agasaim and Goa Velha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/siridaos-historic-bridge-restricts-traffic-flow/articleshow/78211744.cms||Paul Fernandes
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||One in every seven U’khand MLAs either has Covid or just recovered||Dehradun: The RT-PCR test of all the ministers and MLAs would be done on September 21 and 22 before the assembly session begins on September 23. Officials said that Covid tests of ministers would be done in their official residence of Yamuna Colony while the sample of MLAs would be taken from their MLA hostel flats. Out of the 70 elected lawmakers of Uttarakhand, nine, including two ministers, have either tested positive or just recovered – making it one in every seven MLA who has been infected. Taking into account the rise in the number of Covid cases and MLAs testing positive, the assmbly authorities have made changes in the seating arrangements inside the assembly hall. Media pavilions, visitors and the governor’s areas have been included in the main hall area. As reported by TOI earlier, the government is mulling holding the session for just a day instead of three days as scheduled. The business advisory committee is scheduled to meet on Sunday to discuss the House proceedings after which the duration of the session will be finalised. To recall, BJP state president Banshidhar Bhagat along with his party legislators Umesh Sharma Kau, Vinod Chamoli, Deshraj Karnwal and Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion have been tested positive. Two senior ministers Satpal Maharaj and Madan Kaushik had also tested positive and have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-in-every-seven-ukhand-mlas-either-has-covid-or-just-recovered/articleshow/78209529.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 20, 2020||Goa||Goa to keep close watch on cleanliness of all rivers||PANAJI: The state government has revised the action plan strategies of all eleven river stretches in Goa. A senior officer said that as per new standards all rivers will now be monitored regularly. These include the Chapora, Tiracol, Zuari, Sal, Assonora, Bicholim, Khandepar and Mandovi rivers, among others. The river rejuvenation committee (RRC-Goa), constituted by the state government, through the department of environment has approved the action plan for eleven polluted river-stretches in Goa and has submitted the plan to the central pollution control board (CPCB). The stretches of rivers not meeting the prescribed biological oxygen demand (BOD) criteria - an yearly average - are identified as polluted stretches. BOD measures the amount of oxygen needed to decompose organic material in a unit volume of water. With higher amounts of organic waste in water, more oxygen is used for decomposition. Since BOD levels vary widely in river stretches, the BOD is prioritised across five categories based on BOD concentration. As per new standards, the official said that of the total of five categories, the highest priority refers to all locations which exceed BOD concentration of 30 mg/l (30 milligrams per litre) and this level is now considered similar to “discharge of sewerage”. The official said, “The state has submitted a performance guarantee of Rs 15 crore for effective implementation of the action plan strategies with an objective to restore the river water quality to bathing standards. These action plans are being reviewed at the national level by the task team constituted by the CPCB on a regular basis.” Prepared by RRC-Goa, the report has an objective of refreshing stretches of the Chapora, Tiracol, Zuari, Sal, Assonora, Bicholim, Khandepar and Mandovi rivers, among others. Based on data collected by CPCB, the eleven Goan rivers were declared polluted due to low biochemical oxygen levels. After the report came out, the national green tribunal (NGT) had ordered the state to prepare a rejuvenation plan for water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-keep-close-watch-on-cleanliness-of-all-rivers/articleshow/78211762.cms||Murari Shetye
September 20, 2020||Goa||‘Act against illegal hotels, homestays’ in Goa||PANAJI: The state government needs to take strong steps to crack down on touts and unauthorised homestays and hotels in the state that could hurt the tourism sector, opposition leader Digambar Kamat said on Saturday. Pointing out that hoteliers who comply with all norms and pay taxes find it difficult to compete with unregistered guest houses and hotels, Kamat said steps need to be taken to bring transparency into the tourism sector. Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar recently said that almost 1.6 crore tourists stayed in Goa illegally during the last season. Data released during a cabinet meeting on April 8 stated that 675 tourists were stranded in the state after the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown was announced. The government’s figure included 86 domestic tourists and 589 foreigners. However, data compiled by Goa International Airport showed that almost 9,500 foreign tourists flew out of Goa on 50 relief flights with a handful more still in the state, 15 times more than the figure shown by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-illegal-hotels-homestays/articleshow/78211755.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Bursting ODF ‘myth’: Not all houses have toilets in Delhi||NEW DELHI: While the five local government bodies in Delhi have all obtained certification of being open-defecation free, the findings of the socio-economic survey raise questions about the veracity of this claim. The survey of 20 lakh households established that there still were 11,497 houses with no sanitation facilities and its members were engaged in open defecation. And contrary to perceptions, most of these households were in urban areas, with just 7.7% of them in rural areas. Of the 11,497 indicted dwellings, 60.8% were in areas under the three municipal corporations, the rest under New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board. As for the district-wise variations of open-defecation prevalence, the survey found that of the 11 districts in Delhi, North district was the worst with 1,907 households that did not have toilet facilities, South-West, the best with just 391. South-East was second worst at 1,744 followed by East (1,555), Shahdara (1,460), North-West (918), Central (901), South (750), North-East (702), West (588) and New Delhi (581). South-West also reported the best access to toilets with 98.2% of them having facilities inside the houses. North Delhi Municipal Corporation was the last of the five local bodies to obtain the ODF certification in December last year. Some even are rated higher with an ODF+ certification. However, civil society has always questioned the credibility of such certification when open defecation continues to be a visible reality across the city. A municipal corporation official from the department of environment management services explained that the local bodies met the benchmark for the number of toilets available against a certain number of people. Another civic official said, “If the socio-economic survey has found houses without access to toilets, the results will be studied to initiate targeted campaigns for behavioural change.” He added the number of such household being urban could be due to open defecation along railway lines and in slum clusters. While in overall terms, Delhi fares well with 93.4 households shown to have access to toilets within houses and the percentage of households marked for open defecating a mere 0.57%. Public or community latrines are being used by 6.1% of the households. However, there’s another cause of worry: only 60% of houses with toilets are connected to the city’s sewer system. Amongst the households with toilet facility within their premises, piped sewerage is available to 60.1% of the households, followed by 36.7% having septic tanks and 1.2% using toilets linked with open drains or open areas that expose untreated excreta to the open environment. A north corporation official explained that the criterion for ODF certification included the civic body having enough toilet infrastructure for approximately 20% of the population engaged in open defecation. “The population of north municipal areas is 62.5 lakh and so we must target 1.7 lakh males and 0.8 lakh female toilet seats for community use. We thus have a surplus of seats in both community and public toilets,” he added. The second criterion of a minimum 500 metres between two toilets is also being met, so the problem is behavioural, the official argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bursting-odf-myth-not-all-houses-have-toilets/articleshow/78210627.cms||Paras Singh
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Lost your job? You need a skill passport to sail through||HYDERABAD: Can you imagine exploring the world without a valid passport? What if you had a ‘passport’ that helps you explore the world of opportunities in the job market across geographies? Professor Bhagwan Chowdhry of Hyderabad-based Indian School of Business (ISB), has mooted the concept of a ‘skill passport’ that leverages blockchain technology to record skills and use the overall data from multiple ‘skill passports’ to understand the state of the economy, the nature of jobs in demand, and the skill-sets required to bag these jobs. At a time when millions of people, especially youth, have lost their livelihood, and there has been a large-scale migration of workforce from urban to rural areas during the lockdown, one of the key challenges for people will be finding the right kind of job that matches their skill-sets in the coming days. As per CMIE data, 6.6 million white collar professional jobs were lost during May-August in India. It is in this scenario that the concept of ‘skill passport’ assumes significance. This is because many state governments — Telangana, Karnataka, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh, among others — plan to map skills of their existing workforce, especially the migrant workers who have returned home, to be able to provide them with local job opportunities. Even the central government has recently launched its skill mapping exercise called ‘SWADES’ (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) for citizens flying home under the Vande Bharat Mission. Professor Chowdhry explains that in the rapidly changing world, current labels such as BA/BCom or BTech do not hold much importance as they do not reflect one’s actual skills. Instead, one must be able to create a digital record that can be updated frequently, and also has reviews of relevant stakeholders on how they rate your skills. “In other words, it is not just important for you to know that you are a good welder or for your neighbours to know that you are good at your job. We should be able to create a record in which people will recognise that you are a good welder, and it should be credible,” he says. The ‘credibility’ of skills can be ensured when more and more people rate your skills, he says. Apart from credibility, this digital record should be made safe and secure by using blockchain. “Blockchain creates records that are permanent & indelible, and we can give them a unique identification number like an Aadhaar number… so this is what I call a ‘skill passport’, as it is a record that you carry with yourself and it can tell people what you can do,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lost-your-job-you-need-a-skill-passport-to-sail-through/articleshow/78210615.cms||Swati Rathor
September 20, 2020||Goa||Verdict proves our innocence: Sanstha||Panaji: Sanatan Sanstha welcomed the HC judgment, and said that its innocence has been proved once again. “The then Congress government tried to implicate six innocent Sanatan seekers in the Margao blast,” said spokesperson Chetan Rajhans. “After four years of incarceration, the sessions court acquitted all of them... and the HC has upheld the verdict,” he said, adding that the acquittal was a “hard slap on the face” of those who propagate the myth of saffron terrorism.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verdict-proves-our-innocence-sanstha/articleshow/78211773.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||After 40 days, railway experts fortify Pernem tunnel in Goa||MARGAO: The Pernem tunnel which took 40 days of restoration work after its lined wall collapsed on August 6, is now reinforced with mild steel (MS) plates and heavy webs, thus providing an added layer of structural security. The restoration work carried out under heavy rainfall conditions, challenging subterranean strata and current pandemic situation, turned out to be a herculean task for the engineering division of the Konkan Railway. “Soon after the collapse of the concrete lined wall, the heavy rains that lashed the area made water gush out through the cavities inside the tunnel making it difficult to make any significant headway in the work,” said Baban Ghatge, deputy manager, public relations, Konkan Railway. The task required mobilising skilled and unskilled manpower, materials and heavy machinery like excavators, hydras, concrete cutters, compressors, etc, in a short period. “The incident brought back memories of October 1997 of the construction phase of the tunnel,” said Girish Karandikar, spokesperson of the Konkan Railway. “The tunnel wall had collapsed three months before the completion thereby affecting the entire project schedules and timelines,” he said. This tunnel took the longest time and was the last one to be ready The commissioning of the project was held up for at least 5 months because of this tunnel. Works on it commenced in January 1992 and was completed on January 10, 1998. Old KR records point out that engineers faced a daunting task during the tunneling work at Pernem as the substrata of the soil altered between soft schist rock, slanting rock, hard laterite and soft clay, with constant water seepage. There were problems of mudflow, collapses, cavity formation and squeezing of supports. Excavation became difficult and the tunnel face became unstable a number of times. Techniques such as fore-poling, insertion of perforated pipes for draining out water, and grouting were employed for the tunneling work. Following the latest collapse, the first such instance during the trains operation phase, the restoration work had to be carried out within a very restricted place within the tunnel width of about 5m amidst slushy conditions and continuous water seepage. International experts in soil mechanics and experienced technicians were airlifted from the Konkan Railways’s site at Jammu and Kashmir and brought to Pernem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-40-days-rly-experts-fortify-pernem-tunnel/articleshow/78211769.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to release second sero survey report soon||MUMBAI: BMC is likely to release on Monday findings of the second sero survey report for Covid-19 conducted in three wards of the city. The second survey was conducted in the second fortnight of August and was completed during Ganpati festival. The surveys are done by BMC along with NITI Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Colaba. The first serological survey in July was conducted in the same wards of M West (Chembur), F North (Matunga, Sion and Wadala) and R North (Dahisar). The first survey showed that almost 57% of the people living in slum pockets in these areas had developed antibodies, while the corresponding number for non-slum areas was 16%. It is learnt that TIFR has submitted its analysis to BMC, and its scientists will meet with BMC health officials on Monday afternoon for a discussion. “The report may be released soon thereafter or on Tuesday,” said a BMC official. The second sero survey holds significance because of the worldwide debate about decay in Covid antibodies over a three-month period. Around 10,000-odd samples were collected for analysis from slums and non-slum areas in the three wards. However, a senior BMC official on Saturday said positive cases in the last one month have been coming from non-slum areas. “It is clear that as lockdown was relaxed and people started mingling, the spread has been occurring in housing colonies,’’ he said. It is estimated that herd immunity can be achieved if up to 70% of the population is exposed to the virus and develop antibodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-release-second-sero-survey-report-soon/articleshow/78210708.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||5.5 ft-long croc rescued from parking||Vadodara: A 5.5 foot crocodile was rescued from the parking area of a residential society located on the outskirts of the city in the wee hours of Saturday. Vadodara forest department and the Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) had received a call from a resident of Prime Plaza, an apartment located at Amodar village on Waghodiya Road early on Saturday. “A resident Meet Panchal had called us informing that he had spotted a crocodile inside the parking area of the apartment scheme,” said Rajesh Bhavsar of GSPCA whose team reached the spot at around 4 am to rescue the crocodile. The crocodile which was rescued by volunteers Rinav Kadam, Mehul Patel and Karan Parmar was handed over to Nitin Patel of Vadodara forest department. “As the area is surrounded by water bodies and lakes, it is possible that the reptile may have ventured out of one of these or from the canal nearby,” said Bhavsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5-5-ft-long-croc-rescued-from-parking/articleshow/78209377.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Drunk man hacks pregnant wife after priest predicts another girl child||BAREILLY: In a gruesome crime, an inebriated man allegedly hacked his four months pregnant wife — mother of five minor girls — with a sickle after a priest predicted that “their sixth child would also be a girl” in the Civil Lines area of Budaun on Saturday. The woman undergoing treatment at a higher medical facility in Bareilly is stated to be critical. Police said the husband — Pannalal (43), a labourer and a resident of Budaun city -- returned home inebriated and picked up an argument with his wife Anita Devi (40), forcing her to abort the child, said police. After Anita refused, Pannalal attacked her with a sickle on her abdomen to kill the foetus, said police, adding neighbours, meanwhile, arrived at the scene and rushed Anita to the district hospital. Emergency medical officer at the district hospital Dr Rajesh Kumar Verma said, “A woman with multiple injuries on her stomach and chest was brought to the hospital. Her injuries were grave and possibly caused by a sharp-edged weapon. We referred her to a higher medical facility given her critical condition.” Anita’s younger brother Ravi Kumar said, “My brother-in-law used to beat up my sister often for giving birth to five daughters. Even my parents tried to resolve the problem, but no one had ever imagined that he would take such a cruel step.” Civil Lines police station SHO Sudhakar Pandey said, “ We have detained the accused and he is being questioned.” The SHO added that they had been waiting for a written complaint from the woman’s family to register a case in this connection. Watch Bareilly: Man hacks pregnant wife after priest “predicts” 6th girl child||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drunk-man-hacks-pregnant-wife-after-priest-predicts-another-girl-child-woman-critical/articleshow/78208820.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 20, 2020||Cuttack||Govt plans to rejig state share in central schemes||BHUBANESWAR: With the state government initiating the process of preparing the supplementary budget for 2020-21 financial year, the finance department has decided to allocate state’s share under various centrally-sponsored schemes (CSSs) in accordance with the allocation made by the Union government. Since it has been noticed that the actual allocation by the Union government under various CSSs varies from the provision made in the annual budget, it has been decided that the state share of the the CSSs should be increased or decreased proportionately, said an official source in the finance department. Various departments implementing the CSSs have been asked to submit proposal for additional allocation as state share in the supplementary budget only if the level of central assistance communicated by the ministry concerned is higher than that mentioned in the annual budget 2020-21. Similarly, where there is a reduction in allocation by the Centre, there should be equivalent reduction in the state share, said a finance department officer. Centrally-sponsored schemes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is likely to receive higher allocation from the Centre as the Union government has been emphasising on creation of additional jobs in rural areas. Higher allocation is also expected under the National Food Security Act. In case some new CSSs have been launched by the Centre, for which provisions were not made in the annual budget, various state government departments have been asked to submit proposals accordingly to make financial provision in the supplementary budget, said the official. With the state government already deciding not to launch any new scheme as part of the expenditure rationalisation measures, the finance department has already clarified that the supplementary budget will have no provision for any new scheme by any department except the health and family welfare department taking into account the Covid pandemic. If any new scheme is essentially required for emergent public services by any other department, such schemes can be taken up only after concurrence of the finance department. The supplementary budget will be tabled in the state assembly in the winter session that is likely to be held in November-December, said an official source. The decision to increase or decrease the state’s share for central schemes has been taken due to resource crunch in view of the Covid-induced lockdown and shutdown. The state government has recorded around 23% deficit in collection of revenue in the April-June quarter. The resource crunch has also forced the state to go for a series of austerity measures like restrictions on spending in travel, launching of new schemes and taking up renovation works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-plans-to-rejig-state-share-in-central-schemes/articleshow/78215722.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Four black spots to zero fatality: How redesign turned around 12km corridor||NEW DELHI: Installation of traffic cones, safety barriers and road studs has transformed a notoriously accident-prone stretch — Signature Bridge to Bhalswa Chowk with four traffic black spots — into a zero-fatality corridor. The road redesign has reduced pedestrian exposure distance by 70% and vehicular conflict 100%, according to road experts. The zero-fatality corridor traverses a 12km stretch that has the four blackspots designated by Delhi traffic police: Bhalswa Chowk, Mukundpur Chowk, Burari Chowk and Jahangirpuri Bus Stop. These black spots in north Delhi consistently feature among the spots with the highest accident fatalities in the city, most of them pedestrians and two-wheeler users. An NGO conducted exhaustive research and identified key challenges, for which it submitted comprehensive redesign recommendations to the transport department and PWD. The objectives of this programme were undertaken to reduce all preventable road crash fatalities and injuries on the selected stretch to near zero levels and to develop a sustainable model to prevent road crashes, deaths and injuries in urban areas through the institutionalisation of road safety protocols. The tactical redesign included infrastructural changes to the layout of the junctions and the use of 150 traffic cones, 350 safety barriers, 150 spring posts, 220 road studs and over 200 litres of paint to ensure safer mobility and refuge space for vulnerable road users over nearly 12,000 square metres. Apart from this, 64 hours of on-site video data provided information for assessment of conflict. “A large number of lives can be saved on our roads if we have a relook at the conflict on the existing roads,” said Piyush Tewari, CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation, which worked with Delhi government to redesign traffic blackspots such as Bhalswa Chowk. “We reduced fatalities there during the redesign trial, and so will be replicating the new design approach on two more intersections. We hope that once the replication proves successful, it will be institutionalised at other accident zones.” The transport department, PWD and traffic police took up the several measures, as a result of which the levels of safe mobility were considered to have improved substantially. It was noticed that there was a 70% reduction in the pedestrian exposure distance, thus reducing pedestrian vulnerability to conflict, vehicular crashes and near-crashes. Not only this, there was a 50% reduction in pedestrian conflict with fast-moving traffic and 100% reduction in conflict among different vehicle categories, including two-wheelers. There was also an increase in compliance of pedestrians using zebra crossings and footpaths. In addition, 80% of all vulnerable road users like pedestrians and cyclists were observed to be using the dedicated pedestrian crossings after the redesign. Over 75% of all road users also admitted feeling safer while crossing or driving through Bhalswa Chowk. In 2018, Delhi recorded over 6,500 road accidents that killed more than 1,600 people and injured 6,000, or five persons dying and 17 persons being injured on Delhi roads every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-black-spots-to-zero-fatality-how-redesign-turned-around-12km-corridor/articleshow/78210637.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 20, 2020||Mysuru||NCB lists 6 districts vulnerable to drug trafficking||Mysuru: The drug scandal is not a new menace to society going by reports of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). But now, the government has vowed to root out the menace. According to a list provided by the NCB to the ministry of social justice and empowerment, six districts of Karnataka – Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kodagu, Udupi, Ramanagar and Kolar — are vulnerable to drug trafficking. This information was shared in the Lok Sabha by Rattan Lal Kataria, minister of state for social justice and empowerment in March. According to NCB sources, most of the drugs in Mysuru are supplied and sourced online. “Major customers for drugs supplied to Mysuru are students,” said an NCB officer. “There are a few active peddlers in Kodagu too. An advisory has been issued to the state government to hold a meeting of all stakeholders to completely wipe out the drug mafia in Karnataka. This meeting is expected to happen soon,” he said. According to the information shared by the Union minister, NCB under the Ministry of Home Affairs has prepared a list of areas vulnerable to drug trafficking. For the last few days, police are conducting raids and detaining miscreants involved in drug peddling in Mysuru and Kodagu. Udupi-Chikkamagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje said, “The state government and police are taking stern action against wrongdoers. I am happy.” DG-IGP Praveen Sood said police across the state are carrying out a record number of raids and seizures. “Never before have so many seizures and arrests of peddlers, not the consumers, been made,” he told STOI. “We have changed our strategy against the drug mafia. Earlier the consumers who were also peddlers were being caught. Now, we are targeting the entire supply chain of drugs which includes consumers, peddlers and the source of the drugs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ncb-lists-6-districts-vulnerable-to-drug-trafficking/articleshow/78208816.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||6 deaths, 117 new corona cases in Wardha||Wardha: 6 patients died during treatment and 117 more persons tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday in the district. Meanwhile, 52 patients were discharged. With the 117 new Covid patients (74 men and 43 women) out of 526 test reports, the total coronavirus cases in the district reached 3,275, and active cases stood at 1,609. The new cases are from Wardha (54), Hinganghat (28), Deoli and Selu (11 each), Arvi (5), Karanja (4), Ashti (3) and Samudrapur (1). Three men aged (63, 68, 78) from Wardha, two men (70, 78) from Pulgaon and a 72-year-old woman from Arvi died due to coronavirus. The total death toll reached 86. With 52 recoveries on Saturday, 1,580 patients have now been discharged after being cured of the virus. Kasturba hospital, Sewagram has made a provision to provide health status information to all the relatives of Covid patients admitted in Covid wards. The relatives can access the patients’ status on call too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-deaths-117-new-corona-cases-in-wardha/articleshow/78208814.cms||Balwant Dhage
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records highest 1-day surge with 2,078 Covid-19 cases||Dehradun: With 2,078 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus in a day, the highest so far, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 40,085 on Saturday, while the death toll rose to 478 with 14 new fatalities. The new infections pushed the infection rate to 7% and the active Covid-19 cases to 12,465 in the state. Among those found infected were Shadab Shams, ex-spokesperson of Uttarakhand BJP, and Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition. According to the health department officials, Hridayesh was admitted to Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani after displaying Covid-like symptoms on Friday but was moved to Dehradun on Saturday after her Covid-19 test report came out positive. Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin confirmed that Shadab Shams was admitted to a private hospital in the state capital . Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 668 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 397 cases from Udham Singh Nagar, 289 from Haridwar, and 231 from Nainital. Till Saturday, Dehradun was the district with the most number of Covid-19 infections with 4,274 active cases. In the hills , 146 fresh infections were reported from Tehri, followed by 99 from Pauri, 67 from Uttarkashi, 54 from Chamoli, 43 from Almora, 39 from Pithoragarh, 19 from Champawat, and 13 cases each from Bageshwar and Rudraprayag. The state recorded 14 deaths of Covid-positive patients on Saturday, of which two cases each were recorded at AIIMS in Rishikesh and Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, and 10 from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College. The state also recorded 878 patients recovering from Covid-19. The tally of cured cases now stands at 26,973 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-highest-1-day-surge-with-2078-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78209543.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt plans to rejig state share in central schemes||BHUBANESWAR: With the state government initiating the process of preparing the supplementary budget for 2020-21 financial year, the finance department has decided to allocate state’s share under various centrally-sponsored schemes (CSSs) in accordance with the allocation made by the Union government. Since it has been noticed that the actual allocation by the Union government under various CSSs varies from the provision made in the annual budget, it has been decided that the state share of the the CSSs should be increased or decreased proportionately, said an official source in the finance department. Various departments implementing the CSSs have been asked to submit proposal for additional allocation as state share in the supplementary budget only if the level of central assistance communicated by the ministry concerned is higher than that mentioned in the annual budget 2020-21. Similarly, where there is a reduction in allocation by the Centre, there should be equivalent reduction in the state share, said a finance department officer. Centrally-sponsored schemes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is likely to receive higher allocation from the Centre as the Union government has been emphasising on creation of additional jobs in rural areas. Higher allocation is also expected under the National Food Security Act. In case some new CSSs have been launched by the Centre, for which provisions were not made in the annual budget, various state government departments have been asked to submit proposals accordingly to make financial provision in the supplementary budget, said the official. With the state government already deciding not to launch any new scheme as part of the expenditure rationalisation measures, the finance department has already clarified that the supplementary budget will have no provision for any new scheme by any department except the health and family welfare department taking into account the Covid pandemic. If any new scheme is essentially required for emergent public services by any other department, such schemes can be taken up only after concurrence of the finance department. The supplementary budget will be tabled in the state assembly in the winter session that is likely to be held in November-December, said an official source. The decision to increase or decrease the state’s share for central schemes has been taken due to resource crunch in view of the Covid-induced lockdown and shutdown. The state government has recorded around 23% deficit in collection of revenue in the April-June quarter. The resource crunch has also forced the state to go for a series of austerity measures like restrictions on spending in travel, launching of new schemes and taking up renovation works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-plans-to-rejig-state-share-in-central-schemes/articleshow/78209559.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
September 20, 2020||Goa||IMD issues orange alert till Monday in Goa||PANAJI: The India meteorological department (IMD) has warned of heavy rainfall in the state till Monday and therefore issued an orange alert till September 21. A low pressure area is likely to form over the Northeast Bay of Bengal, while an East West sheer zone will enhance monsoon over Goa. IMD’s observations currently show the high intensity of rainfall is at the Goa Karnataka border. “Though the activity is going to be more intense over Northmost side of coastal Karnataka at the Southern tip of Goa, considering that some parts of Goa could be affected, we have issued the orange alert. There is also a low probability of extremely heavy rainfall in isolated areas,” IMD stated. Heavy rainfall can continue to lash Goa up to September 22. However, the intensity of heavy rainfall is likely to reduce from September 21. The sheer zone is between 3.1 to 7.6 km from the mean sea level, and the since the low pressure area over the Northeast Bay of Bengal may get strengthened, the IMD is expecting increased activity about 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imd-issues-orange-alert-till-monday/articleshow/78211775.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Rajkot||Murder convict on run held for killing 6-yr-old girl||Rajkot: The 40-year-old murder convict, who had escaped from prison, was arrested on Saturday of brutal murder of a six-year-old girl in August, from Karena village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district. Police said the accused, Vikram alias Kalu Damor (40), had allegedly slit the throat of the child and smashed her head with a hammer after she started crying when Damor tried to rape her. The child had entered into Damor’s hut while playing in a labour colony on Vavadi Road in Rajkot on August 13.“At the crime spot, when we lined up all the labourers for questioning, one labourer named Vikram alias Kalu Damor was nowhere to be found. We interrogated 1,000 to 1,500-odd labourers and building contractors at different sites. From one source, we managed to procure the photograph of Damor,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector, Rajkot detection of crime branch. “We created a WhatsApp group of 300-odd builders, circulated Damor’s photographs among them and intensified our manhunt. Meanwhile, our team received a tip-off that Damor was hiding in Karena village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar, following which the team raided his hide-out and nabbed him,” added Gadhvi. During the investigation, it was found that Damor was arrested and jailed in a murder case of Dhambola village in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan in 2002. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. He had served 10 years in prison at Udaipur Central Jail, from where he was transferred to an open jail from where he fled.In 2015, he assumed the identity of Arjun and started working as a labourer at a construction site in Jodhpur. Here, he allegedly raped the five-year-old daughter of a labourer. He also allegedly tried to kill the child by hitting her head with a stone, injuring her seriously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murder-convict-on-run-held-for-killing-6-yr-old-girl/articleshow/78210739.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ramlila organisers hope to get nod||NEW DELHI: With the daily Covid count again above 4,000 cases, the organisers of Delhi’s major Ramlila celebrations, which are to be held less than a month away, are busy figuring out a way to keep the annual tradition uninterrupted while minimising the risk of spreading corona infection. While some are suggesting that the celebrations, organised during the Navratris, be kept small scale with an emphasis on digital medium, others say recovered or tested people may be allowed to attend. A few organisers have already filed applications with Archaeological Survey of India, which manages the Red Fort foregrounds, for this year’s celebrations. However, it seems clear that this year there won’t be Bollywood performers or chaat corners and various joyrides, considered usual on such occasions, at a grand scale. Many organisers say that during a normal year, the preparations would have been at an advanced stage now, but this year the final call will be taken next week. Suresh Bindal of Indraprastha Ramlila Committee, one of the biggest organisers in east Delhi, said new technologies and digital medium would be used this year in the wake of the pandemic. “Even if we are allowed a small-scale stage in an auditorium with live telecast on YouTube and other mediums, we will do it,” he said. Ashok Agarwal, who heads Luv Kush Ramlila Committee that organises the performance at the Red fort foregrounds, said government guidelines were likely to be issued next week. “We will meet on Sunday to figure out the modalities. We will organise Ramlila at a smaller scale to keep the tradition alive. It will be live telecast on the digital medium so that devotees can watch it at home,” he added. According to the committee, which is known for its glitzy performances featuring television and Bollywood artistes, its preparations are at an advanced stage and several new songs had already been recorded. It wants to organise Ramila despite all obstacles. “Even if it means only calling people who have recovered from Covid, Ramlila should be organised,”said Agarwal, assuring that finances and donations won’t be a problem. “We are in touch with donors. Resources will not be a problem. However, if government guidelines ultimately do not allow it, we will follow the rules,” he added. Nav Sri Dharmic Committee has also been holding its annual celebrations at the Red Fort foregrounds for the past 62 years. Several top congress leaders like Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh had attended this programme. Jagmohan Gotewala, a committee member, said, “All committees are waiting for the guidelines. One thing is clear that this will not be a normal year and the celebrations will not be as grand as social distancing will be a challenge.” One of the oldest organisers in the city, Sri Dharmic Committee, prides itself for following traditional methods and artistes from Moradabad. Committee member Ravi Jain said they had called a meeting to take a call. “We are in touch with traditional artistes from Moradabad and Bareilly but Covid-19 has spread a lot in those areas too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ramlila-organisers-hope-to-get-nod/articleshow/78210690.cms||Paras Singh
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Glass into sand: Delhi teen finds place on UN green list||NEW DELHI: Udit Singhal, who founded a startup to turn glass bottles into sand, has been named among 17 people in the United Nation’s 2020 Class of Young Leaders for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The programme is a flagship initiative that recognises the efforts of young people in driving action and galvanising others in support of UN’s 2030 agenda for sustainable development. Singhal, an 18-year-old who lives near Mandi House, told TOI, “I feel proud to represent India. Along with 16 others, I’ll work to motivate youths and achieve SDGs. I hope to be able to encourage communities to inculcate better civic sense to create sustainable living spaces.” The teenager attended the UN function online due to the Covid pandemic. “In the normal scenario, I would have gone to New York,” he added. Singhal had founded Glass2Sand in 2019 as a zero-waste system that turns bottles into economically viable sand. “In 2018, I found a pile of bottles at home. During research, I learnt that ragpickers were not interested in collecting glass bottles because of little demand, high transportation cost and storage space. So empty glass bottles often ended up at the landfills. Do you know it takes a million years for a glass bottle to decompose?” Singhal then imported a machine from New Zealand with a special grant from the New Zealand High Commissioner in India and went to work helped by 65 volunteers, six diplomatic missions and four institutions, collecting bottles from across Delhi. “It takes five seconds to turn one empty glass bottle into sand. We have crushed 8,000 kg of bottles into 4,800 kg of high-grade silica sand so far,” he said. “This silica sand is commercially viable because it is used in construction, including roads and as lining in furnaces. It is more valuable than river sand in making concrete.” Singhal studied in The British School in Delhi and is currently a freshman at University College in London where he is a management sciences student. Other young leaders cited by Jayathma Wickramanayake, the UN Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth, for “leading the way in shaping a more sustainable and inclusive future for all” belong to the United States, Turkey, China, Pakistan, Peru, Egypt, Senegal, Bulgaria, Nigeria, Brazil, Liberia, Ireland, Colombia, Australia, Uganda and Bangladesh. Watch Delhi teen finds place on UN green list, turns glass into sand||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/glass-into-sand-teen-finds-place-on-un-green-list/articleshow/78210674.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||10 rly staff succumb to virus, 827 test +ve in ECoR zone||Bhubaneswar: As many as 10 employees of the East Coast Railway (ECoR) have died and 827 of its staff have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Railway minister Piyush Goyal informed the Rajya Sabha about this in a written reply on Friday. He told the Upper House that 336 railway employees across the country have died of Covid-19 so far and altogether 14,714 of its employees have been infected. Out of the total number of deaths, 67 fatalities were reported from the Central Railway zone. The second highest number of such deaths were registered in the South Central Railway followed by Western Railway (50 deaths), Southern Railway (21), Northern Railway (17) and North Eastern Railway (17). South Central Railway has reported the highest number of 2,202 positive cases. Keeping the pandemic in mind, ECoR has made elaborate arrangements for diagnosis and treatment of Covid patients in its hospitals. It has created 187 Covid beds in its three major hospitals in Bhubaneswar, Khurda and Visakhapatnam for treatment of its employees. “Our hospitals are equipped with oxygen gas pipeline, high flow nasal oxygen and ventilators. Besides, special fever clinic is functioning in ECoR hospitals. Doctors and paramedical staff of ECoR have received training to face the Covid-19 challenges and utilisation of modern equipment,” said ECoR chief spokesperson K K Khadanga. He said ECoR health staff collect swab for RT-PCR test and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). During antigen test at ECoR headquarters between September 2 and September 4, 25 positive cases were detected. They were admitted to the railway hospital and other Covid hospitals, he added. Around 300 Covid-19 positive patients have been admitted to ECoR hospitals so far. ECoR has been organizing awareness drives during the Covid-19 pandemic and strictly following all regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/10-rly-staff-succumb-to-virus-827-test-ve-in-ecor-zone/articleshow/78209571.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
September 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: HC acquits six Sanstha-linked men in ’09 Margao blasts case||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Saturday acquitted six persons linked to the Sanatan Sanstha in the 2009 Margao bomb blast case, and held that the national investigation agency (NIA) failed to prove that they hatched a conspiracy to trigger an improvised explosive device (IED) on the eve of Diwali. The court pointed out lapses by the agency in not conducting forensic tests at the site where the blast tests were carried out by the accused. It also noted that the consent of the district magistrate to prosecute the accused under the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, was not taken. Two accused linked to the outfit died after the device exploded when they were carrying it on a scooter, allegedly to plant it at a Narkasur effigy competition in Margao on the night of October 16, 2009. The prosecution alleged that the accused persons intended to plant the device near the place of the competition, which was to be attended by the chief minister and other politicians. Police had also recovered another IED planted in a truck carrying a narkasur effigy, after it was found by its driver and thrown in a field. However, the device wrapped in a bag did not detonate. Rejecting the appeal filed by the NIA against the acquittal of the accused by the trial court, a division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar remarked that evidence produced to link the accused to the whitish nylon bag containing explosives planted in the truck is “quite sketchy”. The court noted that merely because the accused persons may have links with the Sanatan Sanstha and that it was opposed to narkasur effigy competitions, it isn’t sufficient to establish that the accused persons conspired to cause an explosion at the competition. Regarding the prosecution’s claim that the accused persons prepared the bombs and conducted a test of the bomb in a pit behind the house of one of the deceased accused person’s brother, the court observed: “There are no forensic tests or chemical analysis undertaken by the prosecution to establish that these pits have a nexus with the bomb blast trial. Besides, there is no clinching evidence on record that it is the accused persons who were involved in the blast trial.” Referring to the observations made by the trial court doubting the veracity of the FIR, the high court said, “To suggest that there was some manipulation in the FIR or that the prosecution was unfairly directed against a particular institution is not an inference that could be legitimately drawn on the basis of the evidence on record”. Thus, the high court set aside the observation of the trial court as it was contrary to the weight of the evidence on record. Additional public prosecutor Pravin Faldessai said that even though the HC has confirmed the acquittal, it hasn’t totally dismissed the NIA appeal. “Certain contentions have been considered and upheld by the high court,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-acquits-six-sanstha-linked-men-in-09-margao-blasts-case/articleshow/78211795.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: New inflammatory syndrome in kids has doctors worried||HYDERABAD: The emergence of a rare but potentially fatal health condition in Covid-19 positive children known as multi-system inflammatory syndrome or pediatric multi-system inflammatory syndrome has left the authorities and health experts worried. According to medical practitioners, MIS-C is a unique condition which affects children two-four weeks after onset of Covid-19 and can be lethal because it affects multiple organs — be it the heart and lungs, the gastro-intestinal system or the neurological system. Doctors treating Covid-19 children in private hospitals in the city said they have seen 75 to 90 MIS-C cases during the pandemic so far. “It is a health condition seen particularly in children who have been infected with Covid-19, recover from it and are subsequently developing an immune response that triggers widespread inflammatory response in multiple organs of the body,” said Dr Farhan Shaikh, head of pediatric intensive care unit, Rainbow Children’s Hospital. Dr Shaik said it also affects the heart by weakening the coronary blood vessels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-inflammatory-syndromein-kids-has-doctors-worried/articleshow/78210662.cms||Moulika.KV
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Two Mumbai businessmen held in Rs 7 crore Lonavala land scam||MUMBAI: Two city businessmen were arrested in a land scam in which some people allegedly lured a Worli businessman to invest in a plot of land in Lonavala and duped him of Rs 7 crore. Lonavala police on Friday arrested Kishore Lalwani and Kishore Madhyani under IPC sections for cheating, forgery, breach of trust, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy. The first class magistrate court remanded them to police custody till September 23. A sessions court last week rejected their anticipatory bail pleas. Investigating officer Manoj Yadav said they were looking out for another dozen in the case. Police have booked Tulsi Jasnani, who is complainant Vinay Chawla’s brother-in-law, Mahesh Alimchandani, Kishore Lalwani, lawyer and solicitor Vinod Mistry and his son-in-law Ram Avasthi, Kishore Madhyani, Sharada Alimchandani, Tulsi’s son Gautam, Brigade and Michelle. Vinay last month complained after learning that 10-12 persons, including Tulsi, showed him forged documents of a plot at Mawal and duped him. Vinay, who is in the edible oil business, said in 2010 he and his father Tarachand floated Chinmaya Estate company. Police said in 2006 Tulsi was arrested by Mumbai EOW in a financial scam. Tulsi fled from India and was on the run but Vinay persuaded him to return, offered him assistance and advised him to abandon his past and work for Chinmay Estate. In 2013, Tulsi proposed purchase and development of 14.5 acres of farmland at Kunenama village, Lonavala. “Tusli claimed the land belonged to Babhabai Landge, Nirmala Tawre and Ranjana Sathe. He said possession was with Lalwani and Madnani,’’ an officer said. Tusli also said Avasthi and Alimchandani had the tenancy rights. He showed a notarised registered document in the form of an MoU executed by Lalwani and Mandnani, and the deal was finalised for Rs 27 crore. Tulsi told the Chawlas that Lalwani and Madnani would resolve problems related to the property and complete the non-agricultural transaction. Later, Tulsi introduced Avasthi, saying he was a tenant and they should settle issues with him. “Tulsi said Chawlas paid various people, from Avasthi to Alimchandani, Lalwani and Madnanai, estate agents Kuli Khan, Shelar, Kedari and Sawant. Later, they introduced Michelle and Brigade, saying they were trustees of Bombay Mission Superior Trust, and they too were paid Rs 7.2 crore, only to learn that the land belonged to the government and documents the complainant was shown were forged,’’ the officer added. Deputy superintendent of police Navneet Kanwat is supervising the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-mumbai-bizmen-held-in-rs7cr-lonavala-land-scam/articleshow/78210710.cms||Ahmed Ali
September 20, 2020||India||Govt, opposition agree to cut short Parliament session as Covid-19 spreads||NEW DELHI: In the wake of some Union ministers and MPs testing positive for Covid-19 following the commencement of the monsoon session of Parliament, opposition parties and the government on Saturday arrived at a consensus to curtail the scheduled session after passage of important bills. The session may end by the middle of next week, according to official sources. A final decision will be taken by the Cabinet committee on parliamentary affairs. At a meeting of the business advisory committee of the Lok Sabha, which has floor leaders of all parties besides government representatives and is chaired by Speaker Om Birla, most parties favoured curtailment of the session which had started on September 14 and was scheduled to conclude on October 1. Of late, most assemblies have had very short 1-3 day sessions and passed several bills in one day. Two Union ministers — Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Patel — who attended the current Parliamentary session have tested positive. Some MPs like BJP’s Vinay Sahashrabuddhe also reported their Covid positive status. So far, 30 MPs have tested positive, including 20 after the session started. The Lok Sabha has so far passed three bills to replace agriculture sector-related ordinances. Also, both the Houses have cleared a bill to replace an ordinance for cutting by 30 per cent the salaries of MPs to ramp up funds in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Opposition parties have conveyed to the government that conducting a full 18-day session could be a risky affair, sources said. In order to prevent the spread of coronavirus within the Parliament complex, reporters and parliamentary staff entering the premises now have to undergo the rapid antigen test mandatorily on a daily basis, according to a new protocol put in place. Besides, members of both Houses are undergoing RT-PCR tests on regular intervals on a voluntary basis, said a senior Parliament official. An MP can undergo the RT-PCR test as many times they like. Government officials accompanying their respective ministers during the bill discussions also have to show a negative report of RT-PCR test taken within the last 72 hours of their visit to the complex. The budget season was curtailed in March after the outbreak of Covid-19. Watch As Covid-19 spreads, govt, opposition agree to cut short Parliament session||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-opposition-agree-to-cut-short-parliament-session-as-covid-19-spreads/articleshow/78212194.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||12-yr-old boy with leukemia is Goa’s youngest Covid death||PANAJI: A 12-year-old boy with leukemia on Saturday became the youngest in the state to die of Covid-19. The daily bulletin said that Covid was an incidental finding in the boy, who was primarily a case of leukemia with intracranial bleeding. The death was one of eight on Saturday, that took the toll up to 343. Another young death reported on Saturday was that of a 25-year-old woman from Socorro, who suffered from chronic kidney disease and died after two weeks of treatment. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat demanded the government “wake up and focus on health by treating it as the topmost priority”. Six deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and two from the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. Two women — a 60-year-old from Agassaim and a 61-year-old from Cortalim — died within a few hours after they were taken to hospital. Four men — a 70-year-old from Betora, Panaji, a 68-year-old from Karaswada, Mapusa, a 78-year-old from Verna, and a 67-year-old from Moira — all having comorbid conditions, also succumbed to the virus. On Saturday, Goa’s total active Covid-19 cases shot up to 5,920, as 643 new cases were reported. Also, there were 446 recoveries. The state’s caseload has crossed the 28000-mark, while 21,760 patients have been cured. The state’s recovery rate stands at around 78%. In North Goa, cases reported by the Sankhali community health centre increased to 448. Sankhali, the constituency represented by chief minister Pramod Sawant, has witnessed the highest spike since last month. The tally of active cases of Bicholim and Valpoi stood at 239 and 269 respectively. Panaji’s tally rose to 353, with 35 more people testing positive on Saturday, while that of Porvorim touched 349. In South Goa, Margao’s count of active cases reached 469.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-yr-old-boy-with-leukemia-is-states-youngest-covid-death/articleshow/78211804.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Use GMC super specialty block as Covid facility: Khaunte||PANAJI: In light of the rising Covid-19 graph, the state government should immediately declare Goa Medical College and Hospital’s (GMC) super-specialty block as a dedicated hospital to treat Covid-19 patients, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. Khaunte also demanded that to support and provide relief to GMC’s doctors, the state government should seek assistance from the Indian Army Medical Corps. “The new GMC hospital should become a dedicated Covid hospital and the military should be asked to handle it,” Khaunte said. “GMC should be restored to treat ailments and illnesses other than Covid.” Khaunte said that because of the rising number of cases and with three wards at GMC being reserved for Covid-19 patients, Goans with other ailments were reluctant to visit GMC for treatment. “Let GMC operate the way it was meant to be. If people are not dying of Covid, they are dying because they cannot get other treatment,” said Khaunte. He also demanded that the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana medical insurance scheme should cover Covid-19. “It has been six months that Covid is here. All it takes is one order,” said Khaunte. Criticising the rates which the state government has announced while capping the treatment charges at private hospitals, Khaunte said that the government should either subsidise the treatment or take over the operation of private hospitals. “The government should take the burden as it cannot put this burden on people’s shoulders. One thing that has been proven by all the MLAs going to private hospitals is that the doctors at the private hospitals are good,” said Khaunte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-gmc-super-specialty-block-as-covid-facility-khaunte/articleshow/78211819.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||A third of Goa’s Catholic churches have reopened their doors||PANAJI: Around a third of all Catholic churches in Goa have reopened — strictly for their parishioners — after following strict protocol and obtaining special permission to do so from the archbishop’s house. From replacing wooden benches with plastic chairs that are easier to sanitise, allotting seat numbers to parishioners, covering statues to prevent kissing, and asking the entire ward to stay away if a neighbour has tested Covid-positive, Churches are going all out to ensure the faithful are not put at risk. Groups of volunteers, too, have been activated at these churches to ensure that all protocols are followed. In Socorro, the Our Lady of Succour church, which opened last Saturday, closed six days later after some positive cases were detected in the village. “We have decided to keep it closed till the end of the month for everyone’s safety, since Covid cases have begun rising in the neighbourhood,” said parish priest Fr Santana Carvalho. The village is also in shock after a young parishioner recently died of Covid. “We completed all formalities and a team from the Archbishop’s Palace came for an inspection and granted us permission,” Carvalho told TOI. “We would give parishioners coupons with seat numbers, just like they do in theatres. It was all very well organised, and we had a good system in place, but now everyone has felt that it is better to keep it closed for a while.” In Corlim, the St John Facundo church opened on September 7, allowing 50 persons to attend mass at a time. “Hands are sanitised and temperature is checked before entering,” said parish priest Fr Francisco Xavier Pereira. “We have placed 50 plastic chairs instead of benches, as these are simpler to sanitise.” When asked about risks, he said all SOPs have been put in place. “We are taking all precautions,” Pereira said. “When we find a positive case, we ask the entire ward not to attend mass. We told them they will be permitted to attend later.” At the St John the Baptist church, Benaulim, a couple who showed up for Mass without their masks were recently denied entry by volunteers. Posters in Konkani and English outside clearly state the SOPs to be followed for the Mass. The Church is being careful even for nuptials, and asks for a list of names and addresses of attendees to be submitted beforehand. This step is taken so that in case someone tests positive, others who attended can be easily traced. But, despite some Churches reopening, the clergy have made it clear that nobody is under compulsion to attend, and that those above 65 years and below 10 years are not recommended to go for Mass at all. Although the Union home ministry has permitted religious, political and social congregations of up to 100 persons from September 21, churches in Goa will have to continue to follow the Archdiocese’s SOPs. “Nobody is being forced to open churches,” said episcopal vicar of central zone, Fr Leonardo de Souza. “It all depends on the parish priest in consultation with the people. There are a lot of procedures that have to be followed before permission is granted. Churches that have been granted permission for 40 persons with six-feet distancing will have to continue with that number till the Archdiocese permits more to be accommodated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-third-of-goas-catholic-churches-have-reopened-their-doors/articleshow/78211799.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Media educator Jane Swamy passes away||MUMBAI: Media educator Jane Swamy (86) died at her home in Prabhadevi on Friday. Known for remarkable work in mass media education, Swamy was a mentor to many media professionals who graduated from the premier Xavier’s Institute of Communications (XIC) for over three decades. Before joining the institute in 1978, she was an established PR professional in a pharma major. “Most of her students remember her as a good teacher and a disciplinarian,” said Jehangir Mistry, who took over as acting dean in 2012, after she left. “She was part of the first women’s media delegation to US in the early 1960s, to present ideas on the subject. Her work in mass media education was pioneering. She had expertise in PR and journalism, and a bit in film-making,” said Mistry, who was associated with her at XIC for over a decade. At XIC, Swamy redeveloped part-time curriculum into full-time in the early 1980s. The curriculum had more content and was activity-based. She invited guest faculty from the industry and corporate world. She stepped down as institute dean in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/media-educator-jane-swamy-passes-away/articleshow/78210713.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mysuru||Egg prices soar across Karnataka as supply falls||MYSURU: After vegetables, it’s now eggs that will burn a hole in your pocket. The retail price of a single egg has increased from Rs 5 last week to Rs 6 this week, while the price for 100 eggs in the wholesale market recovered from Rs 320.9 in March to anywhere between Rs 500 -Rs 520 this week. According to the National Egg Coordination committee data, the wholesale market rate of eggs came down to Rs 235 for 100 eggs in March last week, but now it has touched highest ever price in 2020. According to the data, eggs are costlier in Mysuru compared to its biggest market of the state — Bengaluru. The average rate for 100 eggs in wholesale market this month in the state capital stands at Rs 477.9. Speaking to TOI, NECC sales promotion officer V Sesha Narayana said the spike in rates is due to the dip in production following culling of chickens in April over bird flu scare. “Compared to Wednesday, the egg rate has come down by Rs 20 for 100 eggs in the market,” he added. Vetphage Pharmaceuticals director (sales, Asia Pacific) and board member Dr Ramdas Kambale said, “Now that the service sector is getting back on its feet and consumption habits are starting to return to normal, market prices are being restored. However, it is still going to take some time for farmers to make up for the losses incurred during the initial phases of lockdown. Since poultry is a low margin commodity, it will take about 10 production cycles to recover from the losses, which are upwards of Rs 20,000 crore.” “Producers should make it a point to follow proper feed and water hygiene. They should also implement strict internal and external biosecurity measures to avoid the transmission of pathogens,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/egg-prices-soar-across-ktaka-as-supply-falls/articleshow/78208864.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Security at Yadadri to be akin to Tirumala||HYDERABAD: While chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants to brand the Laxmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Yadadri as the next Tirumala, focus has now shifted to providing a full-proof security apparatus at the hill shrine, which is being renovated. Senior officials are planning to use a mix of technology and armed security as part of the security blueprint. Multiple drones, vehicle number recognition technology, CCTVs with a command control centre, vehicle scanners, door frame metal detectors and other gadgets will be part of the security network at the famed temple. Sources said the officials are waiting for government’s nod for the proposed security plan, which is being designed by the Intelligence Security Wing (ISW) along with Rachakonda police. Periodically, a security audit is also being done to make improvements. Apart from using the technology, the officials are going to deploy armed cops and commandos of Octopus, the anti-terror outfit of Telangana police. High-level security at the huge temple complex, VVIP cottages and cottages for public will also be part of the drill. At the VVIP cottages, arrangements are being made for President, Prime Minister and other dignitaries to stay. Officials said there will be heightened armed security at these cottages. “A separate police station will be set up on top of the hills. All the security plans will be finalised only after estimating the footfall at the temple,’’ a senior police official told TOI. Officials said a separate security wing will be set up to take care of the lord’s ornaments, jewellery and other donations. According to police, every vehicle that enters and exits the hillock, will be tracked by using the number reader technology. On the lines of Tirumala, every person who enters the temple will have their photograph taken while issuing darshan tickets. Sources said the security plan had been readied to go along with the renovation of the temple and construction of the cottages. “We will also take into consideration the proposed tourism project being planned at nearby Baswapur village,” an official said. The government is yet to take a decision on the tourism project as land acquisition is not complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/security-at-yadadri-to-be-akin-to-tirumala/articleshow/78210737.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Pedestrians seek better infra to cross SPPU Chowk safely||Pune: The installation of traffic lights has gone a long way towards streamlining traffic at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) Chowk, but other missing infrastructure has made it a nightmare for pedestrians to cross the roads here. Frequent visitors to the area said the five-way junction lacks pedestrian signals, traffic islands or even road markings. “Crossing this extremely wide junction has become a nightmare. When the flyover stood here, there were refuge areas for pedestrians to wait while the traffic in one lane moved. Now pedestrians are forced to weave their way through moving traffic. There is an urgent need for some pedestrian facilities here,” an employee of a store in the area said. A survey by a local pedestrians forum, Steps Towards Empowering Pedestrians (STEP), revealed the lack of even the most basic pedestrian amenities at the junction. “The flyover was demolished in August and all signals at the intersection were removed. Measures were taken to facilitate the flow of vehicles, but no arrangements have been made for pedestrians, who now have to work hard to cross the road as there are no midblock crossings. People have to wait for long periods before getting a chance to cross the road,” STEP coordinator Suraj Jaipurkar said. He said his group has raised this issue with PMC, Pune police and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). “The junction will be a box junction and have traffic islands, besides regular road infrastructure,” an officer from the Chatushrungi traffic division said. The officer added that, from SPPU's gate to Pashan Road, the junction was close to 70 metres wide and would require at least 30 seconds to cross. “We cannot stop traffic for 30 seconds, as it would lead to congestion in all lanes. We have recommended a foot-overbridge, but we have our doubts about its feasibility since the Metro work is set to start later this year,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pedestrians-seek-better-infra-to-cross-sppu-chowk-safely/articleshow/78210696.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ravana not in demand, effigy-makers go jobless||NEW DELHI: It’s that time of the year when craftsmen from far-flung areas in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar gather in the capital to make effigies of Ravana. Places such as Titarpur in west Delhi get flooded with effigies of all sizes and colours, while bamb oo frames and figureheads donning giant moustaches get lined up on the footpaths. But this year the streets are silent and not a single frame is visible in the area. Due to the restrictions imposed in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic and little chance of Ramlilas being allowed in the city, the business of craftsmen has gone bust. When TOI visited Titarpur village to speak to the craftsmen, they were seen sitting idle in a volleyball ground adjoining Najafgarh Road, a site used for making effigies for decades. Pawan Kumar, better known as Pawan Ravanwala, and his four artist friends, got anxious when asked about their plan for this year. “We have no clarity and have not made any preparations because of the pandemic. If we do anything without permission, we may have to pay a heavy challan. We are planning to pursue the authorities to at least allow us to make small effigies this year,” said Kumar. Har Swaroop, who was sitting next to Kumar, explained how selling the effigies had been a source of income for their families for decades. “By this time every year, preparations used to be in full swing. Two months before Dussehra, we would start gathering materials such as bamboo sticks from Basai Darapur, wire from Mayapuri and decorative items like sarees and artificial hair from other parts of the city. Craftsmen would be called from Moradabad, Jhansi and western Bihar to do the finishing work on the effigies. But this year, there is no hustle and bustle in the market. We don’t know if we’ll get permission to carry on with our work,” said Swaroop. Deepak, who works with Swaroop, said that the artisans incurred heavy losses last year when sales went down drastically after bursting of crackers was banned. “As permission to burn effigies was given only at select places, not even half of our stock was sold. We had to destroy the unsold inventory. We don’t want to take a risk this time,” added the craftsman who used to display his work near Tagore Garden metro station. Sitting 10 feet away, Kumar’s mother-in-law said, “If the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya can be allowed, then why have restrictions been imposed on celebrating Dussehra, the day when Lord Ram killed Ravana. The festival can be celebrated on a small level in a restricted environment.” Watch Delhi: Effigy-makers go jobless as Covid overshadows Ravana-burning plans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ravana-not-in-demand-effigy-makers-go-jobless/articleshow/78210729.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Dilli Haats open, but it’s an endless wait for a sale||NEW DELHI: Madhu Lal sorted the papier-mache utensils and lamps she had created over the months. Her seven-year-old granddaughter helped her arrange them neatly on the floor at Dilli Haat near INA Market in south Delhi. Then at noon on Thursday, a customer walked up and bought a plate for Rs 200. As Lal slipped the orange currency note into her wallet, there was a big smile on her face. Like hundreds of other artisans in the capital’s three Dilli Haats, she had been waiting endlessly to make a sale. Till last year, the papier-mache artist used to make at least Rs 5,000 a day at Dilli Haat. Life as a craftswoman wasn’t easy for the 69-year-old, but she made the best of her skills — until things came to a halt with the novel coronavirus pandemic cutting off her source of income. Once the haunt of massive crowds, Delhi’s three crafts hubs wear a desolate look today. “I had suggested to Delhi government’s tourism department to keep the INA Dilli Haat exclusively for artisans while letting out the other two Dilli Haats to people from other fields,” said Jaya Jaitly, crafts revivalist and former politician. “Nothing was done along these lines so the Dilli Haats are facing the music. Craftspeople are suffering because they have to pay rent for the stalls but aren’t earning anything.” Of the hundred stalls at the latest of the Dilli Haats to be opened, the one at Janakpuri, just two were functioning during TOI’s visit. The two sisters running them did so in the knowledge that they wouldn’t get many customers. Three college girls approached the stall and the sisters hope the girls would buy something. Yet, they weren’t surprised when the trio walked past. “We just have to be very, very patient,” said Savita Gill, as she kept on eye out for anyone who might be interested in the saris she was selling. “We reopened our stalls early last month, and since then we have had barely 10 customers. We have not given up though. If not today, then tomorrow,” Gill smiled bravely. In the Dilli Haat at Pitampura, four shops had raised their shutters, though the artisans claimed that not a single buyer has visited their stalls in the past month. Vivek of Lucknow had anticipated eager customers for his neatly stacked kurtas when he came to Dilli Haat, but when he realised nobody was turning up, the 18-year-old, tech-savvy seller started a Facebook page on which to sell his ware. “At least, I am managing to sell a few kurtas online,” he disclosed. The stall next to Vivek’s displayed western clothes. As Saara, the seller, sat there putting her toddler to sleep, four women walked up and started looking at the stuff hanging there. But Saara’s hopes were dashed when the group walked away without buying anything. “I have to feed three kids and my husband too. We have been surviving on the little savings that we had,” said the unhappy Saara. “When we learnt Dilli Haat was reopening after the lockdown, I was happy and excited. But it pains me immensely to not be able to go home with some money every day.” The Dilli Haats are aware of the woes of the artisans. “We have reduced the rent to less than a third for the commercial shops to encourage craftspeople to resume business,” revealed Sanjay Goel, MD & CEO, Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation (DTTDC). “From September 2, we also reduced the ticket price to Rs 10 to attract people. With Covid-19 precautions in place, we are sure people will soon return to the Dilli Haats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dilli-haats-open-but-its-an-endless-wait-for-a-sale/articleshow/78210724.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Three arrested for kidnap||Hyderabad: Chatrinaka police on Saturday arrested three persons, who allegedly had stolen an auto and severely injured the driver, a few days back. According to police, Sheikh Maqbool, Abdul Layeeq and Mohammed Shahzad Sheikh hired an auto at Uppuguda. However, when they reached near Lalithbagh bridge they started beating the auto driver and forcefully pushed him into the passenger seat. One of the accused took control of the auto while the other two continued to beat the driver.. However, when the auto reached Khairatabad, they stopped the vehicle and pushed the driver out. The victim, who sustained severe injuries was already unconscious. The accused snatched the mobile phone and some cash from the victim. After he gained consciousness, the auto driver approached the Chatrinaka police and lodged a complaint. Following the complaint, the police checked the CCTV footage and zeroed in on the accused. Police said that they have recovered the auto and mobile phone from the three accused. The driver sustained severe injuries on his head, eyes and lips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-arrested-for-kidnap/articleshow/78210721.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘CBI probe for SSR death, but not for Shrey fire?’||AHMEDABAD: Kin of the Covid-19 patients who died in the Shrey Hospital fire sought a CBI probe of the tragedy and asked if governments can launch a CBI investigation in the case of movie star Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide, what prevents it from doing so in this fire tragedy. Speaking to reporters on Saturday outside the closed hospital building, relatives of the victims questioned the motives of the authorities in going slow on those responsible for the incident. Kishor Sindhi from Kheralu said, “We want a CBI probe. There is no investigation in this case at all. We are requesting the authorities to bring the truth out on whether it was an accident. If the government can order a CBI investigation in Sushant’s case, it can also do the same in a case in which eight people lost their lives. Why is there no CBI inquiry in our case? Is it because we are not so famous as the film star or that we are not so influential? The government must remember that all citizens are equal for it.” The relatives complained about the police authorities invoking milder charges in this case. “There should have been stricter sections applied in our case like Section 304 of the IPC as the government did it in the Surat fire tragedy, and not Section 304A of IPC which has punishment provision for only two years,” said Aseem Tirmizi, who lost his mother in the fire incident on July 7. Section 304 applies for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and entails punishment up to 10 years. Sindhi said there were fires in hospitals after which the Andhra Pradesh police had acted strictly and questioned, “Why can’t Gujarat police do it? We want a CBI probe to find out what is it that protects the real culprits in this case?” Samir Mansuri, who lost his brother, said, “The government should get this incident probed in a proper manner at least to eliminate doubts about whether this was a mere accident.” He further said that there were certain events that took place before the fire which cannot be explained. The doctors left the ICU and came downstairs just 15 minutes before the incident. No one cared to break window glasses. “There was a fire in Vadodara where patients were fortunately saved, but why was nobody was present in the ICU at this hospital?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cbi-probe-for-ssr-death-but-not-for-shrey-fire/articleshow/78210765.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists cry foul as Hyderabad lakes turn into graveyards||HYDERABAD: The use of city lakes as graveyards has become a cause for concern say activists fighting to protect Hyderabad’s water bodies. According to them the area around six to seven lakes are currently being used to either bury or burn the deceased. Balaswamy Gurram, convenor, Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL), said that it started with a few persons burying their dead and soon, many more followed suit. Among the lakes where the bodies are being disposed of include Ali Talaab, Medla Cheruvu, Pariki Cheruvu, Mundla Katwa Cheruvu, Mysamma Cheruvu and Errakunta lake. While encroachment of lakes by land sharks is rampant in the city, activists are worried over lakes turning into burial grounds. Ramana Eshwargiri, president, Tellapur neighbourhood association said that a graveyard coming up at Medla Cheruvu has resulted in concretisation of the lake bed. “Not just this lake, two nearby lakes are also facing the threat of encroachment,” he said. Ramana said the local community would help maintain the lakes once the full tank level is surveyed and restored. In this context, the association has also approached the Tellapur municipal commissioner seeking help. Irrigation department officials said several lakes traditionally used to have graveyards nearby so that people could bathe before and after the burials. Hyder Khan, executive engineer, however, denied instances of burials within any lake limits. He said: “FTLs of all lakes have been clearly defined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-cry-foul-as-city-lakes-turn-into-graveyards/articleshow/78210734.cms||Uttara Varma
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana records 2,123 new cases and nine deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 2,123 new Covid-19 infections and nine fatalities on Friday, taking the overall toll to 1025 and the cumulative number of positive cases to 1,69,169. As on Friday, the total number of active cases in the state stood at 30,636, according to the data released by the director of medical health. The data also states that the case fatality rate, a measure of the number of patients succumbing to the virus when compared to the total number of infected patients, continued to stay below one percent. So far, 1,37,508 lakh patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection, while 30,636 patients are under medication in the state. On Friday, the recovery rate in the state was 81.28% compared to the national average of 79.26%. The authorities have once again reiterated that patients with moderate to severe symptoms should go to any of the notified government Covid-19 hospitals as elaborate arrangements are made for testing and treatment. “It is informed that the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients. Sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. Based on the clinical requirements, beds will be provided, and treatment will be given free of cost in government hospitals,” an official release said. Authorities further informed that sufficient quantities of personal protection equipment (PPE) and medicines are available in the hospitals. A total of 54,459 Covid tests were conducted in the state between Thursday and Friday while reports of another 1,207 samples are awaited. Altogether, 24,34,409 tests have been conducted in the state. Among the districts, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded the highest numbers with 305 new cases, followed by 185 cases in Ranga Reddy, 149 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 135 cases in Nalgonda and112 cases in Karimnagar. All other districts in the state recorded new cases as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-2123-new-cases-and-nine-deaths/articleshow/78210732.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Adult baboon dies at Delhi zoo, 65 deaths reported in 2020||NEW DELHI: An adult female baboon died due to an infection at the National Zoological Park on Saturday. Her viscera was sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute. Another baboon had died at the Delhi zoo on September 8. Zoo authorities said that 123 deaths had taken place from January to September last year, but the number has come down to 65 this year. Director of Delhi zoo, Ramesh Pandey, said: “An adult female Hamadryas Baboon (African monkey) was suffering from severe infection since September 10 and died after prolonged illness. The best possible treatment, involving experts, was provided to the animal with 24x7 monitoring and care.” Following the death of two baboons in the past two weeks, the zoo currently houses one male, one female and one infant (offspring of the deceased animal) baboon. Meanwhile, another animal, a 11-year-old lion — Sundaram, is currently under intensive care after having developed a certain infection and nervine disorder on August 23. “The lion had been facing difficulty in getting up. He was also staggering because of an infection and a nervine disorder in his hind legs. However, Sundaram was intensively monitored and treated at the veterinary hospital of the zoo, along with medical experts from Lion Safari in Etawah and IVRI. The lion has recovered significantly and is able to walk after treatment, but is still under observation,” Pandey added. According to zoo authorities, the mortality rate has decreased by 47% in comparison to last year. Officials said they have taken several scientific management initiatives, including early release of animals in arena, intensive screening, round-the-clock monitoring and seasonal drills for the welfare of captive animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/adult-baboon-dies-at-delhi-zoo-65-deaths-reported-in-20/articleshow/78210748.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||MSU may waive off some term fees||Vadodara: M S University is likely to waive off some components of fees for one term (semester) for 2020-21 of students in the new academic year 2020-21. A proposal to this effect will be placed before the university’s syndicate members on Monday. The proposal has been moved considering that the university is currently extending its educational services through online platform only. Usually, MSU increases fees at 10% annual basis for the last couple of years following a policy decision. It is worth mentioning here that in May this year the university took the decision of not hiking fees in academic year 2020-21 in view of the Covid-19 induced pandemic. The application fees, the academic fees, the exam fees apart from the hostel fees in academic year 2020-21 is same as it was in academic year 2019-20. Other proposals that will be placed before the syndicate members include adoption of New National Education Policy-2020 and appointment of Dr Madhusudan Pandya as officer on special duty (academic administration) in the offices of registrar and vice-chancellor. The post of officer on special duty (OSD) at Baroda Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya is most likely to fall vacant again as professor R C Patel has requested the university to relieve him from the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-may-waive-off-some-term-fees/articleshow/78209393.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two fall to death in factory in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Two employees of a private company, who were attending to maintenance works inside their factory, fell to their death from a 15-ft tall machinery in Sadasivpet in Sangareddy district on Saturday. Police said Aravind and Basawaraj, both 50, died after they were shifted to a local hospital. When two wielders and two employees, including engineer Basawaraj, were standing on top of a huge apparatus, there was a jerk. A case was registered under section 304-A.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-fall-to-death-in-factory/articleshow/78210747.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two behind bars for illegal sale of stimulant||Hyderabad: Two persons were nabbed by Task Force sleuths at Chaderghat on Saturday for illegally selling mephentermine sulphate injections, especially to those who are eager to quickly pump their muscles. They have been identified as Mohammed Shah Fahad of Chandrayanguttaand Sheikh Abdul Owais of Chanderghat and 150 injections (each vial 30 mg/ml) were seized. The duo were sourcing the injections from an associate in Delhi. Task Force officials said Fahad had decided to get into illegal sale of mephentermine sulphate injection after seeing the demand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-behind-bars-for-illegal-sale-of-stimulant/articleshow/78210756.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Forest department shelves ridge board meet till panel revamped||NEW DELHI: The forest department has indefinitely postponed the meeting of Ridge Management Board (RMB) till it is reconstituted. This comes after two members had raised objection over the meeting scheduled to take place on Friday without RMB being officially reconstituted. TOI had earlier reported that both the members had opted out of the meeting. Officials said 14 important issues, including construction of Phase-IV Metro line and skill centre in Jaunapur, would be taken up in the meeting. Principal chief conservator of forests, Ishwar Singh, said, “RMB meeting has been postponed till further order.” However, another forest official said, “The term of two independent members of RMB recently expired and both had expressed concerns over meeting taking place without fresh appointments. The meeting, which was scheduled to take place on Friday, will now take place only after the reconstitution process of the board is completed.” Vimlendu Jha, one of the two members to express displeasure over the meeting, said, “I appreciate the decision of the forest department. RMB has independent members other than government members to take views of outsiders and experts.” The other non-government member of RMB is Sunita Narain who is also a part of the Supreme Court mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA). Constituted in 1995, RMB includes government officials, forest officials, MLAs, DDA members and non-governmental expert members. The board was formed for taking decisions for preservation of the Delhi ridge. Some of the other important issues that will be discussed in the meeting are the construction of Indian Institute of Foreign Trade campus in Maidangarhi village, a new building for School of Planning and Architecture, implementation of the Delhi-Gurugram-Rewari-Alwar Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor, dumping of inert material in the Asola Bhatti mines, and building a bird rescue centre in Rajokri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forest-dept-shelves-ridge-board-meet-till-panel-revamped/articleshow/78210789.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 20, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 study begins amid cadaver scarcity||Rajkot: In a first in Gujarat, Rajkot civil hospital has completed three pathological autopsies on patients who died from novel Coronavirus infection. After a getting the nod for research last month, the forensic medicine department of PDU College, the second one in the country after AIIMS Bhopal and the only hospital in Gujarat, has been conducting autopsies for the past two weeks to study how Covid-19 is affecting the human body and which organs are more vulnerable in the virus attack. However, the hospital is facing extreme difficulties in getting cadavers for their studies. The hospital is appealing to people to come forward and donate bodies of their kin for research. Rajkot civil hospital requires the consent of relatives of the deceased to perform an autopsy on the Covid victims. Dr Hetal Kyada, head of the forensic medicine department, said, “Following a rumour, the kin of the dead are afraid that we may take the organs. We will definitely research the organs to study Covid’s effect on various parts and also the organs of Covid deceased cannot be of any use for other people.” Doctors follow a procedure to disinfect the body of Corona after a patient dies before they perform an autopsy. The body is kept in a buffer solution for 72 hours for disinfection and thereafter it is given to the laboratory people. The department needs a minimum of 20 cadavers to reach any conclusive findings in their study. “It’s very difficult to make relatives understand how to donate a body. At present we are getting bodies that are either unidentified or abandoned by kin. We want kin to come forward to donate understanding the noble cause of this research,” Dr Kyada added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-study-begins-amid-cadaver-scarcity/articleshow/78209621.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to set up new cradles in Nagarkurnool hospitals||HYD ERABAD: Five new ‘Ooyala’ or (cradles) are being set up in government hospitals at Nagarkurnool for dropping unwanted babies. The scheme will be ijmplemented in secrecy, Nagarkurnool collector L Sharman has said. The idea behind setting up new cradles is to prevent parents from dumping their newborn in bushes, throwing them in nalas or killing them. Parents often tend to take these steps if it is an unwanted pregnancy or because the baby is a female and if the baby was born out of wedlock . A meeting of officials was held on Thursday on implementing the ‘Ooyala’ scheme. In a recent incident, a male baby was thrown in the bushes in Nagulagudi, Vikarabad by the mother. Locals who noticed the baby alerted the police and officials on the chidline no. 1098. Childline specialist Dr Shanthappa examined the newborn baby, which weighed only 1.8 kg. The baby was shifted to the district hospital at Tandur for treatment on Wednesday. The district administration has said that it will take responsibility to take care of the babies and that mothers should not kill their unwanted babies or throw them. After introducing the programme on an experimental basis, it will be extended to other government hospitals too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-set-up-new-cradles-in-nagarkurnool-hosps/articleshow/78210837.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Prahladnagar lake raises stink, authorities can’t smell it||Ahmedabad: The residents of Prahladnagar area are complaining that the water in the AUDA (Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority) lake next to Vraj Vihar Society is stinking and it appears drainage water is being dumped into the lake. The residents complain that the water level in the lake has been rising though it has not rained in the area for the past couple of days. Mukesh Prajapati, the president of Vraj Vihar VII Society, says that the water in the lake, which is adjacent to the outer boundary of the society, is stinking. “Not only is the water smelling foul, it has also turned black and green. This is not the first time that the lake is letting off a stench,” he says. “Last year too, after rain we had faced a similar problem. Officials closed the drainage outlets opening into the lake when the matter was brought to their notice.” Another resident reiterates that there has been no rain for the past two to three days, yet the water level has been rising rapidly. “We suspect that it is sewage water. The authorities are just releasing untreated drainage mixed with rainwater into the lake,” he alleges. The residents say that while the city is battling with Covid-19, they are also living in the constant fear of dengue and chikungunya. “The AMC boasts about a sewage treatment plant for each lake, but when it comes to actual implementation, it all remains on paper,” alleges a resident. A senior AMC official says that not just the AUDA lake but several lakes in the city have drainage water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/prahladnagar-lake-raises-stink-authorities-cant-smell-it/articleshow/78210951.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Now, more people get tested voluntarily for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: About 46% of people who are tested daily for Covid-19 in the state are not part of contract tracing mechanism, but tests are done on them since they have volunteered to do so. Contact tracing is done on those who come in contact with a positive person. “There are others like pregnant women and severe acute respiratory infections cases who are also tested. ICMR has issued clear guidelines recently on tests done on asymptomatic people,” Dr Kiran Madala, associate professor, Government General Hospital, Nizamabad, said. While 44% of the tests are done on first contacts, 12% are second contacts. Officials said that many people were voluntarily coming forward to get themselves tested. This is also adding to the new positive cases. “Many people are giving their samples for Covid-19. Though there is stigma towards the virus, there has been a gradual change in the thinking of the people, which is helping us to do more testing,” Rangareddy DMHO Dr Swarajya Lakshmi said. In recent revised testing policy, ICMR issued fresh guidelines that all the people residing in containment zones should be tested. The government had conducted 2,265 tests in the containment zones, while 7,732 teams were deployed to do fever surveillance. While 24,943 cases were found to be suffering from SARI, 22,590 people were found to be having fever. According to Dr V Ramana Dhara, additional professor, Public Health Foundation of India, the testing net must be broadened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-more-people-get-tested-voluntarily-for-virus/articleshow/78210796.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sasmit Patra presides over RS session||Bhubaneswar: After a gap of 20 years, Odia MP Sasmit Patra on Saturday presided over the Rajya Sabha proceedings. Patra made his debut as a vice-chairman of Rajya Sabha during the discussion on the Epidemic Diseases (amendment) Ordinance, 2020 Bill. Patra, an academician-turned-politician was one of the youngest parliamentarians to have been nominated to the panel of vice-chairmen of the Upper House in July. “It is an honour and a proud moment for Odisha and its people to see an Odia preside over the House of Elders or Upper House in Parliament. I thank my leader and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and 4.5 crore people of the state without which the journey to the Rajya Sabha would not have been possible,” said Patra. The young MP was lauded various quarters for conducting the businesses of the house in a polite manner and with patience. Sanatan Bisi was the last Odia to have presided over the Rajya Sabha proceedings 20 years ago, official sources said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sasmit-patra-presides-over-rs-session/articleshow/78209628.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Dist collectors put on alert as low pressure brews over Bay||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Saturday asked all district collectors to be alert as a possible low pressure area brewing over the Bay of Bengal is likely to take shape of a depression on Sunday and trigger rainfall for three days. The IMD has issued orange warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall in select seven districts on Sunday and 10 more districts on Monday due to the system, said a latest IMD bulletin on Saturday. The seven districts are Mayurbhanj, Balasore, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Kendrapada, Malkangiri and Koraput. Similarly the orange warning districts are Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Puri, Khurda, Keonjhar, Sundargarh, Sambalpur, Angul, Deogarh and Kalahandi. Special relief commissioner (SRC) P K Jena in his fresh letter sent to collectors on Saturday said, “Districts under orange and yellow warning to remain prepared to meet any possible flood-like situation and landslides in hilly areas.” “Continuous vigil of lowlying areas, pumping out water wherever required, including in urban areas, may be taken up,” the SRC advised and added, “The situation may be closely monitored.” Director of regional IMD centre H R Biswas said the system, to be caused due to remnant of the tropical storm Noul, may intensify further and would cause widespread rainfall on Sunday and Monday. The north and south Odisha would experience rainfall during the period. He said the intensity of rainfall would decrease on Tuesday. Biswas warned that heavy rain might cause waterlogging in lowlying areas. Possible damage to kutcha houses and landslides in hilly areas cannot be ruled out, he said. Besides, he also said there may be traffic congestion in underpass roads and waterlogging in lowlying areas of urban areas. A senior officer at office of the SRC said the IMD’s warning and government’s alert order to collectors assumed significance because the state witnessed floods in several rivers due to low pressure induced rain last month which caused extensive damage. He said rise in water level in rivers due to heavy rain can’t be ruled out. The IMD director said four of the 30 districts in the state now face minor rain deficit while overall monsoon rainfall position in the state from June to till September 19 was 2% deficit compared to normal. The deficit rainfall districts are Khurda, Puri, Gajapati and Balasore. The IMD’s rainfall report of last 24 hours recorded on Saturday morning said Tigiria in Cuttack district and Phiringia in Kandhamal district recorded highest 70mm and 60mm rainfall respectively in the state during the period.  Similarly, the capital city during the day recorded 4.8 mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/dist-collectors-put-on-alert-as-low-pressure-brews-over-bay/articleshow/78209642.cms||Siraj Mohammad
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP councillors want cycle track gone||Ahmedabad: Rashmikant Shah, the BJP councillor from Jodhpur ward and chairman of the AMC water committee, along with another councillor, Bhagyesh Patel, met the AMC administrative wing and urged them to remove the Prahladnagar cycle track from the plan for the area.On Friday, as a joint enforcement team arrived in the area and started issuing challans, traders came out on to the streets along with customers and protested the issuing of challans for illegal parking. The shopkeepers demanded that JET issue challans only after the faulty design of the street is rectified and customers and shopkeepers get adequate parking.On Saturday, the two councillors went to the area and held discussions with the shopkeepers and officers. Shah said, “We made it clear that designs which are successful abroad cannot be replicated here. Designs have to made in accordance with the traffic in the area.”The 100 Feet Road has banks, malls, several hospitals and even residential complexes and hence traffic is high. “Bhagyesh and I told the officers that they had to make a fresh design without the cycle track,” Shah said. “Abroad, people use cycles even during the day but in this area it is only used by those who cycle for exercise and that too early in the morning when there is hardly any traffic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-councillors-want-cycle-track-gone/articleshow/78210959.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Two states, one issue: Farm bills||PATIALA/BATHINDA: Ratcheting up their protest against the three agricultural bills passed by the Lok Sabha, the farmer bodies in Punjab announced on Saturday that they will burn copies of the bill and effigies of PM Narendra Modi on Sunday and will observe a Punjab bandh on September 25. The farm organisations have also backed a call to disrupt rail traffic for 48 hours from September 24-26. In a significant move, around 30 farm organizations came together in Moga for launching a united and coordinated struggle against the enforcement of the ordinances. It’s after many years that all the farm organisations have joined hands for a common cause —opposing the agri-bills. Farm outfits like BKU Rajewal, BKU Lakhowal have not hesitated in joining hands with BKU Ekta Ugrahan and Dakonda despite their disparate ideologies. BKU Ekta-Dakonda farmer union while extending their support to BKU Ekta-Ugraha farmer union that has been holding day-night protests at PUDA ground in Patiala for last five days urged all sections of people in the state to back the complete shutdown. Buta Singh Burzgill, state president, and Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Dakonda) said the joint struggle for repeal of the agriculture bills would be intensified and at no cost would these laws be allowed to be enforced. Jagmohan said, "We will burn these agriculture bills across Punjab on Sunday when the bill will be introduced in the Rajya Sabha. The resignation of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal is seen as a drama played to save the vote bank of Shiromani Akali Dal (B) under the pressure of farmers' unity. Badals should immediately sever ties with the BJP. The central government and the Reserve Bank of India should immediately release the cash credit limit to Punjab for picking up the crop from the mandis for the paddy season." "The unthinkable has been made possible with all the farm organisations joining hands to oppose the agri- bills. The Narendra Modi government going in for these bills prompted the organisations to reach out to each other," said Krantikari Kisan union president Darshan Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/legislations-copies-to-be-burnt-pb-bandh-on-sept-25/articleshow/78212654.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Two states, one issue: Farm bills||PATIALA/BATHINDA: Ratcheting up their protest against the three agricultural bills passed by the Lok Sabha, the farmer bodies in Punjab announced on Saturday that they will burn copies of the bill and effigies of PM Narendra Modi on Sunday and will observe a Punjab bandh on September 25. The farm organisations have also backed a call to disrupt rail traffic for 48 hours from September 24-26. In a significant move, around 30 farm organizations came together in Moga for launching a united and coordinated struggle against the enforcement of the ordinances. It’s after many years that all the farm organisations have joined hands for a common cause —opposing the agri-bills. Farm outfits like BKU Rajewal, BKU Lakhowal have not hesitated in joining hands with BKU Ekta Ugrahan and Dakonda despite their disparate ideologies. BKU Ekta-Dakonda farmer union while extending their support to BKU Ekta-Ugraha farmer union that has been holding day-night protests at PUDA ground in Patiala for last five days urged all sections of people in the state to back the complete shutdown. Buta Singh Burzgill, state president, and Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Dakonda) said the joint struggle for repeal of the agriculture bills would be intensified and at no cost would these laws be allowed to be enforced. Jagmohan said, "We will burn these agriculture bills across Punjab on Sunday when the bill will be introduced in the Rajya Sabha. The resignation of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal is seen as a drama played to save the vote bank of Shiromani Akali Dal (B) under the pressure of farmers' unity. Badals should immediately sever ties with the BJP. The central government and the Reserve Bank of India should immediately release the cash credit limit to Punjab for picking up the crop from the mandis for the paddy season." "The unthinkable has been made possible with all the farm organisations joining hands to oppose the agri- bills. The Narendra Modi government going in for these bills prompted the organisations to reach out to each other," said Krantikari Kisan union president Darshan Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/legislations-copies-to-be-burnt-pb-bandh-on-sept-25/articleshow/78212135.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Amritsar||Two states, one issue: Farm bills||PATIALA/BATHINDA: Ratcheting up their protest against the three agricultural bills passed by the Lok Sabha, the farmer bodies in Punjab announced on Saturday that they will burn copies of the bill and effigies of PM Narendra Modi on Sunday and will observe a Punjab bandh on September 25. The farm organisations have also backed a call to disrupt rail traffic for 48 hours from September 24-26. In a significant move, around 30 farm organizations came together in Moga for launching a united and coordinated struggle against the enforcement of the ordinances. It’s after many years that all the farm organisations have joined hands for a common cause —opposing the agri-bills. Farm outfits like BKU Rajewal, BKU Lakhowal have not hesitated in joining hands with BKU Ekta Ugrahan and Dakonda despite their disparate ideologies. BKU Ekta-Dakonda farmer union while extending their support to BKU Ekta-Ugraha farmer union that has been holding day-night protests at PUDA ground in Patiala for last five days urged all sections of people in the state to back the complete shutdown. Buta Singh Burzgill, state president, and Jagmohan Singh Patiala, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Dakonda) said the joint struggle for repeal of the agriculture bills would be intensified and at no cost would these laws be allowed to be enforced. Jagmohan said, "We will burn these agriculture bills across Punjab on Sunday when the bill will be introduced in the Rajya Sabha. The resignation of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal is seen as a drama played to save the vote bank of Shiromani Akali Dal (B) under the pressure of farmers' unity. Badals should immediately sever ties with the BJP. The central government and the Reserve Bank of India should immediately release the cash credit limit to Punjab for picking up the crop from the mandis for the paddy season." "The unthinkable has been made possible with all the farm organisations joining hands to oppose the agri- bills. The Narendra Modi government going in for these bills prompted the organisations to reach out to each other," said Krantikari Kisan union president Darshan Pal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/legislations-copies-to-be-burnt-pb-bandh-on-sept-25/articleshow/78212655.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Minor girl ends life after wedding, dad among 3 held||Aurangabad: A 14-year-old girl ended her life at her parent’s home in Jalna district within just 21 days of her marriage in August. The Jalna police on Friday registered a case of abetment to suicide and relevant sections of the Child Marriage Restraint Act against six people and arrested her father, her father-in-law and her husband. Jalna superintendent of police S Chaitanya told TOI: “The minor girl’s wedding took place in August and almost 21 days later, she committed suicide by hanging herself. We have arrested three suspects in this case.” The girl took the extreme step on August 26, when she had come to her parent’s place, falling within the limits of taluka police station. Initially, a case of accidental death was registered. During the probe, it came to fore that the girl was married on August 5 to a 23-year-old youth from a neighbouring village. Taluka police station’s inspector Sanjay Lohkare said based on the complaint lodged by the gramsevak of the village, an offence was registered on Friday and six people were booked. Assistant inspector Sambhaji Wadte, investigation officer in the case, told TOI: “The accused were produced before the court and have been remanded in three-day police custody.” The officer said he has sent a letter to the Jalna civil hospital asking the team of doctors, who performed the autopsy, to give in writing whether the girl was sexually exploited. “If the doctors who performed autopsy inform that she was sexually asaulted, we will add sections of Pocso against the accused,” said Wadjate, who is expecting a reply from the doctors in another three to four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/minor-girl-ends-life-after-wedding-dad-among-3-held/articleshow/78208902.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers, arhtiyas to block roads in Haryana today||KURUKSHETRA: Farmer outfits in Haryana are going to hold statewide road blockades to lodge their protest against the three farm bills on Sunday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, "A state-wide chakka jam (road-block) will be held from 12 pm to 3 pm on September 20 in Haryana. If our demands are not accepted, a country-wide protest will be staged on September 25. The farmers will come on the roads and protest against the government’s stand. We have the support of 17 organizations of farmers, arhtiyas (commission agents), and labourers in Haryana." BKU Haryana (Charuni) is already staging state-level symbolic protests at all district headquarters in Haryana from 10 am to 4 pm since September 16. BKU Haryana spokesman Rakesh Kumar Bains from Shahabad said, "The government should sit with the farmers, answer the questions raised by their unions and clear their doubts… The arbitrary functioning of the government to push these three ordinances raises several questions as farmers are major stakeholders who have been kept out in this process." Haryana State Kacha Arhtiyas Association and Haryana Rice Millers Association also extended support to the farmers on Saturday . An arhtiya Gaurav Gupta protesting in Ambala said, "The government wants to implement these laws forcibly and break the age-old relationship of farmers and arhtiyas. Our organizations have extended support to the farmers until these ordinances are withdrawn." The BJP government in Haryana advised authorities to exercise restraint while dealing with protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-arhtiyas-to-block-roads-in-haryana-today/articleshow/78212136.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers, arhtiyas to block roads in Haryana today||KURUKSHETRA: Farmer outfits in Haryana are going to hold statewide road blockades to lodge their protest against the three farm bills on Sunday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, "A state-wide chakka jam (road-block) will be held from 12 pm to 3 pm on September 20 in Haryana. If our demands are not accepted, a country-wide protest will be staged on September 25. The farmers will come on the roads and protest against the government’s stand. We have the support of 17 organizations of farmers, arhtiyas (commission agents), and labourers in Haryana." BKU Haryana (Charuni) is already staging state-level symbolic protests at all district headquarters in Haryana from 10 am to 4 pm since September 16. BKU Haryana spokesman Rakesh Kumar Bains from Shahabad said, "The government should sit with the farmers, answer the questions raised by their unions and clear their doubts… The arbitrary functioning of the government to push these three ordinances raises several questions as farmers are major stakeholders who have been kept out in this process." Haryana State Kacha Arhtiyas Association and Haryana Rice Millers Association also extended support to the farmers on Saturday . An arhtiya Gaurav Gupta protesting in Ambala said, "The government wants to implement these laws forcibly and break the age-old relationship of farmers and arhtiyas. Our organizations have extended support to the farmers until these ordinances are withdrawn." The BJP government in Haryana advised authorities to exercise restraint while dealing with protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-arhtiyas-to-block-roads-in-haryana-today/articleshow/78212668.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||No let-up as unions continue protests in Punjab and Haryana||Rohtak/Karnal/Hisar/Patiala: Farm and arhtiya unions staged protests against the three agriculture-marketing bills, in Haryana and Punjab on Saturday In Haryana, the protests were staged in Rohtak, Karnal and Hisar, while protests in Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s hometown, Patiala, and former CM Parkash Singh Badal’s village, Lambi, continued. In Patiala, farm union BKU Ekta Dakonda extended support to BKU Ekta Ugraha, which has been protesting in the city. Farmer leaders also appealed to all sections of people in Punjab to join the struggle for a complete shutdown, including road and rail transport and all kinds of business in Punjab. In Rohtak, farm and arhtiya unions protested together, while Karnal Arhtiya Association (KAA) staged the demonstration at the grain market in Karnal. In Hisar, farmers continued to stage protests at three places — at the district mini secretariat, in Balsamand village, and at the new grain market. In Rohtak, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Chadhuni accused the BJP-JJP government in Haryana of selling out the interests of the state by giving to the pressure of the Union government. He appealed to the people to observe September 20 as black day and Bharat Bandh on September 25 on the joint call of all farmers organisations. KAA president Rajnish Chaudhary said they staged a dharna in the grain market of Karnal. Work was suspended in grain markets across the district. Because of this, farmers had to wait for procurement. Arhtiyas demanded the government to pay their commission and return the money, which was deducted by procurement agencies in the name of luster loss. Chaudhary said,“These ordinances will cause losses to farmers, arhtiyas, labourers, and munims. There will be no procurement till their demands were not met.” In Patiala, BKU Ekta Dakonda state president Buta Singh Burzgill and general secretary Jagmohan Singh Patiala said the joint struggle for repealing agriculture bills would be intensified and laws would not be allowed to be enforced at any cost. He added that PM Narendra Modi was helping corporates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-let-up-as-unions-continue-protests-in-punjab-and-haryana/articleshow/78212138.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Youth in net on charge of drugging & molesting girl||Pune: A 22-year-old youth from Moshi was arrested on Friday evening on the charge of molesting a nine-year-old girl from his neighbourhood.According to a police complaint, the suspect offered the girl soft drink laced with sedatives in the afternoon and took her to the house of one his friends. He molested the unconscious girl there. The victim’s mother (30), a casual worker, lodged the complaint on Friday evening. According to the police, the incident occurred between 12.30pm and 1.30pm on Friday. The girl’s mother had gone out for some work then. Taking advantage of the situation, the youth offered the girl the sedative-laced soft drink. According to the police, he then took her to an isolated house of his friend’s and molested her. The police said the girl, a student of a local school, ran out of the house immediately after regaining consciousness. She told her mother about the incident after she returned home, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-in-net-on-charge-of-drugging-molesting-girl/articleshow/78210874.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||Ties set to worsen as Pakistan blocks new Indian envoy||NEW DELHI: In what is certain to further destabilise Indo-Pak relations, Pakistan has denied visa to Indian diplomat Jayant Khobragade, rejecting his appointment as India's chargé d'affaires in Islamabad. Khobragade's name had been officially proposed in June this year. In the same month, India had also further scaled down diplomatic ties with Pakistan by asking for a 50 percent reduction in mission strength. Read AlsoPakistan rejects India's demand for Queen's counsel to represent Kulbhushan JadhavPakistan on Friday rejected India's demand that an Indian lawyer or a Queen's counsel should be appointed for death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav to ensure a free and fair trial in this country.The government sees Pakistan's rejection of Khobragade as an attempt to get back at India for its decision to downgrade ties and also as a sign of frustration over the fact that Islamabad's information war on the issue of Kashmir has failed to gain much traction internationally. Pakistan's objection is apparently related to Khobragade's seniority as it thinks he's too senior to lead the Indian mission when its strength has been halved and at a time when there's barely any bilateral engagement between the 2 countries. Read AlsoPak uses drone to drop weapons in J&amp;K's Rajouri; 3 LeT terrorists arrestedPakistan dropped weapons and some cash in Indian currency using a drone in J&amp;K's Rajouri district, DGP Dilbag Singh on Saturday said, announcing the arrest of 3 LeT terrorists who had picked up the consignment near the LoC. Singh said the major success was achieved on Friday evening, following aIndia believes though it's not for Pakistan to dictate appointment of Indian diplomats in Islamabad and is likely to respond with reciprocal action in due course. It is rare for either country to reject the appointment of a diplomat at this level. An IFS officer of 1995 batch, Khobragade is currently serving as a joint secretary in the Department of Atomic Energy. He has in the past served as Indian ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic before working in junior capacity with Indian missions in Russia, Spain and Kazakhstan. Khobragade has served in Pakistan too earlier but it's unlikely that the rejection of his visa has anything to do with his earlier stint in Islamabad. Since the 2 countries recalled their high commissioners last year, their missions have been led by the chargé d'affaires. India believes that Pakistan has been unable to come to terms with the revocation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into 2 union territories. Pakistan PM Imran Khan is likely to raise the issue again in his UNGA address on September 25. The government slammed Pakistan this week at the UN Human Rights Council for creating "false and fabricated" narratives to malign India. "Neither India nor others deserve this unsolicited lecture on human rights from a country that has consistently persecuted its ethnic and religious minorities, is an epicentre of terrorism, has the distinction of providing pensions to individuals on UN Sanctions list and has a Prime Minister who proudly admits training tens of thousands of terrorists to fight in Jammu and Kashmir," said Pawan Badhe, first secretary with Permanent Mission of India in Geneva. Watch Pakistan rejects appointment of new Indian envoy, ties set to worsen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ties-set-to-worsen-as-pakistan-blocks-new-indian-envoy/articleshow/78212330.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||BSP move to contest bypolls jolt to opposition||LUCKNOW: The forthcoming assembly byelections in the state are important for two reasons. First they will gauge the public mood before the big battle in 2022. Secondly, they will also prove a litmus test for the opposition party’s ability to put up a joint front against the BJP. BSP chief Mayawati’s decision to contest all eight seats which are going to bypolls, however, has effected a setback to the opposition unity. Out of eight seats, six were won by BJP in 2017 state polls while SP won two of them. BSP is known for keeping strictly away from bypolls in the past. But it broke the tradition in 2018 by backing the SP candidates in both Lok Sabha and Vidhan bypolls. It worked well for the opposition and the BJP had to face major setbacks. However, after BSP and SP parted ways after a brief historic alliance for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mayawati decided to field her candidates in bypolls for 11 assembly seats held in October 2019. BJP and ally Apna Dal won eight of 11 seats while SP won the remaining three. BSP drew a blank and its candidate lost Jalalpur seat to SP. This time, too, all three major opposition parties are contesting separately. The challenge before the SP would be to establish itself firmly as the principal opposition party before the battle-lines are drawn for the 2022 assembly elections. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has already started interacting with his grass-roots workers to make strategy for the bypolls. Unlike in the past when the Congress contested by-elections just for academic purpose, this time AICC general secretary and in charge of the state, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, is finalising every minute details for the contest. Eight Committees have been formed to select candidates for each seats. With BSP also deciding to throw its hat in the ring, the ruling BJP is likely to face a sharply divided opposition. “Unwittingly, the BSP would be end up hitting SP and Congress,” says a political analyst. In recent past, the BSP chief has been visceral in her attack against the Congress and SP, but relatively soft on BJP. The party also didn’t take part in several opposition-driven national campaigns against the BJP-led government. “The most recent example is protest against unemployment, in which BSP was nowhere to be seen,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsp-move-to-contest-bypolls-jolt-to-oppn/articleshow/78211829.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two IEDs found in Kothagudem||Hyderabad: Two improvised explosive devices (IEDs), reportedly planted by Communist Party of India (Maoist) cadre to target police personnel moving in the area, were discovered next to the Kaliveru-Tegada road in a forest area in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Saturday. The IEDs were noticed by security forces during their anti-sabotage measures. Police defused an IED and detonated the second one. A few days ago, Maoists had triggered a blast at Taliperu project. Police have intensified searches to know if Maoists had planted more IEDs. In the last one month, Maoists have intensified their activities, keeping Telangana police on their toes. Maoist squads have been entering the state at regular intervals and camping in forest areas to revive their ties with the tribals. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-ieds-found-in-kothagudem/articleshow/78210937.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Housing board to take online route for plot auctions in Goa||PANAJI: Goa Housing Board (GHB) has announced plans to conduct online auctions and allotments of plots and tenements to streamline the process. “The cumbersome process of auction and allotment of plots and tenements is proposed to be simplified and made more transparent by migrating the entire process onto a well-developed software and implementing online auction by giving wide publicity to the plots and tenements to be auctioned,” GHB chairman Subhash Shirodkar said. He said that e-auctioning will enable Goans to participate in the process without having to attend the auction physically, and will also enable widespread participation owing to reduced paperwork. The software is being developed by Goa Electronics Ltd. Shirodkar said that GHB will auction plots at Mapusa (2), Madel-Tivim (32), Farmagudi-Ponda (11), Poddecem, Sattari (35), Shristhal-Canacona (70), Xeldem-Quepem (33) so as to provide an opportunity to Goans to own plots and construct housing facilities at affordable rates. GHB will also auction vacant tenements for disposal at various locales, which include tenement (flats/shops/offices) at Bordem-Bicholim (12 single bed, 18 double bed and 12 shops), Colvale (7 single room, kitchen), Sancoale (7 single room, kitchen), Rumdamol-Davorlim (37 single bedroom flats and 11 shops), Porvorim (24 double bedroom flats), and Baina Vasco (13 shops), he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-board-to-take-online-route-for-plot-auctions/articleshow/78211833.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||BJP leader booked for violating home quarantine rule||Vadodara: The president of Chhota Udepur municipality —Naren Jaiswal — was booked on Saturday for violating Covid-19 guidelines for home isolation and sharing stage with the district collector, district development officer and a BJP MLA at a government program.On September 16, four of Jaiswal’s family members had tested positive. While Jaiswal had tested negative, he was asked to quarantine himself for at least two weeks. However, he attended a e-launching program of state government Mahila Utkarsh Yojana at Durbar Hall in Chhota Udepur town on September 17. As the president of the municipality, Jaiswal shared the dais with BJP MLA from Sayajigunj Jitu Sukhadia, collector Sujal Mayatra, DDO Mihir Patel, president of BJP’s Chhota Udepur unit Jasu Rathwa. Around 200 people were also present at the function. On Saturday, health officials submitted a complaint against him at Chhota Udepur police station to register an offence against him under Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-leader-booked-for-violating-home-quarantine-rule/articleshow/78209412.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad-Mumbai flights from Sept 22||Aurangabad: The Air India has announced direct flights on Aurangabad-Mumbai route from September 22 for three days a week — Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. As per official schedule, an Air India flight for Aurangabad will leave from Mumbai at 6 pm on aforesaid days and is expected to reach Aurangabad by 7.20 pm. On the return journey, the flight will depart from Aurangabad at 8.20 pm and will fly to the state capital by 9.35 pm. The Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation (ATDF) has welcomed the entry of the national carrier on an air-route between Aurangabad and Mumbai. “It is a welcome move and will benefit passengers including tourists from the country and abroad,” ATDF president Jaswant Singh said. Meanwhile, the passenger footfall at Aurangabad airport has been increasing gradually amid eased out restrictions during the outbreak of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-mumbai-flights-from-sept-22/articleshow/78208937.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||New South Goa dist hospital begins treatment for Covid||MARGAO: The new South Goa district hospital began functioning as a Covid hospital from Saturday evening following health minister Vishwajit Rane’s visit to the facility. The hospital currently has 150 beds equally divided between male and female wards, and the capacity will be enhanced in the course of time. In the presence of GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar, Rane told media persons that mild to moderate Covid patients will be admitted to the new district hospital. “Those patients undergoing treatment in the ESI hospital, who have come to step down stage will also be shifted to the new hospital,” Bandekar said. Step down patients are those who have significantly recovered and their health condition is observed to be stable, it was informed. Around 10 step down patients who were undergoing treatment at the ESI-Covid hospital were shifted to the new district hospital by late Saturday evening. Patients examined at the casualty ward, if found positive and requiring admission, will also be admitted in the new hospital. As no relatives, other than the patient’s attendant, will be allowed in the hospital, Rane said, 70 patient-handling personnel have been recruited in the hospital. Rane said that digitisation of patients’ health parameters, including those in home isolation, was in the works. An intensive treatment unit (ITU) and a high dependency unit will also be set up in the hospital, he added. Stating that patients opting for home isolation will be provided with kits containing essential health care items, Bandekar said that it will enable patients to treat themselves at home in the early stages, and help bring the viral load down. “The medicines will ensure that patients, even those with comorbidities, will not go into moderate or severe stage,” he said. Dr Sunanda Amonkar and Dr Rajesh Patil, who have been appointed as nodal officers of the district hospital, medical superintendent of Hospicio hospital Dr Deepa Correia, nodal officer of ESI-Covid hospital Dr Uday Kakodkar and medical superintendent of ESI hospital Dr Vishwajit Faldessai were present during the press briefing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-south-goa-dist-hospital-begins-treatment-for-covid/articleshow/78211838.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Captain asks Badals 10 questions||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked the Badals 10 questions, saying that these were pointed, pertinent and needed to “nail the lies the family, which heads SAD, had been perpetuating in the last few days” to save their own faces on the agriculture bills, which they had “openly and shamelessly” supported since the ordinances were brought in. Responding to the “no-holds barred” attack launched by both Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Badal since the ordinances were ready for introduction in Parliament, the chief minister said the duo had been fabricating lies on the whole issue just to cover up their muddied faces, which had been completely exposed. “How could the Punjab government have concurred on something that never came up for discussion,” he asked, adding that unlike SAD, the Congress had maintained a consistent stand against the ordinances, which the Centre “introduced on the sly” amid the pandemic and then pushed through the Lok Sabha by sheer brute majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/captain-asks-badals-10-questions-on-issue/articleshow/78213202.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Captain asks Badals 10 questions||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked the Badals 10 questions, saying that these were pointed, pertinent and needed to “nail the lies the family, which heads SAD, had been perpetuating in the last few days” to save their own faces on the agriculture bills, which they had “openly and shamelessly” supported since the ordinances were brought in. Responding to the “no-holds barred” attack launched by both Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Badal since the ordinances were ready for introduction in Parliament, the chief minister said the duo had been fabricating lies on the whole issue just to cover up their muddied faces, which had been completely exposed. “How could the Punjab government have concurred on something that never came up for discussion,” he asked, adding that unlike SAD, the Congress had maintained a consistent stand against the ordinances, which the Centre “introduced on the sly” amid the pandemic and then pushed through the Lok Sabha by sheer brute majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/captain-asks-badals-10-questions-on-issue/articleshow/78212141.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Captain asks Badals 10 questions||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked the Badals 10 questions, saying that these were pointed, pertinent and needed to “nail the lies the family, which heads SAD, had been perpetuating in the last few days” to save their own faces on the agriculture bills, which they had “openly and shamelessly” supported since the ordinances were brought in. Responding to the “no-holds barred” attack launched by both Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Badal since the ordinances were ready for introduction in Parliament, the chief minister said the duo had been fabricating lies on the whole issue just to cover up their muddied faces, which had been completely exposed. “How could the Punjab government have concurred on something that never came up for discussion,” he asked, adding that unlike SAD, the Congress had maintained a consistent stand against the ordinances, which the Centre “introduced on the sly” amid the pandemic and then pushed through the Lok Sabha by sheer brute majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/captain-asks-badals-10-questions-on-issue/articleshow/78213201.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Aurangabad||2 months after finding completely decomposed body, police arrests three including wife||Aurangabad: Working on a completely blind murder case that started with finding a decomposed body on the Pimpalkhuta hills on July 21, Karmad police of Aurangabad rural have arrested three suspects, including the deceased’s wife. The deceased has been identified as Sandusingh Chungde (57), a resident of Kauchalwadi of Ambad tehsil in Jalna district. Police suspect that he was allegedly murdered foe being a hurdle in the illicit relation of his second wife Rukmini (39) and her paramour Gajanan alias Balu Golwal (30). According to police, the duo eliminated Chungde with the help of Pavlas Ambildhage (32). All the three suspects have been remanded to four-day police custody. As an appreciation towards detecting a completely clueless murder case, superintendent of police Mokshada Patil has rewarded investigation team with Rs 10, 000. Police said that the incident came to light on July 21 after some dogs were found moving around with human limbs. Assistant inspector Santosh Khetmalas said that upon reaching the spot, a completely decomposed body was found and failing to establish its identity, advanced autopsy was performed on the body. Failing to find any clue, all the missing persons’ records from 10 neighbouring districts were scanned, when the police found that a man has been missing from Kauchala and no missing report was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-months-after-finding-completely-decomposed-body-police-arrests-three-including-wife/articleshow/78208940.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||Cops nab 1 1th accused in animal husbandry fraud||Lucknow: The Gomtinagar police and the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UPSTF) in a joint operation on Saturday arrested Santosh Mishra, who posed as a journalist to gain access to secretariat in connection with the Rs 9.72 crore animal husbandry fraud. Two senior IPS officers, Arvind Sen and Dinesh Dubey have also been accused in the case and are presently under suspension. Mishra is the 11th accused in the case to have been arrested so far. Earlier, Dheeraj Kumar Dev, Rajnish Dixit, AK Rajeev, Anil Rai, Rupak Rai, Umashankar Tiwari, Ashish Rai, Tripuresh Pandey, Sachin and homeguard Raghubir have been arrested in the case. The case pertains to Manjeet Singh Bhatiya, an Indore based businessman, who was duped of Rs 9.72 crore on the pretext of getting a tender in the animal husbandry department. The UPSTF had made the first arrest in the case on June 14. Later, 10 others were arrested and an FIR was registered at Hazratganj police station. Presently, the case is being investigated by assistant commissioner of police, Gomtinagar, Shweta Srivastava. Srivastava told TOI that Mishra used to pose as UP head of a news channel and worked in connivance with mastermind Ashish Rai. “A team has also been sent to Delhi to nab two others wanted in the case. We are also planning to move court to apply for NBW of two more in the fraud,” she said. On Saturday, after an informer tipped off police that Mishra was planning to flee Lucknow, a team chased his car and nabbed, an STF official said. Additional superintendent of police, STF, Vishal Vikram said that Mishra used to visit the secretariat for news coverage in 2012. “He first met Chandrashekhar Pandey of Prayagraj and later came in contact with Ashish Rai, the mastermind. He said Ashish used to do favours for him in lieu of small works (recommending cases with police and administration) he did for different persons on Ashish’s instructions,” said the ASP. Further, Mishra disclosed that in 2017 Ashish introduced him to Anil Rai, who was editor in the news channel. Mishra confessed that he had recommended Ashish’s case of taking Rs 9.72 crore from the Indore businessman to different senior government officials after the latter’s name surfaced in the animal husbandry case. He further confessed that he had taken Rs 1.15 crore from Hariom Yadav who was named in a fraud case recently and was arrested later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-nab-1-1th-accused-in-animal-husbandry-fraud/articleshow/78211836.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Vij: Why did SAD not resign earlier?||Chandigarh: Questioning the stance of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on the agriculture bills over which the farmers have been protesting in the region, Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday asked why they (Harsimart Kaur) had not resigned when the bill was released and discussed for the first time. Vij was reacting to a recent statement made by SAD chief Sukhbir Badal who reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet that the bills would not end MSP, had said PM’s tweet is not assurance, they should have mentioned about MSP in the bills. “Badals have their own politics but they should explain as to why they had not resigned the day when this legislation was introduced for the first time. Now, they are making statements on this when it was presented in Parliament knowing well there are no changes in the Bill,” Vij has said. The senior BJP functionary made this statement on Saturday in his daily briefings sent to the media. Vij also targeted Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda for their stand on the agriculture bills. The opposition leader as well as those belonging to the incumbent BJP had criticised the police cane-charge on farmers, who were protesting on September 10 at Pipli near Kurukshetra against the bills, Vij has been maintaining that there was no use of force. In his formal statement, issued on Friday, Vij had even rejected the demand of JJP, which is part of BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana, regarding the probe into the incident. “When there was no lathicharge, what was the point of any probe? Why would we order for lathi-charge against farmers? There were clear orders from the state government that there should not be lathi-charge on farmers and nothing of that sort had happened,” Vij had said in his statement released on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vij-why-did-sad-not-resign-earlier/articleshow/78212142.cms||Ajay Sura
September 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Student unions’ protest against bifurcation of Bamu||Aurangabad: Activists from different student unions on Saturday tried to block the convoy of Maharashtra Education Minister Uday Samant from entering into Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) as a way to register protest against the proposed bifurcation of the university, among other demands. Shouting slogans in support of their demands, activists of student wings of The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Republican Party of India (RPI) sat at the main entrance of the university. In a memorandum submitted to the minister, student unions said the proposed bifurcation of Bamu should be cancelled as the very formation of the university has a base of educational and social movement in Marathwada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/student-unions-protest-against-bifurcation-of-bamu/articleshow/78208955.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Downgrading degree earned during pandemic will draw action||Aurangabad: Maharashtra education minister Uday Samant on Saturday said that any act of downgrading degree earned by students during the current pandemic situation would draw action from the government. “The exams of final year students studying in different state universities are slated to begin soon. The pattern has been revamped in order to address the safety issues during the conduct of exams. It does not mean that the degree earned by students during outbreak of Covid-19 has any lesser significance and everyone should respect it,” he said. Addressing media on the occasion of his visit to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), Samant reiterated that students would get regular degree certificates without any mention of Covid-19. “I appeal to all students to appear for the exams with a positive frame of mind. As the safety of students is of paramount importance, the state government has instructed all universities to conduct exams addressing the related issues,” he said. Citing official data, Samant said around 92% students have opted for giving the final year exams in online manner while the rest have chosen the offline option. The minister said the state universities are also expected to arrange a separate exam within one month for students who fail. Meanwhile, Bamu has announced that students with disabilities taking final year exams would be assisted by volunteers of the National Service Scheme. “Each student will receive an aid from one NSS volunteer. Total 1,047 such students have registered for the exams and will receive all possible support from the university in taking the examination without any hurdle,” an official release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/downgrading-degree-earned-during-pandemic-will-draw-action/articleshow/78208948.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Lack of containers hitting exports from Rajasthan||Jaipur: Unavailability of containers is turning out to be a big headache for exporters as 50% of their consignments are facing delays. Exporters said that Jaipur used to get around 1,300 containers a month ago, but now that has been reduced to a little over 600. They said the reduction in imports and increasing charges of movement are the major reasons for the reduction in availability of containers. “There is no space to keep our products as the warehouses are already full. The unavailability of containers is delaying exports, bringing with it all the associated problems like delayed payments, risk of losing buyers, etc,” said Atul Poddar, secretary of Federation of Rajasthan Handicraft exporters. The pandemic has disrupted the global supply chain and the shipping lines are struggling to streamline operations. Poddar said the sector has been hit hard by increase in wood prices which have gone up by 25%. “The suppliers have increased prices of wood citing supply woes. If the prices remain at these elevated levels, the wooden furniture business will be severely hit,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lack-of-containers-hitting-exports-from-rajasthan/articleshow/78210965.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot gold market to remain closed till September 28||Rajkot: The Rajkot gold market, which is observing self-imposed lockdown for the past few days will stay closed till September 28, said a late night decision taken by the market authorities. Earlier, it decided to reopen from Monday onwards. However, looking at the prevailing Covid situation, they revised their decision for the safety of the shop owners, and buyers, they said. Nearly 250 big and 550 small shops in Soni Bazar and palace road have remained closed since last Monday after a spike in Covid cases in the city. President of Gems and Jewellery Association, Divyesh Patadiya said, “The gold market will remain closed till September 28. Even if we were to open from Monday, owners having Covid patients in their families would have been asked to keep their shops closed. We won’t allow any person — be it an employee or worker or even an owner — to come to the market with even moderate symptoms.” The gold association conducted antigen tests of nearly 200 persons of whom six were found Covid positive. The market is already struggling with very low demand because of the pandemic. According to the traders, with good monsoon this year they are expecting demand during Diwali as generally farmers plan marriages after good harvest, they explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-gold-market-to-remain-closed-till-september-28/articleshow/78209711.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb shifts BDPO whose letter said protests by govt||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister on Sarurday ordered the transfer of the serving Sardulgarh BDPO to state headquarters, and immediate withdrawal of the letter issued by him regarding some farm protests which he claimed to have been organised by the Punjab government. “The Punjab Government has not organised any such protest, as claimed by the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO),” said a government spokesperson. Far from organising any protests, he said, the government has in fact been appealing to all political organisations to refrain from organising any public gatherings in the light of the Covid pandemic. The spokesperson said the BDPO, who he described as overzealous, had on his own announced a protest dharna on September 21 and had issued a letter asking all panchayat secretaries under his block to intimate all sarpanches about the same. He had also wrongly claimed that ministers/MLAs will also join these protests, said the spokesperson, rejecting any such plans by the state government. The Punjab government had neither planned such protests against the farm ordinances nor asked the BDPO to issue the letter in question, said the spokesperson, adding that the CM had asked the officials concerned to inquire into the whole affair and find who was responsible for the communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-shifts-bdpo-whose-letter-said-protests-by-govt/articleshow/78212144.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||No question of foul play in Sharbari death: Forensic||Kolkata: Fashion designer Sharbari Datta, who was found unresponsive in her ground-floor washroom late on Thursday died following suffering a cerebral stroke. The bruises she received were from being dragged on stone floor by her panicked family members from the bathroom to her room. These were the findings of forensic experts who visited Datta’s residence on Saturday and, after preliminary investigation, ruled out the possibility of her sustaining the cuts from a fall after suffering stroke. Dutta was found with an injury mark on her left heel and bloodstains beside her left ear. “We have investigated the washroom and her bedroom. It is clear from the spot that she was in the washroom when she suffered the stroke almost 19 hours before she was recovered. Thus, there is no question of any foul play,” a forensic expert told TOI. The police said they were waiting for the viscera report, along with a forensic report, before formally closing the case. The initial post-mortem suggested Datta had died due to cerebral stroke. “We had to investigate the cause of her death. Our mandate ends there,” said an officer, stating they had received representations from various quarters to probe all angles. “We have used all our scientific resources,” said an officer. According to forensic experts, the washroom (4.5×4.5) is attached to her room (12×10) and has three entrances. “She had not closed the washroom door but her bedroom door was shut. So family members had approached her from the other door of the washroom. The entire sequence of events has been mapped,” said an officer. Police said it had also recorded the statements of a few relevant people. Datta was 73 years old and was survived by her son Amalin, daughter-in-law Kanaklata and grandchildren Mayurakshi and Ayushman, all of whom live in the same house as her on Broad Street in south Kolkata, but on the upper floor. The family said they had thought Dutta was not at home, and so, did not check on her for almost the entire day. It was her daughter-in-law, Kanaklata, who discovered her in the washroom around 11pm, when she had gone to Sharbari’s floor to see whether she had left any note for the family or not, a usual practice, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-question-of-foul-play-in-sharbari-death-forensic/articleshow/78210986.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Work, net connectivity woes stoke Amdavadis’ ire||Ahmedabad: Working from home and managing workloads with erratic hours, and that too often on their weekly offs, appear to be weighing down hard on the tempers and stress-levels of people in Ahmedabad. A nationwide study conducted by Tata Salt Lite indicates that troubles related to work and internet connectivity are among top reasons that add to the stress-levels of Amdavadis, making them lose their temper. The study was conducted across some 10 Indian cities with a sample size of 200 persons for each. “Some 49% of the respondents admitted that they would feel extremely angry, make errors or even argue with their boss if they were assigned work on their holidays or if they were asked to work longer on Fridays for some urgent work,” the survey reported. “Digital screen time due to forced work from home and online education has gone up sharply and impacting mental and physical health,” claims the survey. Ahmedabad-based mental health experts have also been repeatedly getting patients who report aggressive behaviour or anxiety or even issues such as panic and insomnia triggered by work stress. “Defining working hours for oneself and sticking by a regular work routine is extremely important. People often end up overworking or working on weekly offs, and in the current times when companies are laying off employees. The insecurity triggers aggressive behaviour, or even anxiety and stress, causing insomnia and in turn affecting one’s performance,” said Dr Hansal Bhachech, consultant psychiatrist. “While the onus is on the individual to maintain basic work ethic and timeliness, even companies must encourage their employees to not overwork and deliver work within specified working hours,” he further went on to say. The survey further revealed that three out of five i.e. 59% respondents lost tempers or got upset if their internet connection abruptly stopped working. “Lots of people have insecurities about their jobs and their performances. Being forced to work from home, the work and performance depends on internet connectivity and when it gets poor, many people feel guilty or have the fear of being judged for being a poor performer. This only adds to their stress levels,” said Dr Nimrat Singh, a psychologist based in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/work-net-connectivity-woes-stoke-amdavadis-ire/articleshow/78210991.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Strict daily action to check tourist behaviour in Mulshi||Pune: Checkpoints, regular patrols, sealing tourist spots and action against violators have become a regular feature in Mulshi taluka as the authorities step up measures to ensure the safety of local residents. Gramp panchayat authorities have joined hands with the police in this regard to ensure the increasing inflow of tourists does not worsen the spread of Covid-19. In Bhugaon, police can be seen pulling up anyone found not wearing a mask. “I have seen police take action in Bhugaon, and I’m sure the same is being done across the taluka,” Atul Joshi, a Bhugaon resident, said.Bhugaon sarpanch Nikita Sanas said they and the police were closely monitoring the movement of vehicles and cracking down on violations. “We are sealing tourist spots and checking motorists to ensure that they wear masks and follow other rules,” she said.Inspector Ashok Dhumal of the Paud police said they set up several checkpoints between Chandni Chowk and Tamhini ghat to take action against violators. “On weekends, we set up nakabandi at the two ghats in our jurisdiction to ensure people don’t crowd tourist spots here,” Dhumal said. Ever since the government has permitted 100% occupancy at hotels, resorts and guesthouses, Dhumal said more people have been coming there. “We have managed to make sure people head directly to their hotels, resorts or villas,” he said.On an average, police have been taking action against 500 violators per day. “We are also patrolling markets to ensure shopkeepers take responsibility for their premises. A joint effort will prevent Covid-19 from spreading further,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strict-daily-action-to-check-tourist-behaviour-in-mulshi/articleshow/78210983.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 20, 2020||Goa||Airport erects barricades to prevent waste discharge in Goa||VASCO: Goa airport is erecting metal sheets as barricades at different garbage disposal points outside the airport terminal building to prevent waste material getting carried towards the nullah at Assai Dongri, Chicalim. On August 31, PPE kits with names of airlines had surfaced in the nullah. The airport director has asked the airlines and staff to ensure proper disposal of waste. “It seems that inadvertently as a one-off incident such material was placed by the user at the garbage handling point which may have blown off due to high winds and heavy monsoon showers leading to occurrence of this incident,” states the letter by airport director Gagan Malik to the Chicalim panchayat. While assuring cooperation, the letter also states that airport officials conducted a site inspection. The Chicalim panchayat had written to the airport director on September 14, regarding dumping of Covid-19 related waste belonging to airlines into the natural water sources at Assai Dongri. “A face shield, garbage bags and other Covid-19 related protective material used in flights operated during the pandemic has been seen scattered in the water source which is highly objectionable,” the panchayat had stated in the letter. The panchayat had requested the airport director to get the airlines to clear up the waste as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/airport-erects-barricades-to-prevent-waste-discharge/articleshow/78211844.cms||Ruvina Khan
September 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CB report seeks closure of univ assistant case||Thiruvananthapuram: State crime branch filed a final agency report (FAD) at the vigilance court here with a plea to dispose the controversial Kerala university assistant scam case for want of traceable material evidence to establish the malpractice alleged in the selection of university assistants appointed in 2008. The report submitted by police superintendent N Abdul Rasheed before the court on May 29, 2020 claimed that despite all efforts, crime branch was unable to trace any material evidence that could substantiate the criminal offence by those allegedly involved in the scam. The legal opinion by the director general of prosecution too has been quoted as identical to the opinion of the investigating agency. There was no possibility of tracing the OMR-based answer scripts of candidates and other incriminating material evidences that could help to identify the real beneficiaries of the scam. The assistant scam rocked the state following allegations that CPM leaders in the university syndicate had indulged in widespread manipulation of the selection process of candidates to the post of university assistant. It was alleged that several candidates who performed poorly in the written examination were awarded astronomical marks in interviews. Vigilance court had in 2014 started the hearing of the case in which the university former vice-chancellor M K Ramachandran Nair, pro vice-chancellor V Jayaprakash, registrar K M Hashim, syndicate members A A Rasheed, M P Russel, K A Andrew and late B S Raveev were accused. The hearing was interrupted when the accused persons moved the high court. Justice Kemal Pasha, who heard the case, ordered in 2016 that all ho benefitted should also be included in the list of accused. Petitioner Sujith Kurup and higher education protection council chairman R S Sasikumar who were key in exposing the scam said the case should be referred to CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cb-report-seeks-closure-of-univ-assistant-case/articleshow/78209724.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Badal: Not party to anything anti-farmer||Chandigarh: After his daughter-in-law and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur resigned from the Union cabinet, SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Saturday expressed his “immense satisfaction” over his party’s stand to “save beleaguered peasantry”. The five-time Punjab chief minister, in a press statement, said “lure of office means nothing to an Akali”, but he kept away from the contentious issue whether SAD would continue its alliance with BJP or not. He had earlier tried to convince farmers in favour of three farm ordinances, when these were brought in force in June. “The party tried to act as a bridge so as to find an amicable way to fully accommodate the farmers’ interests. But I am glad that when that did not seem possible, and a line had to be drawn, SAD stood on the right side of the line and did the only thing that its proud heritage demanded – quit the government,” said Badal. He added that the SAD could never be a party to anything which harms the interests of the farmers. The nonagenarian leader made an appeal to all Punjabis and all political parties to stand with farmers. The former chief minister said that agriculture was the backbone of the country’s economy and if farmers and agricultural economy suffer, the whole economy, including trade and industry would suffer too. Badal claimed that SAD at countless times, as during the Emergency, had turned down offers of power as a price for silence against injustice. “We always spurned such offers and preferred to stand by the country and principles, and filled jails. That tradition will always live on,” he added. Badal also praised his party’s core committee of taking a decision to quit the Union cabinet and said that it was a proud and landmark moment in the party’s long history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/badal-not-party-to-anything-anti-farmer/articleshow/78212143.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU student moves HC over glitches in test||Ahmedbad: An engineering student, Harsh Gandhi from Surat, has approached the Gujarat high court complaining against the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) after it failed him in a test, in which he did not get enough time to answer all questions due to technical glitches during the online examination last month. The student has sought HC intervention for allowing him to appear in the next phase of exams and to grant him a second chance to take the test. GTU, however, opposed the petition and maintained that the student did not know the answers and he was trying to buy a second chance under the pretext of technical glitches. After preliminary hearing, Justice Sangeeta Vishen directed GTU to allow the student to take next phase of exams on September 23. The judge observed that one may face technical difficulties in online test. Further hearing is posted on October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-student-moves-hc-over-glitches-in-test/articleshow/78210977.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||Mining scam: Ex-employee of Gayatri Prajapati seeks to be approver||LUCKNOW: The former director of a company run by ex-minister Gayatri Prajapati has written to the Enforcement Directorate asking to become an approver in connection with a money laundering case registered against the former minister. Brij Bhawan Dubey has written to the ED Delhi office, claiming that he has all details of a property amassed by Prajapati and his kin through illegal mining. Recently, Dubey had also lodged an FIR alleging that Gayatri, his son Anil and his men had forced him to get land worth Rs 2.5 crore registered in the name of the woman who had accused Prajapati of rape. Dubey said he has all information about properties of Prajapati and on whose names these properties have been bought.“I am ready to become an approver as Prajapati had forcibly given my land to the woman,” he claimed. The letter, in possession of TOI, was sent on September 15. Two days later, Dubey had got an FIR registered against Prajapati for forcibly taking away his property. ED officials said that the letter was yet to reach them. TOI tried contacting Dubey but he did not respond to several calls made. Meanwhile, Lucknow police have said Dubey has approached them for providing security to him, claiming to have been threatened by aides of Prajapati. In June 2019, CBI had registered FIRs on charges of criminal conspiracy, forgery and corruption against five IAS officials and then Samajwadi Party minister Prajapati in connection with a mining scam in Fathepur and Deoria. The FIR of CBI had become the basis of ED probe into the mining scam later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mining-scam-ex-employee-of-prajapati-seeks-to-be-approver/articleshow/78211840.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Heavy rain with gusty winds likely today: Met||Kolkata: The city and Gangetic Bengal are set to receive moderate to heavy showers over the next 48 hours under the impact of a low pressure that will form over northeast Bay of Bengal on Monday. Kolkata was expected to receive heavier rain between Sunday night and Monday evening, said the Met office. But the city will remain warm and humid on Sunday, with the maximum temperature hovering around 35 degrees Celsius till the system arrives. “We expect showers in Kolkata between the second half of Sunday and Monday afternoon. The rain may continue till Monday night and there could be gusty winds, blowing at a speed of 20-30 km/hr,” said Regional Meteorological Centre director G K Das. The civic authorities have started laying out an elaborate plan to counter waterlogging that the heavy rain may cause. The KMC brass on Saturday asked sewerage and drainage officials to keep all heavy-duty pumps at drainage pumping stations ready after a warning from Nabanna reached the civic body headquarters. The civic bosses have been told to take adequate steps to ensure there is no waterlogging. A KMC drainage department official said their area of concern would be the low lying, waterlogging-prone areas, most of which were in Behala, Tollygunge and places off E M Bypass. “Several places in the added areas have no underground drainage system. We will need portable pumps to flush out storm water from low-lying areas,” said an official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/heavy-rain-with-gusty-winds-likely-today-met/articleshow/78211005.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||32-year-old man hangs self in girlfriend’s house in Kota||KOTA: A 32-year-old man hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his girlfriend’s room in a colony under Udhyog Nagar police station area of Kota city where he had reportedly stayed with her on Friday night. The female friend herself took the man to hospital on Saturday and informed police after doctors declared him brought dead. Prima facie the man committed suicide most probably after some scuffle with his girlfriend, police said. The deceased was identified as Kuldeep Sharma (32), son of Birdhichand Sharma, resident of Mahaveer Nagar of Kota city. The deceased was married and living with his family in Mahaveer Nagar area of the city but was reportedly in a relationship with another women in Chandra Shekhar residential scheme under Udhyog Nagar police station area where he had gone to stay with her for the night, police said. The woman on Saturday found Sharma hanging from a fan in one of the rooms where he was asleep, police said. She took him down and rushed to a hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead following which she informed the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/32-yr-old-man-hangs-self-in-girlfriends-house-in-kota/articleshow/78210990.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Librarian exam: Proxy candidates in SOG net||Udaipur/Jaipur: The SOG on Saturday arrested five persons for appearing as proxy in the librarian exam conducted by Subordinate Services Board. While two each were arrested from Bharatpur and Udaipur districts, one was caught in Jodhpur. A joint team of the SOG and Savina police station arrested one proxy candidate and his aide from an examination centre at Jawahar Jain Shikshan Santhan in Sector-11 of Udaipur. The proxy candidates were appearing for the librarian third grade examination held statewide on Saturday. During interrogation, the accused told police about other gang members appearing in examinations in Bharatpur and Jodhpur. ASP SOG Himmat Singh said the two arrested men in Udaipur were members of a gang that uses proxy candidates for various examinations. The two individuals have the common name Kamlesh Bishnoi, residents of Dhori Manna in Barmer district. Singh said Bishnoi was found writing answers in one of a room inside the centre when a police team raided the place. The proxy candidate was appearing on behalf of a candidate named Bahadur Singh of Banswara while his aide Kamlesh,son of Babulal Bishnoi,was waiting outside the centre to help him. Police are now looking out for the real candidate Bahadur Singh. Kamlesh told police that one Dinesh Siyag is the mastermind who arranges proxy candidates in lieu of money from real candidates. Kamlesh confessed that he had met the real candidates in Jaipur. Dinesh sent Ashok Khileri and Shravan Dhaka to Bharatpur where Ashok was to play the proxy writer. Similarly one Ashok Chowdhary was sent to Jodhpur to appear in place of a real candidate from Barmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/librarian-exam-proxy-candidates-in-sog-net/articleshow/78210998.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana min calls for restraint by cops, protesters||Chandigarh: Taking lesson from the lathicharge on protesting farmers in Pipli of Kurukshetra district on Thursday, the Haryana home department on Saturday asked the cops down the line to exercise restraint while dealing with agitating farmers and their representatives. The directive comes in the wake of announcement by farm body Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) to hold a three-hour agitation on the roads in the state on Sunday to press for their demand of withdrawal of the three bills related to the agriculture sector. Various opposition parties, like AAP, Congress and INLD, have also supported the farmers on the issue demanding their immediate withdrawal or halting the process to pass the bills in the Parliament. Haryana home minister Anil Vij has asked the farmers to not block the national or state highways. “Demonstration and protests are a right, but the farmers are requested to ensure that they do not block roads and hold peaceful protests only,’’ said Vij in a statement. On the other hand, home secretary Vijai Vardhan has also issued a set of instructions to all the district magistrates as well as policemen across the state. The order has asked the senior cops and other functionaries of the districts to reach out to the representatives of agitating groups to persuade them to not come on the roads or highways. Besides advising the use of IT gadgets, the cops and officers have also been asked to exercise maximum restraint in dealing with the farmers. “The protesters be dealt with tact and patience. However, they should not be allowed to take law in their hands and prompt action be taken against those found to be indulging in arson, loot or damage to public property or lives,’’ the order read. The district administrations have also been directed to ensure the presence of ambulance and backup support of medico and para-medicos on the highways, where congregation of agitators is expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-min-calls-for-restraint-by-cops-protesters/articleshow/78212145.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||4 deaths, 245 new cases in Chanda||Chandrapur: With a spike of 245 cases during the day, the total in the district climbed to 7,524 on Saturday. The last 24 hours also witnessed four deaths taking the toll to 109. In all, 175 patients were discharged taking the recoveries to 4,281. There are 3,134 active patients under treatment, of which 723 are under home isolation. The four deceased include a 55-year-old person from Dadmahal, 50-year-old from Sanjay Nagar and 66-year-old from Bangali Camp in Chadrapur city and 49-year-old from Belpatli in Bramhapuri tehsil. All the patients died at Chandrapur GMCH. The new cases include 103 from Chandrapur city and suburbs, Ballarpur (20), Chimur (13), Korpana (21), Bramhapuri (12), Pombhurna (4), Mul (5), Gondipipri (4), Nagbhid (8), Warora (5), Bhadrawati (23), Saoli (3), Sindwahi (8) and Rajura (16).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-deaths-245-new-cases-in-chanda/articleshow/78210995.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ‘Financial woes, lack of support behind suicides’||JAIPUR: Lack of support system and a dominant influencer in the family, along with economic reasons, appear to be the reasons behind most of the mass suicides which have been reported in Rajasthan in less than two months now, claim experts. They also say that while there is no direct connection between economic crisis and depression, majority of the people taking the step do so under financial duress. Experts also stated that especially during the lockdown and the pandemic, it is essential to ensure that exposure to the news on the number of Covid-19 cases should be limited. Dr R K Solanki, senior professor and unit head, department of psychiatry, SMS Medical College, elaborating on this, said, “When we look at mass suicides, we have to see that there is usually a dominant influence, whom the rest of the people listen to and agree to the suicide. While the reasons are multiple, economic crisis could be the trigger. Moreover, there is a lack of support due to which a person/persons in this situation get depressed. While no one has faced a scenario like the one which we are facing now, it is important to maintain a routine and be connected with other people.” Experts also lamented that the common denominator in most of such cases is the dwindling economy which makes it difficult for people to believe that the situation could get better. After a series of such suicides being reported in the state, senior officials are also looking at ways to curb them. DGP Bhupendra Singh added, “While it is very difficult to make any kind of conjecture on the reasons behind the suicides, financial situation does play a role. Although it is nearly impossible to anticipate such acts, I will talk to other police personnel and try to see if we can read any indicators in these types of matters. Probably if the beat constables can get feedback themselves or through an organization, but we will check the ways to prevent the suicides, as community support is also essential.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fin-woes-lack-of-support-behind-suicides/articleshow/78211013.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police cyber team in Rajasthan to trace IP addresses for fake cop profiles||KOLKATA: A Kolkata Police cyber cell team camping in Rajasthan said they had some initial evidence that showed several IP addresses, from where fake profiles of senior police officers were created, evolved from there. Chennai police are also posted there. “Those who had recently created fake Facebook profiles of assistant commissioners of Chennai police also targeted their commissioner as well as the additional commissioner. That was in the first week of September and around that time, our officers, too, were alerted that their fake profiles were making the rounds, from where friend requests were being sent to unsuspecting acquaintances with the aim to dupe them,” said a source. A second team from Kolkata is likely to travel to Odisha, an almost similar pattern that cops from the Chennai Police are following. A source claimed that these Mewati gangs had been active for the past two years and of late, they had turned their attention to Bengal, where gangs from Jamtara had a “free run” before a massive crackdown by Kolkata Police. “The fraudsters would earlier call up people and dupe them with offers of gold bricks at lucrative rates. They also switched to online buying and selling, posing as Army officers. Even men in uniform had been targeted,” the source said. “Now, the gang has been sending friend requests from fake profiles of senior officers. Then, the fraudsters, posing as the cops, have been asking the friends for financial help, claiming to be in dire need,” the source said. No one has yet risen to the bait. The cyber cell team’s visit to Rajasthan came hours after Kolkata Police registered an FIR, based on a complaint lodged by a junior cop, and CID asked targeted officers to send screenshots of their fake profiles and the links. On Tuesday, fake profiles of two DCPs—one posted in a division and another in a battalion—were created. Police are also looking for leads from Facebook that have started arriving. “We have traditionally received their help and they are serious in tackling these cases. We will soon discuss ways in which such clones can be stopped. We need to know if FB has some plans that can be shared with us,” said a top detective department officer. The CID’s cyber cell and district cyber units have registered these cases for cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyber-team-in-rajasthan-to-trace-ip-addresses-for-fake-cop-profiles/articleshow/78211028.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 20, 2020||Pune||Outgoing CP highlights innovative policing gains||Pune: K Venkatesham, the outgoing commissioner of police, Pune, relied on innovative policing supported by advance technology for maintaining law and order, and prevention and detection of crime during his tenure to get timely feedback and extend a helping hand to public. Interacting with newspersons, Venkatesham on Saturday said he enjoyed his more than two-year tenure in the city. Right from learning Marathi to understanding the pulse of people, their issues and providing solutions to their problems instantly, he loved them all. The new commissioner of police (CP) of Pune, Amitabh Gupta, will take charge around 10.30am on Sunday. The outgoing CP, Venkatesham, is credited for launching the Bharosa Cell for helping elderly people, women and children in distress. He stressed on smart policing and launched a number of technology-based programmes. (See graphic) He told reporters that he emphasised on social policing in which problems related to women, children and elderly citizens were solved with a compassionate and humane approach. “To enhance the understanding of the constables and officers, a course of emotional intelligence was introduced to bring a change in behaviour and attitude of policemen.” He said, “I have relied on three principles — stubborn optimism, abundant mentality and sustained collaboration — to serve people and rigorous follow-ups for addressing issues of citizens and policemen.” After the Supreme Court order on reducing road fatalities by 10%, Venkatesham and his team swung into action and the city witnessed 19-24% drop in road fatalities per month. “Apart from reducing the fatalities, we strived to reduce the travel time by collaborating with the civic authorities to improve the road network, signal timing and enforcement of traffic violation rules. Also, we studied shortcomings in infrastructure to avoid fatal accidents and improve mobility. These issues were resolved with the help of civic authorities,” he said. In last two years, a total of 11 police stations were renovated to make them citizen-friendly, Venkatesham added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/outgoing-cp-highlights-innovative-policing-gains/articleshow/78211024.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Alive, but NMC records say Covid death||Nagpur: An investigation by TOI has revealed that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) recorded a man who is alive as a Covid death case. The age of the man and his deceased mother has been mentioned as one year in the records of the civic body and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In the list of Covid deaths released by the NMC on September 13 was 1-year-old twins (boy and girl). When TOI called on the number registered with the civic body, it was received by a man whose name appears on the list. “The private laboratory where we got our samples tested wrongly mentioned the age of my mother and I as one year. This, despite submitting Aadhaar card copies to it,” said the man. According to the lab’s reports, the mother and son gave samples on September 11 and the reports came positive the next morning. NMC’s Dharampeth Zone officials informed that the woman had died in the wee hours of September 12. They got information about it only after she was cremated the next day. “We were told that death was due to natural causes. On verification, she turned out to be Covid positive. The son was asked to mention the correct age in the Covid report,” the officials said, adding that they did not know the man too was registered as a Covid death. “The NMC head office prepares the list and registers it with ICMR,” they said. The head office registers home deaths as per reports received from the zone offices. “Deaths in hospitals are registered with ICMR by them. In case of home deaths, zone office and police station complete formalities and allow cremation,” said officials from the NMC head office. An official from the head office confirmed that the man is registered as Covid death with ICMR. As on Saturday, his and the mother’s ages were mentioned as 1 year. Dharampeth Zone officials said the man got another Covid report copy from the private laboratory in which the age of his mother was corrected. “It was mandatory for the death certificate. We also took other documents after a couple of days,” he said. Despite all this, the NMC did not correct the age of the deceased woman and his son, who is still alive, in its records and with ICMR too. Chairman of NMC’s health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja said such mistakes “are not acceptable”. “I have ordered an inquiry and action will be taken against the official responsible for the mistake,” he added. On September 9, TOI had reported that the NMC did not register the name of a deceased in the list of Covid deaths. The deceased was positive and admitted in a private hospital. On the 11th day, the person died at the hospital which informed the NMC that the person tested negative a day ago. Such a death is supposed to be registered as Covid-19 death as per ICMR guidelines. ———————— IN A NUTSHELL *Woman from Sitabuldi takes ill * She and son submit samples, both test positive * Woman dies * Man informs about mother’s death to NMC for cremation * Age of mother mentioned as one year in Covid report * NMC registers man’s death too in its and ICMR records * Man’s age too mentioned as 1 year * Son gets age corrected in Covid report, informs NMC * No corrections made yet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alive-but-nmc-records-say-covid-death/articleshow/78211064.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||Mining scam: ED to attach properties of ex-BSP MLC||Lucknow: Enforcement Directorate (ED) is all set to attach properties of former Bahujan Samaj Party MLC, Mohammed Iqbal, who was booked under Prevention of Money Laundering Act in November 2019 along with his son Wajid Ali in the Saharanpur mining scam.In September 2019, CBI had booked the former legislator’s son Wajid Ali for criminal conspiracy and under Prevention of Corruption Act along with two IAS officers in the mining scam. The agency is still conducting the probe.ED sources said, they tracked down shell companies linked to the former MLC and his sons through which illegal money was ploughed into mining. Properties grabbed through illegal mining pegged at Rs 3,000 crore were tracked and the attachment process is under way. This also includes hotels in Uttarakhand and a medical college.Sources also said, the accused created assets through sale of sugar mills during BSP supremo Mayawati’s regime. In April 2019, CBI booked both sons of the former MLC — Wajid and Javed — for their role in the sale of 21 state-run sugar mills in 2011-12, scraping the exchequer of Rs 1,800 crore. Saharanpur police also slapped Gangsters Act against the former BSP legislator Mohammed Iqbal and his sons in connection with three criminal cases in 2018 in Saharanpur.The former MLC was also an accused in NRHM scam and allegations of amassing wealth of Rs 10,000 crore were levelled against him by then Saharanpur MP. In 2016, Centre had initiated a probe by income tax and Serious Frauds Investigation Office (SFIO). Later, an FIR was registered at the Gomtinagar police station of Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mining-scam-ed-to-attach-properties-of-ex-bsp-mlc/articleshow/78211845.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Widow, man stripped & beaten over ‘affair’, 3 held||UDAIPUR: The police arrested three persons for tying a widow and her acquaintance to an electricity pole for three hours, thrashing and partially stripping them at Dungla village in Chittorgarh on Friday. A video of the incident went viral on social media. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said, “The woman stated that three men were real culprits as others were trying to discourage them from doing the heinous act. We shall be taking her statements under Section 164 CrPC and rest of the investigation will follow after that,” he said. The accused are said to be distant relatives of the woman. According to police, the widow used to live with her three-year-old son in Dungla. On Friday morning, one of the acquaintances, a youth from another village, arrived at her home to deliver some essential goods. While he was inside, few men from the neighbourhood suspected them of having an illicit affair, dragged them out of the house. Both were tied to an electricity pole and thrashed. They tore off the woman's blouse and stripped the youth. The incident happened in front of a large gathering of over 100 people, including women, and some even tried to deter them from the disgraceful act. Another woman, who tried to stop the culprits, was also beaten up. Someone made a video clip of the episode and uploaded it on social media, police said. Following SP’s order, Dungla SHO Om Singh registered a complaint and the victims were taken for medical examination. Later in the evening, the three prime accused Bansilal, Sanvra and Bhagwan were arrested. Police said an investigation is underway and if more persons are found guilty, they would be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/widow-man-stripped-beaten-over-affair-3-held/articleshow/78213934.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Association tells shopowners not to entertain customers sans face masks||Pune: The association of retail shopowners in the city has told the storekeepers to abstain from entertaining customers without face masks and violating social distancing norms. The fresh set of instructions came in the wake of civic and police authorities’ decision to intensify action against the shops and commercial establishments flouting the Covid-19 safety norms. The association has also told its members to strictly follow the business timings set by the civic administration and to ensure their employees wore masks during the working hours. The association also instructed the shopkeepers to make the markings for social distancing outside their shops. Sachin Nivangune, leader of Retail Shopowners’ Association, which has over 10,000 members in the city and district, said, “We told our area-wise associations and standalone shops to not entertain any customer found to be violating Covid-19 safety norms. Shopowners would be putting up a notice at the counters specifying it.” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar recently issued an order to set up 15 squads, one for every civic ward, to undertake inspection drives at shops, malls and other commercial establishments to arrest norms violation against the backdrop of increasing Covid-19 cases. Some shopkeepers are anxious about civic body’s latest move. Ajay Baheti, a shopkeeper from Shivajinagar, said, “The civic squads should not take the situation’s undue advantage. We can only our customers to wear a mask. We cannot do anything about those standing outside the shop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/association-tells-shopowners-not-to-entertain-customers-sans-face-masks/articleshow/78211018.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur: Widow, man stripped & beaten over ‘affair’, 3 held||UDAIPUR: The police arrested three persons for tying a widow and her acquaintance to an electricity pole for three hours, thrashing and partially stripping them at Dungla village in Chittorgarh on Friday. A video of the incident went viral on social media. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said, “The woman stated that three men were real culprits as others were trying to discourage them from doing the heinous act. We shall be taking her statements under Section 164 CrPC and rest of the investigation will follow after that,” he said. The accused are said to be distant relatives of the woman. According to police, the widow used to live with her three-year-old son in Dungla. On Friday morning, one of the acquaintances, a youth from another village, arrived at her home to deliver some essential goods. While he was inside, few men from the neighbourhood suspected them of having an illicit affair, dragged them out of the house. Both were tied to an electricity pole and thrashed. They tore off the woman's blouse and stripped the youth. The incident happened in front of a large gathering of over 100 people, including women, and some even tried to deter them from the disgraceful act. Another woman, who tried to stop the culprits, was also beaten up. Someone made a video clip of the episode and uploaded it on social media, police said. Following SP’s order, Dungla SHO Om Singh registered a complaint and the victims were taken for medical examination. Later in the evening, the three prime accused Bansilal, Sanvra and Bhagwan were arrested. Police said an investigation is underway and if more persons are found guilty, they would be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/widow-man-stripped-beaten-over-affair-3-held/articleshow/78211021.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: 12 Covid cured to give plasma from tomorrow||PANAJI: Twelve people who defeated Covid 19 will be donating their plasma at the Goa Medical College (GMC). Three of them have been scheduled for the plasma donation on Monday. The North Goa Collectorate office had held a screening camp for plasma donors at Miramar on Friday wherein these 12 out of 13 recovered patients were found eligible for the donation. “There is a lot of false information about plasma donation, which is why we held the screening camp to highlight the eligiblity process. With the help of their plasma, they can help those who have Covid-19,” deputy collector, Guru Desai said. The entire process takes 45 minutes so we will carry out the process by having the donation of three donors a day, he added. Desai said that the recovered patients can donate their plasma every 15 days. The North Goa Collectorate office has resolved to have tests every Friday so that people willing to donate their plasma can come forward to help those battling the coronavirus. The results will be declared on Mondays. The first batch of three from the screening camp will donate their plasma from 1.30pm onwards at GMC, Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-covid-cured-to-give-plasma-from-tomorrow/articleshow/78211854.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana likely to clip wings of revenue officials||HYDERABAD: In a bid to curtail role of revenue officials, the Telangana government is mulling appointing non-revenue officials wherever possible as additional collectors (local bodies) in districts. The government had created additional collector (AC) (local bodies) posts early this year to focus on functioning of local bodies gram panchayats and municipalities. The other ACs take care of subjects like revenue and civil supplies. As of now, except Hyderabad, other 32 districts have additional collectors (local bodies). Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is reportedly unhappy with the revenue department especially in the wake of a series of bribery cases, where top level officials were involved. Sources said the government is contemplating to appoint senior officials from other department like municipal, panchayat raj department as additional collectors (local bodies) because they worked as senior municipal commissioners and district panchayat officers. On experiment basis, a senior municipal official of additional director cadre, D Johan Samson, was appointed as AC (local bodies) in Medchal-Malkajgiri district. “Of 32 posts, nearly 25 additional collector (local bodies) are from the revenue department and the rest are junior IAS officers. Gazetted officers and Group I officers from other departments have been demanding that the government either create Telangana Administrative Service (TAS) on the lines of states like Kerala, Gujarat, Odisha and Tamil Nadu or post them in the district-level posts like ACs,” a senior official told TOI. Telangana Gazetted Officers’ (TGO) association president V Mamata said they had urged the state to utilise the services of senior officials in various departments at district-level posts. In fact, these officials interact more with people on a daily basis, she said. She said if non-revenue officials were appointed as additional collectors (local bodies) it would address the issues of officials from non-revenue department and the revenue department’s role would remain confined to only revenue matters. “Senior municipal officers of above selection grade can be appointed as AC (local bodies) as they have experience in activities of local bodies. Even panchayat raj department officials can also be considered for AC posts,” Telangana Municipal Commissioners Association president T Krishna Mohan Reddy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-likely-to-clip-wings-of-revenue-officials/articleshow/78211034.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Restaurateurs run from pillar to post for dine-in nod, other reliefs||PUNE: After six months of remaining shut, restaurant owners in the city are running from pillar to post to seek official permission to reopen and begin dine-in activity at their establishments. Ever since Unlock 3.0 relaxations started from August 1, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) president Ganesh Shetty and other representatives have met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar, NCP chief Sharad Pawar as well as cabinet ministers Dilip Walse-Patil and Aditya Thackeray, among others, to get the matter resolved but to no avail. “Everyone we met so far said the restaurants will be allowed to open at the earliest but nothing has actually happened. PRAHA is working in tandem with our Mumbai counterparts. We need official permission to begin dine-in activity as the situation for restaurateurs has become very bad. Restaurants across India have already opened. Why are we not being permitted to,” Shetty sought to know. He added, “In Pune alone, close to 15% to 20% restaurants and eateries have shut shop. We’re dealing with an assortment of expenses like bank loans and interest, rents, salaries, and others. Neither the government nor banks have provided any relief or help.” Shetty further said the restaurateurs are hopeful of relief from the excise department in the coming days. “We have sought a partial or complete waiver of excise licence fee since restaurants have been shut for six months. The annual fee is Rs8 lakh and most of us are not in a position to pay the amount. Even when dine-in is permitted, it’s not necessary that people will come to restaurants.” He said, “During a meeting with the excise minister and officials from the department on Wednesday, it was agreed that they will reduce the fee on a pro-rata basis. They assured us that they will submit the proposal to the state finance minister. However, this was only a verbal assurance. We are seeking complete exemption of excise licence fee for this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurateurs-run-from-pillar-to-post-for-dine-in-nod-other-reliefs/articleshow/78211037.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 20, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit launches tele-counselling to tackle malnutrition||PILIBHIT: The administration has deployed nutrition warriors to take on malnutrition problem in the district. The scheme, the first of its kind in UP, is an initiative of DM Pulkit Khare. It will entail tele-counselling on nutrition by the nutrition warriors (experts) through video and telephonic calls. Besides, counselling, nutritious supplements will be made available to those targeted by the scheme. The scheme will focus on the counseling of malnourished children’s parents in addition to the pregnant women children and lactating mothers belonging to financially weaker sections. Government school students will also be given nutritious supplements. The tele-nutrition scheme was launched on Friday by DM Khare. Eight nutritional experts or warriors have been assigned duties of counselling under the scheme. The prime focus will be on the 1,500 severely malnourished and 82,000 moderately malnourished children in the district, the DM said. The nutritional experts will review the changes in the health of a child every seven days from the date of the tele-counselling, the DM said. With a view to extending the benefit of the scheme to every targeted child and woman, the contact numbers of Nutrition Rehabilitation Centre as well as of nutritional experts have been circulated to all Asha and aaganwadi workers, who will function as a link between the needy and the expert, Khare added. He ordered development of nurseries for growing green vegetables at all aaganwadi centres and schools in the district to ensure the supply of vitamins and minerals for all students at government schools. District program officer Arvind Kumar said, the additional nutritious supplements as advised by the experts during the tele-counseling will be supplied to the needy person at his/her doorstep through the anganwadi centre concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-pilibhit-launches-tele-counselling-to-tackle-malnutrition/articleshow/78208980.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Gold smuggling: DRI team arrests Jodhpur jeweller||Jaipur/Jodhpur: A day after seizing 5.5 kg of gold from a vehicle, a team of Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Thursday arrested a jeweller from Jodhpur who they claimed was the actual beneficiary of the smuggled gold. The son of the jeweller, who is also a co-accused in this case of violation of Customs Act, is on the run. In another development, in the case of firing on a DRI team, a local court in Jodhpur has given a one day police custody of three persons to the police. Shiv Narayan Agarwal, a jeweller from Jodhpur, was arrested by the DRI team for illegal possession of gold. “We seized 5.5 kg of gold from a vehicle which was to be delivered to him. He failed to provide verified details of the source of gold. We also seized 200 grams of silver from this jeweller. We have arrested him for the violation of the Customs Act. His son is also a co-accused in the case and is on the run,” said a senior officer of DRI, Jaipur, said. Sleuths of DRI will interrogate the accused to find if the gold was smuggled from Jaipur to Jodhpur only or it was smuggled into Jodhpur from abroad. Meanwhile, a local court in Jodhpur has given one-day police custody for all the three accused who were in a vehicle and opened fire on the DRI team chasing them were sent to the judicial custody by a local court. “All the three were booked for attempt to murder and also for causing hindrance in government work. They were produced in a local court in Jodhpur and were sent to police custody of one day,” the officer said. On Thursday an unarmed team of DRI chasing gold smugglers from Jaipur was shocked when the smugglers shot at a person accompanying them near Bilara town of Jodhpur. A 20-year-old person was critically injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gold-smuggling-dri-team-arrests-jodhpur-jeweller/articleshow/78211031.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||Rush to add more beds as Covid-19 cases rise in Vadodara||Vadodara: With a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 cases and a new peak of fresh cases being made almost daily, the administration is gearing up to have as many hospital beds as possible at its disposal. Officials said that there is surplus capacity presently too, but the number is being increased to take care of any eventuality.The Vadodara district including the city has a capacity of 5,464 beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients. This is being increased further by declaring the Dhiraj Hospital on the Waghodiya Highway near the city as a Covid hospital.The capacity of the hospital is being increased to 600 beds along with a 100-bed intensive care unit (ICU). The top brass of the hospital that has a medical college attached with it visited the GMERS Hospital (GMERSH), Gotri to understand the requirements. A joint team of doctors from the GMERSH and SSG Hospital (SSGH) will also visit the Dhiraj Hospital on Monday and discuss various aspects including pooling of infrastructure and manpower. “We are looking to develop the hospital as a satellite hospital of GMERSH and SSGH. Patients from the areas of the city near it as well as those from Vadodara and nearby districts that are closer to Dhiraj Hospital will be diverted there,” said officer on special duty for Covid-19 Vinod Rao.Rao added that the addition of the Covid hospital was in line with the strategy to have surplus capacity. “When we needed around 4,000 beds, we had planned for 5,000. Once again, we are being prepared if there a rise in the number of patients in the future. Vadodara also caters to a lot of other districts surrounding it and patients from there are treated here,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rush-to-add-more-beds-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-vadodara/articleshow/78209426.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Careful use of plasma has ‘saved lives’, claim doctors||PUNE: Doctors in the state have said they continue to see positive results from plasma therapy, despite a recent nationwide study that said no gains were observed in Covid-19 patients administered the treatment. The study, led by the Indian Council of Medical Research (of 464 hospitalised patients and published on September 8), had said plasma therapy had failed to prevent progression to severe disease or mortality. But doctors said several patients have indeed benefitted. “It helped us save the lives of 45 patients,” said Varun Bafna, a hematologist with the Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Hospital in Kolhapur. “We use plasma for critical patients. We have observed that the therapy lessens the viral load.” Experts said timing of plasma administration and selection of receiving patients were key. They added that plasma therapy should also be used in combination with other medication. In Mumbai, doctors at the Balabhai Nanavati Hospital said they have treated nearly 125 patients using convalescent plasma. Abdul Ansari, director of critical care, said overall experience with plasma, when used alongside Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, steroids and blood thinners, has been encouraging. He said, “It’s important to note that plasma is an adjuvant and not the primary treatment. Timing is crucial. We saw that it helped when a patient’s oxygen saturation had started to worsen. It also helped during the early phases for moderately to severely ill patients who had not developed antibodies.” At Dhule’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), doctors recently used six of their 10 bags of plasma collected from donors. However, four of the patients succumbed to infection. “The condition of all six patients was bad and plasma was our last option. And it went on to save two lives. Judicious and timely use of plasma can be a game-changer,” said Dr Deepak Shejwal, the principal investigator of Covid and head of the GMCH’s blood bank. In other parts of the state too, off-label use — based on discretion — has shown encouraging results. In Nashik district, an official from the Maratha Vidya Prasarak’s Adgaon medical college said plasma was given to only two patients. “And both of them are now in good health,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/careful-use-of-plasma-has-saved-lives-claim-doctors/articleshow/78211039.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kochi||In Kerala village, landmark tree gets ayurveda treatment||KOTTAYAM: A 67-year-old tree, whose branches were cut off, is being given ayurveda treatment in a village in Kottayam to bring it back to life. The rain tree was a major landmark of Thidanad village and used to shade the entire junction, besides serving as a traffic island. A roundabout was constructed around the tree but recently, the panchayat secretary wrote to the district collector demanding that the branches of the tree need to be axed as they were posing a threat to human lives. The collector directed the PWD to do the needful under the disaster management act. Even before locals realized what was happening, the order was executed. The branches were cut off and when they were about to chop down the trunk as well, the tree lovers stepped in. Kottayam Nature Society, Meenachil River Protection Forum, and a collective of farmers and nature lovers in Thidanad came together on social media and decided to nurse it back to life. They consulted K Binu, the ‘tree doctor’ who has brought back several trees to life. Binu who is also a member of the district tree committee promptly swung into action. He first obtained a stay order from the court stopping any further move by the authorities to chop down the whole tree. The treatment began earlier this week. The tree was first washed and cleaned and an ayurvedic paste was applied over it. The concoction had 14 ingredients: Termitary, earth from the ground where the tree stands, earth from a paddy field, cow milk, ghee, cow dung, plantain (kadali), honey, sesame, licorice, black gram, powdered cuscus grass, boiled rice, and green gram. After applying the medicine, the entire tree was covered with a cloth. Binu said that new branches will sprout in six months. Senior residents here say that the tree was planted and cared for by a person who ran a tea shop nearby. Now, a big banner flutters on the tree in which it expresses its gratitude to the villagers for saving its life. Binu said he learned the treatment method from various Hindu Puranas. “Treatment of trees are mentioned in many Sanskrit books. It comes under Vriksha Ayurveda,” he said. He also said that the ingredients for the mix vary with each tree. Binu has already treated 43 ailing trees. The total treatment cost was pegged at Rs 15,000 which was raised by nature-lovers. The funds were sent to Kottayam Nature Society’s account, said Binu who never charges for his treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nursing-a-landmark-rain-tree-back-to-life/articleshow/78209784.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Ensure piped water in Bundelkhand, Vindhya by 2022’||Lucknow: People in Bundelkhand and Vindhya regions, which are among the most water-scarce in the country, are set to get piped water supply at home. The project is expected to begin full-fledged within the next one and a half years. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed officials to appraise him about the progress under the Jal Jivan Mission—Har Ghar Jal and Atal Bhu Jal Yojna. The project is aimed at providing piped water to 67 lakh population of Bundelkhand at a cost of Rs 10,131 crore. Reviewing progress, the CM said the projects must be completed within the stipulated time frame. In areas where piped networks have been laid, connections should be provided immediately to houses, he said. He added that all of Bundelkhand and Vindhya districts affected by arsenic or fluoride and JE or AES, the eight aspirational districts and remaining parts of the state should be connected with piped water supply by 2022. The CM said rainwater harvesting should be adopted to deal with the problem of hard water and people should be taught about water conservation. In the first phase, the Yogi government has fixed the target of providing piped water to all houses in Bundelkhand and Purvanchal. In phase two, it will be extended to Sonbhadra and Mirzapur while phase three will cover areas affected by JE. The final phase will ensure supply in areas where water is contaminated by arsenic and fluoride.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-piped-water-in-bundelkhand-vindhya-by-2022/articleshow/78211849.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Gupta plans to focus on intelligence, technology||Pune: Policing led by intelligence and backed by technology would top the agenda of Amitabh Gupta, who would take charge as commissioner of police, Pune, on Sunday. Gupta, a 1992 batch IPS officer, told TOI on Saturday over the phone, “Instilling a sense of security among citizens and fear among criminals will be my priority. I shall also give priority to maintaining law and order, prevention and detection of crime, besides focusing on other important aspects.” He said, “I shall consult my officers and chalk out a plan on what needs to be done for the public and the police welfare after taking charge from the outgoing police commissioner K Venkatesham.” Venkatesham will take charge as additional director-general of police (special operations) in Mumbai next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gupta-plans-to-focus-on-intelligence-technology/articleshow/78211033.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Six assaulted over extortion||Kolkata: Six labourers at Sealdah Baithakhana alleged they were assaulted with rods and sticks for refusing to pay extortion money. Muchipara cops said the incident took place on Saturday evening after the labourers finished work. “The accused took money from us in the name of a welfare fund. But with our earnings now low, we refused to pay. So, they assaulted us,” said a victim. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-assaulted-over-extortion/articleshow/78211043.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Two bikers snatch chain in Mundhwa||Pune: Two bikers snatched a 42-year-old woman’s gold chain, worth about Rs80,000, in Keshavnagar in Mundhwa around 6.20pm on Friday. Police said the woman — a homemaker — and her friend, both from Keshavnagar, were strolling when the suspects came from the opposite side. The pillion rider snatched the woman’s chain. After she raised an alarm, two passers-by chased the suspects, but to no avail. The woman has registered an FIR under the relevant section of the IPC with the Mundhwa police. Assistant inspector Manish Patil from the Mundhwa police said, “Investigations have revealed that the suspects riding a black motorcycle were wearing face masks. They are in the age group of 20-25 years. We are checking footage of CCTV cameras for identifying the routes the chain snatchers took.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-bikers-snatch-chain-in-mundhwa/articleshow/78211067.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Cop booked for abusing colleague||Pune: The Dighi police on Friday registered a case against a police constable for threatening and abusing a woman constable on the station premises in the earlier hours of Friday. According to the case, the constable was in an inebriated condition at the time of the incident. Police said the 57-year-old constable was on night duty along with the woman, who was the station house duty officer during the shift. Police said the constable — given the duty of beat marshal in Charholi village — returned to the police station around 1am in an inebriated condition, police said. He then started threatening the woman loudly and hurled abuses at her. Police have booked the constable under IPC sections 504, 506 and 509 charges and the Prohibition Act. Senior police officers will also initiate an internal probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-booked-for-abusing-colleague/articleshow/78211051.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong ridicules TRS claim on lack of land for 2-BHK||Hyderabad: Pooh-poohing the argument of the ruling TRS members that land was not available in the city and as such not all the one lakh 2-BHK units could be constructed within GHMC limits, Congress said it will show the land parcels suitable for the housing project. Referring to the Miyapur land scam, the Congress members said several acres of land was available in Miyapur but the TRS government should have the will to execute the 2-BHK project. “The TRS has been wooing the voters from the poorer sections with the promise of delivering 2-BHK houses in every election since 2014. We were shown some 2-BHK units in GHMC limits. Another 96,000 units need to be constructed in the city. TRS members are trying to mislead by showing units constructed outside the GHMC geographical limits,” said CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka. Over 17 lakh applications poured in seeking 2-BHK units in Greater Hyderabad. “The TRS members are playing with the dreams of the poor to own a house and they cannot always fool people,” said AICC secretary Dasoju Sravan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-ridicules-trs-claim-on-lack-of-land-for-2-bhk/articleshow/78211071.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Government awaiting DFF’s green signal to begin Iffi preparations||PANAJI: Though it has been decided that this year the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) will be hybrid because of the ongoing pandemic, the Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) is yet to receive instructions from the directorate of film festivals (DFF) to organise the activities. With the festival just two months away, major aspects including whether the delegates will be allowed inside the theatres or the films will be screened virtually, besides the status of opening and closing ceremonies are still in limbo. The first steering committee meeting by the DFF was held on August 21 wherein it was decided that the festival would be hybrid, with interactive as well as online activities. Following this, a second meeting was to be held to decide on the final ideas. So far, there has been no update on that, ESG vice chairman Subhash Phaldesai said. The ESG is the infrastructure provider and are currently in the process of renovating Inox theatres in Panaji. “We have to wait until we receive a feedback request from the DFF on the type of infrastructure required for Iffi,” Phaldesai said. The programme schedule, list of guests, countries participating, kind of accommodation and transport system required are some of the details that the ESG is awaiting to plan their activities, he added.  He further said that 25% of expenditure is spent on the opening and closing ceremonies. They are yet to be informed whether the two ceremonies will be held or it will be virtually streamed. “For floating tenders, receiving replies, solving queries and starting the actual work, we have very limited time left,” Phaldesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-awaiting-dffs-green-signal-to-begin-iffi-prep/articleshow/78211870.cms||Nida Sayed
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||App to help to locate toilets and garbage points in Ajmer||Ajmer: The Ajmer Municipal Corporation is developing a mobile application which will depict the location of garbage points and toilets in the city. The app will prove helpful for the general public as well as the tourists. Moreover, people will be able to register complaints on the condition of such facilities. The mobile app is being developed by the corporation under Ajmer Smart City project. It will help the officials monitor the work online and also provide services to people. The app will record GPS attendance of municipal vehicles collecting garbage door- to-door or monitoring field work, project tracking, penalties, hawkers’ details, task management, road inspection and garbage vector point. “We held a meeting with smart city officials and briefed them about our requirements which should be added to the application,” said Devika Tomar, deputy commissioner of AMC. She said that the app will be downloaded from play store and will be bilingual—English and Hindi. Twelve modules will be added in the app. The corporation will get the benefit of e-data and officials will remain updated. The officials would be able to order any rescue work. It will also help locate vendor zones in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/app-to-help-to-locate-toilets-and-garbage-points-in-ajmer/articleshow/78211069.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Two minor Delhi girls rescued from Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Two minor girls from Delhi, who had allegedly come to meet a friend in Jaisalmer, were rescued from Thaiyat village by Delhi Police after their families back lodged a kidnapping case. The two girls had gone missing a few days ago and had allegedly fled to Jaisalmer to meet a social media friend here. The two minor girls, along with a friend, had allegedly come to meet another friend to Thaiyat village in Jaisalmer by taxi. They had become friends on social media. The girls’ family members in Delhi lodged a kidnapping case, following which, based on the mobile location, the South Delhi police along with the girls’ family members reached Jaisalmer and took the girls and the two boys along with them. One of the boys is a resident of Jaisalmer and is told to be Pak displaced. According to information from police, 21-year old Tejaram, a resident of Thaiyat, works in Delhi and had become friends with a 17-year-old girl from Delhi on social media. In the meantime, he came back to Jaisalmer. Tejaram told his friend in Delhi about his affair and asked all the three to come to Jaisalmer. The friend in Delhi around four days ago along with the two girls, came to Jaipur by taxi. Tejaram from Jaisalmer reached Jaipur to bring all the three with him and all the four came to Thaiyat village in a taxi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-minor-delhi-girls-rescued-from-jaisalmer/articleshow/78211065.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Teacher missing for last six days yet to be traced||Jaisalmer: A government schoolteacher of Bhaniyana town in Jaisalmer, who went missing six days ago, is yet to be traced. According to police, Kishandan Charan had accompanied his son Jaipal to attend NEET last Sunday in Jodhpur. He dropped his son at the Vidyashram School in Shikargarh in his car at noon. At 5pm, when Jaipal came out after the exam, he found his father’s car parked outside the school, but Charan was seen anywhere. He tried calling his father, but the cellphone was switched off, so he went to his aunt’s place. In the night, too, his father could not be contacted and they got worried and started searching for him. Later, they lodged a missing report, said a police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teacher-missing-for-last-six-days-yet-to-be-traced/articleshow/78211073.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Rajkot||O2 cylinders stolen from Alang yard||Rajkot: Six persons were arrested for allegedly stealing oxygen cylinders belonging to Alang ship breaking yard from VIP Park at Moti Talav in Kumbharvada locality in Bhavnagar on Saturday. Bhavnagar local crime branch (LCB) officials arrested the accused after they received a tip-off that the accused were in the process of selling off the cylinders. The accused were identified as Rakesh Bharapara, Vipul Solanki, Nanji Solanki, Pintu Makwana, Mahavari Vala and Mohemmed Rajani. “When we got to the spot, we saw the accused with cylinders, of which they did not have any papers or documents,” said Arwind Baraiya, constable with Bhavnagar LCB. “When we interrogated them, they confessed that they had stolen the cylinders,” added Baraiya. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/o2-cylinders-stolen-from-alang-yard/articleshow/78209780.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||NMC official 4th from city to be reinfected with Covid||Nagpur: In the fourth such case from city, an official from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time within a span of two months. Earlier, he was asymptomatic but this time having symptoms with infection in lungs. Dindayal Tembhekar, 47, zonal officer of NMC Dharampeth Zone (he wished to be named) is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. A Covid frontline worker, Tembhekar is in-charge of NMC Dharampeth Zone for solid waste management and also taking care of various types of works related to Covid-19 since March. Tembhekar was quarantined after one of his neighbours, a teacher with NMC, tested positive. He tested positive on July 14 but was asymptomatic. As per new guidelines, AIIMS discharged him without conducting test for the second time after completion of 10 days. “I had to get back to work so got tested for second time to ensure there is no transmission of disease to my staff,” said Tembhekar who gave samples at NMC Law College testing centre and “the report came negative on August 5”. After developing fever and suffering mild breathlessness, Tembhekar said he again samples at NMC Law College Testing Centre on September 9. “Report came positive on September 12. I was shocked and admitted to a hospital as CT scan detected infection in lungs,” he said. All the three tests were done through RT-PCR. Earlier, Tembhekar’s mother had tested negative but this time she too was detected positive. “I used to wear mask and follow all guidelines. But I am always on the field and in office, so might have contracted the disease again,” said the official. According to consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe, it is quite possible to get reinfection after sometime. “It can happen if patient fails to develop adequate antibodies after the first infection. Also, reinfection might be due to different viral genome. Another reason could be the patient’s immunity level has gone down significantly. Therefore, patients have to take care even after recovery,” he said. TOI on August 18 had reported about a journalist who tested positive in antibody test for the first time and again positive in RT-PCR test after 35 days. Between the two tests in which he came positive, the journalist had not done any test to confirm that he was negative. He was asymptomatic both times. The paper had also reported about a policeman whose case is similar to that of Tembhekar’s. A doctor too has tested positive for second time and reportedly asymptomatic both times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-official-4th-from-city-to-be-reinfected-with-covid/articleshow/78211098.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||New testing labs in Kekri and Kotputli||Ajmer: Two new laboratories will come up to control infection of Covid in Kekeri town of Ajmer and Kotputli of Jaipur district. A budget of Rs 9.74 crore has been sanctioned by the Centre for the purpose. According to the CMHO’s office, Rs 4.87 crore has been sanctioned for Kekri, where a high-tech lab will be constructed. This will help in providing testing facilities on the lines of a medical college. The town already has a district-level hospital. Patient loses Rs 3k A patient who came for treatment at JLN Hospital here on Saturday was robbed of Rs 3,500. He later registered a case in JLN hospital police Chowki. According to police, Firoj Khan of Riabari of Nagaur district had a problem in his eyes and he came to the hospital for treatment. After consulting a doctor at the out-patient department, he went to a medical shop where he found his purse is missing. The victim said that his one eye is bandaged and he was left with no money to return to his village. Police lodged a complaint and started a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-testing-labs-in-kekri-and-kotputli/articleshow/78211058.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Hanuman engraving disfigured||Kota: Unidentified men allegedly disfigured an engraving of Lord Hanuman at a temple in Mahaveer Nagar Basti in Itawa town of Kota district on intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Mild tension prevailed across the town on Saturday morning when people came to know about it, but timely action by police prevented any untoward incident. Police said locals noticed the disfigured engraving of Lord Hanuman in the temple and informed police following which senior officers were informed of incident. Police lodged a case under Section 295 of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hanuman-engraving-disfigured/articleshow/78211100.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Schools to re-open ‘partially’ from September 21||JAIPUR: The state home department, in an order, enclosed the SOPs issued by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) for ready reference with regard to ‘partial reopening of schools for students of classes 9 to 12 on voluntary basis, for guidance from their teachers’ and on ‘preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 in skill or entrepreneurship training institutions, higher educational institutions, conducting doctoral courses and postgraduate studies in technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental work’. Confirming the move, the state education department said that the central guidelines will be followed with regard to schools from September 21. School education commissioner Bhanwar Lal told TOI, "The schools will reopen for students from class IX onwards only to take guidance from the teachers. Students have to take permission from their parents and needless to say that all existing protocols related to the Covid-19 will be followed." It is not mandatory for students to visit schools and those facing any problem related to studies or want clarification on subjects can visit their schools during the school hours. The guidelines will be applicable to both government and private schools. Lal also informed that the department will come up with rules and regulations on Sunday to ensure no scope of ambiguity in the re-opening of schools takes place. Sources said that students will be allowed in batches and likely on appointment basis so that they don’t end up gathering in huge numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-to-re-open-partially-from-september-21/articleshow/78211093.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Digitally signed birth, death certificates made mandatory in DK||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district administration has directed all local bodies in rural and urban areas to start issuing digitally signed birth and death certificates. Accordingly, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) will also start issuing digitally signed certificates for births and deaths registered in its jurisdiction soon. The district administration has already held a meeting to discuss about the issue. In addition to MCC, all local bodies in the district have been directed to issue digitally signed certificates to avoid any delay in the process. Additional deputy commissioner M J Roopa said digital signature has been made compulsory for all birth and deaths certificates in the district. The health officer will be the registrar of births and deaths in the MCC. Meanwhile, in other urban local bodies, it will be the responsibility of health inspectors. Government doctors in all urban areas will be the deputy registrars. Village accountants will be the birth and death registrars for villages while medical officers of public health centres or taluk hospitals will be the deputy registrars. All of them will have to use digital keys and issue birth and death certificates with digital signatures. As per the government order, panchayat development officers of gram panchayats are appointed as birth and death certificate issuing authority in villages, she said. “It has come to our notice that there is an inordinate delay in the distribution of birth and death certificates in urban areas in the district. Hence, tahsildars should conduct visits and hold coordination committee meetings to discuss about making the process efficient. The district has recorded 18,824 births and 10,139 deaths from January 2020,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/digitally-signed-birth-death-certificates-made-mandatory-in-dk/articleshow/78208996.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Three Andhra species vie for ‘national butterfly’ tag||Amaravati: Three rare species of butterflies from the Andhra Pradesh have already topped the list of contestants in the race to get the ‘national butterfly’ tag. Nature lovers and environmentalists are of the view that it is high time for the state to pick a species as the ‘state butterfly’, following the Centre’s nation-wide contest to select the ‘national butterfly’. The contest was launched on September 11 and will end on October 8. The ‘national butterfly’ of India will be declared in 2021. Seven butterfly species — Common Jezebel, Orange Oakleaf, Common Nawab (all from AP), Krishna Peacock, Fivebar Sword Tail, Northern Jungle Queen and Yellow Gorgon — have found a spot in the final list of contenders. The three species from AP which are in the race for the ‘national butterfly’ tag are unique to AP’s Papikondalu National Park. Three southern states — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala — have already declared their state butterflies. Maharashtra was the first by declaring its state butterfly in 2015, followed by Uttarakhand. While Maharashtra picked Blue Mormon, Uttarakhand picked Common Peacock, Karnataka went for Southern Birdwings, Kerala chose Malabar Banded Peacock, while Tamil Nadu declared Tamil Yeoman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-andhra-species-vie-for-national-butterfly-tag/articleshow/78211117.cms||Samdani MN
September 20, 2020||Pune||Rs 10cr for pvt firms to run nCoV centres||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will shell out Rs10 crore to private players for managing 16 Covid care centres under its limits. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said eight private firms have been managing 16 Covid care centres for the past three months. Meanwhile, payment to private firms has been kept on hold by the standing committee to probe complaints made by patients pertaining to irregularities. Patil said, “The standing committee wants clarification regarding a few things, including the alleged complaints. Once it is satisfied, dues to the private players will be cleared. The payment issue will be scrutinised during next week’s meeting.” The civic body officials said that surprise inspections will be carried out to probe irregularities at the centres. The members of the inspection team will also interact with patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-10cr-for-pvt-firms-to-run-ncov-centres/articleshow/78211085.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Cops dispose of seized drugs||Udaipur: Chittorgarh police on Saturday burnt quintals of confiscated drugs, including poppy husk, marijuana and smack, at an incinerator facility of JK Cement plant at Mangrol. Various categories of narcotics like drugs (43 quintal), doda post (29kg), smack (six gram) and marijuana/ganja (13kg) were destroyed. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava told TOI that the drugs had been seized by police over a period of time (1994 to 2018) under 34 crime cases registered in eight police stations of the district. These drugs were caught from smugglers who were transporting them from Neemuch, Mandsaur, Pratapgarh and Chittorgarh to Marwar area. The SP said after illegal drugs are confiscated by officials, there is a lengthy process before which they can be destroyed. Some narcotics sit on shelves in evidence vaults for years, depending on the severity of a case and how long it takes to go through the court system. But eventually, any drugs that have been found or confiscated must be properly disposed of and most area police departments use one method in particular — incineration. “Once the drugs have been seized, whatever it may be — smack, heroin, marijuana, or any other drug — we have to hold on to them until any possibility of a court case appeal is settled,” Bhargava said. After seeking approval from the related courts, the district drug disposal committee completed the procedure of physical examination and weighing of the inventories and took them to the incinerator facility. During the process, SHOs of all the concerned stations Kotwali, Sadar, Nimbahera, Bhainsrodgarh, Rashmi, Nikumb, Kanera and Bassi were present along with ASP Sarita Singh and Shivlal Meena, members of the drug disposal committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-dispose-of-seized-drugs/articleshow/78211107.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Officials say Remdesivir in good supply, chemists differ||Pune: The state Food and Drug Administration said on Saturday that there was no shortage of Remdesivir — an injectable anti-viral — in Maharashtra. The FDA added that there were now five firms supplying the drug and streamlining local supply was the job of officials from district administrations. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that on Friday night, the district had 490 vials of Remdesivir. Another 4,000 vials had come in by Saturday morning, he said. “We have three companies supplying the injections. From Monday, we might have one more company on the roster. We do not have a shortage now, but supply needs to be improved because of the increasing demand," Deshmukh said. However, chemists in Pune — one of the hardest-hit regions in the country — said there have been widespread shortages of the drug in the city. Anil Belkare, a member of the Pune Chemists’ Association, said medical shops have been flooded with calls since Friday. He said, “Pune district has a shortfall of 25,000 Remdesivir vials. That’s essentially a four-day supply. On Friday, there was just 2,000 vials of the drug; the district’s daily requirement is between 4,000 and 5,000 vials. There should be more supply because we have a daily case count of over 4,000 new patients.” He added that one patient will need a minimum of six vials over the course of treatment. Administered intravenously as a double dose on the first day and followed by single doses over the next four days, Remdesivir is said to help improve recovery time in oxygen-assisted moderately ill patients suffering from Covid-19. Pharmaceutical firms Hetero, Cipla, Zydus and Mylan are among the major companies distributing the Covid drug to hospital pharmacies in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/officials-say-remdesivir-in-good-supply-chemists-differ/articleshow/78211120.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Pandemic leads to tough choices, even inspires better opportunities||PUNE: Kailas Autade, a resident of Sinhagad Road, has gone from driving cabs to selling vegetables and now face masks over the last four months or so. The 36-year-old, who has a wife and two children to take care of, was a cab driver for three years until the pandemic and lockdown hit. The finance company took away his car after Autade couldn’t pay the monthly instalments for the vehicle. In a bid to support his family, he then decided to sell vegetables. “Waiting for things to improve isn’t an option for the poor, like us. So, I started to sell vegetables but other people were also getting into the business. Soon, the competition had increased resulting in losses. I sold vegetables for almost a month before deciding to drop it as I was not making any profit,” he added. This time, Autade turned into a mask seller. “Life has become extremely difficult and I am not earning enough. The landlord has been kind until now but there is no support from anywhere else,” he said. Like Autade, many have joined the ranks as e-commerce delivery executives and take home between Rs10,000-12,000, a month. “Since May, applications and referrals for these jobs have increased. Even people in their late 40s and early 50s want to participate and earn something. We are sorry that we were not able to accommodate everyone,” said an executive at a leading e-commerce chain. According to data provided by the Centre of Monitoring Indian Economy, over 6.6 million white-collared employees lost their jobs between May and August this year as compared to the same period in 2019. Economist believe job losses in blue-collared titles have been more acute. A lot of people have been forced to consider self-employment to make both ends meet. “A lost job in the domestic staff category, for example, has not yet been regained with many housing societies still remaining insular in the way they work,” said a Mumbai-based analyst. However, a few people, like Vaibhav Hinge, have turned a job loss into an opportunity. Within two months of being terminated due to the lockdown, Hinge launched Matoshree Nursery at his village, Avasari, in Ambegaon taluka. “I was employed with a cable line company in Chakan with a hefty salary, a company apartment and other allowances. However, I lost my job due to the lockdown with April 30 being my last day at work. My father had a farm at the village but I knew I did not want to start farming. With the help of some friends, I decided to start a nursery as there isn’t one in our taluka. I launched the nursery in June and I already have eight employees,” Hinge stated. He added that he is earning much more than he did when he was employed. “I have already gone through 17 receipt books since we launched. I now plan to start a manufacturing unit in the coming months,” he added. Similarly, life changed for the better during the lockdown for Manchar resident Vignesh Shinde. Employed at a food processing unit in Manchar for a salary of Rs10,000, a month, before the lockdown, Shinde has now managed to increase his income over 10 times. When the lockdown started, the factory owner told Shinde and other employees that they would be called in if and when needed. Shinde stopped receiving a salary and there was no other means of earning a livelihood. “It was then that I decided to start my own business. It was easy to identify what I wanted to do since I always had a passion for photography. I got a loan to buy a camera and our lives have changed for the better. I now earn close to Rs1 to Rs1.5 lakh, per month, due to the constant orders,” said Shinde, who has taken up wedding and event photography now. However, according to an economist, the rising number of self-employed people is a cause for concern as it shows the number of people, who are being rendered unemployed in a short period. (With inputs from Satyanarayan Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-leads-to-tough-choices-even-inspires-better-opportunities/articleshow/78211143.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two Maoists killed in gun battle||HYDERABAD: After making intensive searches from the last two months, Telangana police has gunned down two Communist Party of India (Maoist) cadre during an exchange of fire in Kadamba forest, Asifabad district on Saturday late night. Till the last reports reached, the exchange of firing was still going on between Maoist and Telangana police led by anti-naxal commando wing Greyhounds. It is learnt that one of the two Maoists who died in the encounter were identified as Koya Verghese, from Chhattisgarh. The encounter took place near Pranahita river in Kadamba forest area, which is close to Telangana-Maharashtra border. More than 500 policemen, including Greyhounds, have taken control of the forest area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-maoists-killed-in-gun-battle/articleshow/78211153.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||School admissions age relaxed in state, yet again||Nagpur: Maharashtra has yet again relaxed the age for school admissions, making this the third amendment since 2017. As per the latest directive, a child must attain the age of six by December 31 to be eligible for admission to Std I. This change will come into effect from the 2021-22 academic session. While the benchmark age of 6 years for Std I remains the same, it’s the rules governing ‘when’ the child attains that age, which keep changing. It all started in 2015, when the government decided to introduce July 31 as the cut-off date for attaining the age of six. In 2017, this was changed to September 30. Soon it was effectively pushed to October 15, by adding a clause of “15-day grace period”. Now it has been extended till December 31. State government says the latest date relaxation is simply a “reflection” of what parents desire. Dattatray Jagtap, director of education (primary) said, “We got requests from parents to extend this date as it affected chances of their kids later in some entrance exams. They said their children would not get opportunities in various entrance exams later on, during their school and college years.” In 2015, the state had implemented the ‘Age 6 for Std I’ rule in a phased manner. Instead of enforcing the ‘Age 6’ condition straightaway, it was gradually increased from 5 years to 5 years and 3 months, and so on. By 2018, this gradual increase reached its intended age of 6 for admission to Std I. Even pre-primary admissions, which back then were not under government control, were aligned. The age for pre-primary was set at 3-years, so that children attain the age of six when they reach Std I. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association, said frequent changes hinder administration. “There have already been too many changes. One can’t keep on relaxing the dates just because a group of parents demand so. From July we have reached December. What’s the guarantee that we won’t cross over to February or March? I hope the government now stays firm on this date,” said Mude. Medically, this won’t affect children too much, feel experts. Dr Rajiv Mohta, an MD in paediatrics and also a psychologist, said “Since we are talking about just six months, it’s not going to create learning disparity between children aged 5.5 years and those aged 6. Had it been children aged 5.5 and 7, then the learning gap would be apparent.” New age criteria for admission* Section-------------Age---------Cut off Pre-primary------ Min 3 years ----- Dec 31 Std I--------------- Min 6 years-------Dec 31 *Effective from 2021-22 academic session||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-admissions-age-relaxed-in-state-yet-again/articleshow/78211124.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Resident doctors demand 50% ICU beds reserved for them in Infectious Disease Hospital||Jaipur: The Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors (JARD) met health minister Raghu Sharma and principal secretary medical education Vaibhav Galriya demanding proper facilities for treatment of Covid-19 of resident doctors who are providing treatment to the patients. Since hospitals are crowded with Covid-19 patients, the JARD demanded that 50% ventilators at Infectious Disease Hospital should be reserved for resident doctors. They also demanded incentives for resident doctors performing their duties in Covid wards. Moreover, they demanded proper place to stay for resident doctors who tested positive for Covid-19. Medical investigations should be done immediately and free of cost for resident doctors, an office-bearer of JARD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/resident-doctors-demand-50-icu-beds-reserved-for-them-in-infectious-disease-hospital/articleshow/78211113.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||9 of al-Qaida cell plotting hits held||NEW DELHI/KOLKATA/BAHARAMPUR/KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday busted a “Pakistan-sponsored, al-Qaida module” operating out of West Bengal and Kerala, arresting nine persons for planning to carry out terrorist strikes in India “in the near future” with sophisticated weapons “arranged” by an al-Qaida handler, Hamza, based in Peshawar, Pakistan. The module, led by Murshid Hasan alias Sofiq hailing from West Bengal but based in Kerala, was at an advanced stage of procuring arms, including automatic rifles and pistols, ammunition and explosives to attack vital installations and execute targeted killings in multiple places, including Delhi-NCR, said an NIA source. Nine terrorists – Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas & Mosaraf Hossen, all residents of Ernakulam, Kerala; and Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal & Atitur Rehman, all residents from Murshidabad, West Bengal — were arrested early on Saturday from Ernakulam and Murshidabad in simultaneous raids conducted by the NIA. All are “highly radicalised” and were getting instructions from foreign handlers, including Pakistan-based al-Qaida operatives on cyberspace. They were actively raising funds and also contributing money for buying arms and ammunition for jihadi activities. Some members were also trying to purchase arms from across the border in Bangladesh, while some like Abu Sufiyan had acquired expertise in IED making. The module was trying to establish a well-organised al-Qaida network in different parts of India, including the northeast and J&K on the instructions of Pakistan-based operatives of the terrorist group. Sources told TOI that an important weapons consignment was to be sent by Pakistani handler Hamza via drones to his associate in ‘Thanda Ilaqa’ or Kashmir, where Murshid and few others would take its delivery. However, Covid-19 lockdown upset the plan and the place of delivery was shifted to Delhi. Murshid and his aides were to travel to New Delhi in the next few days for receiving the consignment from Hamza’s associate but the plan was foiled with Saturday’s arrests. As per a preliminary investigation, the nine arrested accused were motivated by Pakistani-based al-Qaida operatives to undertake attacks at multiple places, including Delhi-NCR. They were about to finalise a deal with Hamza with the receipt of an arms consignment in Delhi, followed by immediate terrorist strikes. Module head Murshid, as per sources, works as a casual labourer but is inspired by ideology of al-Qaida . He would post jihadi videos on social media to radicalise like-minded youths. Murshid also used encrypted platforms to communicate with handlers based in Pakistan and came in contact with Hamza who further indoctrinated him in Al Qaeda ideology. Murshid had left for Kerala nearly one and a half years ago and had been working there. “He had last visited (West Bengal) a few months after shifting to Kerala. He regularly sent money. We thought he would come after the lockdown, but he did not,” said his wife Mafroja Bibi. Seven of the nine arrested do small-time jobs, though Atitur Rahman is in second year of graduation and Najmus Sakib is pursuing a degree in computer science. Mosaraf, a close aide of Murshid, was planning purchase of a weapon from across the border in Bangladesh for Rs 1 lakh. He was also in discussion for purchase and pricing of bullets and 9 mm pistol. “Mosaraf Hossen is a father of two. His daughter studies in an English medium school in Perumbavoor and his son is hardly four years old. Why would anyone suspect that this family-man was a terrorist,” said Abu Bakkar, Mosaraf’s employer. Mainul Mondal contributed Rs 10,000 during an exercise to raise funds for procurement of arms. He was involved in discussion on purchase of weapons from across the border in Bangladesh. Leu Yean Ansari had already procured a country-made weapon, which has been recovered. A self-fabricated armour jacket was also recovered from him, “which shows his readiness to indulge in armed confrontation with security forces,” said an NIA officer. “The investigators knocked on our doors at the wee hours. They asked for my brother. Later, they seized our phones and my laptop,” said Ansari's brother Rizwan. Abu Sufiyan was planning to establish a shed for explosives. During the search at his house, bomb-making materials like pipes, crackers, switches, nut-bolts, apart from literature on assembling home-made bombs, were recovered. Other “incriminating” recoveries during the raids on Saturday comprised digital devices, documents, jihadi literature and sharp weapons Watch NIA busts al-Qaida terror module in West Bengal, Kerala; arrests 9 operatives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/9-of-al-qaida-cell-plotting-hits-held/articleshow/78212341.cms||Bharti Jain
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: RT-PCR may not be 100% conclusive, say doctors||JAIPUR: It is now quite common that people coming with breathing difficulties are testing negative for Covid-19 by RT-PCR test repeatedly. In most cases, such patients test negative for three times but turn Covid positive in the fourth. Doctors have observed that patients test negative in their first or even subsequent RT-PCR tests even though typical chest high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) results suggest of Covid. But while doctors get their HRCT done, it shows ground-glass opacity in lungs, which has prompted them to rely more on HRCT than RT-PCR test for diagnosis of Covid. Even if a patient is tested negative multiple times, HRCT indicates that the patient is positive. On the basis of HRCT report, doctors start Covid treatment, rather than depending on RT-PCR test. “HRCT is more sensitive and its sensitivity is higher than 90%. In RT-PCR, the sensititivity or accurancy is 70%. RT-PCR can show false negative,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, Sawai Man Singh Medical College, spearheading the battle against Covid in RUHS Hospital and Jaipuria Hospital. More patients are being brought to hospitals with difficulties in breathing, low oxygen saturation and symptoms of pneumonia. “In some patients with symptoms of pneumonia and difficulty in breathing, we have found that even though we conduct Covid test through RT-PCR multiple times, it shows negative. But, if we continue doing RT-PCR tests, the patient shows positivity to the virus. We don not wait for RT-PCR to show positive result for starting treatment. We immediately conduct HRCT, which a is gold standard for Covid testing. Its accurancy is much higher in comparison to RT-PCR test,” said Dr Ajit Singh, superintendent RUHS Hospital for Covid treatment and member of Covid treatment group of SMS Hospital. Dr Singh said, “In HRCT, if we find ground-glass opacity with peripheral distribution with predominant involvement of lower lobe, it means that the patient is Covid positive. It does not matter, if he has tested negative for Covid twice or thrice. We immediately start treatment on the basis of HRCT of such patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rt-pcr-may-not-be-100-conclusive-say-doctors/articleshow/78211152.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur reports biggest single-day spike of 386 Covid-19 infections||JAIPUR: A day after chief minister Ashok Gehlot directed the health department to maintain complete transparency in issuing Covid-19 daily positive cases and deaths, the health department has changed its timing for issuing daily Covid-19 reports. Till now the health department issued Covid-19 reports twice – at 10.30am and 8.30pm, but from Saturday the timing has been changed and the health department will release the report only once at 6pm. Jaipur reported its biggest single-day spike of 386 new infections on Saturday taking its overall tally to 17,127. State too reported the biggest single-day jump of 1,834 cases bringing its overall tally to 1,13,124. The Covid-19 toll touched 1,322 with 14 more deaths. The health department is taking measures to prevent deaths, but patients are dying even after recovery due to post-Covid complications. Aiming at prevent mortalities among patients who have recovered, the health department has set up a 32-bed ICU for patients requiring intensive care even after recovery, said health minister Raghu Sharma. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (386), Jodhpur (296), Kota (142), Ajmer (115), Alwar (102), Bhilwara (88), Udaipur (87), Bikaner (60), Pali (59), Sikar (45), Nagaur (43), Dungarpur (32), Sriganganagar (29), Tonk (27), Jhalawar (26), Sirohi (25), Jalore (25), Baran (25), Pratapgarh (22), Rajsamand (21), Churu (21), Dholpur (21), Bundi (20), Chittorgarh (18), Banswara (17), Dausa (16), Sawai Madhopur (13), Jhunjhunu (12), Jaisalmer (10), Karauli (9), Hanumangarh (9), Bharatpur (7) and Barmer (6).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-reports-biggest-single-day-jump-of-386-new-cases/articleshow/78211159.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||Kangana Ranaut, other celebrities thank CM Yogi Adityanath for ‘biggest Film City’ in UP||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s announcement for setting up a Film City in UP was welcomed by several members of the film industry, especially those with a connect to the state. Although among the first persons to hail the decision, however, was actor Kangana Ranaut. In a series of tweets on Saturday morning, the actor, who hails from Himachal Pradesh, said: “People’s perception that top film industry in India is Hindi film Industry is wrong. Telugu film industry has ascended itself to the top position and now catering films to pan India in multiple languages, many hindi films being shot in Ramoji Hydrabad. I applaud this announcement by Yogi Adityanath ji. We need many reforms in the film industry first of all we need one big film industry called Indian film industry we are divided based on many factors, Hollywood films get advantage of this. One industry but many Film Cities (sic).” Ghazal singer Anup Jalota, who has spent some years in Lucknow, congratulated the CM for the decision. “I would like to thank and congratulate him for taking a decision to set up a Film City in UP. UP has made a lot of contribution to the film industry and many people from UP have become stars,” he said. Comedian Raju Srivastava, who is also the chairperson of the UP Film Development Council, said that it had been a long-standing demand to set up a centre for film production in UP. He said that once ready, it would provide more than 1 lakh direct and indirect jobs. “This long-standing demand to have a Film City in UP will be fulfilled because CM Yogi Adityanath is very conscious about generating employment. People from UP go to Mumbai for jobs in the film industry but now they will be able to work in their home state,” he said. BJP MP from Gorakhpur Ravi Kishan said, “This decision will boost Bhojpuri and regional language films. I am very thankful to the CM that he accepted my request and answered my letters with the announcement of setting up the country’s biggest Film City in UP. Actors from Hindi speaking areas of UP and Bihar will get a place to work. Our culture, tradition and language will be promoted. The state has several tourist places which can be used for shooting,” he said. BJP MP from east Delhi and Bhojpuri star Manoj Tiwari said that the project would be a boon to people of north India. “This Film City will be crucial in terms of tourism, in making north India the centre of film making and honing the skills of people associated with the industry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kangana-other-celebrities-thank-yogi-for-biggest-film-city-in-up/articleshow/78211874.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: PMR recoveries surge past 2 lakh, toll at 5,629||PUNE: The Covid-19 patient recovery count surged above 2 lakh in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, with 3,785 people being discharged in the last 24 hours. Among the total recoveries, over 1.09 lakh were recorded in the PMC limits, 58,817 in the PCMC limits and 32,156 in the rural as well as the Cantonment areas. Of these 2 lakh recoveries, the latest 1 lakh came in just one month as against the previous 1 lakh, which took about five months. As for new cases, as many as 3,985 people tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Saturday, taking its tally to 2.48 lakh. The region’s recovery rate was around 80% on Saturday, which has remained unchanged since the beginning of September. Health officials said efforts were under way to push up recovery rate. The sample collection and testing has been increased in municipal corporations and rural parts, the officials added. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that as many as 93 patients succumbed to the infection on Saturday, including 43 from the PMC limits, 26 from the PCMC limits and 24 from the rural as well as Cantonment areas. With this, the death toll has increased to 5,629.  The report further stated that as many as 15,315 samples were tested in PMR on Saturday, including the antigen tests. The total sample testing increased to 10.27 lakh in the region in the last 24 hours. A report released by PMC pointed that about 957 patients admitted in various hospitals were at critical stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-surge-past-2-lakh-toll-at-5629/articleshow/78211157.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 20, 2020||Nashik||2 SUVs stolen from Gangapur area||Nashik: Two sports utility vehicles (SUVs) worth over Rs 23 lakh were stolen from the Gangapur Road area sometime between Thursday and Friday. An offence in this connection has been registered with the Gangapur station. According to police, an SUV worth Rs 8.74 lakh was stolen from near the Mahindra guest house in the Gangapur Road area. The complainant said that the car was parked in front of the guest house before it was stolen. In another incident, an SUV was stolen from the Anand Vihar Colony between 2 pm of Thursday and 7.30 am of Friday. The complainant stated in her FIR that her vehicle was worth Rs 15 lakh. The Gangapur police have said that they are investigating the incidents and are trying to ascertain if there is a connection between the two thefts. According to police records, approximately only 25% stolen vehicles are recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-suvs-stolen-from-gangapur-area/articleshow/78209015.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||TDP’s Vizag South MLA meets CM, sons join YSRC||Visakhapatnam: Local MLA and urban district TDP president Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar on Saturday met chief minister and YSRC president YS Jaganmohan Reddy along with his two sons. While his sons joined the ruling party, the legislator did not join but is likely to support the ruling party from outside. The TDP legislator praised the chief minister for his welfare schemes and also for the government’s decision to make Visakhapatnam the state’s executive capital. “We will win the Visakha mayoral elections and give it as a gift to the CM,” he said. —Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tdps-vizag-south-mla-meets-cm-sons-join-ysrc/articleshow/78209524.cms||Siva G
September 20, 2020||Kolhapur||6 arrested for petrol pump robbery||Kolhapur: Satara police have arrested six people, including a history-sheeter from Karad, in connection a petrol pump robbery that took place on a national highway early this week. Four of the arrested suspects are from Uttar Pradesh. The incident took place on the night of September 15 when the suspects barged into a petrol pump and threatened the staff with sharp weapons before decamping with cash and three cell phones. The suspects were caught on the CCTV cameras installed inside the petrol pump. The CCTV footage helped police identify the suspects, trace them, finally leading to their arrest. Karad police said that one of the suspects — Vicky alias Manya Nandkumar Bansode — is the mastermind the robbery. The other suspects have been identified as Surendra Mishra, Umja Sumitsingh, Virpratap Singh, Mahadeosingh and Shubham Manojsingh. All of them have been remanded to six days police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-arrested-for-petrol-pump-robbery/articleshow/78209024.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers gherao Mysuru district minister||Mysuru: State cooperation and district minister S T Somashekhar was on Saturday shown black flags and gheraoed by members of various farmers’ organizations near Gun House Circle urging the state government not to ratify its promulgated ordinance on Karnataka Land Reforms Act 1961 and APMC Act. Responding to their demand, the minister promised to convene a meeting of farmers’ organizations on September 26 to discuss the issues at this meeting. The minister said both the Centre and state had taken all measures to ensure adequate supply of fertilizers. Speaking after felicitating photographers and videographers at the function organized by BJP media cell, the minister said the launch of Mysuru division’s state government’s ambitious ‘Arthika Spandana” programme of disbursing loans to the tune of ₹ 39,300 crore through various cooperative institutions for farmers, and entrepreneurs affected during Covid will be held on October 2 in the city. Under this scheme, the agriculture sector gets Rs 15,300 crore loan for its revival and non-agricultural sector Rs 24,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-gherao-mysuru-district-minister/articleshow/78209541.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Stray cattle leads to accident, 1 dies||Nagpur: An accident involving stray cattle on September 12 resulted in a death on Friday when an 18-year-old woman lost her life after sustaining head injuries. The victim Nikita Kanojia was riding pillion with her friend Hari Madavi. Near sutgirni, Madavi was forced to apply the break on seeing a bovine on the road. The helmetless Kanojia got thrown off the bike and sustained injuries on her hands and other parts of the body too. Madavi too was injured in the incident. Police said that Madavi’s mother was on another two-wheeler close behind. She and other family members were returning from a function. They rushed Nikita and Madavi to a nearby hospital. Nikita was referred to the GMCH where the doctors declared her dead on Friday. MIDC police have registered a case of accidental death. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stray-cattle-leads-to-accident-1-dies/articleshow/78211168.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Meerut||Nagar palika chairman accused of cow laughter in Bijnor||BIJNOR: During a joint raid by cops of three police stations, six people were arrested on Friday on the charges of cow slaughter in Bijnor. They were said to be operating from a farm owned by Kiratpur nagar palika chairman Abdul Mannan. The police said four more accused, including Mannan, are absconding and efforts are on to nab them. Meanwhile, taking serious note of the incident, the Bijnor superintendent of police (SP) shifted eight policemen, including two sub-inspectors, citing dereliction of duty and a probe has been initiated against them. According to Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh, they had got a tip-off that some persons were slaughtering cows and buffaloes at a mango farm owned by Mannan. Giving details, Singh said, “Following the tip-off, the joint police team recovered 12 cattle, including four cows, four bull, three buffaloes and one calf, and sharp objects that were used for slaughtering. Besides, bones, skin, jaws, horns of cows were also found on the spot.” Police have registered a case against all the 10 accused under sections 3, 5 and 8 of the Cow Slaughtering Act and under the Uttar Pradesh Control of Goondas Act. The six arrested have been identified as Mohammad Harun and Mohammad Amir from Lukmanpura, Tarik, Tazir and Talib of Meetha Shaheed area of Kiratpur and Mohammad Shanu from Pathanpuri of Najibabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nagar-palika-chairman-among-10-accused-of-cow-laughter-8-cops-shunted-probe-ordered/articleshow/78209832.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 20, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: Section 144 in 11 Rajasthan districts imposed||JAIPUR: Amid the spiralling Covid-19 cases, Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in 11 districts on Saturday to contain the spread of virus. Police may take action if five or more people gather at a place. The districts where Section 144 have been imposed are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur. The decision has been taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot while reviewing the pandemic situation in the state. However, no new restrictions apart from Section 144, have been imposed. The existing restrictions would remain in effect. Social and religious functions will remain banned in the state till October 31. Only 50 guests will be allowed to take part in marriage ceremonies while 20 people can attend cremation or burial. Besides, a war room at the state-level and at district-levels will be established, which will work round the clock. A helpline 181 will be launched on September 21. Any person can call to get information regarding Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/section-144-of-crpc-imposed-in-11-districts-aiming-to-contain-covid-19-spread/articleshow/78212894.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Amaravati||Three AP species in race to become ‘national butterfly’||AMARAVATI: Kids love to play with butterflies. The flying colourful insects are usually their first introduction to the beauty of nature. Not just kids, butterflies fascinate the adults too. Many of us still try to catch them when no one’s around. Now, AP has an opportunity to promote the conservation of three rare species of butterflies from the state, which have already topped the list of contestants in the race to get the ‘national butterfly’ tag. Nature lovers and environmentalists are of the view that it is high time for the state government to pick a species as the ‘state butterfly’, following the Centre’s nation-wide contest to select the ‘national butterfly’. The contest was launched on September 11 and will end on October 8. The ‘national butterfly’ of India will be declared in 2021. Seven butterfly species — Common Jezebel, Orange Oakleaf, Common Nawab (all from AP), Krishna Peacock, Fivebar Sword Tail, Northern Jungle Queen and Yellow Gorgon — have found a spot in the final list of contenders. The three species from AP which are in the race for the privileged ‘national butterfly’ tag are unique to AP’s Papikondalu National Park. Interestingly, three southern states — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala — have already declared their state butterflies. Maharashtra was the first to set the trend by declaring its state butterfly in 2015, followed by Uttarakhand and the three states from the south. While Maharashtra picked Blue Mormon as its state butterfly, Uttarakhand picked Common Peacock, Karnataka went for Southern Birdwings, Kerala chose Malabar Banded Peacock, while Tamil Nadu declared Tamil Yeoman as its state butterfly. Butterflies play a unique role in the ecosystem and are considered the best pollinators on the planet. Without butterflies, most fruit, flower and vegetable crops would struggle to bloom. “Butterflies are also important indicators of the health of an ecosystem. If you do not spot butterflies in your area, the area’s ecological health is poor,” says environmentalist NSV Sarath Chandra. Butterflies automatically enhance biodiversity and ecological balance in the region as they attract birds, spiders and other reptiles. So if butterflies are absent, the whole ecological cycle is upset. In fact, AP is not known for its biodiversity due to the state’s temperature extremities, like hot summer and drought-like conditions in many areas, which make the survival of these key pollinators difficult. “It is important that we take steps to protect butterflies and as a first step towards recognising their unique role, the government should select a species and declared it as state butterfly. The government can consider any species unique to the state, like Crimson Tip, Blackvein Seargent, Yellow Jack Sailer, Red Helen, Red Breasted Jezebal or Blue Tiger,” opines Sarath Chandra. About 129 species of butterflies were recorded in Papikondalu National Park recently. A similar exploration exercise is likely to be carried out in other bio-diverse zones across the state to discover newer species of butterflies. “One might not like caterpillars eating plants in their garden, but without them we wouldn’t have butterflies. Without butterfly, there is no ecological balance,” says Teki Sandhya Sri, a professor at Loyola college, Vijayawada. She explained that butterflies do more for humankind than just add colour and beauty to the gardens. “They are attracted to bright flowers and need to feed on nectar. When they do this, their bodies collect pollen and carry it to other plants. This helps fruits, vegetables and flowers to produce new seeds. A majority of plants need pollinators like bees and butterflies to reproduce,” she said. Environment and forest minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has assured that he would look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/three-ap-species-in-race-to-become-indias-national-butterfly/articleshow/78209605.cms||Samdani MN
September 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Krishna cops destroy 750 litres of seized arrack||VIJAYAWADA: Police destroyed 750 litres of ID arrack seized across Krishna district police unit at Machilipatnam town on Saturday. The destruction drive was led by Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu. As per police officials, the 750 litres of arrack were seized in enforcement drives conducted by the police along with special enforcement bureau (SEB) across three police sub-divisions — Gudivada, Bandar and Avanigadda. The district SP said the arrack was seized as part of the 64 cases registered under the three police sub-divisions. “There is more to be destroyed from other sub-divisions like Nandigama and Nuzvid which will be carried out soon,” Ravindranath Babu said. Officials said the main arrack brewery centres that were raided were spread across Bantumilli, Bandar, Chatrai and Kruthivennu mandals. Cops said they have so far managed to rehabilitate over 200 families who were in the business for generations by providing them alternate job opportunities. The district police also happens to be the only police unit in AP to destroy Rs 75 lakh worth seized liquor produce using a bulldozer back in July. “We wouldn’t hesitate invoking Preventive Detention Act to arrest habitual offenders as we have already done in case of illegal gutka dealers,” SP Babu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-cops-destroy-750ltrs-of-seized-arrack/articleshow/78209568.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: Section 144 in 11 Rajasthan districts imposed||JAIPUR: Amid the spiralling Covid-19 cases, Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in 11 districts on Saturday to contain the spread of virus. Police may take action if five or more people gather at a place. The districts where Section 144 have been imposed are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur. The decision has been taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot while reviewing the pandemic situation in the state. However, no new restrictions apart from Section 144, have been imposed. The existing restrictions would remain in effect. Social and religious functions will remain banned in the state till October 31. Only 50 guests will be allowed to take part in marriage ceremonies while 20 people can attend cremation or burial. Besides, a war room at the state-level and at district-levels will be established, which will work round the clock. A helpline 181 will be launched on September 21. Any person can call to get information regarding Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/section-144-of-crpc-imposed-in-11-districts-aiming-to-contain-covid-19-spread/articleshow/78212892.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Section 144 in 11 Rajasthan districts imposed||JAIPUR: Amid the spiralling Covid-19 cases, Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in 11 districts on Saturday to contain the spread of virus. Police may take action if five or more people gather at a place. The districts where Section 144 have been imposed are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur. The decision has been taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot while reviewing the pandemic situation in the state. However, no new restrictions apart from Section 144, have been imposed. The existing restrictions would remain in effect. Social and religious functions will remain banned in the state till October 31. Only 50 guests will be allowed to take part in marriage ceremonies while 20 people can attend cremation or burial. Besides, a war room at the state-level and at district-levels will be established, which will work round the clock. A helpline 181 will be launched on September 21. Any person can call to get information regarding Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/section-144-of-crpc-imposed-in-11-districts-aiming-to-contain-covid-19-spread/articleshow/78211167.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Meerut||200 kg bhang, 30 kg ganja, 4 kg hash seized in Meerut||MEERUT: In a raid by local police following a tip-off, a shipment of 200 kg of bhang, 30kg of ganja and 4 kg of hash was recovered from a rented accommodation in Meerut's Lalkurti area on Saturday. According to police, four labourers have been arrested from the spot. The seized drugs were meant for retail distribution in Meerut and other neighbouring districts. Over 50 kgs of packaging material, including zip-lock plastic bags used for storing small quantities of drugs, and 8 portable weighing machines were also recovered. Meerut ASP Iraj Raza said, "The two kingpins behind the local drug ring here--Satendra Singh and Raju Chahuhan-- are on the run and efforts are being made to arrest them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/200-kg-bhang-30-kg-ganja-4-kg-hash-seized-in-meerut/articleshow/78209827.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Containment zones decline marginally in PMC limits||PUNE: The number of micro-containment zones in the Pune civic limits was reduced to 71 on Saturday from 74, identified two weeks ago. The total area of the sealed zones remained almost unchanged — about 7sqkm or less than 3% of the total area of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. In the previous review carried out on September 5, the PMC limits had witnessed an increase in the number of micro-containment zones to 74 as compared to 66 declared on August 17. In the fresh revision, 16 new areas that recorded a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past fortnight have been earmarked as micro-containment zones. The number of sealed zones have been increased in Kondhwa-Yevlewadi and Sinhagad Road. The number dropped in the Aundh-Baner ward. Four new areas of the Sinhagad Road ward, including parts of Vadgaon Khurd, Manikbaug, Anandnagar and Dhayari, have been added to the list of containment zones. The area now has seven micro-containment zones, as against the three marked earlier. Similarly, the Kondhwa-Yevlewadi ward office has seven new micro containment zones. Most of these are from the Dhankawdi-Balajinagar area, attached to the Kondhwa-Yevlewadi civic ward. In Shivajinagar, two new containment zones have been identified in the Gokhalenagar and Bhamburda area. Some areas from Aundh-Baner have been removed from the list after a drop in Covid-19 cases. There was no drastic change in the number of micro containment zones in the other civic wards in the latest revision. The authorities stated that steps had been taken to implement the containment measures to arrest the spread of the infection in the identified areas, most of which are smaller localities, lanes, bylanes, housing societies or housing complexes. The civic officials clarified that the main road connections to the micro containment zones would be kept open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/containment-zones-decline-marginally-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/78211169.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra deputy chief minister urges hosps to ramp up number of oxygen beds||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has now directed all private hospitals in the region to ramp up their number of oxygen beds and prepare for an influx of Covid-19 patients. Pune has been reporting nearly 4,000 new cases daily amid widespread shortages of oxygen-supported beds. Making matters worse is the fact that Sassoon General Hospital will be unable to take in new patients until the end of this month. Pawar said it is now imperative hospitals converted several more beds into oxygen-supported units. Local authorities told TOI that while hospitals are reporting vacancies on the bed-availability dashboard, most of theses units are without oxygen lines. “We need more oxygen beds. There is no point in showing vacancies on the dashboard when these beds cannot function as oxygen-supported units,” a senior official said. Certain hospitals have already fitted several of their beds with oxygen lines, but many others are reporting shortages. Hospital representatives, who said they are scrambling to increase the number of oxygen beds, added that it’s time the jumbo facilities took up some of the load. “The jumbo facility in Pune was supposed to have 200 ICU beds. These units were supposed to ease the burden on regular hospitals. But that hasn’t happened,” one representative said. Officials from Medbros, the agency managing two jumbo units in Pune: the CoEP facility and the unit at the Annasaheb Magar stadium, said they will scale up their number of beds to 800 (from the current 300) as soon as the Pune Municipal Corporation gives them the go-ahead. “We have enough manpower to handle an increase in patients,” a representative said. Doctors at Sassoon said oxygen pipeline work at the hospital will take at least a month to finish. “Once the work is over, will be able to accommodate nearly 600 patients and take on 120 more as long as we get medical staff for it,” said S S Chockalingam, the state settlement commissioner who is overseeing operations at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deputy-chief-minister-urges-hosps-to-ramp-up-number-of-oxygen-beds/articleshow/78211176.cms||Nisha Nambiar
September 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Chief priest among 4 Srikalahasti temple staff to be suspended||Tirupati: Four temple staffers of Lord Shiva temple at Srikalahasti, including the chief priest and chief security officer, were suspended by the temple executive officer on Saturday, following the controversy related to installation of two statues inside the main temple complex by private persons. It may be recalled that on September 6, some unidentified people installed two idols weighing 7 kg each inside the Srikalahasti temple against agama procedures. Though initially temple officials and priests feigned ignorance over the development, backlash from devotees, and political and religious outfits forced the temple EO to order an enquiry. Following the outcome of the probe, Srikalahasti EO Ramachandra Reddy suspended temple chief priest Sambandham Gurukkal, chief security officer Dhanapal, and temple inspectors Vijaya Saradhi and Venkatamuni. The Tirupati urban police wing, led by SP Avula Ramesh Reddy, is also investigating the case after a complaint was lodged by Srikalahasti Devasthanams. CCTV footage from the temple complex is being analysed for leads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chief-priest-among-4-srikalahasti-temple-staff-to-be-suspended/articleshow/78209476.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Anguished man stops Adilabad collector’s car||Hyderabad: Agitated over being discriminated against after testing positive for Covid-19, a youth in Adilabad stopped the district collector’s vehicle to pour out his grief on Saturday. Collector Sikta Patnaik, who listened to his woes, instructed officials to provide him with basic necessities. The person, belonging to Kamanwada in Bhimpur mandal, stood in the middle of the road even as security personnel requested him to move aside. He then started telling them that ever since he tested positive and was in home isolation, he could not even get cooking gas. The man said that the villagers and friends had stopped responding to his pleas for held. The officials and police assured him that he will be provided for. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anguished-man-stops-adilabad-collectors-car/articleshow/78211172.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Migrants forced to shell out on quarantine en route to Kuwait||VISAKHAPATNAM: Migrant workers on their way to Kuwait from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have been forced to shell out massive amounts on hotel fares in UAE as a result of Kuwait’s stringent quarantine norms. While the country has lifted its international travel ban, the norms state that passengers from high-risk countries, such as India, will not be permitted to enter. However, such passengers may be allowed if they remain in quarantine in another country and test negative upon arrival. This norm has resulted in several migrant workers having to incur expenditures for 14-day stays in hotels in Dubai and Sharjah. “International flights have not resumed in Visakhapatnam and considering the present schedule at Hyderabad airport, Dubai and Sharjah are considered as the ideal layover cities for such travellers. Migrants from AP and Telangana are flying from Hyderabad to these cities where they are staying in quarantine for 14 days before taking a connecting flight to Farwaniya Airport,” Tours and Travels Association (TTA) president, Vijay Mohan, told STOI. While the international flight schedule at Hyderabad airport is yet to stabilise, sources from the airport informed that around four to five flights a week are departing for Dubai and Sharjah at present. An estimated 8.5 lakh Indians stay in Kuwait of whom around three lakh belong to the two Telugu states. Considering the economic status of migrant workers, agents in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam have started curating special quarantine packages. A basic land package starts at Rs 36,000 per head and includes a 14-day quarantine stay at a hotel in Dubai or Sharjah, group transportations costs from airport to the hotel via the designated post-flight test centre and transportation back to the airport after completion of quarantine. The package also includes a pre-flight PCR test in India. Agents are also guiding travellers on test centres. “The airlines and state governments have given us a list of centres. A pre-flight test is mandatory for passengers entering UAE where the certificate must be issued no more than 96 hours before departure,” Hyderabad-based travel agent and executive member of Travel Agents Association of India, Ganesh Rai Susarla told STOI. When asked about passengers who test positive, TTA president Vijay Mohan said, “There won’t be any refunds but hotels and transporters have promised us they will defer the bookings at no extra cost. We are not sure about the airlines as almost all passengers are purchasing tickets directly from the airlines or online portals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/migrants-forced-to-shell-out-on-quarantine-en-route-to-kuwait/articleshow/78209453.cms||Arpit Basu
September 20, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Section 144 in 11 Rajasthan districts imposed||JAIPUR: Amid the spiralling Covid-19 cases, Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in 11 districts on Saturday to contain the spread of virus. Police may take action if five or more people gather at a place. The districts where Section 144 have been imposed are Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Udaipur, Sikar, Pali and Nagaur. The decision has been taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot while reviewing the pandemic situation in the state. However, no new restrictions apart from Section 144, have been imposed. The existing restrictions would remain in effect. Social and religious functions will remain banned in the state till October 31. Only 50 guests will be allowed to take part in marriage ceremonies while 20 people can attend cremation or burial. Besides, a war room at the state-level and at district-levels will be established, which will work round the clock. A helpline 181 will be launched on September 21. Any person can call to get information regarding Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/section-144-of-crpc-imposed-in-11-districts-aiming-to-contain-covid-19-spread/articleshow/78212893.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||4 Srikalahasti temple staff suspended||Tirupati: Four temple staffers of Lord Shiva temple at Srikalahasti, including the chief priest and chief security officer, were suspended by the temple executive officer on Saturday, following the controversy related to installation of two statues inside the main temple complex by private persons. Though initially temple officials and priests feigned ignorance over the installation, backlash from devotees, and various political and religious outfits forced the temple EO to order an enquiry. Following the outcome of the probe, Srikalahasti EO Ramachandra Reddy suspended temple chief priest Sambandham Gurukkal, chief security officer Dhanapal, and temple inspectors Vijaya Saradhi and Venkatamuni. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-srikalahasti-temple-staff-suspended/articleshow/78211195.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Covid deaths in 10 Vid districts, recovery rate improving||Nagpur: Recording more than 3,000 cases for the 15th time in 19 days of September, Vidarbha’s Covid-19 case load reached 1.18 lakh on Saturday. With 88 deaths reported in a day, the death toll reached 3098. As many as 2,587 patients recovering during the day, which means that about 87,000 have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is constantly increasing. On Saturday, it was 73.5%, better than Maharashtra’s 72.2%. But India’s national average recovery is nearing 80% which means Vidarbha region still has a long way to go. On Saturday, 88 deaths were reported in 10 of the 11 districts of Vidarbha. Washim was the only district from where death was not reported. With Nagpur (57), Wardha (6), Akola (5), Amravati (5), Gondia (4), Chandrapur (4), Yavatmal (3), Gadchiroli (2), Bhandara (1), and Buldhana (1) recording fatalities, the death has toll reached 3,098. Cases were reported from all parts of the region. With Nagpur (1,581), Chandrapur (245), Amravati (243), Gondia (226), Yavatmal (178), Bhandara (172), Akola (156), Washim (150), Wardha (117), Buldhana (114), and Gadchiroli (28) cases, the Covid count in the region has reached 1,18,205. Recoveries were less than the number of cases on Saturday. Recoveries came from Nagpur (1,550), Amravati (187), Chandrapur (175), Gondia (171), Washim (117), Bhandara (110), Buldhana (85), Yavatmal (66), Gadchiroli (54), Wardha (52) and Akola (20). Total 86,949 patients have recovered. Total 9 of the 11 districts in region have more than 70% recoveries. AMRAVATI: Total 243 people tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday in the district as the number of patients reached 10,590. Five deaths at the Covid hospital took the district’s toll to 228. The civil surgeon’s office report stated that an 80-year-old male from Ambada village in Narkhed tehsil of Nagpur district was among the five who died during treatment. The rest included females aged 36, 72, 65, and 65 from Jail quarters, Warud, Sainagar and Mahajanpura localities of the city respectively. With 187 patients getting discharged, the number of such patients reached 8,096. Now, there are 2,266 active cases here, including 10 taking treatment in Nagpur and 644 in home isolation. CHANDRAPUR: With a spike of 245 cases during the day, the total in the district climbed to 7,524 on Saturday. The last 24 hours also witnessed four deaths taking the toll to 109. In all, 175 patients were discharged taking the recoveries to 4,281. There are 3,134 active patients under treatment, of which 723 are under home isolation. The four deceased include a 55-year-old person from Dadmahal, 50-year-old from Sanjay Nagar and 66-year-old from Bangali Camp in Chadrapur city and 49-year-old from Belpatli in Bramhapuri tehsil. All the patients died at Chandrapur GMCH. The new cases include 103 from Chandrapur city and suburbs, Ballarpur (20), Chimur (13), Korpana (21), Bramhapuri (12), Pombhurna (4), Mul (5), Gondipipri (4), Nagbhid (8), Warora (5), Bhadrawati (23), Saoli (3), Sindwahi (8) and Rajura (16). WARDHA: Six patients died due to coronavirus during treatment while 117 tested positive on Saturday. Meanwhile, 52 patients were discharged after they defeated coronavirus during treatment. The total number of cases in the district has reached 3,275 of which active patients are 1,609. The cases were from Wardha (54), Hinganghat (28), Deoli and Selu (11 each), Arvi (5), Karanja (4), Ashti (3) and Samudrapur (1). Three men (aged 63, 68, 78) from Wardha, two men (70, 78) from Pulgaon and a 72-year-old woman from Arvi died. The total toll is now 86. Total 1,580 patients have been discharged after getting cured from the disease so far. Kasturba hospital at Sewagram has made a provision for all the relatives of patients admitted in Covid wards. The hospital will provide health status to the relatives. The relatives can even have access the status on call. AKOLA: The district recorded 5 deaths of under-treatment Covid patients on Saturday taking the toll to 208. Including rapid antigen tests, total 156 new patients were detected in the day taking the case count to 6,421. Akola has 1,521 patients under treatment. With 4,692 out of the 6,421 patients discharged, Akola’s recovery rate is 73% now. GONDIA: Posting its third double century spike of 226 cases, the district took its caseload to 4,348. Total 4 deaths took the toll to 60. Besides, 170 patients defeated corona after which 1,593 are now under treatment. Reports of 1,799 samples are awaited. Two diabetic men from Gondia city — a 61-year-old and a 53-year-old — died during treatment in a private hospital. The other two deceased include a 49-year-old heart patient from Bhanutola and a 58-year-old from Amgaon. Both died at Gondia GMCH. YAVATMAL: The dsitrict recorded three deaths on Saturday, including 62-year-old man, a 66-year-old woman, both from Yavatmal city, and its periphery, and a 54-year-old man from Wani. Total 178 new cases were reported, including 110 men and 66 women. As far as Yavatmal city is concerned, 54 positive patients were detected from the city. Now, the total number of Covid cases in the district is 6,934. Of these, 5,005 have been discharged so far. Yavatmal’s recovery rate is 72%. Total 1,732 patients are under treatment in the district. These include 1,406 admitted in hospitals/Covid care facilities across the district and 326 are under home isolation. Yavatmal has been testing a large number of people right from the beginning. Till date, 66,297 samlpes have been tested. The positivity rate of the district is slightly more than 10%. GADCHIROLI: Deaths of two more Covid positive patients were reported in the dsitrict. The deceased include a heart patient from Gokul Nagar in Gadchiroli, and a man from Shankar Nagar in Armori. This took Gadchiroli’s death toll to 10. The district has 1,924 cases, including 1,377 recoveries. Currently, 537 patients are under treatment. BHANDARA: The district reported 1 death, 172 new cases, and 110 recoveries. This took the total cases in Bhandara to 3,736, recoveries to 2,258 and deaths to 80. Total 1,398 patients are under treatment. BULDHANA: Of the total 436 reports received in the day, 114 tested positive in the district taking the case count to 5,711. After two days, a Covid death was reported in Buldhana which took the toll to 70. A 57-year-old man from Buldhana city died during treatment. Against 5,711 cases, 4,498 have recovered in the district. The recovery rate here is more than 78%. Buldhana has tested 33,248 samples till date. Of these, 5,711 have tested positive so far, which means the sample positivity rate is more than 17% which is alarming. Total 1,143 patients are under treatment in Buldhana currently. WASHIM: A surge of 150 new patients and discharge of 117 recovered patients marked the day in the district. No death was reported in Washim for the third consecutive day. Now, the district has 3,404 cases, including 2,521 recoveries. Washim’s recovery rate is 74%. With 58 deaths, including a suicide reported in the past, the district has 825 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-deaths-in-10-vid-districts-recovery-rate-improving/articleshow/78211193.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Desealing to finally start from Monday||NEW DELHI: After much delay, desealing of a large number of residential properties is all set to begin from next week, senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation functionaries have confirmed. Narendra Chawla, the leader of the House, said that a list of more than 600 such properties had been sent to all the four administrative zones and the desealing process would start from Monday onwards. Following a Supreme Court order in the second week of August, which stated that the three-member sealing panel or the apex court-appointed monitoring committee had no powers to act against residential properties violating rules, the civic body had desealed 11 residential properties in Vasant Kunj and Rajokri on August 17. On August 21, the corporation functionaries and state BJP had announced that more such properties would be desealed. The process has, however, failed to start till now. The apex court had said the court-appointed monitoring committee, which was formed in 2006 to check the illegal use of properties, had the mandate to act only against commercial properties and not residential ones. Earlier in March 2019, the committee members, along with officials from SDMC, the revenue department and police, had sealed at least 11 residential properties, including some farmhouses. North Delhi Municipal Corporation had recently stated that there were around 2,800 such sealed properties in its jurisdiction areas, which could benefit from the SC order. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain had said that in every zone, an executive engineer would be made a nodal officer and all residential properties desealed. “There are 559 sealed properties in Shahdara South zone and 274 in Shahdara North,” he had revealed. The two corporations, however, have not yet announced their desealing schedule. Over delay in carrying out the desealing process, a senior SDMC official said, “Since it was a court order, we took legal opinion before moving ahead and ascertaining that desealing can be carried out in the area. After making an announcement in the standing committee meeting, we immediately started verifying the documents and other details of properties received from various zones. We have sent back the files to the zones and have given details of properties that can be desealed immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/desealing-to-finally-start-from-monday/articleshow/78211194.cms||Paras Singh
September 20, 2020||Pune||Blood plasma collection labs increased to 36 in Pune division to boost donation||PUNE: The number of blood plasma collection laboratories has been increased to 36 in the Pune division to boost donation. Of the 36 laboratories, Pune district has 21, followed by seven in Solapur, five in Sangli, two in Kolhapur and one in Satara. As per the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) data, 1,451 donors have donated 2,955 blood plasma units, of which 2,674 have already been used on critical patients till September 19 in the Pune division. Pimpri’s Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) laboratory is leading the division with 898 (30%) plasma unit collection. The YCMH blood bank has distributed 885 plasma units so far, while that of Sassoon hospital has collected 224 units and distributed 154. The Jankalyan Raktapedhi too has collected 394 units and distributed 384. Apart from it, Sahyadri speciality hospital’s blood bank collected 248 units and distributed 219 by September 19. In other districts in the division, the Miraj government medical college and hospital blood bank collected 24 units, while Kolhapur’s CPR hospital blood bank registered a collection of 96 units. YCMH officials said they were getting a response of at least five-six plasma donors every day. A medical official from YCMH said plasma therapy had been observed to be more effective in mild cases compared to the critical ones. Haematologist Varun Bafna of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj government medical college and Chhatrapati Pramila Raje General Medical Hospital blood bank, Kolhapur, said they have achieved a success rate of around 75% with the plasma therapy. “It is a good rate given the current situation. We need more donors though,” he said. He added that social stigma and fear of reinfection was hampering donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collection-labs-increased-to-36-in-pune-div-to-boost-donation/articleshow/78211191.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||SC seeks response from ministry to make tabletop airports safer||Mangaluru: The Kozhikode plane crash that killed 18 people has put into motion a series of pleas to install a fail-safe mechanism at vulnerable airports. The crash has brought back the painful memories of the AIE crash in 2010, in which 158 passengers perished at the tabletop airport in Mangaluru. Now the Supreme Court has issued notices to the ministry of civil aviation and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) on installing engineered material arresting system (EMAS), directing them to file their responses to the plea filed by mechanical engineer Rajen Mehta. One of the technologies best suited where adequate runway is not available is said to be EMAS. This is an extra layer of safety mechanism, to stop aircraft from overshooting runways. Sources at the Mangaluru International Airport told TOI that the proposal to install EMAS was sent to the authorities concerned way back in 2013, but it was kept on hold, possibly due to the unavailability of proper EMAS technology or some other technical issue. The reasons will be made known to the Apex court. If the authorities think the EMAS technology currently available is sufficient, it should be soon be installed at the MIA provided the Apex court gives direction, sources said. According to sources, though the approximate cost of EMAS is not available, it runs into hundreds of crores. Once EMAS is damaged, the entire EMAS has to be replaced, which will be a costly affair. According to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), EMAS uses crushable material placed at the end of a runway to stop an aircraft that overruns the runway. The tires of the aircraft sink into the lightweight material and the aircraft is decelerated as it rolls through the material. FAA notes that the runway safety area (RSA) at commercial service airports, typically 500 feet wide and extending 1,000 feet beyond each end of the runway, provides a graded area in the event an aircraft overruns, undershoots, or veers off the side of the runway. “In some cases, it is not practicable to achieve the full standard RSA because there may be a lack of available land,’’ it stated, noting that EMAS technology improves safety benefits in cases where land is not available, or not possible to have the standard 1,000-foot overrun. A standard EMAS installation can stop an aircraft from overrunning the runway at approximately 80 miles per hour. An EMAS arrestor bed can be installed to help slow or stop an aircraft that overruns the runway, even if less than a standard RSA length is available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sc-seeks-response-from-ministry-to-make-tabletop-airports-safer/articleshow/78209031.cms||Stanley Pinto
September 20, 2020||Meerut||15 booked in Shamli for burning PM's effigy||MEERUT: At least 15 youths, including four named persons, were booked in Shamli district on Saturday for burning an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi while protesting against "rising unemployment". The cops, however, booked the youths for "rioting" and slapped them with the United Provinces Special Powers Act. Notably, the protest coincided with the PM's 70th birthday, and the district president of BJP filed an FIR in Jhinjhana town, Shamli, for "mudslinging". According to police sources, the incident occurred in Dargahpur village, Jhinjhana, on Thursday where members of a lesser-known Bhartiya Samaj Rakshak Yuva Morcha headed by one Prince Kori had held a protest event. Soon after the event, the group uploaded a video clip of the act on social media. Jhinjhana SHO PK Singh said, "District president of BJP Satyender Tomar has filed an FIR against the erring youths and they have been booked under IPC sections 147 (punishment of rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and relevant sections of the United Provinces Special Powers Act." PM Modi is the elected representative of the world's largest democracy and anyone "mudslinging" is unacceptable, and hence the FIR, said Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/15-booked-in-up-for-burning-pms-effigyto-protest-against-rising-unemployment/articleshow/78209848.cms||Sandeep Rai
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath asks education department to recruit 31,000 assistant teachers within week||LUCKNOW: A day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed swift recruitments to vacant government posts within six months, he asked the basic education department to recruit 31,661 assistant teachers within a week. A government spokesperson said results of Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) held last year and the subsequent court orders would be the fulcrum for filling vacancies. While the test was held for 69,000 vacancies, only 31,661 posts would be filled as per a Supreme Court order, which said all seats except those posts of assistant teachers held by Shiksha Mitras can be filled. A meeting with all boards and commissions which are responsible for recruitments, has been called on September 21 in which the CM will review vacancies in each department and draw up an action plan to fill posts within six months. On Friday, he asked all departments to identify vacant posts. The process of advertising for these posts should be completed within three months, the CM said, and hiring should be completed within the deadline. Data collected by departments will be discussed at Monday’s meeting. “Basic education department conducted Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) for recruitment of 69,000 teachers on January 6, 2019. A day later, the government fixed a 65% cut-off for general category candidates and 60% for backward and other reserved categories. The order was challenged by some students in the high court, which has given its judgment,” the government spokesperson said. The high court, on March 29 passed an order in favour of the UP government on the main petition of Ram Sharan Maurya versus state government and others. “Deciding on a special leave petition (SLP), Supreme Court, on May 21, 2020, directed the state government to complete the recruitment process on all posts except those of assistant teachers which are held by Shiksha Mitras,” the official said. “Deciding on a special leave petition (SLP), Supreme Court, on May 21, 2020, directed the state government to complete the recruitment process on all posts except those of assistant teachers which are held by Shiksha Mitras,” the official said.A meeting with all boards and commissions which are responsible for recruitments, has been called on September 21 in which the CM will review vacancies in each department and draw up an action plan to fill posts within six months. On Friday, he asked all departments to identify vacant posts and submit a list to the chief secretary’s office. The process of advertising for these posts should be completed within three months, the CM said, and hiring should be completed within the deadline. Data collected by departments will be discussed at Monday’s meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-asks-edu-dept-to-recruit-31k-asst-teachers-within-week/articleshow/78211880.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 survey in Khed tehsil||Pune: The Khed tehsil administration has decided to conduct a Covid-19 survey across 20 villages in the vicinity of the industrial pockets in Chakan, Khed and Alandi from September 21. The admini- stration has formed 600 teams for the drive.BB Gadve, Khed taluka health officer, said, “We have identified 20 villages that have recorded over 100 Covid-19 cases and have 20 or more active cases as on Saturday. In the second phase, we will do a similar survey in other affected villages in the tehsil.” — Sandip Dighe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-survey-in-khed-tehsil/articleshow/78211201.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman gives birth, goes missing||Hyderabad: A woman, who recently gave birth to a baby boy, has gone missing from a Chennur hospital in Mancherial district. Police said D Manasa gave birth five days ago. A few hours before when she was supposed to get discharged, she went missing. Cops said Manasa handed over the baby to her mother and told her that she would come back soon. But, she did not return. Family members searched for her but in vain. It was then they approached Chennur police. Police are not sure as to what are the reasons behind her disappearance. “Her husband or others are also clueless,’’ police said. Special teams are on the lookout for her. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-gives-birth-goes-missing/articleshow/78211207.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Meerut||Man found bludgeoned to death in an orchard in Bijnor||BIJNOR: A 45-year-old man who was missing since Friday was found bludgeoned to death in an orchard in Gajraula area of Amroha district. The deceased has been identified as Zahur Khan, a resident of Sihali village. Family members of the deceased said he had left the house on Friday saying he was going towards the mango orchard. After he did not return, they went out to look for him. His body was found in a mango orchard close to Daudpur village on Saturday morning. Several injury marks were found on his body. Gajraula SHO RP Sharma said, “We have registered a case against unidentified accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Investigation is underway." The body has been sent to district hospital for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-found-bludgeoned-to-death-in-orchard/articleshow/78209860.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 20, 2020||Bhopal||DME plans strict action against medical colleges that flout body disposal norms||Bhopal: Directorate of medical education (DME) is considering stricter action against the medical colleges that violate ‘Unknown Dead Body Disposal protocol’, which was gazetted by the state government in 2013-14.Earlier in June, the Supreme Court had heard responses from the Centre and different states on its suo motu cognizance taken on the treatment being meted out to patients and handling of the bodies of Covid-19 patients. Recently, cases of unattended bodies kept for days in the mortuary have been reported from Indore, Rewa and Gwalior. In the case of MYH Indore, a probe is already underway. Now there are calls for stricter action as medical practitioners and activists are drawing parallel to action taken by the DME in Rewa and Gwalior medical college case.At government-run Rewa medical college, a professor was suspended after bodies of two deceased were switched during handover to the patients’ relatives. In Gwalior, body was switched and one was cremated by the other family, according to sources. “There are set protocols where accountability is fixed in the ‘DME Unknown Dead Body Disposal protocol,” said a senior consultant, requesting anonymity. The protocol was ratified by the home department. “DME has to investigate if the body was lying for days, how many reminders were sent or received by the medical college in question,” he added.The issue has also highlighted the need for more mortuary freezers for dead bodies. Activists have alleged that there has been underplaying of deaths during the pandemic. The shocking incidents have put a question mark on the role of some of the top medical college administrators, said sources. DME has been underprepared for keeping dead bodies. Going by preparedness of seven new government-run medical colleges, only seven mortuary coolers with arrangement to keep one body was tendered in 2017. Indore has about 16 such freezers, GMC Bhopal has about 12, Jabalpur medical college has eight and BMC Sagar has 4 such freezers to keep the dead bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dme-plans-strict-action-against-medical-colleges-that-flout-body-disposal-norms/articleshow/78211255.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Eerie silence reigns over high decibel late night party hubs||PUNE: Mishmash of light and shade for a furlong. A few parked vehicles here and there. A pack of lazy dogs lazing around. Lively giggles celebrating the youth late in the night with the promise of meeting again, missing. That annoying high-decibel music from some watering holes dotting the most happening lane on pause. Pindrop silence greets you to the city’s not-so-long-ago night paradise. The famous Lane No. 7 of Koregaon Park (KP) takes one by surprise during weekends these days. Forget the buzz, only a lucky few come across someone else on the lane even when the night is young. “Till March, I would be tired of requesting patrons to leave. Now, I am tired of not seeing anyone. Wish the party resumes again,” says the lonely security guard of an establishment popular for “exchange of cheers”. The sense of insecurity unmistaken in his voice, the guard says with a smile, “See you soon.” A few feet down the lane, a right turn, and you are face-to-face with a flavoured beer hub. Tucked away from Lane No. 6, identifying the “musical place that brew its own stuff” is a tough ask in these times. Sound of a Bullet from the Royal Enfield stable breaks the eerie silence. Two policemen vroom in and strike a conversation. Gauging nothing amiss, the senior of the two says, “We would be on our toes in this area with breathalysers on Friday and Saturday nights to prevent drunk driving. For months now, we just patrol around with no one in vicinity.” The sense of missing “party hoppers” was palpable in the voice of the policeman sporting a handlebar moustache. A few kilometres away comes a resto-bar, near Pune station. Inaugurated by late Shashi Kapoor, its USP has been entertaining patrons till a few hours after midnight. Fortunate few would find space to park vehicles in its vicinity till early this year. In the early hours of Saturday, the popular hub sports a deserted look. “Acres” to park vehicles. Off to Karve Road. Away from the hustle and bustle of the main road and Metro work, a bar “won accolades” for welcoming guests well past midnight. Shutters down, a lonely man guards the late night “citadel” of thirsty souls now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eerie-silence-reigns-over-high-decibel-late-night-party-hubs/articleshow/78211213.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Heavy rain lashes coast, man dies after wall collapses||Mangaluru: The coast on Saturday received moderate to heavy rain over Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over Telangana. One life was lost and another person is in a critical condition in two separate rain related accidents. The IMD declared a red alert for the coast till Monday. Though there was continuous rain in the city since Friday night, no areas were inundated like last week. The compound wall of a school at Kulur collapsed on a man on Saturday. The deceased Umesh, 38, is a daily wage earner, and was a resident of Neermarga. The victim, who was working near the school compound along with two others, was buried under the debris, when the wall collapsed on him. Police suspect the wall had weakened due to the rain. Two others, who were along with the victim, sustained minor injuries. In another incident, a woman sustained grievous injuries after the compound wall of a house collapsed on her at Naygara Lane, Bikarnakatte. The victim is Chandrakala Shetty, and she is in a critical condition. She is being treated in a private hospital in the city. Two locations in Dakshina Kannada recorded the highest rain in the state in the last 24 hours: Surathkal got 109.5 mm rain and Kemral got 105.5 mm of rain. KSNMDC warned fishermen not to venture into the sea, warning of gales with speeds reaching 45-55 kmph, which were likely to prevail along and off the Karnataka coast for the next two days. In the last 24 hours till 8.30am on Saturday, Dakshina Kannada received an average of 42 mm rain, with Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks receiving the highest at 71mm and 48mm, respectively. It rained the least in Puttur at 27 mm. There was no thunder, lightning or gales, despite the heavy rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/heavy-rain-lashes-coast-man-dies-after-wall-collapses/articleshow/78209070.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Goa||Phase 2 of Guirim palms revival today in Goa||PANAJI: The second phase of reviving the coconut trees lined at the Guirim stretch is being taken up on Sunday. Volunteers will prepare the mud circle to ensure the manure stays intact. Last Sunday, volunteers had applied organic manure to 40 trees at the level of the Guirim flyover in a process called ‘new rooting’ to revive the trees. “The mud circle will ensure that the manure doesn’t get washed out due to rain,” said Avertino Miranda, who led the volunteers last week under Goa Green Brigade. In addition to this, the debris left behind after the flyover was complete is also going to be cleared. “We had requested MVR Infra Projects to clear it, however, they citied lack of labour as the reason for not clearing it. We cannot wait for them because the trees are slowly dying due to choking by the debris,” Miranda said. In phase three, the volunteers will conduct a survey on the number of trees cut in the area and explore the possibility of planting new coconut groves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/phase-2-of-guirim-palms-revival-today/articleshow/78211907.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Man, 65, acquitted after 24 years||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Twenty-four years after he was booked for possessing an illegal firearm and also served three months in jail, Ramratan, now 65, was acquitted by a local court in Muzaffarnagar because police failed to produce any evidence against him. His family claimed the charges against him were false and he was booked due to an electoral enmity during panchayat polls. His lawyer Dharam Singh Gujjar said, “Ramrattan had to be present in court on more than 500 dates during the past 24 years. He suffered a lot.” According to sources, Ramratan, a resident of Rohana Khurd village in Muzaffarnagar, was arrested in 1996 by a police team from the city kotwali police station that allegedly recovered a country-made pistol with two bullets from him. He was booked under the Arms Act and sent to jail. After spending three months in prison, he was granted bail. In 2006, the local court framed charges against him and asked police to present evidence and the recovered weapon before it. After waiting for 14 years, the CJM court acquitted Ramratan, observing that it was "left with no other option". His lawyer said, “The court had been asking the prosecution to provide evidence and gave them enough time, but they failed to produce any evidence against my client. Because of the lack of evidence, the court acquitted him.” Ramratan told TOI, “I was 40 when they arrested and charged me. It seems like a really long time. I can finally heave a sigh of relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-fail-to-produce-proof-man-65-acquitted-after-24-years/articleshow/78209867.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi seeks model villages in Devi Patan||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that the development of Devi Patan division, comprising the districts of Gonda, Balrampur, Shravasti and Bahraich, should be carried out on the basis of the six parameters of development ascertained by Niti Aayog. During a review of the division on Saturday, the CM asked MPs from the area “to saturate the adopted villages with all the welfare schemes of the Centre and state and make them into ‘model villages’. The CM said that Bahraich is well known for banana cultivation and the possibility of starting a food processing plant in the district should be explored. The CM was said that there are 12 ongoing projects in the division worth over Rs 50 crore each—five in Gonda, three in Balrampur and two each in Shravasti and Bahraich. Their total cost is Rs 1,493 crore of which Rs 964 crore has been released. The CM said there should be no delays and work should be awarded to agencies which have sufficient manpower and capacity to execute it on time. As the area is prone to floods, the CM said that officials should prepare an estimate of losses to ensure early disbursal of financial assistance. He also asked officials to make efforts to collect more revenue since that is the base of the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-seeks-model-villages-in-devi-patan/articleshow/78211887.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nashik||NMC prepares action plan to reduce Covid-19 deaths||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation has put in place an action plan to reduce the daily Covid-related deaths and overall case fatality rate (CFR) in a month. The plan focuses on bringing down the average number of daily Covid-19 deaths to two. Currently, six to eight deaths are being reported every day. The action plan is aiming at a fatality rate of under 1%, as against the current rate of around 1.5%. “The target that we have set is achievable since the fatality rate in the city has been constantly improving. In July, the fatality rate was around 5%. It dropped to less than 1% per week over the past fortnight. So, we are confident of bringing down the overall fatality rate in the city to less than 1% by the first half of October,” NMC officials told TOI. The civic administration has adopted a multi-pronged strategy to achieve this result. They have has formed 794 teams, each comprising a civic official and two other members. Each team has been provided with a pulse oximeter and thermal scanner to check temperature. Elected representatives, social outfits and Nashik unit of Indian Medical Association are helping NMC in this mammoth task. “The teams have started a robust survey under which they visit all households in the city and check for people, who are either comorbid or have Covid-19 like symptoms. Their oxygen saturation levels and temperatures are examined and in case of slightest suspicion, they are sent to the nearest fever clinics for antigen or RT-PCR tests,” maintained NMC officials. Officials said this way, they will be able to identify Covid-19 patients early and immediately start treatment. NMC would be undertaking this survey in two phases. The first phase, which has already started, would continue till October 10 and the second one would be between October 15 and October 25. “Although a section of city residents are coming forward early to get tested, there is still some people despite who are still hesitant to get tested and treated. We would appeal to them to come forward” added officials. The NMC also plans to conduct rapid antigen tests in all containment zones and distribute some immunity boosters among the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-prepares-action-plan-to-reduce-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/78209096.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
September 20, 2020||Kanpur||Every 5th Covid case in UP from Lucknow||LUCKNOW: There was no let up in Covid-19 transmission rate in the city in the past 24 hours, with the daily case count crossing the 1,000-mark for the fifth time this month, and remaining perilously high to such an extent that every fifth new case reported in the state on Saturday was from Lucknow. The state capital recorded 1,160 fresh cases on Saturday, pushing the caseload beyond 45,500. The high infection spread can be gauged from the fact that of the 5,827 cases detected across UP on Saturday, Lucknow’s count was more than the total of new cases in next four districts: Kanpur Nagar (384), Prayagraj (309), Meerut (216) and Gorakhpur (211). The continuance of spike led to further increase in the number of active cases to 10,090 in the city — about 15% of the total in UP. The patients are either under treatment in hospitals or at home, and nearly 800 of them are in serious condition. In a positive development, 1,105 patients recovered on Saturday. Of the total 45,269 cases, 77% (34,954) have recovered, while 585 (1.3%) have died. The case figures released by the office of chief medical officer revealed that Gomtinagar yet again contributed most cases in a day. As many as 74 residents of the posh Gomtinagar area tested positive in the past 24 hours, followed by 62 of Indiranagar and 52 of Rae Bareli road. Chinhat recorded 48 cases, Alambagh 47, Hazratganj 42, Chowk 41, and Aashiana and Talkatora 35 each. Health professionals and experts keeping an eye on the pandemic and involved in Covid care directly said the peak in cases is still to come and hence, all people now must act very responsibly and strictly follow social distancing and other protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/every-5th-covid-case-in-up-from-lucknow/articleshow/78212679.cms||Yusra Husain
September 20, 2020||Allahabad||Every 5th Covid case in UP from Lucknow||LUCKNOW: There was no let up in Covid-19 transmission rate in the city in the past 24 hours, with the daily case count crossing the 1,000-mark for the fifth time this month, and remaining perilously high to such an extent that every fifth new case reported in the state on Saturday was from Lucknow. The state capital recorded 1,160 fresh cases on Saturday, pushing the caseload beyond 45,500. The high infection spread can be gauged from the fact that of the 5,827 cases detected across UP on Saturday, Lucknow’s count was more than the total of new cases in next four districts: Kanpur Nagar (384), Prayagraj (309), Meerut (216) and Gorakhpur (211). The continuance of spike led to further increase in the number of active cases to 10,090 in the city — about 15% of the total in UP. The patients are either under treatment in hospitals or at home, and nearly 800 of them are in serious condition. In a positive development, 1,105 patients recovered on Saturday. Of the total 45,269 cases, 77% (34,954) have recovered, while 585 (1.3%) have died. The case figures released by the office of chief medical officer revealed that Gomtinagar yet again contributed most cases in a day. As many as 74 residents of the posh Gomtinagar area tested positive in the past 24 hours, followed by 62 of Indiranagar and 52 of Rae Bareli road. Chinhat recorded 48 cases, Alambagh 47, Hazratganj 42, Chowk 41, and Aashiana and Talkatora 35 each. Health professionals and experts keeping an eye on the pandemic and involved in Covid care directly said the peak in cases is still to come and hence, all people now must act very responsibly and strictly follow social distancing and other protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/every-5th-covid-case-in-up-from-lucknow/articleshow/78212680.cms||Yusra Husain
September 20, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Fake rape case extortion racket busted||MEERUT: An extortion racket involving threatening victims with framing them in a fake rape case has been busted by Hapur police. Two persons, including a woman named Sangeeta alias Guddi, were arrested following a complaint by one of their victims. Two suspects, Tania and Harkesh, are on the run, police said. In a recent case, a man got acquainted with the women who went by the name 'Mahi Rana', on Facebook. After days of online chat, the duo agreed on a rendezvous on September 15 at a place selected by the woman. Upon reaching the place, the man realised that it was a set-up. At the place, four people, including two women, were waiting for him. The gang demanded Rs 5 lakh for not pressing false rape charges against the victim. He panicked and ended up paying Rs 1 lakh in cash, a gold chain and s ring. However, the extortion did not stop. Finally, he approached police and two of the gang members were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fake-rape-case-extortion-racket-busted-woman-among-2-arrested/articleshow/78209883.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Brahmotsavams off to sombre start||Tirupati: The annual Brahmotsavams got off to a sombre start in Tirumala with the the celestial Dwajarohanam fete inside the main temple complex on Saturday. For the first time in the history, the nine-day festival is being held in ‘ekantham’ without any processions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All formalities were performed at the Ranganayakula mandapam inside the temple. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brahmotsavams-off-to-sombre-start/articleshow/78211209.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||Every 5th Covid case in UP from Lucknow||LUCKNOW: There was no let up in Covid-19 transmission rate in the city in the past 24 hours, with the daily case count crossing the 1,000-mark for the fifth time this month, and remaining perilously high to such an extent that every fifth new case reported in the state on Saturday was from Lucknow. The state capital recorded 1,160 fresh cases on Saturday, pushing the caseload beyond 45,500. The high infection spread can be gauged from the fact that of the 5,827 cases detected across UP on Saturday, Lucknow’s count was more than the total of new cases in next four districts: Kanpur Nagar (384), Prayagraj (309), Meerut (216) and Gorakhpur (211). The continuance of spike led to further increase in the number of active cases to 10,090 in the city — about 15% of the total in UP. The patients are either under treatment in hospitals or at home, and nearly 800 of them are in serious condition. In a positive development, 1,105 patients recovered on Saturday. Of the total 45,269 cases, 77% (34,954) have recovered, while 585 (1.3%) have died. The case figures released by the office of chief medical officer revealed that Gomtinagar yet again contributed most cases in a day. As many as 74 residents of the posh Gomtinagar area tested positive in the past 24 hours, followed by 62 of Indiranagar and 52 of Rae Bareli road. Chinhat recorded 48 cases, Alambagh 47, Hazratganj 42, Chowk 41, and Aashiana and Talkatora 35 each. Health professionals and experts keeping an eye on the pandemic and involved in Covid care directly said the peak in cases is still to come and hence, all people now must act very responsibly and strictly follow social distancing and other protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/every-5th-covid-case-in-up-from-lucknow/articleshow/78211899.cms||Yusra Husain
September 20, 2020||Meerut||Every 5th Covid case in UP from Lucknow||LUCKNOW: There was no let up in Covid-19 transmission rate in the city in the past 24 hours, with the daily case count crossing the 1,000-mark for the fifth time this month, and remaining perilously high to such an extent that every fifth new case reported in the state on Saturday was from Lucknow. The state capital recorded 1,160 fresh cases on Saturday, pushing the caseload beyond 45,500. The high infection spread can be gauged from the fact that of the 5,827 cases detected across UP on Saturday, Lucknow’s count was more than the total of new cases in next four districts: Kanpur Nagar (384), Prayagraj (309), Meerut (216) and Gorakhpur (211). The continuance of spike led to further increase in the number of active cases to 10,090 in the city — about 15% of the total in UP. The patients are either under treatment in hospitals or at home, and nearly 800 of them are in serious condition. In a positive development, 1,105 patients recovered on Saturday. Of the total 45,269 cases, 77% (34,954) have recovered, while 585 (1.3%) have died. The case figures released by the office of chief medical officer revealed that Gomtinagar yet again contributed most cases in a day. As many as 74 residents of the posh Gomtinagar area tested positive in the past 24 hours, followed by 62 of Indiranagar and 52 of Rae Bareli road. Chinhat recorded 48 cases, Alambagh 47, Hazratganj 42, Chowk 41, and Aashiana and Talkatora 35 each. Health professionals and experts keeping an eye on the pandemic and involved in Covid care directly said the peak in cases is still to come and hence, all people now must act very responsibly and strictly follow social distancing and other protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/every-5th-covid-case-in-up-from-lucknow/articleshow/78212678.cms||Yusra Husain
September 20, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaisalmer villagers hit the road to save GIB habitat||JAISALMER: As power lines that connect windmills and solar power plants are turning out to be death traps for the critically endangered Great Indian Bustards (GIB) in its habitat known as Oran (pasture land) in local parlance, villagers and environmentalists as a mark of protest started a two-day march on Saturday. The protesters, who will parade around 55km under the banner of ‘Oran Baccaho Parikrama’, are demanding that around 29,000 bighas of Oran land be declared as ‘deemed forest’ as it is critical winter habitat for the GIB as well as many other wildlife. After the thrust towards green energy is having an environmental cost, the protesters also demanded to divert or remove all the overhead transmission lines passing through Oran. Wildlife biologist Sumit Dookia said, “This is a GIB habitat with 15,000 hectare Oran land, which as Supreme Court’s order be declared as deemed forest. The region from three sides is already surrounded by windmills and soon will be enclosed as a solar energy park is being set up. There are already three high-voltage power lines, while work to lay another two lines and construction of a grid sub-station is under process. Once its operational, it will be a death trap.” The issue flared up after a female GIB died near Sanvata village when it collided with the vertically aligned high voltage power lines on September 18. ERDS foundation director Mamta Rawat said, “The complete area is to be declared as Godown Arc area as the land, which was allotted to various solar energy and windmill companies, are causing damage to safe habitat of animals and birds.” Shree Degra Mataji Oran land in Jaisalmer is claimed to be 610 years old. The land was allotted by the then ruler Bairsi Singh to plant trees and conserve the habitat for birds and animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaisalmer-villagers-hit-the-road-to-save-gib-habitat/articleshow/78214046.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka deputy CM tests positive; Covid cloud over assembly session||BENGALURU: Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and Congress legislator Priyank Kharge on Saturday became the latest Karnataka politicians to test positive for coronavirus, a development that casts a shadow on the monsoon session of the legislature that starts on Monday. Earlier this week, home minister Basavaraj Bommai and food and civil supplies minister K Gopalaiah were diagnosed with Covid-19 amid a continuing surge in the number of cases across Karnataka. All legislators, bureaucrats, support staff, officials and journalists who intend to attend the assembly session underwent mandatory RT-PCR tests on Friday and Saturday. Complete results will be known by Sunday evening or Monday morning, and there are concerns that more cases may come to light. If this happens, assembly speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri’s already challenging task of holding the session safely will become more difficult. “If more people test positive, the government may be forced to curtail the 10-day session,” a senior official said. Ashwath Narayan and Kharge shared their health status on Twitter. “In anticipation of the upcoming assembly session, I underwent a #Covid19 test and my results have returned positive. I am asymptomatic and will be under home isolation,” Ashwath Narayan wrote. He requested everyone who came in contact with him to take precautions. More than 500 people underwent RT-PCR tests on Friday and Saturday. Those negative will be re-tested every 72 hours during the course of the session. According to an official in the legislature, four employees from the department of personnel and administrative services and two from the assembly secretariat tested positive on Saturday. Siddaramaiah, leader of opposition in the assembly, and DK Shivakumar, state Congress president, took a test on Saturday. With a seating capacity of 400 across two Houses, Karnataka has the best assembly and council halls in the country. Staggered seating and restricted staff numbers are among the new safety steps. Not many MLAs and ministers are expected to attend the session on the first day as they are not required to mark attendance. Since March, more than 70 legislators have contracted the coronavirus infection. Many, including chief minister BS Yediyurappa, have fully recovered. Ministers B Sriramulu, CT Ravi, BC Patil, Anand Singh, Byrathi Basavaraj, Prabhu Chavan, A Shivaram Hebbar, KS Eshwarappa and Shashikala Jolle had also tested positive, but they are healthy now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-deputy-cm-tests-positive-covid-cloud-over-assembly-session/articleshow/78212191.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||‘Aadhaar card’ for jumbos: Genetic mapping of over 2700 captive elephants to be done across country to keep them safe||Dehradun: To reduce atrocities against captive jumbos in the country in the aftermath of the tragic death of elephants in Kerala in June this year, blood and faecal samples of all the captive elephants across the country — estimated to be around 2700 — are being collected under the aegis of Project Elephant. This exercise, Noyal Thomas, director of Project Elephant told TOI, will give a unique identity number to the elephants “just like an Aadhaar card which will be generated based on their DNA.” “The genetic mapping will ensure that each captive elephant in the country is only kept by an authorised person after getting a nod from the state chief wildlife warden. Thus, it will ensure that all the captive elephants are under the scanner of the state forest department and any kind of wildlife crime like poaching of their tusks or bones does not take place,” said Thomas. Currently, majority of captive elephants in the country are in Assam (around 1000). They are primarily being used for forestry operations to safeguard forests and wildlife. This is followed by Kerala which has around 500 captive elephants and Tamil Nadu, which has around 300 captive elephants. Incidentally, genetic mapping was first conducted in Kerala in 2018. As per Thomas, the benefit of the mapping is that it enables tracking of any elephant in need of treatment, food or any other support. “Another benefit is that we can keep a track on the population of captive elephants and not let it exceed too much. It will also ensure that none of the elephants is tortured or manhandled by its owner.” The Doon-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is co-ordinating the mapping exercise. Dhananjai Mohan, director of WII, told TOI that the data collected will be kept at the Elephant Cell of WII, which had been inaugurated last year. Asia has around 55,000 elephants in the wild, of which over 30,000 are in India. India also has the maximum captive elephants followed by Thailand and Sri Lanka where they are primarily used for tourism purposes. Protecting the captive elephant has been a matter of concern and importance for all countries as the Asian Elephant has been categorised as an ‘endangered’ species in the IUCN Red List of threatened species. Watch ‘Aadhaar’ for elephants: Genetic mapping of over 2700 captive jumbos to be done across country||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aadhaar-card-for-jumbos-genetic-mapping-of-over-2700-captive-elephants-to-be-done-across-country-to-keep-them-safe/articleshow/78209084.cms||Shivani Azad
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer villagers hit the road to save GIB habitat||JAISALMER: As power lines that connect windmills and solar power plants are turning out to be death traps for the critically endangered Great Indian Bustards (GIB) in its habitat known as Oran (pasture land) in local parlance, villagers and environmentalists as a mark of protest started a two-day march on Saturday. The protesters, who will parade around 55km under the banner of ‘Oran Baccaho Parikrama’, are demanding that around 29,000 bighas of Oran land be declared as ‘deemed forest’ as it is critical winter habitat for the GIB as well as many other wildlife. After the thrust towards green energy is having an environmental cost, the protesters also demanded to divert or remove all the overhead transmission lines passing through Oran. Wildlife biologist Sumit Dookia said, “This is a GIB habitat with 15,000 hectare Oran land, which as Supreme Court’s order be declared as deemed forest. The region from three sides is already surrounded by windmills and soon will be enclosed as a solar energy park is being set up. There are already three high-voltage power lines, while work to lay another two lines and construction of a grid sub-station is under process. Once its operational, it will be a death trap.” The issue flared up after a female GIB died near Sanvata village when it collided with the vertically aligned high voltage power lines on September 18. ERDS foundation director Mamta Rawat said, “The complete area is to be declared as Godown Arc area as the land, which was allotted to various solar energy and windmill companies, are causing damage to safe habitat of animals and birds.” Shree Degra Mataji Oran land in Jaisalmer is claimed to be 610 years old. The land was allotted by the then ruler Bairsi Singh to plant trees and conserve the habitat for birds and animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-villagers-hit-the-road-to-save-gib-habitat/articleshow/78211317.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Pune||Over 90% drop in sewage and effluent generation in state during lockdown: Report||Pune: More than 90,000 industries stayed shut during the initial phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, resulting in 95% reduction in sewage generation and 93% drop in effluent generation into the state water bodies in phase 1 of lockdown, an MPCB report on the environment impact of Covid-19 has revealed.“Organic load reductions from domestic sewage into various natural water bodies showed that 1,035 tonnes of organic load (biochemical oxygen demand) was prevented from flowing into rivers, 434 tonnes into sea and 187 tonnes on land during the entire period of the lockdown,” Ajay Ojha, managing partner at Technogreen Environmental Solutions, said. Technogreen Environmental Solutions carried out the assessment for the state on behalf of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB).Out of the 125 spots monitored in the six river basins of Maharashtra, almost 84% of the locations showed improvement in water quality in biochemical oxygen demand terms.The report said coal consumption by power plants in Maharashtra also reduced by 27%, 24%, 14.7% and 10.7% during lockdown 1-4, respectively, with over 80-90% drop in hazardous solid waste. As the activities in industries shut down, fuel consumption in the state (as per the permissions granted by MPCB through consents) reduced from 9.5 lakh tonne per day by about 80% in lockdown 1, reaching up to 53.8% by lockdown 4, the report said.Environmentalists said cities should not need a pandemic or lockdown to bring the pollution down. “Why do we need a pandemic to show us our responsibility to nature? Undoubtedly the lockdown has given us purer air, cleaner water and increased biodiversity, but the loss of life and livelihoods is a colossal price for it. We can fix a broken economy, but tackling degraded ecosystems which reduce the life sustaining capacity of the planet, is a price which mankind cannot bear,” Gurudas Nulkar, Trustee, Ecological Society, Pune, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-90-drop-in-sewage-and-effluent-generation-in-state-during-lockdown-report/articleshow/78211231.cms||Neha Madaan
September 20, 2020||Pune||Water release from Khadakwasla stopped after rain break||Pune: The state irrigation department has stopped water discharge from the Khadakwasla dam into the Mutha canal following the break in heavy rainfall in the catchment areas. The department has adopted a cautious approach while releasing water from the four dams — Khadakwasla, Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet — that supply water to the city. The discharge from Varasgaon and Panshet was stopped few days back.Irrigation department officials said maximum water-level would be maintained in the dams till the end of monsoon and water would be released only if the dam catchments received heavy showers or there was a demand for water from the rural areas. “We have stopped the release of water completely because the catchments of the four dams have hardly received any rainfall in the last few days. The discharge into the canal has also been stopped as of now,” an official from the irrigation department said. The water released into the canal flows to the rural parts. As of now, the irrigation department has not received any demand for water from the rural areas. On Saturday, the water stock in the Khadakwasla dam dropped to 91%, while the collective stock in the four dams was at 99%. The irrigation department said water storage in Panshet and Varasgaon was at 100%. Both the dams together could store over 22 TMC water. The Khadakwasla and Temghar dams reported 30mm and 31mm rainfall, respectively, on Saturday. The storage in Temghar is yet to reach the 100%-mark this season. On Saturday, the dam’s storage stood at 97.7%. The dam will release water into Khadakwasla after the storage reaches its capacity. An official said, “We are still expecting more rain in the catchments as monsoon withdrawal is yet to be announced. Temghar’s storage could reach full capacity if the catchment receives continuous rainfall for three to four days.”The four dams have released over 11 TMC water into the river, so far, which has gone into the Ujani dam. The storage in Ujani has already reached its full capacity, which has led to the release of water into the Bhima river. On Saturday evening, discharge was increased to 30,000 cusec. GraphicFile photoDISCHARGE TO RESUME AFTER HEAVY SPELLSDAM WATCHKhadakwasla — 1.8TMC — 91%Panshet — 10.65 TMC — 100% Varasgaon 12.82 TMC — 100% Temghar —3.62 TMC — 97.7% .TOTAL: 28.89 TMC — 99.1%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-release-from-khadakwasla-stopped-after-rain-break/articleshow/78211219.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong not out of game in T: Tagore||Hyderabad: AICC secretary in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore said Congress is not out of the game and that the assembly elections in 2023 can be won through team work, discipline and going to people. He said also Congress is a national party, there is need to think regionally too. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-not-out-of-game-in-t-tagore/articleshow/78211224.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||Man jumps into Vishwamitri river||Vadodara: An unidentified man jumped off the Kalaghoda bridge in Vishwamitri river on Saturday afternoon. The man was seen jumping into the river by a passer by who informed a traffic brigade jawan nearby. The traffic brigade personnel called fire brigade to rescue the man. Fire officials said that they searched for the man till 2km downstream of the river, but he was not found. The water level of Vishwamitri at the bridge was six feet. Firemen believe that the man could have been dragged away with heavy river current. “The identity of the man has not been known yet, but we will resume our search on Sunday morning,” said a fireman. While the search was on, huge crowd of onlookers had gathered on the bridge. As the traffic was getting hampered, police had to disperse the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-jumps-into-vishwamitri-river/articleshow/78209466.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow professor’s audio books break pandemic shackles for blind||LUCKNOW: In the time of pandemic, audio capsules recorded by a professor of National PG College have become a beacon of hope for thousands of visually impaired students who are shackled by campus shutdowns and struggling with online classes, where the pedagogy is yet to evolve for the blind. From Lucknow to London, visually impaired students are now able to revive the classroom ambience by listening to audio textbooks and reviews of web series recorded here. Available in three languages — English, Hindi, and Urdu — these audiobooks recorded by a visually impaired professor, Rakesh Jain, and his team are being lapped up by students across the world, including United States, UAE and Austria. Some of his international clients include a chess player based in Austria, Mahendra Ghelani, and London-based musicians Sitara Devi and Balaji. “The audio module is in big demand in European countries, where the word spread through NRIs at rehabilitation universities,” said Prof Jain. Facing a double challenge in Covid times, differently-abled students from school to graduation and post-graduation levels, who were unable to attend online classes, are using these books to stay abreast of academics. Available for free and created by Prof Jain’s non-profit organization — Rehabilitation Society of the Visually Impaired (RSVI) — the demand for audio books has shot up by over 60%. “Requests are pouring in from rehabilitation institutions from across the globe. Compared to 800 requests per month, we are now getting over 2,000,” said Prof Jain, who is also head of English department at Lucknow University’s National PG College. On students’ demand, RSVI recently launched two new audiobooks – ‘RSVI News Capsule’ that keeps students updated on news and entertainment and ‘Udaan’ that helps students prepare for competitive examinations. “The books are recorded by a team 20 volunteers in two studios in Moti Mahal Lawns, Sikanderbagh and others at an apartment in Hazratganj. Earlier, students would come and collect CDs or we would send them by post. After the Covid outbreak, we began sending audiobooks through a special file transfer application,” said RSVI member Shradha Srivastava. She said, nearly 1,500 textbooks of arts, science and commerce prescribed by UP Board, ISC, CBSE, NCERT and other universities have been converted into audiobooks, covering syllabi from class 1 to post-graduation. “When the lockdown curtailed our movement, I sent a request to RSVI for books and received links the next day. These have been very useful,” said Akansha Vaish, a visually impaired MA student at Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University. Another student, Lalit Kushwaha, who is preparing for civil services, said, “I was delighted to find that the audio books were exhaustive and catered to competitive exams. Now, I don’t have to visit coaching centres or any mentor for preparation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-profs-audio-books-break-pandemic-shackles-for-blind/articleshow/78211906.cms||Mohita Tewari
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||‘Pvt labs reporting ‘10 times more’ Covid cases than U’khand average’||Dehradun: As Uttarakhand sees a spike in Covid-19 cases, the government is concerned private labs may be jacking up the numbers. “Of tests done in private labs in Dehradun, 50% have been reported positive,” chief secretary Om Prakash said on Saturday, adding that it appears to be a disproportionate figure. The state has 23 testing labs of which three are privately run, all in Dehradun. As of Saturday, the state’s positivity rate was 6.5%. In fact, even Dehradun’s positivity rate is 10.7%. The CS asked district authorities to randomly pick test reports from private labs and get them tested in government ones again. “Action has to be taken against labs which are preparing fake and forged reports,” he told the officials at a review meeting. “There have been complaints that positive reports from private labs are later testing negative at government labs.” Uttarakhand has added over 18,000 cases this month, of which 8,000 were reported just over the past week. Dehradun has the highest number of cases in Uttarakhand as of now, followed by Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital. “With just a month to go for the festive season, we have asked district authorities to ensure some relaxations for those coming to Uttarakhand from Monday,” the CS said. There has been some concern about the enforcement of border tests for inbound tourists and what impact the Covid rules could have on the tourism sector. Prakash said home isolation kits will be provided to people soon. For those who turn serious, authorities should ensure there is a system to inform hospitals in advance before the patient’s arrival. Final-year nursing students could be engaged and paid in keeping with National Health Mission pay scales, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pvt-labs-reporting-10-times-more-covid-cases-than-ukhand-average/articleshow/78209095.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||Dumping garbage in the open? You can be clicked and fined||Lucknow: Aliganj resident RK Awasthi was having a fine day until he received a text on his phone which was accompanied by a photograph of him throwing garbage on the roadside. What might look as a stalking attempt was actually a notification from Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) informing Awasthi that he had been fined Rs 1,000 for dumping trash in the open. He later go to know that a neighbour had clicked the picture and uploaded it on Lucknow311 — an app launched by LMC for residents to upload photos of those found dumping garbage in the open and then penalise the latter. The civic agency has taken to task around 35 residents like Awasthi since Lucknow311 was launched six days ago and collected Rs 35,000 as fine. Officials said people can lodge complaints with photographic evidence against shops, eateries and households via the app along with the violator’s address and name if possible. In short, the app has empowered residents into becoming ‘vigilance officers’. After receiving the complaint, the command and control centre linked with the app will forward it to the respective zonal office of the Corporation for an inquiry. After finding out the name and contact number of the property owner from its records, LMC will text a link along with the photograph to inform the violator. The fine ranges between Rs 1,000-Rs 2, 000. People can pay the fine either through an e-wallet or by visiting LMC’s zonal offices. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Singh said, “The new e-challan system has not only been effective in discouraging people from dumping garbage in the open, but has also become a new source of revenue for LMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dumping-garbage-in-the-open-you-can-be-clicked-and-fined/articleshow/78211911.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
September 20, 2020||Pune||At TOI webinar today, ask experts your Covid doubts||Pimpri Chinchwad: Residents of Pimpri Chinchwad are invited to register for a webinar with Covid-19 experts, to be held between 4pm and 5pm on Sunday. The virtual conference, the first in a series of such discussions planned for Pune, aims to create an important link between citizens and the experts who are helping frame the state’s response to Covid-19. Sunday’s webinar, ‘The latest on Covid-19’, will be attended by two specialists — Dr Subhash Salunke, an advisor to the state government on Covid mitigation, and infectious diseases expert Dr Parikshit Prayag. Both experts on the panel will answer questions on the possible virus trajectory in the region, testing, treatment, surveillance and containment measures. The webinar also hopes to cut through misinformation, myth and unverified social media messages. Networking giant Facebook has reported that during March and April this year, it placed warning labels on nearly 90 million pieces of content because the items were linked to misinformation such as false cures, anti-vaccination claims and conspiracy theories. Another survey found that hundreds may have died worldwide because of misinformation. One study published in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene estimated that 5,800 people were admitted to hospital as a direct result of false or verified reports on the Internet. A platform which offers citizens a chance to directly talk to public health experts can help ease doubts on testing strategies, what large apartment complexes should be doing to control the spread and finally, the most effective treatment methods currently available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-toi-webinar-today-ask-experts-your-covid-doubts/articleshow/78211273.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bhopal||Record 300+ cases take Bhopal Covid count near 16,000-mark||BHOPAL: For the first time, daily Covid-19 infection breached the 300 mark in the state capital, here on Saturday. A total 308 new cases were diagnosed in Bhopal, taking the total tally of cases over 15,764. Deaths due to Covid-19 has now touched 349. There has been a steady increase in the number of positive cases and the positivity rate in the city too has gone up in the past fortnight, despite the tall claims from the government. What is alarming is that the infections have spread across the city and unlike in the past it is the new Bhopal areas that are adding to the numbers. Upmarket areas and residential colonies in Arera Colony and Kolar township have been reporting the highest number of new cases. On Saturday, highest number of infections were reported from Kolar area with 25 new cases. Six new cases of COVID-19 were reported from district jail. Undertrails for new cases are housed in Old Jail located at Jehangirabad, where most of the new cases are being diagnosed. 25 Battalion (Bhadbhada) reported six new cases of the infection. At 3 EME centre four people were diagnosed with the infection. Police station Shahjehanabad reported one new positive. At IISER (Bhauri), one new case of the infection was reported while Raj Bhawan and Vidhan Sabha reported one case each. Medical fraternity continued to be among the infected. Gandhi Medical College (GMC) reported seven more cases. AIIMS reported one positive. JP Hospital reported two positives. Jawaharlal Cancer Hospital reported one positive. There were five Covid-19 positive cases from Char Imli and one from Rivera Township. Two positive cases have been reported from Kansana Kothi. Rajharsh Colony reported three positives while Priyanka Nagar and BDA colony reported two positive cases each. Bhanpura and Indrapuri reported two positives in same families Five positives tested positives in same family in police radio colony. Railway colony reported three positives while there were two positive cases from Sapna Lounge (Budhwara). Five persons have been tested positive in same family in Naveen Nagar (Aishbagh). New Ashoka Garden reported two positives. Barkhedi reported four positives. Six positives have been tested in same family in South TT Nagar Mata Mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/daily-covid-19-positive-cases-breach-300-mark/articleshow/78211294.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Vid interns on Covid duty getting only Rs11k/month||Nagpur: Young doctors working in Covid-19 wards are called as ‘front-line Covid warriors’ and they shoulder many responsibilities, right from serving in fever OPD to treating Covid-19 positive patients in wards. But MBBS pass-out interns in Vidarbha roped in for Covid-19 duty are getting mere Rs11,000 per month stipend, and nothing additional for the risky job of serving positive patients. On the other hand, interns working in Covid wards in Mumbai (BMC hospitals) are getting 59,000 per month while their counterparts in Pune are getting 30,000 per month. As an incentive, the local municipal corporations are paying the interns an additional amount above and over Rs11,000 monthly stipend they are entitled to. In Nagpur, interns at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMCH) and GMCH Akola are working in Covid wards since April. But they are not getting any such incentive. “We were on swab collection duty from April and were posted in positive wards, ICU from July. We are working hard without a break ever since our internship started. Our work equates to that done by resident doctors. We should get what we deserve,” said Dr Samir Mandhane, intern representative at IGGMCH and Vidarbha region coordinator of State Medical Interns. “We have written to the Nagpur district collector and guardian minister Nitin Raut regarding incentive but haven’t got any written assurance,” he said. Interns aren’t complaining about administration of medical college or their shifts in Covid duties. “To serve Covid-19 patients is our duty. But we need support and encouragement from district collector, municipal commissioner and guardian minister. We need incentives on the lines of BMC hospitals,” he said. In Akola, GMCH interns have submitted a memorandum to district collector who has reportedly assured them incentives but nothing has happened so far. There are more than 2,000 interns in the 20 medical colleges in the state. In Vidarbha, only IGGMCH, Nagpur, and GMCH Akola have roped in interns for Covid-19 duties. Several Covid facilities in Vidarbha are lying unused without doctors. Looking at the worsening situation of Vidarbha, more GMCs are likely to ask interns to perform Covid-19 duty. In Mumbai, BMC is paying Rs300 daily allowance to its 450 interns. In Pune, district administration is paying them Rs19,000 as incentive taking their stipend to Rs30,000. These civic bodies are trying everything to retain MBBS interns for Covid duty. Equal work, less payment - Interns are MBBS pass-outs serving in government hospitals before they go for MD/MS - During Covid-19 pandemic, young interns are serving in Covid wards - As cases were higher, they were first roped in at Mumbai and Pune - In Vidarbha, interns are providing services in Akola, and IGGMCH, Nagpur - Their standard stipend is Rs11,000 per month as decided by state government - They get Rs59,000 in Mumbai, Rs30,000 per month in Pune as local municipal authorities pay the difference - In Vidarbha, repeated requests and memorandums have failed to get them the incentive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-interns-on-covid-duty-getting-only-rs11k/month/articleshow/78211297.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 20, 2020||Agra||25 students of SNMC test Covid +ve, 24 RAF jawans discharged from hosp||Agra/Bareilly: Twenty-five MBBS students at Agra's SN Medical College (SNMC) were reported Covid-19 positive while 24 jawans of Rapid Action Force (RAF) were discharged from a hospital in Bareilly on Saturday. The MBBS students were admitted to an isolation ward, and are preparing for their exams to start from September 21. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “Majority of the students are asymptomatic. They are being provided the required treatment at the isolation ward. Exams have been postponed for at least three weeks." At least 105 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 4,706. The patients included a dispatcher and a cook attached with the camp officer and AgraDM's residence. Moreover, 95 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 4,706 cases reported in the district, 3,727 [78.9%] have been declared as "cured and discharged". There are now 862 active Covid-19 cases in the district. In Bareilly district, the Covid-19 cases continue to surge as 156 people were reported infected while two died during treatment on Saturday. Overall, 9,294 cases have been reported from Bareilly with 132 deaths. Notably, the 24 RAF jawans, who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19, recovered from infection. In Shahjahanpur, 64 people tested positive and one person died during treatment. So far, 5,038 cases have been reported from here with 70 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/25-students-of-snmc-test-covid-ve-24-raf-jawans-discharged-from-hosp/articleshow/78209106.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||Farmers’ body to protest agri reform bills in US Nagar||Rudrapur: The Udham Singh Nagar unit of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) has announced to stage a sit-in protest at the district magistrate’s office on September 25 against three bills — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — that were passed in the Lok Sabha a few days ago. The farmers’ body has also called for Bharat Bandh on September 25 to protest the bills. Tejender Singh Virk, member of the AIKSCC, told TOI, “These bills are completely anti-farmers and have been passed to benefit the corporate houses. The bills will lead to privatisation of agricultural sector and leave the farmers at the mercy of private players.” He added that BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda tried to mislead the farmers by assuring that MSP (minimum support price) will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-body-to-protest-agri-reform-bills-in-us-nagar/articleshow/78209127.cms||Aakash Ahuja
September 20, 2020||Nashik||IMA in Nashik to take up grievances of Covid patients||Nashik: The Nashik branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to set up a seven-member committee comprising its office bearers to look into the grievances of Covid patients regarding exorbitant rates charged by private hospitals for treatment.If the committee is convinced that the patient concerned or his/her family’s grievance is genuine with respect to charges applied, the IMA would contact the hospital’s doctor to return the additional charges that have been taken.Approximately, 65 private hospitals are providing treatment to Covid patients. Sameer Chandratre, the president of IMA Nashik, said, “There were reports that private hospitals are charging exorbitant rates for treating covid patients. So we have decided to pitch in and help out of the patients.”Once the committee is formed, people can contact IMA Nashik.Chandratre however, said there are five to six big corporate hospitals which provide Covid treatment but they do not fall under the IMA, though the doctors working there are members of the IMA.Thus, if patients of corporate hospitals have bill related problems, the IMA committee could provide little to no help to the complainants. While the district administration is making efforts to provide the best possible treatment at its Covid facilities, people their own conceptions about government and private hospitals as a result of which a large number of people prefer treatment in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ima-in-nashik-to-take-up-grievances-of-covid-patients/articleshow/78209123.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Body of ‘Covid victim’ on way to ghat recalled after negative report||Nagpur: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) sent body of a 50-year-old man for cremation to Manewada ghat after reportedly declaring him Covid-19 positive, only to recall it on time as the test had come ‘negative’. A delay of few minutes would have deprived the man’s family from performing the last rites. The deceased, Ramesh Raut, owned a tea and breakfast stall at Besa Chowk. He was rushed to GMCH by family and friends after he developed illness on Wednesday afternoon. He was initially admitted to ward no. 67 and later shifted to ward 50 due to various complications. The family was told that the Covid test has been done but result was awaited. The family was informed about his death by the hospital staffers in the wee hours of Friday. When the family reached the ward, the staffers informed them that Raut had tested positive. “The staffers said the test result which had come online stated that he was positive. We were also asked to help one of the staffers to wrap the body,” said a relative. The family claimed they were asked to reach the hospital at noon to receive the body from the mortuary. “The body was taken to the crematorium in NMC ambulance along with other Covid victims. The family and friends followed the ambulance to the crematorium. It was then the driver alerted us that there was a call from the GMCH to bring back the body as our late relative’s Covid test has actually come negative,” said a source in family. “The ambulance took the body back to the GMCH where it was handed over to us after much efforts due to norms. We took the body to the late relative’s residence and then to the crematorium for the second time later in the evening,” said the source. Sources from the GMCH mortuary said the NMC ambulance driver insisted on taking Raut’s body to the crematorium. “We feel that the driver was likely prompted by someone to pick up the body on priority and take it to the crematorium. We had handed over the body wrapped like a Covid victim and the NMC ambulance driver had claimed the victim’s name was in the list with him,” said the source. Dr Avinash Gawande, medical superintendent of GMCH, said many a time relatives of patients create chaos at the mortuary which has prompted him to deploy security guards there. “We are taking various corrective measures and also pulling up our staffers for mistakes. The relatives of patients too need to cooperate with us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/body-of-covid-victim-on-way-to-ghat-recalled-after-negative-report/articleshow/78211307.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 20, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Demolition of Rabindranath Tagore’s Puri house wall sparks controversy||KOLKATA/PURI: Intellectuals, heritage activists and students residing in Odisha’s temple town Puri have reacted strongly to the government’s decision to demolish a wall marking the boundary of Patherpuri, a sprawling century-old house that poet laureate Rabindranath Tagore is believed to have built on a plot of land leased from the state. The poet had stayed in Puri in 1939 and subsequently donated the house and the land to the state government for use in promoting education. It had since served as a boy’s hostel of Samanta Chandra Sekhar (SCS) College before being abandoned. According to researchers, Tagore had penned at least three poems — Pravasi, Janmadin and Epare Opare — during his stay in Puri in April-May 1939 as state guest, an honour that had been extended to him by then state chief Biswanath Das. District administration said the boundary was demolished to widen Chakratirtha Road but denied any intent to pull down the dilapidated house that had served as a boy’s hostel for Samanta Chandra Sekhar (SCS) College for years. “We are aware of its heritage. Only the boundary wall facing the main road has been razed. It is an accident-prone area. Widening of the road will prevent accidents,” Puri sub-collector Bhabataran Sahu told TOI. Many, though, aren’t convinced and point to the deliberate neglect of the house and the plot that has turned into a den for drug addicts in recent years. “Instead of preserving the poet’s legacy, the administration is demolishing it,” said Saswat Mohapatra, former student and a member of SCS College’s Kriyanusthan committee. Demolition of a signage of a road named after Odia Bhakti poet Abhimanyu Samantasinghar; razing the house of Ahomia poet Laxminath Bezbarua in Sambalpur and a math in Puri where Guru Nanak had stayed during his visit led to fears that the hammer will next fall on Patherpuri. Jagannath Culture expert Prof Prafulla Rath, who had suggested a library or a memorial be built in the honour of the Viswakabi , said it was not just about another plot but a pilgrimage site. “Tagore was an international poet. We must keep the history of his visit to Puri and his works alive,” he said. Heritage activist Rajib Mohanty said though Rabindranath was a Bengali, the poet was closely associated with Odisha and even had a house in Cuttack. “The government can develop it as a cultural heritage site,” he said. A group of former students of SCS College also protested against the administration’s move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/demolition-of-tagores-puri-house-wall-sparks-controversy/articleshow/78214469.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Demolition of Rabindranath Tagore’s Puri house wall sparks controversy||KOLKATA/PURI: Intellectuals, heritage activists and students residing in Odisha’s temple town Puri have reacted strongly to the government’s decision to demolish a wall marking the boundary of Patherpuri, a sprawling century-old house that poet laureate Rabindranath Tagore is believed to have built on a plot of land leased from the state. The poet had stayed in Puri in 1939 and subsequently donated the house and the land to the state government for use in promoting education. It had since served as a boy’s hostel of Samanta Chandra Sekhar (SCS) College before being abandoned. According to researchers, Tagore had penned at least three poems — Pravasi, Janmadin and Epare Opare — during his stay in Puri in April-May 1939 as state guest, an honour that had been extended to him by then state chief Biswanath Das. District administration said the boundary was demolished to widen Chakratirtha Road but denied any intent to pull down the dilapidated house that had served as a boy’s hostel for Samanta Chandra Sekhar (SCS) College for years. “We are aware of its heritage. Only the boundary wall facing the main road has been razed. It is an accident-prone area. Widening of the road will prevent accidents,” Puri sub-collector Bhabataran Sahu told TOI. Many, though, aren’t convinced and point to the deliberate neglect of the house and the plot that has turned into a den for drug addicts in recent years. “Instead of preserving the poet’s legacy, the administration is demolishing it,” said Saswat Mohapatra, former student and a member of SCS College’s Kriyanusthan committee. Demolition of a signage of a road named after Odia Bhakti poet Abhimanyu Samantasinghar; razing the house of Ahomia poet Laxminath Bezbarua in Sambalpur and a math in Puri where Guru Nanak had stayed during his visit led to fears that the hammer will next fall on Patherpuri. Jagannath Culture expert Prof Prafulla Rath, who had suggested a library or a memorial be built in the honour of the Viswakabi , said it was not just about another plot but a pilgrimage site. “Tagore was an international poet. We must keep the history of his visit to Puri and his works alive,” he said. Heritage activist Rajib Mohanty said though Rabindranath was a Bengali, the poet was closely associated with Odisha and even had a house in Cuttack. “The government can develop it as a cultural heritage site,” he said. A group of former students of SCS College also protested against the administration’s move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/demolition-of-tagores-puri-house-wall-sparks-controversy/articleshow/78209941.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 20, 2020||Pune||‘Pujaris’ and devotees ‘zoom’ in as temples open doors to online rituals||PUNE: The Ganga aarti at Har ki Pauri in Hardwar, death rites at Varanasi’s Dashashwamedh ghat, darshan at Mumbai’s Siddhivinayak temple, and the early morning pujas at many big temples now require no travel. Neither do the other pujas. Ever since circumstances became prohibitive for in-person congregations, these rituals and many other religious ceremonies are being watched or performed from home via online services provided by temples and priests across the country. Live darshan, an assortment of e-sevas, and delivery of puja material and prasad to devotees at home can be booked online through websites, and directly with the purohits. Shri Siddhivinayak Ganapati Mandir in Mumbai, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine, Vitthal Rukmini Temple of Pandharpur are among those offering e-sevas. As the faithful go online to seek divine succour through pandits and pujaris across the country, the community has also made complementary moves. From WhatsApp video calls and Zoom to Google Meet, and upgraded internet plans, many have learnt the digital way on smartphones and laptops to fit in the steady stream of devotees and rituals. Acharya Pandey, a purohit in Varanasi, quickly picked up tech skills and began working online during the lockdown. He said he had many puja requests, especially during Chaitri Navaratra, which started just as the lockdown in March began. “In these circumstances, devotees prefer to worship from home rather than make a personal visit. Most pujaris in Varanasi have upgraded their net plans to meet the growing demand of online worship,” Pandey said. Dakshina is directly transferred to the pujaris who now have their own UPI accounts. A senior purohit from Har ki Pauri in Hardwar said the online platform is a blessing for hundreds of them from the holy town. “Many went through a tough time during the lockdown. Since they used to earn and spend daily, they didn’t have enough savings. The online platform ensured good money to run their families. Most purohits and pujaris are now educating themselves on how to use other digital forms,” he said. Amol Mule, a purohit from Pune, said he was quite busy during Shravan around August after his post about conducting online rituals. “I had many devotees from Pune, in other parts of the country, Dubai and the UK wanting to perform pujas. I send photographs of the paraphernalia required two days in advance. The actual puja is done via a video-conferencing platform. I conduct the rituals just like I would if I was physically present at a devotee’s home. I chant the mantras and they repeat after me, and follow my directions.” As many wait for temples and religious destinations to open across the country, Seniority, an e-commerce platform for senior citizens, has tied up with World of Devotion to provide customized religious services in a digital mode. Representatives from both organisations said devotees pre-book pujas and watch the exclusive streaming of customized rituals being performed by the priests via direct-to-home services. The service allows devotees to make offerings to the deity. A package with prasad and sacred items is delivered to the devotee after the ritual is complete. These cost between Rs 1,350 to Rs 10,001. Co-founder of Seniority, Tapan Mishra, said the online prayer services are helping devotees fulfil their religious aspirations at home. “Our service is new, but the response is encouraging. A customer from Chennai had booked a shraadh puja during pitru paksh. People can opt for consultation with the priests of Hardwar and Varanasi too,” he added. Live darshan at prominent temples is also popular. According to a spokesperson from Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, prayers are being offered at one of the many live darshan facilities made available by the trust. “We have an online live darshan facility which drew a huge viewership during the lockdown. We have a live feed of the temple and aartis. The feed is also available on our website and cellphone application. Lakhs are praying online through these mediums,” the temple’s spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pujaris-and-devotees-zoom-in-as-temples-open-doors-to-online-rituals/articleshow/78211302.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: International drug racket busted, cocaine worth Rs 4 crore seized||NEW DELHI: A man has been arrested for allegedly trafficking cocaine, disguised as rolls of thread, after a controlled delivery operation from Delhi. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) also seized 670 grams of the drug, worth around Rs 4 crore. The contraband was allegedly sourced from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The NCB has launched a manhunt for other members of this syndicate. Deputy director KPS Malhotra claimed that the distribution network of this cartel is under an exhaustive probe as it has links with high-profile users from Bollywood. The contraband parcel was seized during examination of import customs. It was declared as an sample for tailoring material but the drugs were found hidden under the layers of thread. “DG, NCB Rakesh Asthana then issued a controlled delivery orders for the parcel to unearth the syndicate,” Malhotra added. The parcel delivery was kept alive but the drugs were replaced by a dummy package. “After the KYC of the consignee was completed, our team apprehended the man from Vasai, Mumbai. The network unravelled after he was interrogated,” said the deputy director. The bureau claimed that the accused, S Ghangale, is associated with several high-profile drug traffickers of Mumbai. “DJs and party organisers, who are connected to the party circles of Mumbai, are also part of the network. Ghangale has been taken on transit remand and will be produced in a court in Delhi,” said Malhotra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/intl-drug-racket-busted-cocaine-worth-rs-4cr-seized/articleshow/78211322.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Agra||Two held for smuggling of arms in Mathura||AGRA: Mathura police on Saturday arrested two persons who were allegedly involved in interstate smuggling, sale and purchase of illegal factory-made rifles. Police said that the duo had been identified as Mubarak (30) and Ummar (45). They have a criminal history and several FIRs registered against them at various police stations. They were intercepted at chowki Bangar Tiraha under Inder Kosi Kala police station while they were trying to smuggle guns from Haryana. To conceal their activity, they disassembled barrels from the guns and kept them in a jute bag. Besides, they travelled on foot instead of using their vehicles, police said. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said that four SBBL and one DBBL rifles have been recovered from their possession. They were involved in smuggling, sale and purchase of illegal weapons in Delhi-NCR, Haryana, Rajasthan and UP. Other members involved in the gang will be nabbed soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-held-for-smuggling-of-arms-in-mathura/articleshow/78209130.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nashik||Yoga for patients admitted to Covid hosp||Nashik: Patients undergoing treatment at district Covid hospital will attend Yoga classes and will be given Ayush Kadha along with turmeric milk as part of their diet as suggested by civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande. Ratna Raokhande, who has taken the charge as the civil surgeon after Suresh Jagdale was sent on leave, held a meeting with the doctors of the Ayush department on Saturday and instructed them to prepare a new diet plan for the patients in the Covid hospital. Raokhande said at present there is no proper medicine to cure Covid-19, hence the best thing to do would be to boost the immunity system with the help of Yoga, mediation, nutritious diet along with the curative treatment. Yoga and meditation will help in the proper functioning of the lungs and increase the oxygen level. She instructed officials of the Ayush department to prepare a schedule for the patients. Yoga instructors of the Ayush department would conduct a yoga session for the patients in the morning. Breakfast would include a fruit juice rich in vitamin C. At around 3 pm, they would be given Ayush Kadha, which has ingredients like Tulsi, black pepper, Ashwagandha among others, followed by a mediation session. Before the patient goes to sleep at night, they will be provided with turmeric milk, said officials of the civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/yoga-for-patients-admitted-to-covid-hosp/articleshow/78209138.cms||Santosh Sonawane
September 20, 2020||Bhopal||MP: School bells set to ring with SOPs, 50% student strength; online classes optional||BHOPAL: After the state government go ahead, schools are gearing to welcome senior students (Class 9 to 12) though at 50% capacity. Initially, the schools would open for students for clearing their doubts and subject teachers would be available to help them while regular online classes would continue. Taking utmost precautions as specified by the state government’s SOP the schools are doing everything they can to make the reopening safe for students, staff as well as parents. From thermal temperature scanners to pulse oximeters schools are preparing to confront for challenges, without compromising students and staff safety. “The schools, including all the furniture, doors, handles, railings (contact points) will be sanitized in the morning and after the school gets over. We will also check the temperature of all the staff and students before allowing them entry in the school premises,” said Pankaj Sharma, principal, Sagar Public School. Rajesh Sharma, principal of Bal Bhavan School said, “We have made an isolation room in case a student or teacher comes down with flu. We also have oximeters to check their oxygen levels. We are following all the guidelines and SOP given by the school education department as safety of the students and teachers is our priority.” Schools have also made it clear that all students and teachers will compulsorily wear masks and will also carry small bottles of sanitizers with them at all times. “Though we will keep sanitizers in washrooms, reception area, in classrooms and staffroom, it is also advisable for everyone to carry a small bottle of sanitizer so that in case they need it after touching railings, door-knobs or while exchanging books or notes they may immediately sanitize their hands,” added Sharma. Schools are also removing chairs and desks form classrooms to reduce the number of students in a class while attending the doubt-clearing sessions and to ensure proper social distancing inside the school premises. Director IES Manisha Kawathekar said, “As only 50% of the staff will be called, and there are staff rooms at all floors, social distancing will not be a problem. We have made arrangements to maintain a six-foot distance among teachers and among students at all times. The school was being sanitized throughout the lockdown and we are continuing the same even now.” As per the government guidelines, many schools have also released consent forms for parents in case students express their desire to go to school to clear doubts. The schools have decided not to let students enter the premises of the school without having a written consent letter from their parents. To prevent further risk, schools have decided to put a hold on operating buses for the time being. Once students start coming to school in bigger numbers, schools may start the bus service, with proper precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/school-bells-set-to-ring-with-sops-50-student-strength-online-classes-optional/articleshow/78211309.cms||Shuchita Jha
September 20, 2020||Agra||Rein in policemen: BJP MLA to Aligarh SSP||Agra: Aligarh BJP MLA Sanjeev Raja on Saturday asked the SSP to “rein in his policemen or the party workers will be forced to teach them a lesson”. His remark came after a BJP worker was allegedly beaten up by policemen in the Bannadevi police station on Friday. “If they behave in such a manner with a worker of the ruling party, we can imagine how they behave with the common man,” the MLA said. On Saturday, party workers staged a protest at the police station and demanded action against the policemen involved in the case. They also raised slogans against UP Police. When contacted, circle officer Raghvendra Singh said that the matter is being investigated. He added that action will be taken against the policemen if they are found guilty. This is not the first incident when BJP workers and policemen in Aligarh have come face to face. Last month, BJP MLA from Aligarh’s Iglas constituency, Rajkumar Sahyogi, had alleged that he was thrashed by the SO of Gonda police station when he had gone there to enquire about a case registered against a VHP worker. Later, the UP government transferred the SP (rural) and suspended the SO, who incidentally was given a clean chit after the then Aligarh IG submitted a report to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rein-in-policemen-bjp-mla-to-aligarh-ssp/articleshow/78209163.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 20, 2020||Nashik||Efforts by admin, public help improve Covid recovery rate||Nashik: Contributions from all quarters in Jalgaon district have jointly helped the health and administration improve the Covid-19 recovery rate that has crossed 74%. Even the case fatality rate has dropped below 2.5%.Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut said: “The administration and the health department prepared infrastructure for early detection, isolation and treatment of Covid-19 patients. The citizens also took it upon themselves to raise Covid care centres and dedicated Covid health centres in the rural areas. This has contributed in the recovery of the patients.”The Covid-19 death rate has gone down sharply from 3.8% on August 19 to below 2.5% on Saturday, even as the rate of recovery of patients jumped from 68.5 % to 74.6 % during the corresponding period.Raut said the biggest challenge was detection of Covid-19 cases and providing appropriate treatment for those who came in ‘late’ for the treatment.The availability of about 700 oxygenated beds in the rural areas and setting up of dedicated health centres at almost every 20 km helped in taking care of patients who had mild or moderate symptoms. This, in turn, ensured that the chances of needing critical care were less.The collector appreciated the help of people in ‘bedside assistance’ at the Government Medical College and the task force that had been continuously updating on the treatment.“At such times, there is a shortage of employees and the community contributed in the ‘bedside assistance’. The task force is conducting the analysis of the cases on daily basis and telling us the measures required to be carried out,” Raut added.In the district, 742 people tested positive on Saturday taking the total cases to 43,301 and 833 were discharged from the hospitals. There are 290 people being treated in ICU and 1,080 people have succumbed Covid..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/efforts-by-admin-public-help-improve-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/78209162.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Album to preserve folk songs of Irular tribe||Coimbatore: While members of the Irular tribe staying in settlements in and around the district have a rich collection of songs on their customs and collective memory, the musical pieces have not been recorded in their pristine form. This is set to change with tribal culture enthusiasts and Irular musicians planning to record the songs and release an album.R Selvan, 35, of Alangandi Irular village in Karamadai, says he grew up hearing the songs. “These songs must have been in vogue for around two centuries. As there is no script for our language, we have been preserving our culture and memories through them,” he told TOI.Irular songs are accompanied by wind instrument kogalu, percussion instruments porai and tavil, and cymbals known as jalra. The songs are always accompanied by the instruments and nothing is played solo. At their real settings, the songs are also accompanied by dance. This proved to be a hassle during recording. “At the recording theatre, we had to record each instrument separately. But the musicians refused to perform solo. We had to convince them and train them before we could record,” said Selvan, who is a singer himself. This took them around three days to record a song. Both men and women sing. Some songs are duets and some are solos with chorus. Thulasi of Senguttai village was the main singer.Irular songs talk of customs such as marriage, emotions such as love and events such as honey gathering, and also yearning for the good old days, says R Lakshmanan, a writer, and collector of Irular songs, who facilitated the initiative. “There was an attempt to record Irular songs in Attapadi, but they recorded only the lyric and percussions. Kogalu is primal for Irular music. It is the kogalu player who sets the tune and leads other performers, including the singer. We have taken the trouble to include the instrument in the recording,” he said.Kogalu players are becoming rare. Once there were 15 of them, but now only a couple of people, such as Andi of Senguttai, play it. They also have plans to train people in kogalu, says Lakshmanan. They have recorded more than 20 songs, of which 10 will be released as a CD, said Lakshmanan. “Irular musicians have named the album Emtu Nadu Male Nadu (My Country Hill Country). This is the beginning of an important song, which speaks about the glory of their old days. We are planning to release it in a month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/album-to-preserve-folk-songs-of-irular-tribe/articleshow/78205010.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Mayor hand in fixing firm for mapping land use pattern’||Kolhapur: The corporators of Bharatiya Janata Party and Tararani Aghadi has alleged that mayor Nilofer Ajrekar was putting pressure on the civic administration to change eligibility criteria for the tender to be called for mapping existing land use (ELU).The BJP-Tararani Aghadi corporators have sought scrapping of the tendering process and demanded resignation of mayor, who is from the Congress. The mapping of ELU is a major exercise before drafting of 20-year development plan (DP) of the city.The existing DP has ended earlier this year and before the start of the New Year, a new DP has to be approved by the state government. The DP is the plan to develop public amenities for which land plots are reserved.Satyajeet Kadam, senior corporator of Tararani Aghadi, said, “After three-year long tender process, a firm has been finalised for mapping ELU. The firm approved for the work was never in the earlier bidding process. Due to a letter from the mayor, changes were made related to previous experience and financial status of the firm. The changes suited the firm, which has been now finalised.”Kadam said for DP, tendering process needs to be held as per the rules and if any firm, which has less experience, is appointed then the DP will be full of flaws. “The cost of mapping ELU is much less than approved amount of Rs 7 crore. Despite opposition from the auditors, the amount has been fixed. We have written to civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti to look into the matter, investigate it and carry out fresh process of appointing qualified firms,” added Kadam.Kadam said that of the ten firms who applied through the tender process, only three based in Nashik were qualified for the bid.Ajrekar told TOI, “The finalization of any tender is the authority of the civic chief. For the last three years, no firm was finalised. There is urgent need to start the work for drafting DP. As per the suggestions of the corporators, I had asked the administration to make changes in the tender criteria, which led to response from ten firms. We expect that when there is such competition for the bid of any work, the quality of the work is improved. The allegations by opposition are absurd and false.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mayor-hand-in-fixing-firm-for-mapping-land-use-pattern/articleshow/78209164.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli man harassed to repay loan found hanging at home||Kolhapur: Islampur police in Sangli district have registered a case against two people for abetment of suicide after a man was found hanging at his residence on Wednesday evening.The deceased, Prakash Sathe, has reportedly left a suicide note naming the duo and accusing them of harassing him for failing to return the money he had borrowed from them. As per the complaint lodged by his wife, Prakash used to work as a fruit vendor before the lockdown and took to working as a daily wager. He had borrowed Rs 10,000 from two moneylenders in May to start his business again. However, two people used to call him and harass him to return the money with interest. On September 10, the duo came to Prakash’s residence and sought Rs 60,000. They threatened to kill him if the money was not returned in four days. Prakash called his wife on September 16 and told her that the duo had forcibly taken his motorcycle. He also said he had come to Munde village near Karad fearing for his life. However, Prakash returned home the same day and went out saying he was going to get the money. He returned home and locked himself. When he did not open the door despite repeated knocks, family members broke open the door and found him hanging from the ceiling. Prakash also requested the police to return the motorcycle to his family in his suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-man-harassed-to-repay-loan-found-hanging-at-home/articleshow/78209152.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court restrains Maharashtra govt, Panvel civic body in hospital bill case||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has restrained the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the state government from taking coercive action against a private hospital in Kharghar in a spat over the alleged overcharging of Covid-19 patients. The direction by a bench of Justice Shahrukh Kathawalla and Justice Riyaz Chagla came after it was submitted that the PCMC had issued new show-cause notices to cancel the registration certificate of Niramaya Hospital, where 50 beds are used for Covid-19 patients. Niramaya had first moved the high court after it was issued a show-cause notice on August 19 by municipal commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh to cancel its registration certificate for overcharging three patients, including a relative of the PCMC audit team head, Ramesh Ingle. On August 27, the high court stayed it, noting it was "prima facie without jurisdiction". On August 28, the PCMC passed an order stating its audit team's findings on any mistake or shortcoming in the bills would be binding on a hospital and it could not challenge it before any authority. Niramaya again rushed to the high court for interim relief after another show-cause notice was issued on September 1.  Its interim application said the notice referred to a complaint of a patient who was admitted for five days and had paid the entire bill of Rs 64,700 for his treatment, including medicines. The notice said that the PCMC audit team had examined the bill and concluded that Rs 35,250 was excessively charged and collected from the patient. It sought Niramaya's reply in 72 hours, failing which it would cancel the registration certificate and approval to treat Covid-19 patients. On September 8, the judge disposed of the interim application after the PCMC advocate said the September 1 order would be unconditionally withdrawn. At the September 17 hearing, senior advocate Anil Anturkar with advocate Vishal Thadhani argued for the hospital that after the September 1 order was withdrawn unconditionally on September 8, new notices were issued by the PCMC, which was "very shocking" and "an abuse of power".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-high-court-restrains-maharashtra-govt-panvel-civic-body-in-hospital-bill-case/articleshow/78217282.cms||Rosy Sequeira
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘Work with large-scale industries, private nursing homes to trump Covid’||Chandrapur: At a time when the administration is struggling to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in the district, suggestions are pouring in from political bigwigs. Senior Congressman and former member of parliament Naresh Puglia has suggested undertaking integrated efforts with the help of industries and private nursing homes, while Jan Vikas Sena has called for acquisition of hospitals owned by public sector and private sector industries. In a letter sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Puglia sought the introduction of a three-tier system under which the health department, private nursing homes and industries could work together to deal with the crisis. He said the government should rope in large-scale industries to build Covid hospitals and hand over the responsibility of tackling the patients at such facilities to the industries’ management. He added that doctors and paramedics were under deep stress and government facilities were running out of beds to treat the patients. Puglia suggested that the industries should bear 50% of the total expenses, while the remaining 50% could be provided through district mining royalty. His letter has a 14-point charter to deal with the situation. Meanwhile, Jan Vikas Sena, led by Pradeep, alias Pappu Deshmukh, has demanded for acquisition of hospitals owned by Western Coal Fields, Ordnance Factory and other large-scale industries in Chandrapur. He suggested acquiring major marriage halls and lawns in the district to build Covid treatment facilities. Deshmukh also sought insurance cover for doctors and paramedics serving Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-with-large-scale-industries-private-nursing-homes-to-trump-covid/articleshow/78211346.cms||Mazhar Ali
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Downpour raises twin reservoir levels||Hyderabad: Incessant rains may bring a relief to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB), as water levels in twin reservoirs, Osmansagar and Himayatsagar, are steadily increasing. For the past two days, arrival of fresh inflows into Osmansagar and Himayatsagar due to streams led to these reservoirs in brim situations after rains in upstream areas. A one-foot rise has been observed in the water level (1,762 feet) at Osmansagar on Saturday, as compared to water level recorded (1,761 feet) on Friday. Regarding Himayatsagar, the recorded water levels on Saturday was 1,747 feet, a slight rise over the previous day’s water level. To avoid water levels of the two reservoirs reaching dead storage, the water board is maintaining levels and drawing two million to five million gallons of water in a day (MGD) in order to provide tanker supply toconsumers. “We are expecting inflows into twin reservoirs may increase further,” said a HMWSSB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/downpour-raises-twin-reservoir-levels/articleshow/78211343.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 20, 2020||Agra||Etah DM tests Covid-19 +ve||Agra: Etah district magistrate (DM) Sukhlal Bharti has been tested Covid-19 positive along with six other officials. The DM was unwell for the past week. The 55-year-old has now been referred to a private hospital in Gurugram. Additional commissioner (Aligarh region) Kanchan Saran has taken charge as the district's interim DM. Chief medical officer of Etah district Dr Arvind Garg said, “The DM was feeling unwell for a while. He was tested Covid-19 positive following an RT-PCR test on Friday. He is getting treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram." Besides the DM, additional district magistrate (finance and revenue) Keshav Kumar and additional district magistrate (administration) Vivek Mishra have been found Covid-19 positive. Both the officers are asymptomatic and are in home isolation. On Saturday, 24 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Etah, taking the district tally to 1,404. So far, 12 Covid patients have passed away in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/etah-dm-tests-covid-19-ve/articleshow/78209173.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||Chinese among 3 arrested for spying||NEW DELHI: The special cell of Delhi Police has arrested a Chinese woman and a Nepalese man, besides freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, and claimed to have busted an espionage ring. All three have been booked under the Official Secrets Act (OSA) for allegedly passing sensitive information to Chinese intelligence. The special cell has claimed that information on army movements, defence acquisitions, foreign policy and Dalai Lama was conveyed to the Chinese intelligence in lieu of money that was routed to Sharma through shell firms and hawala channels. “The arrested Chinese woman, Qing Shi, and her associate, Sher Singh alias Raj Bohra, were working for two Chinese persons, whom they have identified as Jhang Chang and his wife, Chang-li-lia,” said DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav. Jhang and Chang-li-lia — who are believed to be associated with China’s ministry of state security —were running two companies, namely MZ Pharmacy and MZ Malls, under assumed identities of Suraj and Usha, investigations have revealed. The two are at present in China and the arrested Qing and Singh were running the firms (as directors) from Mahipalpur on their behalf. So far, the police claim to have traced 10 transactions worth Rs 30 lakh from the shell firms to Sharma. “During the search of the house of Sharma in Pitampura, we have recovered a laptop, some confidential documents related to Indian defence and some other incriminating documents which are being examined,” said DCP Yadav, adding that Qing and Singh have been found supplying Sharma huge amounts of money routed through hawala channels. An intelligence agency had tipped off Delhi Police about Sharma’s alleged links with some foreign intelligence officials, claiming that he had been receiving funds from his handler through illegal means and the Western Union money transfer platform for conveying sensitive information, which concerned national security and foreign relations. An FIR under OSA was registered and Sharma was arrested after a preliminary enquiry. During interrogation, Sharma is claimed to have disclosed his involvement in procurement of sensitive information and conveying them to his Chinese handlers, codenamed Michael and George, based in Kunming, China, through different digital channels. He was allegedly in the process of sending some similar documents to his handlers but was caught before that. Yadav explained how Sharma was allegedly recruited by the Chinese. “During 2010-2014, he wrote a weekly column for Global Times, widely known as a mouthpiece of the Chinese government. After reading those columns, Chinese intelligence agent Michael contacted Sharma through his LinkedIn account and invited him to Kunming for an interview with a Chinese media company. The entire trip was funded by Michael. During the meeting, Michael and his junior, Xou, asked Sharma to provide inputs on various aspects of India-China relations,” said Yadav’s statement. Between 2016 and 2018, Sharma is alleged to have been in regular contact with Michael and Xou. “He was tasked to provide information/inputs on issues like Indian deployment on Bhutan-Sikkim-China tri-junction, including Doklam; pattern of India-Myanmar military co-operation; India-China boundary issue etc. Subsequently, Sharma had one meeting each with Michael and Xou in Laos and Maldives and gave briefings on the above-mentioned topics,” Yadav claimed. Sharma was in contact with Michael and Xou through email and social media too. In January 2019, Sharma came in contact with George, who too is based in Kunming and is believed to be associated with an intelligence unit called Strategic Support Force, which works under People's Liberation Army. When Sharma allegedly went to Kunming via Kathmandu to meet him, George was introduced as general manager of a Chinese media company. During the meeting, George is said to have asked Sharma to write/inform about Dalai Lama-related issues. For this, he was allegedly offered 500 dollars per article. George told Sharma that they will send him money through his company’s sister concern based in Mahipalpur, Delhi, which was being operated by a Chinese woman, Qing Shi. Sharma allegedly received more than Rs 30 Lakh from George in about 10 instalments between January 2019 and September 2020 for the information provided by him. He had more meetings with George in Malaysia and Kunming. “Forensic analysis of the seized mobile phones and laptops is being conducted to unearth the entire network and conspiracy in this case. Identities and roles of other foreign nationals involved in the conspiracy are also being ascertained,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-among-3-arrested-for-spying/articleshow/78212365.cms||Raj Shekhar
September 20, 2020||Nashik||Over 1,600 discharged from Covid facilities in Nashik district||Nashik: A total of 1,642 Covid-19 patients were on Saturday discharged from various facilities spread out across the district after having recovered from the contagion. With this, the total number of active patients in the district stands at 10,091. Meanwhile, Nashik city registered a surge of 879 new patients on Saturday, civic administration authorities said. On the other hand, rural parts of the district reported 442 fresh cases. The district also reported 16 deaths, of which, six were from Nashik city, eight from Nashik Rural and two from Malegaon. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-1600-discharged-from-covid-facilities-in-nashik-district/articleshow/78209196.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Man booked for wife’s suicide||Nagpur: Suchin Irdande, 35, was booked by Bhiwapur police on Friday for abetting his wife Nisha to end her life. She had jumped to her death in a well at her in-laws’ place at Salebhatti Chor. It’s learnt, Irdande had been harassing his wife to bring cash and valuables from her parents since their marriage. Bhiwapur police have registered a case following complaint from Nisha’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-booked-for-wifes-suicide/articleshow/78211354.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Only 77 private colleges granted affiliation||HYDERABAD: Although admission schedule for the academic year 2020-21 was recently released by the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE), only 77 out of 1,486 private colleges in the state have been sanctioned affiliation until now. In addition to this, while a list of 1,136 government junior colleges affiliated for the academic year 2020-21 has been uploaded to the board’s website, the details of these 77 private colleges are yet to be uploaded. “We have been waiting for more than six months for the state government to give us an exemption from submitting the fire no objection certificate (NOC), which is mandatory to get affiliation from the inter board. But, without taking any call on the subject, the board has released admission schedule,” said Satish G, the honorary president of Telangana Private Junior Colleges Managements Association. He added that as per the board’s website, not even a single private college has been sanctioned affiliation yet. Meanwhile, the private college managements said that they have already started accepting admissions according to the schedule released by the board. They have also started classes for intermediate first-year students from Friday, abiding by the rules. They said that they are expecting the state to take a call on the fire NOCs in the next couple of days. Until the academic year 2019-20, colleges with over 15 meters of height had to provide a NOC from the fire department for sanction of affiliation. However, in February 2020, it was made mandatory for colleges above 6 meters height to also submit an NOC. Interestingly, this rule is neither applicable to schools nor degree colleges, the managements pointed out. TSBIE secretary Syed Omer Jaleel said that they are aiming at completing the affiliation process by the end of September. “Until now, the board has granted affiliation to 77 private colleges, 404 government colleges and 752 government sector colleges,” Jaleel told TOI, adding that colleges cannot start admission process without getting board’s affiliation. He said that students, who are waiting to take admissions in private colleges, in the meantime, can access digital lessons being telecast by the board through TV and the internet. As per the board’s notifications, college managements have time till September 22, with a late fee of Rs 15, 000, to apply for affiliation. The last date to complete admission process is September 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-77-pvt-colleges-granted-affiliation/articleshow/78211360.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Rising veggie prices leave household budgets in tatters||Ludhiana: Continuous rise in the prices of widely consumed vegetables, including potato and tomato, is making life of the middle class families difficult, as they are finding it hard to manage the household budget. Over the past few days, following an increase of up to 40% in the prices, veggies like onion, green peas and cauliflower have gone out of the reach of families with average income. The prices of other commonly used items like capsicum, ginger, green chilli and coriander have also skyrocketed across the retail markets, leaving the budget of middle class families in tatters. According to some vegetable vendors, low production of potato, tomato and green peas and onion in several parts of Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra has affected their supply and led to the increase in prices. A vegetable vendor Mukesh Kumar said, “The prices of onion and potato have shot through the roof in the past few days. In the first week of September, both onion and potato were selling for Rs 20-25/kg and now their prices have reached Rs 40/kg.” Due to extreme rainfall in several parts of the country, most of the potato and onion crop has been damaged, which resulted in their short supply, he said. Joginder Yadav, another vendor from the Jalandhar bypass vegetable market, said, “The prices of other items like garlic, cauliflower and coriander have been also on the higher side for some time and selling for more than Rs 100 per kg.” He further said, "In order to control the spiralling prices by increasing the domestic availability of onion, the government of India had banned the export of all varieties of crop, but it will not ease the burden on common people, as all commonly used vegetables are selling above Rs 50 per kg.” Meanwhile, the city residents, especially the women, who have to manage the kitchen, are upset over the rise in prices of vegetables. Anju Gupta, a homemaker in Sham Nagar, said, “After tomato, now prices of onion have started affecting the budget of middle class families. It has almost doubled compared to the first week of September. Since we can’t do away with potato and onion, we are still buying those in small quantities and trying to manage the household budget.” Another local homemaker Amanjot kaur, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “My family’s monthly budget is likely to get affected due to the surge in vegetables prices, more so because private companies have slashed the salaries of their employees by 30-40% since the lockdown days.” Moreover, it has become a regular feature to see increase in the prices of commonly used vegetables, as there are no government checks on the sale and purchase of vegetables, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rising-veggie-prices-leave-household-budgets-in-tatters/articleshow/78209188.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Rly instructs staff, Childline to verify details of those travelling with many children||Ludhiana: To counter child trafficking, railway authorities have instructed Childline members of city railway station to conduct random inspection in city-bound trains and get details of passengers travellign with more than two children, especially those coming from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Recently, railway protection forces had rescued 15 children. According to northern railway intelligence wing, minors are brought into the city to work labourers in the many factories of Ludhiana. Kulwinder Singh, in charge of Chileline ( Ludhiana railway station), said “We have constituted teams for random inspection in trains coming from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh as well as the platforms of the city station. We verify details of people travelling with more than two minor children.” According to him, railway has asked the security forces to coordinate with Childline members as the rush in station premises will increase owing to festival season. Balbir Singh, inspector at government railway police (Ldh), confirmed that details of passengers travelling with more than two minor children are being verified and random inspections are being conducted in incoming trains. “Moreover, we have also started making announcements in station premises to create awareness among passengers as they can also raise alarm if they notice anything suspicious. We are on alert after getting inputs from intelligence wing that labour crises in Ludhiana can led to increase in child trafficking, as poor families in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are forced to send their children to city for earning some money.” Tarun Kumar, station director of Ludhiana, said, “Railway has also given directions to ticket checking staff to keep vigilant eye on passengers travelling with more than two minor children and inform the Childline and railway protection forces team to verify the details to curb the menace of child trafficking.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rly-instructs-staff-childline-to-verify-details-of-those-travelling-with-many-children/articleshow/78209194.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Electrification of Jaipur-Delhi train route to be completed by October||JAIPUR: The much awaited electrification of Jaipur-Delhi and Jaipur-Sawai Madhopur is likely to be completed by October this year. Also, the completion of Jaipur to Delhi electrification will also open Jaipur-Agra electrified route via Bandikui (It is on Jaipur-Delhi route). Authorities said that they are hopeful to ask the commissioner for railway safety to commission these routes by November. Work on both the routes was expected to be completed by March, 31, however, the Covid-19, lockdown and scarcity of labourers proved deterrent and affected the pace of work. After completion, travel time between Jaipur and Delhi will be curtailed by at least 20 minutes. “This will also depend on commissioner railway safety as to what speed he would recommend for our locomotives,” said a senior officer. “Presently work is in progress on the Jaipur yard and its four out of six lines. The work includes poles, laying of cables and connection. It is completed up to Gandhi Nagar railway station and engineering work has been completed. It is in the final stages and hopefully the Jaipur yard work would get over by October,” said Mahesh Sharma, senior public relations officer, rail electrification, told TOI. At the Jaipur yard, the traction work including laying of cables and other technical work is on for its four lines as work on two other main lines has already been completed. As the Jaipur-Delhi electrification would be over, it will pave way for an electrified route for Jaipur to Agra. “Bandikui to Agra is already completed. As Jaipur to Bandkui, which is on Jaipur-Delhi route, will be completed, it will enable us to open Jaipur-Agra route too,” said a senior officer. On the Jaipur-Sawai Madhopur route and its progress, Sunil Beniwal, chief public relations officer, said, “It has been completed up to Shivdaspura station on the outskirts of Jaipur. From Shivdaspura to Jaipur, the work is in progress and this too would be completed by October 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/october-date-for-jaipur-delhi-rail-electrification/articleshow/78211353.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||‘Touching feet, hugging banned during poll campaign’||Jaipur: As filing of nomination papers for the first phase of panchayat elections to 1,003 gram gram panchayats and 9,355 wards ended on Saturday, the state election commission (SEC) issued guidelines for the candidates and their supporters which prevented them from shaking hands, hugging and touching feet at the time of election campaigning to ensure social distancing under Covid norms. The candidates can withdraw their nominations till 3 pm on Sunday. The final list of candidates will also be released on September 20 after allotment of election symbols. The polling in these gram panchayats will be held on September 28. An official said the final list of candidates after scrutiny and withdrawal will be received at the SEC headquarters by Sunday late night. The SEC guidelines for the candidates stated that a group of five people will be allowed for door-to-door campaigning by the candidates. During election campaign, the candidates and their supporters are required to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and sanitizing their hands at regular intervals. It is also directed to strictly follow the Unlock-4 guidelines issued by the state government on August 30 for social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations, where 50 persons will be permitted from September 21. Apart from this, the Covid guidelines issued by the Centre and ministry of health and family welfare must be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/touching-feet-hugging-banned-during-poll-campaign/articleshow/78211355.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Bhawani Singh cremated with full state honours||Jaisalmer: Home guard Bhawani Singh, resident of Tamlore in Barmer, who was crushed under a tractor by sand mafia in Dausa, was cremated with government honours on Saturday. The body reached his native village Tamlore on Saturday and thousands of people came to salute the brave soldier. Rajasthan police gave him guard of honour. BSF and border home guards were also present at the funeral. Meanwhile, Gadra road sub division officer Rajesh Kumar, additional SP Pushpendra Singh Hada, border home guard deputy commandant Pradeep Sethi, Gadra road SHO Amar Singh Rathore and other politicians and public representatives also arrived to pay their last respects. Sarpanch Hindu Singh announced to build a water kiosk at Rs 2 lakh in the memory of the martyr. Congress youth leader Azad Singh Rathore thanked the state government for giving compensation of Rs 22 lakh to the family members of the deceased, job to a dependent and DG honour posthumously. Team Thar convener Raghuveer Singh Tamlore said that residents of Tamlore have shown their bravery during 1965 and 1971 wars with Pakistan. Inspired by the same tradition, Bhawani Singh despite being the only son of his parents joined border home guard. He sacrificed his life while fighting the sand mafia in Dausa on Thursday. The convener has demanded the sub division officer to name the stadium at Tamlore after Bhawani Singh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhawani-singh-cremated-with-full-state-honours/articleshow/78211356.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Rajkot||Murder convict on run held for killing 6-yr-old girl||Rajkot: The 40-year-old murder convict, who had escaped from prison, was arrested on Saturday of brutal murder of a six-year-old girl in August, from Karena village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district. Police said the accused, Vikram alias Kalu Damor (40), had allegedly slit the throat of the child and smashed her head with a hammer after she started crying when Damor tried to rape her. The child had entered into Damor’s hut while playing in a labour colony on Vavadi Road in Rajkot on August 13.“At the crime spot, when we lined up all the labourers for questioning, one labourer named Vikram alias Kalu Damor was nowhere to be found. We interrogated 1,000 to 1,500-odd labourers and building contractors at different sites. From one source, we managed to procure the photograph of Damor,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector, Rajkot detection of crime branch. “We created a WhatsApp group of 300-odd builders, circulated Damor’s photographs among them and intensified our manhunt. Meanwhile, our team received a tip-off that Damor was hiding in Karena village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar, following which the team raided his hide-out and nabbed him,” added Gadhvi. During the investigation, it was found that Damor was arrested and jailed in a murder case of Dhambola village in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan in 2002. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. He had served 10 years in prison at Udaipur Central Jail, from where he was transferred to an open jail from where he fled.In 2015, he assumed the identity of Arjun and started working as a labourer at a construction site in Jodhpur. Here, he allegedly raped the five-year-old daughter of a labourer. He also allegedly tried to kill the child by hitting her head with a stone, injuring her seriously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murder-convict-on-run-held-for-killing-6-yr-old-girl/articleshow/78210055.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Tigress kills tribal farmer in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: A man-eating tigress on Saturday killed a tribal farmer in village Antarwadi, under Kelapur forest division in Yavatmal. The deceased and her husband were working in their farm when the tigress attacked her. The deceased was identified as Laxmibai Bhimrao Dadanje, a resident of Antarwadi — which is situated near Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary. Though Laxmibai cried for help, nobody could save her as the tigress was hovering nearby. The tigress sat over the body for over an hour, stopping forest employees from going near it. Eventually the tigress was driven away and the body moved to a safe place in the vicinity. Forest officials conducted the spot panchnama and postmortem of the body. According to Pandharkawda range forest officer (wildlife) Subhash Puranik, the tigress is pregnant and due for delivery in a month or so. The current situation seems to be headed in a similar direction as that of tigress Avni. The famous man-eater Avni had killed at least 14 farmers in the Ralegaon-Pandharkawda forest belt a couple of years ago and was ultimately shot dead by a sharp shooter, despite stiff resistance from wildlife lovers across the country and abroad. Residents of Kopamandvi, Antarwadi, Tembhi and Pattanbori villages earlier met forest minister Sanjay Rathod and narrated their woes to him. The man-eater tigress, villagers said, was often sighted in the area and killed their cattle and damaged their crops. In response to a query, the minister said he had summoned a joint meeting with the villagers and the forest officials on September 5, which was attended by the additional principal chief conservator of forests MS Reddy.The minister directed forest officials to recruit 20 locals and train them to undertake 24X7 patrolling in the area. He also instructed the officials to deploy special tiger protection forces and rapid rescue teams to keep strict vigil over the tigers in the area. It is learnt that the post of deputy conservator of forests (DCF) has been vacant since its previous incumbent, KN Abharna was transferred. Forest minister Sanjay Rathod told TOI that the DCF would be posted by Tuesday. Villagers have accused forest officials for the death of the woman and are in the mood to protest against their inaction. “There is another tigress in the area, having four cubs. There is a fight for dominance between the two tigresses, which may cause threat to the life of humans and cattle if it is not nipped in the bud,” a senior forest officer said. Minister Rathod is expected to visit the spot soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-kills-tribal-farmer-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78211375.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nashik||Onion traders from Nashik relieved, no joy for farmers||Nashik: The onion traders from Nashik district heaved a sigh of relief after the Union government allowed export of onions that were in transit or stuck at the borders and ports across the country. Onion growers, however, are still upset that the government has not looked into thier request to roll back the export ban. Of the 25,000 tonne of onion blocked at the borders, 60% are from Nashik district, which is home to Asia’s largest onion trading market at Lasalgaon. “There is a good storage potential of onion in Nashik district. The produce in other parts of the country has seen rain damage. This is the reason why more than 60% of the onion being exported is from Nashik district even today,” said Sanjay Wahadne, a trader from Nashik district. The Union government’s decision to allow the transit consignments to move ahead is a welcome step as the produce will reach its destination and help the producers as well, trader Keshav Patil and others said. The onion growers, however, are worried about the stock that is still in store with them. “It is good that the produce in transit will reach the destinations, but what about the onions in storage?” questioned Hansraj Wadghule-Patil of Shetkari Sangharsh Samiti Nashik. “The government’s sudden decision to ban exports has drawn ire from Bangladesh, which is now bringing in crop from various other countries including the Netherlands,” he added. This is not good for farmers as they will permanently lose the markets in the export sector. The cost of producing onion is Rs 2,000 per quintal and the farmers are now getting between Rs 800 and Rs 1,500 per quintal. “The government should revoke this decision and ensure a level playing field for farmers so that they get some income after Covid-19 battered the market,” Rajesh Tiwade, another farmer from Yeola, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-traders-from-nashik-relieved-no-joy-for-farmers/articleshow/78209199.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Virtual celebration to be part of traditional Kisan Mela||Ludhiana: The two-day Virtual Kisan Mela concluded at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Saturday. With more than two lakh farmers and farm labourers, including women, participating in the mela, PAU has decided to hold mela virtually — along with the traditional version — too every year. Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, vice-chancellor of PAU, thanked the farmers for their participation in the mela, which went online this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, said the virtual celebration will be made a permanent feature in the traditional mela. “The seeds of all varieties will be ready within a week and farmers can contact their nearby Krishi Vigyan Kendras or get information on Farm Inputs App for purchase,” he said. On the second day, three panel discussions were held. During the discussion, the experts advised the farmers to grow ‘real water saving’ varieties of paddy recommended by the PAU and adopt water saving technologies. They expressed concern over declining water table and poor quality groundwater. They urged the farmers to refrain from cultivating Pusa 44, as it requires more water, stick to paddy transplanting time as recommended by the Punjab government and save water (in cubic metres). The area under direct seeded rice (DSR), which is a water saving technology, has increased to 5 lakh hectares in Punjab, they disclosed. Experts also advocated the use of drip irrigation system which is water as well as labour saving. They also said 80% subsidy was being provided by the state government for drip irrigation (90% to small farmers) and 60% subsidy was being given on solar pumps. Underground pipeline system, which saves 30% to 40% water, was also being promoted in south and central Punjab, they said. The second panel discussion on “livestock production and allied occupations” stressed on the adoption of subsidiary occupations like poultry, dairy and fish farming, along with agriculture. In the last panel discussion on voice of farmers”, progressive farmers like A S Dhindsa, a renowned flower and vegetable seed producer known for exporting seed to 100 countries, K B S Sidhu, an innovative farmer known for export of fresh vegetables, Devinder Singh Mukshabad, Mohinder Singh Dosanjh, Jagtar Singh Brar and Balwinder Singh Tikka shared their experiences with other farmers. They stressed on making agriculture a precision agriculture, linked with marketing, maintaining farm records and urged youth not to run away from farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virtual-celebration-to-be-part-of-traditional-kisan-mela/articleshow/78209203.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nashik||Cases go up in Malegaon in spite of curfew||Nashik: The rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Malegaon belies the claim of the police and the civic administration that the closure of shops and commercial establishments by 7pm has helped curb the spread of the viral infection in the textile town. In the last one month since August 19, when the order for closing business establishments by 7pm was passed, 1,176 fresh Covid-19 cases have been registered against the 915-odd cases recorded between July 19 and August 19. Health officials from Malegaon Municipal Corporation admitted that there has been a marginal rise in Covid cases. “However, it maybe noted that most of the cases were recorded from five talukas surrounding Malegaon, which is a commercial hub, and the patients were being treated in the textile town.” The rural health department as well as the municipal corporation have ramped up their infrastructure to treat the new cases. “Though primary facilities are available in the talukas, when people in the rural areas fall ill, they prefer to come to the town for the tests. If they test positive for the contagion, they are counted as confirmed cases from Malegaon,” said another senior officer from the rural health department. Sources in the police said that the restrictions on movement after 7pm not only helped curb the infection spread but also helped bring down accidents and thefts. “The orders were aimed at curbing the congregation of people post 7pm. People rushed to shops and establishments during the daytime. Action was taken against all those defying the safety protocols,” said a police officer. Officials from the district administration said that the clampdown on shops and restrictions on the movement of people after 7pm would continue for some more time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cases-go-up-in-malegaon-in-spite-of-curfew/articleshow/78209210.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||5% quota for allocation of dairy booths to disabled||Jaipur: Following the directions of the commissioner for specially abled persons, the department of local self-government issued a notification to provide 5% reservation in the process of allocation of dairy booths to persons with disabilities (PwDS) in the state. The court of the commissioner for specially abled persons had given instructions to the department of local self-government to ensure 5% reservation in allocation of dairy booths to the PwDs in October last year. In this regard, national vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh Hemant Bhai Goyal had a filed an application in the court. “About 5,000 new dairy booths will be allocated in the coming days in Rajasthan. Of the total, around 250 will be allocated to the specially abled persons. The dairy booths are allocated by the government in the areas under nagar palikas,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-quota-for-allocation-of-dairy-booths-to-disabled/articleshow/78211362.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Incessant rains lead to traffic snarls in city||Hyderabad: Short spells of rain continued to batter Hyderabad on Saturday, leaving several low-lying areas inundated. The heavy downpour caused traffic snarls in some areas as motorists were stranded in traffic for almost an hour. The main road near pillar number 193 at Attapur, Boarabanda and Hastinapur were flooded due to heavy rainfall, causing traffic congestion. Cyberabad Traffic Police shared photos on Twitter to alert motorists about waterlogged roads in different parts of the city. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad issued a warning on thunderstorms accompanied with lightning over Telangana till September 23. According to the data recorded by IMD, the city received 11.6mm rainfall until 8.30pm on Saturday. The warning also said ‘heavy to very heavy rain’ was very likely to occur in several districts including Hyderabad, Sangareddy, Vikarabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Yadadri Bhongir among others. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) received 78 calls out of which 40 people complained about waterlogged roads/bylanes and 20 people complained about damaged roads. Apart from this, the corporation also received 18 calls from people who complained about uprooted trees. United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) requested RWAs of Greater Hyderabad to avoid using roads beside open nalas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/incessant-rains-lead-to-traffic-snarls-in-city/articleshow/78211373.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mysuru||Clamour for Kere Kamegowda to inaugurate Dasara rises||Mysuru: With the Dasara high power committee yet to decide on the chief guest to inaugurate the Mysuru Dasara celebrations, various organizations have started urging the government to select ‘Pond Man’ Kere Kamegowda from Malavalli taluk to launch the festival. Karunada Sevakaru president MB Naganna Gowda told TOI Kamegowda has protecting nature by creating ponds on barren Kundini Betta near Dasanadoddi village in Malavalli taluk when others did not even dream about it. “He has become a role model and his service to the society and environment is incomparable. If his contribution and message must reach every person, the government should select Kamegowda to inaugurate the Dasara, as the festival is recognized and watched by people across the globe,” he said. Others organisations including Muruga Mutt in Chitradurga, SAJP Pratistana, KV Shankaregowda Trust, Marigowda Seva Samiti, students and political parties also want Kamegowda to inaugurate the Dasara. BSP state president M Krishnamurthy told STOI Kamegowda was the ideal person to inaugurate Dasara this year. “He has dug ponds without any selfish motives. His work has helped people as well cattle. BSP demands chief minister BS Yediyurappa to select Kamegowda for the inauguration which will also bring charm to the Dasara,” he said. Dasara celebrations will be held from October 17 to 26 and the inauguration will be held atop the Chamundi Hills by the chief guest performing puja to the idol of Sri Chamundeshwari. The Dasara high-power committee headed by CM Yediyurappa decided to select five corona warriors as chief guests. The chief guests include a policeman, a nurse, a doctor, an ASHA worker and a pourakarmika. However, the committee is yet to decide on who will inaugurate the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/clamour-for-kere-kamegowda-to-inaugurate-dasara-rises/articleshow/78209631.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||Global online singing contest to help lockdown-battered musicians||Vadodara: Musicians driven to penury post lockdown are set to get a helping hand from their fraternity. A Mumbai-based musician has organized a global digital singing contest to supporting the musicians who are finding it difficult to make two ends meet due to the pandemic and cancellation of live shows. The programme ‘Geet Utsav’ will be streamed online on September 26 on YouTube. “Several, especially the veterans, are facing financial crisis. They haven’t been able to earn anything post lockdown. So, I decided to organize this contest to support them. While there is a fee for the participants, some music lovers have also given financial help for the contest,” said Dinesh Ghate who runs Swar Aalap that helps artists from the music fraternity.Ghate said the initiative was inspired from TOI’s story on plight of musicians. On August 18, TOI had reported that musicians in Gujarat have been forced to take up odd jobs like opening a tea stall, working at construction sites on daily wages, selling kurtis on roads and driving cabs to earn a living.The participants will have to shoot their own videos wherein they have to sing any of Lata Mangeshkar’s songs. “The participants will send us their videos and our judges will select the best of them. All these videos will be edited and present online on September 26 in a 75-minutes programme,” Ghate, a musician himself, told TOI.Interestingly, Klensi Ferani, a 22-year-old girl from Indonesia, was one of the first to send her video by crooning ‘Ajeeb Daastan Hai Ye’ of the legendary singer. “With the money raised from this contest, we will support as many musicians as possible with cash or ration as per their requirement. We will organize two more similar contests on November 14 and December 24 this year for supporting other needy artists,” Ghate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/global-online-singing-contest-to-help-lockdown-battered-musicians/articleshow/78209480.cms||Tushar Tere
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Dausa home guard’s murder: One more accused arrested||Jaipur: Dausa police has arrested one more accused in the murder of border home guard while the hunt is on for two others named in the case. Though the case was registered against four persons, the police found that a fifth person was also involved in the killing. The home guard was killed by mining mafia when he along with his team had gone to apprehend those suspected of transporting illegal bajri on Thursday. Manish Aggarwal, SP, Dausa told TOI, “we have arrested three out of the five accused in the matter and search is on for others. The prime accused is still absconding but our teams are on the job to nab the remaining two.” Home guard Bhawani Singh was killed by mining mafia after he was allegedly pushed off the tractor. On Thursday afternoon, a team of officials found four tractors filled with illegal bajri in Mandawar police station area. According to officials, the vehicles were seized and were being taken to the police station when one of the tractors went off the road and got stuck in mud. Bhawani was riding on the tractor with the driver. Just then, an SUV with four persons reached the spot. They instructed the driver to push the home guard off the tractor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dausa-home-guards-murder-one-more-accused-arrested/articleshow/78211377.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tantea reaps surplus revenue of Rs 7cr in a decade, eyes Rs 7cr more||Udhagamandalam: After nearly a decade, the Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation Limited (Tantea) has recorded surplus revenue in the past three months, thanks to the deficit tea production in other parts of the country. Improving the quality of tea has also helped Tantea fetch higher prices for its product. It has earned at least Rs 7 crore surplus revenue during the period. Following this, Tantea workers have demanded wage hike and settlement of wage arears. According to Srinivas R Reddy, managing director, Tantea, the surplus money would be utilized to meet the terminal benefits of their employees and workers on a priority basis. “There are many factors that helped us fetch good prices for tea - drop in tea production in Northeast owing to the heavy rain and floods, dip in green leaf tea production in South and finally our effort to enhance the quality of made-tea,” he said. Reddy said Tantea had been running on loss for the past nine years. “It was mainly because of lower auction price. In 2006, the average price drawn for made-tea at the auction centres was Rs 60 per kg, while the cost of production was Rs 40. After 10 years in 2017, the auction price for the made-tea was the same, while production cost shot up to Rs 120.” Last month, Tantea had fetched an all-time high of Rs 188 per kg for made-tea at the auction. It had commenced tea production a little early during the lockdown. “Markets in North India opened earlier than that in South during the lockdown. As we started production earlier, our produce met the bulk demand of North India at a higher price,” Reddy said. Pointing out that they had to settle terminal benefits of its employees and workers, he said a portion of the surplus revenue would be used for the same. “We need to earn another Rs 7 crore to provide bonus to the employees next month.” Tantea has around 5,000 workers, including 250 office staff. It owns 4,100 hectares of tea garden, 900 hectares of which is in Coimbatore district. A few months ago, Tantea had handed over about 276 hectares in difficult terrains to the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tantea-reaps-surplus-revenue-of-rs-7cr-in-a-decade-eyes-rs-7cr-more/articleshow/78210044.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat’s sultan Mahmud Begada revered Ganesha, Goddess Kali||Vadodara: Known as one of the most powerful rulers that Gujarat has witnessed, the reign of 15th century ruler — Mahmud Begada, the Sultan of Gujarat — sowed the seeds of Muslim rule in the state after he overpowered Jayasimhadeva, the last Rajput king of Pavagadh, a bloody battle that lasted over 20 months. But, Begada known for his religious zeal, also had a penchant for building step-wells, mosques and mausoleums. History also has it that the mighty sultan also offered salutations to Lord Ganesha and Goddess Sharda. An inscription discovered from a step-well at Mandvi village near Pavagadh-Champaner, Gujarat’s first UNESCO-declared World Heritage Site, has preserved this fact. Hidden among the ruins of a step-well for so long was another hard fact that Begada, a staunch Muslim, also promoted water conservation during his reign. “The inscription itself is in Devnagari script instead of Persian or Arabic. The language is a mixture of Sanskrit and medieval Gujarati,” said eminent archaeologist and retired professor of M S University’s Department of Archaeology and Ancient History V H Sonawane. “During excavations around Champaner, we found the inscription near Mandvi village in a ruined step-well which mentioned that the Sultan had donated the land for step-well, mosque and a Hazira. “After offering salutations to Lord Ganesha and Goddess Sharda, the inscription further states that ‘one who makes the provision of water on the earth even in one foot-step of cow, will get the heaven of Siva (Lord Shiva) for sixty thousands of years,” said Sonawane. “One who violates the black-field as black as the Goddess Kali will be guilty. The ‘punya’ will persist as long as the step-well,” the inscription further states. As a student, Sonawane, who had done his PhD in ‘archaeology of the Panchmahal’ in 1980s, had come across ancient inscriptions. “This inscription shows that even as there was a conflict and tension between the Khichi Chauhans, the brave Rajput rulers of Pavagadh and Mahmud Begada, there was religious harmony. Champaner had a sizeable Hindu population. It was after the conquest of Champaner that Begada made it the capital and named it as Mahmudabad,” said Sonawane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarats-sultan-mahmud-begada-revered-ganesha-goddess-kali/articleshow/78210080.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 20, 2020||Nashik||1,338 caught travelling in trains without valid tickets||Nashik: A special drive recently conducted by the commercial team of Bhusawal railway division found as many as 1,388 commuters travelling in various trains without a valid ticket. “We conducted a special drive against commuters travelling without a valid ticket and penalised 1,338 travellers. Of this, around Rs 8.2 lakh fine (in total) was slapped on 1,044 commuters for travelling without a ticket,” said senior divisional commercial manager Yuvraj Patil. As many as 42 people were caught travelling with tickets issued to some other person and fined Rs 61,340. Around 75 people were caught with tickets issued for a lower-category compartment but travelling in AC and second-AC coaches. The Railways also caught 177 people found travelling with tickets issued to senior citizens, despite being much lower in age that was ascertained after checking their identity cards. The railways slapped a fine of Rs 2.20 lakh on them. According to railway officials, women of 55 years and older and men of 60 years and above are eligible for getting tickets under the ‘senior citizen’ category. According to another officer from Nashik Road Railway station, people gather at a point a few metres away from the platform along the tracks minutes before the arrival of the train and run towards the platform when the train arrives. Though these points are manned by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and some get caught, many still use this modus operandi to travel in trains without a valid ticket. An RPF personnel at Nashik Road Railway station said that a person, along with his wife, tried getting into the railway station minutes before the Panchavati Express arrived on Thursday. When asked to show tickets, the man said he would board the train and would bear the penalty. “When we restricted, the man brought his wife forward. Because we didn’t have any woman RPF with us, we had to allow the train,” said the personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1338-caught-travelling-in-trains-without-valid-tickets/articleshow/78209260.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Brain-dead youth gifts life to 4||Ahmedabad: Four persons received a fresh lease of life after relatives of a brain-dead youth, Keval Patel (19), decided to donate his organs. As a result, two kidneys, one liver, pancreas and a heart was harvested from the deceased and successfully transplanted in four persons, at the Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC) on Saturday. Patel was the only child of his parents, who decided to donate his organs after their son was declared brain-dead while undergoing treatment at a city hospital. He got injured earlier this week in a freak road accident after a truck hit his motorcycle en route to Dhrangadhra. He was later brought for organ harvesting at IKDRC. “We counselled the parents and told them that there is no possibility to revive him as he was brain dead as per conditions laid out in Glasgow test,” Dr Vineet Mishra, director, IKDRC-ITS informed. “His relatives and parents understood the importance of organ donation and were convinced that their son would still be alive in some way in four different persons by donating organs,” added Dr Mishra. Patel was a BSc student at a college in Gandhinagar. But after imposition of lockdown had gone to live with his parents in Sarwal village of Surendranagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brain-dead-youth-gifts-life-to-4/articleshow/78211371.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||4 die, several areas hit in T||Hyderabad: Four persons died while two youngsters swam to safety as heavy rains continued to batter Telangana. Roads and crops have also been damaged in several districts. Afroze (22) was washed away in the Dundubhi river in Mahbubnagar on Saturday. He had gone to the checkdam at Lingapeta in Jedcharla and got into the Dundubhi river to swim. He drowned while taking a selfie. Local officials rushed to the spot to locate the body. A mother and her daughter drowned in Saki Cheruvu in Patancheru. A six-year-old girl died in another mishap. Meanwhile, two youths swam to safety after the tractor they were travelling was washed away in the Musi river in Suryapet. Shiva and his friend were travelling on the usual route, unaware that water flow had increased at Nagulapahad in Penpahad mandal on Saturday. Thankfully, both managed to escape the flood fury. Many areas in Nalgonda were also affected because of the incessant rains over the last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-die-several-areas-hit-in-t/articleshow/78211390.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Drones sighted from 2 more police stations in Gadchiroli||Nagpur: Mysterious drones have been sighted flying past five police stations in Maoist-affected south Gadchiroli since September 14 and the last was on September 17. Cops are not ruling out Maoist hand behind the suspicious activity. TOI had earlier reported about unexplained movements of drones sighted from three police stations of Koti, Kotmi and Hedri. Now, it’s learnt drones were also sighted from highly-sensitive Burgi and Gatta police stations in the Maoist heartland of Etapalli taluka. TOI also has visuals of drone sighting from one of the police stations. Police had also fired warning shots at the drones which were soon withdrawn. Security forces feel the Maoists may try to make a comeback in coming days by causing some sabotage. The Maoists, who had earlier tried to use drones to launch attacks on security forces in Chhattisgarh, are now gearing up for Foundation Week to be observed from September 21. Several conspiracy theories are doing the rounds in the district over the drone sightings. The Maoists must have used some tech-savvy youngsters to put these flying objects in place, as per one theory. Several youngsters from Gadchiroli villages are studying in different engineering institutions and ITIs. Sources said, some of those who returned during the lockdown may have helped the Maoists with their knowledge and skills. Sources said that the drones were first spotted from Gatta police station on September 14. On September 16, the drones flew past Koti, Kotmi and Hedri police stations raising concern among the cops and the intelligence machineries. Addl SP Ajay Bansal said they are investigating the matter from all angles. “It’s too early to comment on the origins and motive behind releasing the drones but all necessary steps have been undertaken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/drones-sighted-from-2-more-police-stations-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/78211389.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Wrangle over maintenance stalls Dravyavati river project opening||Jaipur: With Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and Tata Projects Limited locking horns over maintenance charge issue, the condition of Dravyavati riverfront is expected to deteriorate further in future. Even after two years of inauguration, the Rs 1676-crore project continues to remain underutilised and partially opened for public despite majority of work being completed. While JDA is not willing to take the possession of the project, the firm has expressed helplessness to continue the maintenance for long as the civic body is not releasing outstanding amount for maintenance. Sources said the firm had reduced the manpower at the project drastically. A JDA senior official said, “Almost 93% work of the project is completed. We have asked the firm to complete the entire project, before handing it over to the JDA.” As per the contract, the JDA will release the operation and maintenance costs once the project is completed and handed over to the user. However, the firm is stressing to take possession of the completed portion of the project. Sources said, “Though, the JDA is asking to complete the project before releasing payment, work on the 550-metre stretch near Hassanpura cannot be initiated due to court stay. If land is not provided for another three months, the company will have to incur maintenance costs.” All major works including development of sewerage treatment plants (STP), parks, jogging and cycle track are completed. Parks developed under the project are also under-utilised as the firm close them after sun down to save electricity bills. The firm claims it requires approximately Rs 40 crore to maintain three parks developed under the projects. As per sources, the cash-strapped JDA is missing out on revenue by not making these parks functional. The Botanical Park, Bird Park and Landscape Park – part of the Dravyavati River Rejuvenation Project, have facilities like cafes, plant nurseries, urban haat, etc which are lying unused since JDA is yet to monetise them and select an operator. “JDA can earn some revenue through entry fee after opening Botanical Park and putting all facilities to use at the Bird Park and Landscape Park. The three parks cost JDA Rs 55 crore and keeping them unused is unjustified,” added the source. The Heritage Museum and Café at the Bird Park is still not commissioned despite its concept being appreciated and potential to generate revenue for JDA. Similarly, at the Landscape Park there is an open air theatre and urban haat (vendor space). As the issue is pending since long and residents of Mansarovar cannot avail the facilities at the Experience Centre at Shipra Path park, many have expressed disappointment. “The cycle track and open air amphitheatre should have been opened for the public as they could be an added attraction. The project was completed after spending public money and people should get the benefit,” added Naveen Menon, resident of Mansarovar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wrangle-over-maintenance-stalls-dravyavati-river-project-opening/articleshow/78211394.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Hold state competitive exams on time: Gehlot||Jaipur: Emphasizing that RPSC, Rajasthan State Staff Selection Board (RSSB) examinations, recruitment of RAS and state services and subordinate services should be completed as per the calendar, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the release of advertisements for these examinations including REET and interviews must be done on time to prevent pendency in recruitments. The CM said that the work of document verification of the selected candidates should also be done in a time-bound manner. “Instead of giving repeated opportunities to candidates for document verification, the cut-off date should be fixed only once. After completion of probation period by selected candidates, confirmation should be given in time.” He also directed the departments to coordinate with RPSC and the State Staff Selection Board to prevent any delay in conducting exams and releasing results. “Due to complex service rules, the recruitments are sometimes delayed. In this case, the service rules should be amended, if necessary. As far as possible, before releasing the advertisement of recruitments, the departments concerned should ensure that no other examination is scheduled on the date of the examination. Postponement of the examination can be prevented by this. Once the advertisement is released, it should not be amended repeatedly,” Gehlot said. He said the recruitments which are pending due to legal hassles should be effectively presented before the court by the departments in coordination with the state advocate general and the advocates. He sought information from the department officials about the current status of in-process recruitments in various departments including education, medicine, women and child development, rural development and panchayati raj, agriculture, revenue, forest and environment and ayurveda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hold-state-competitive-exams-on-time-gehlot/articleshow/78211391.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt loans Rs 16cr to upgrade 4 Tantea factories||Udhagamandalam: The government has sanctioned a loan of Rs 16 crore to modernize four of the six tea manufacturing factories under the Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation Limited (Tantea), which is planning to apply for the Rainforest Alliance and Trustea certification that would enable it to foray into the European market directly. Srinivas R Reddy, managing director, Tantea, said, “We are planning to replace some of the critical machineries in our four factories – two each in Coonoor and Gudalur areas - as part of modernization and improving the quality of tea production.” He said they have to repay the loan amount to the government in five years. He said the machineries that are in working condition in the four factories awaiting modernisation would be replaced with the worn-out ones in the remaining two factories. “This would help us save cost, while improving efficiency.” Tantea, despite shortage of manpower, produces around 75lakh kg of made tea, including orthodox and black tea, annually. As the tea price at auction centres are fluctuating, Tantea is now planning to enter the overseas market. “At the auction centres, we don’t have a say when it comes to the price, which is highly fluctuating. Hence, we are in the process of getting our tea certified by the Rainforest Alliance and Trustea,” Reddy said. He said the certifications would help them foray into the European market directly. “We can fix our price while exporting based on the tea quality. And it would help us generate decent revenue.” Reddy said the modernization of the four factories would be completed in another six months, when the process of tea certification would also be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-loans-rs-16cr-to-upgrade-4-tantea-factories/articleshow/78210103.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Splashdown on Sabarmati||AHMEDABAD: One vividly remembers images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi boarding the American-made Quest Kodiak seaplane in 2019 and landing on the Sabarmati riverfront. A year later, on October 31, Sardar Patel’s birth anniversary, PM Modi will turn a page in civil aviation history by inaugurating, a Union civil aviation and Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) collaboration on the first amphibious or seaplane services, among the 16 planned, from the Sabarmati riverfront. More importantly, it will connect Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two most successful projects which he envisioned while serving as Gujarat CM. The Sabarmati riverfront and the Statue of Unity (SoU). The service will be operated by low-cost carrier SpiceJet, with four flights a day. The ticket price will be around Rs 4,800 per person. Work on the waterdrome on the riverfront has been at a feverish pace, with the focus on developing an Indian model for waterdrome terminals. Two locations on the western bank of the Sabarmati riverfront, near Vallabh Sadan and near Ambedkar Bridge, have been identified to set up the jetties. On Saturday last week, parts of a floating jetty were transported in trucks to be assembled on the riverfront. Simultaneously, a piece of land, measuring about 2,000 sq metres has been identified for building similar jetties and other facilities at Kevadia Colony as well. A waterdrome has also been proposed at Panchmukhi Lake or Lake 3 of the Sardar Sarovar Dam. This was discussed in a project review meeting chaired by chief secretary Anil Mukim in the presence of Union civil aviation secretary Pradeep Kharola in August-end. In all, under UDAN 3 and UDAN 4, four waterdromes have been proposed to be built in Gujarat. The other two are at Shetrunjay dam in Palitana and Dharoi dam in Mehsana. Sources say bathymetric and hydrographic surveys of the seaplane routes which were to be undertaken by IWAI on behalf of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) are near completion as they are to be submitted by September-end. The choice of aircraft is also crucial. Sources say a DHC-6 or Quest Kodiak are the most likely candidates. "Water levels tests were carried out and a few simulations were conducted," says a senior official of the SRFDCL. In June, Union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya had directed Sagarmala Development Company Limited (SDCL) and IWAI to collaborate on the seaplane operation for the Sabarmati-SoU route. Prior to designing one for the Sabarmati riverfront, waterdrome infrastructure of countries like the US, Canada, Maldives and Australia were studied, including their regulations for operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/splashdown-on-sabarmati/articleshow/78211404.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||Dream come true: RAS officer to join Army||JAIPUR: A Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officer is on the verge of realising his dream of joining the Indian Armed Forces. Mahendar Pratap Singh, a 2011-batch RAS officer, will be the first government official from the state to join the forces. Singh, who cleared the Service Selection Board (SSB), will join the Territorial Army (TA). He is currently the deputy secretary in Rajasthan Child Rights Protection Commission. Speaking to TOI about his passion to join the forces, the 34-year-old Singh said, “From early days, I wanted to join the Indian Army and even attempted NDA exams. It was always there in my mind that one day I would make it happen. I even tried for the airforce, but I am glad that now finally my dream is coming true.” Singh appeared for the written exam to join the forces along with 1.5 lakh others and was part of the 2,200 who qualified for the personal interview. His name was among the 850 candidates who qualified for SSB interview in Bhopal. “I was part of the 25 candidates including 13 women who were recommended for commissioning in the army. I am looking forward to going Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, for training which should begun towards the end of the year,” he added. Singh joined as assistant commandant in BSF and also served in Central IB before joining the RAS. However, he continued to strive for joining the defence forces. “It was not easy to get the NOC from the state government to apply for the army and I had to put in a lot of effort to make it happen. Finally I was given approval.” The visibly delighted Singh also gave due credit to his family and claimed that without their support he would not have been able to clear the exams. “During one-and-half years, I had to study and read a lot to ensure that I was prepared for the written exam as well as interview and throughout it I received immense support from my family”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dream-come-true-ras-officer-to-join-army/articleshow/78211397.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Showers replenish groundwater table||Hyderabad: The strong monsoon season coupled with low pressure weather over the last few weeks resulted in bountiful rains that have replenished the groundwater table in the state. Thanks to these weather conditions the state may be spared of water problems, at least for the next two years. With all the irrigation projects in the state filled to capacity, the agriculture sector is set to be benefited. In its latest report, the Ground Water Department (GWD) confirmed that the water table in August is 6.35 metres below ground level (BGL) as against 11.15M BGL recorded in August 2019. It’s an impressive rise of 4.80M BGL this year. The report also said that the state had received 40% excessive rainfall until August this year. It was 830.50 mm, as against 592.60 mm received last year. The GWD has collected the data through 1,025 piezometers and 253 dug wells. “Of the 33 districts in the state, 23 received excess rainfall while the remaining 10 had normal rainfall. 370 of the 589 mandals received excess rainfall, which is 20% more. While 193 mandals received normal rainfall, 26 received deficit rainfall - between -20% and -59%,” the report said. “The groundwater storage during this monsoon is estimated to be about 518 TMC, which is 310 TMC more,” said a GWD official. Meanwhile, Hyderabad district has received 29% excess rainfall, Medchal 20%, Rangareddy 49% while Sangareddy received normal rainfall (10%). In the 16 mandals of Hyderabad district, the groundwater table improved between two and five metres. This led to reduced demand for water tankers. “Now people are getting tankers within two to four hours. Though there is a dip in water board’s revenues, we hardly faced any problems regarding water supply this summer,” said an official of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/showers-replenish-groundwater-table/articleshow/78211398.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 20, 2020||Jaipur||65% Raj students go to edu institutes on foot, 2.8% cycle||Jaipur: A whopping 64.7% of students in Rajasthan go to schools, colleges and universities on foot. According to the National Statistical Organisation (NSO) report 2018-19, the state ranks seventh in the list of maximum students reaching their educational institutes on foot. Though the report doesn’t give figures in absolute numbers,the total enrolment in schools in 2018-19 was 1.32 crore according to government data. The total number of students who walk to school comes to around 80 lakh if the percentage is calculated into figures. In the western part of the state, distance between two neighbouring villages is around 5-10 km which translates to students walking up to 20 km every day to reach schools, especially senior secondary classes. The divide between rural-urban and male-female becomes much sharper in all modes of travel listed in the survey: walking, bicycle, public transport, school/institution transport and others. In rural areas, 67.9% students were found to be scaling the distance by foot and close to 2/3 women in the rural areas go to their educational institute on foot. This is the third-highest figure in the country. The surprising feature is that a very low proportion of students use bicycls. When the report was drafted, around 2.8% students cycled to schools at a time when the state distributes free bicycles to girl students. As far as girls are considered, barely 1.8% use cycles to reach schools in rural areas. Even the use of the public transport, which stands at 11.8%, is discouraging for the country’s biggest state. Kumar Manish, an expert on urban-rural transport, said it is important to link public transport with enrolments especially in non-hilly states. “If we analyse data, the state, which has wide urban and rural transport network difference, has a high literacy rate while those who are behind have a poor literacy system. Kerala with the highest literacy rate of 96.2% has the highest percentage of 31.1% students using public transport. In Maharashtra, which has a 84.8% literacy rate, the public transport rate was 21.5%. It proves that Rajasthan needs to invest more in public transport for students to improve its literacy rate which is currently second-worst in the country, said Manish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/65-raj-students-go-to-edu-institutes-on-foot-2-8-cycle/articleshow/78211396.cms||Shoeb Khan
September 20, 2020||India||Bill to tackle health emergencies coming||NEW DELHI: In a move to ensure that there is a structured legislation to handle a pandemic like Covid-19, the Centre plans to bring the draft National Public Health (Prevention, Control and Management of Epidemics, Bio-terrorism and Disasters) Bill to empower governments to handle such unforeseen situations. States and local bodies under the Bill can take multiple measures, ranging from quarantining people to decontamination of areas, isolation of the infected, destruction of animals or birds and surprise inspections during any public health emergency. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan told the Rajya Sabha on Saturday that the government has been working on a National Public Health Act for the past few years and it will be brought to the House. The Bill will address the deficiencies of the National Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Amendment Bill. The draft bill — which was twice circulated in the past in 2009 and 2018 for stakeholder comments — proposes to empower state and local authorities to take appropriate actions to tackle public health emergencies like epidemics and bioterrorism for a wide range of subjects. The proposed Bill will talk of terms like epidemic, isolation, quarantine and social distancing and will have clear definitions for public health emergency of international concern, ground crossing, disinfection, de-ratting and decontamination. “All issues not included under the Epidemic Act or National Disaster Management Act will be included in the Public Health Act,” the health minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bill-to-tackle-health-emergencies-coming/articleshow/78212383.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Bihar poll: MIM floats new alliance||Hyderabad: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Samajwadi Janata Dal (D) on Saturday formed a separate anti-BJP alliance to fight elections in Bihar. AIMIM headed by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi and Samajwadi Janata Dal-Democratic led by former minister Devendra Prasad Yadav announced the new coalition, United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA ), at a press conference in Patna Speaking at the press conference on Saturday, Asaduddin lashed out at Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for calling him a spoiler. “What happened to these so called thekedars (feudal lords) who brand themselves as anti-BJP votaries, what happened to them in the last general elections,” he asked. “In the parliamentary election, how many seats did RJD contest and how many did they win?. Akthar bhai contested from Kishanganj and we secured three lakh votes,” the MIM chief said. He also questioned Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for joining hands with BJP after the elections. “The people of Bihar were betrayed. He should do introspection,” he said. In 2015, AIMIM had fielded six candidates in the Bihar assembly polls, but failed to win any seat. In 2019, the party had won Kishanganj assembly by-poll defeating BJP, while Congress was relegated to the third spot.  In Bihar, out of 40 Lok Sabha seats, NDA had won 39 in the 2019 general election. Before UDSA was formed, AIMIM leaders claimed they would contest 50 seats in the assembly polls, but Asaduddin said the number of seats and seat-sharing formula was yet to be decided. “We welcome other parties. UDSA convener is talking to other parties too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bihar-poll-mim-floats-new-alliance/articleshow/78211406.cms||Nabinder Bommala
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University reduces exam time after UGC’s disapproval||KOLKATA: Calcutta University has decided to allot 30 minutes to download question papers and upload the answerscripts for the undergraduate terminal semester and final-year examinations. This was among several modalities that CU decided upon, two days after receiving a letter from the University Grants Commission, which, in no uncertain terms, informed them about their disapproval over allotting students 24 hours to submit answerscripts. On Friday, CU officials held a faculty council meeting, followed by the UG and PG Board of Studies meeting, where vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee placed the letter sent by the UGC. As per the resolution, the UGC guidelines of April 29 specified that the duration of the terminal semester or final year examinations can be reduced from three hours to two hours. A senior teacher said, “The VC pointed out that as per the UGC’s revised guidelines on July 6, the exams can be conducted offline, online, or blended (online + offline) modes.” “Thus, CU has the option of conducting the theory exams based on multiple-choice questions or using OMR sheets in the three modes. If an institution evaluates its students by giving more than the stipulated time, then it will be categorized as an assignment-based assessment,” explained the teacher The Board further resolved to strictly abide by the UGC guidelines. CU has called a meeting of all the affiliated college principals on Monday at Rajabazar Science college to discuss the terminal semester exam details. The sudden alteration of modalities has sent jitters among the college principals. “Students in the city are unlikely to face any issue with internet connectivity. But what about those who live in the suburbs and villages? They may study in a college in Kolkata, but live in remote areas. They are going to face challenges due to the time-bound examinations. The internet connectivity will be slow and even many will have to take the exams from local internet cafés because few students have the luxury of availing a laptop. Also, we can’t expect candidates to write the exams on their smartphones,” said a college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-reduces-exam-time-after-ugcs-disapproval/articleshow/78210132.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nashik||Nashik commuters demand restarting of city bus services||Nashik: Commuters from Nashik have demanded restarting of a few city buses after the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) announced its decision to ply its buses with full capacity. “The fact that state government has allowed the MSRTC to run buses with full capacity shows that Covid-19 is not a problem and, hence, city buses should also be allowed to operate. They have already been operational in Pune and even in Mumbai then why not in Nashik,” questioned Rakesh Raundal, a resident of Panchavati who works in the Ambad industrial estate said. The MSRTC had halted its bus services since March 24 after the lockdown was announced. The intra-district bus service resumed on May 22 with buses being allowed to carry only 50% of their capacity. Later, the inter-district services resumed on August 20, followed by inter-state travel on September 12. From September 18, the state transport buses will be allowed to carry passengers to its full capacity. The MSRTC has, however, put forth a condition stating that all passengers must wear a face mask, practicise sanitizing of hands and other things as part of Covid-19 health advisory. “Almost everything is back to normal and so are our jobs, but with less salary. At such times when we need bus services, citizens are forced to cough out the money to private transporters like auto rickshaws or opt for personal transport. Why is the government taking so long to allow city bus transportation in Nashik?,” Shraddha Belsare, who works in an industrial unit in Satpur, said. Adressing the concerns of citizens, an MSRTC official said, “As most services resume every day, it has kindled hope among people that the city bus services will soon resume. But, not till the central office decides.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-commuters-demand-restarting-of-city-bus-services/articleshow/78209269.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Flyers miffed over Mumbai stop; Heathrow denies slot withdrawal||KOLKATA/LONDON: The slots allocated to Air India for the flight from London to Kolkata and back have not been withdrawn, both authorities at London Heathrow Airport and UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) have told TOI. Air India cancelled the direct flight on September 16-17 and again on September 19-20, alleging the slots had been withdrawn by Heathrow airport at the last hour. “The rate and frequency of routes are negotiated between governments. If an airline stops operating a route, then it is up to the government to decide if it should be allocated to another airline. Heathrow airport cannot cancel a route. Air India has been allocated a set number of landing slots and it can decide which routes to use them for. Air India doesn’t have to use that landing slot for Kolkata. But slots have nothing to do with Heathrow airport,” a CAA spokesperson said. AI had operated the Kolkata-London flight via Delhi on Thursday and has announced that it will henceforth fly to Kolkata as well as back via Mumbai till the slots are reinstated. “Due to last-minute non-availability of landing/parking slot at Heathrow airport, which was communicated to us late on September 16, the flight from Kolkata could not be operated directly from Kolkata to London. This was something beyond our control as we had been assured of a slot till the sudden communication of non-availability of the same by the Heathrow authorities,” an AI spokesperson had said. Heathrow airport authorities though denied having anything to do with the slots. “Heathrow does not have the power to withdraw slots. The slots are not controlled or operated by us, there is an independent slot operator that manages that process called the Airport Coordination Ltd (ACL). Heathrow’s role as the airport is to keep the runways and taxiways operational for airlines to use and we did so on that day, none of our other airlines reported any issues,” Heathrow Airport senior press officer Delia Williams-Falokun said. The airline stuck to its stand in the face of mounting criticism from passengers and scepticism on the part of aviation industry experts. “We are unable to operate the direct flight owing to LHR airport slot constraints and non-availability of approval for landing/take off at LHR,” an AI spokesperson said, but quickly added that efforts were on to restore the direct flight at the earliest. Flyers who have booked tickets on the sector as well as members of the travel industry expressed shock at the ad hoc changes to the schedule and felt the flight had been mismanaged. “I am requesting Air India to stop misleading customers. Their Kolkata reservation office sold tickets for direct Air India flight to London. But recently, passengers got emails regarding changed/revised schedule with a layover in Mumbai for three hours,” said R K Debray, a flyer. Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi said the airline ought to have confirmed the slots before announcing the flight. “What was the point in declaring a direct flight when the operations are via another city?” he wondered. Others felt the re-routing was done on commercial considerations. “AI is operating the flights via Delhi or Mumbai to fill up the aircraft. The current load to and from Kolkata is too low to operate a Dreamliner. Once the load increases, it will fly direct,” said Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyers-miffed-over-mumbai-stop-heathrow-denies-slot-withdrawal/articleshow/78210136.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Child sexual abuse cases on the rise in district, Nilgiris||Coimbatore: A 60-year-old temple priest was detained on Saturday for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl near Periyanaickenpalayam in the west zone police limits, from where 296 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 have been reported until September 17 this year. According to a police officer, the girl, a Class XII student of a private school, was alone at her house on Friday evening when the priest visited her residence and sexually assaulted her. “As he was leaving the minor girl’s house, her younger brother, who had gone out to play with friends, noticed him and altered his father. The girl’s parents later inquired with her and she revealed them what happened,” the officer said. The girl’s father subsequently lodged a complaint against the priest with the Periyanaickenpalayam police on Saturday. A team of police picked up the priest for interrogation on the day. He was later booked under various sections of Pocso Act. Further investigation is on. As per the data available with the office of west zone inspector general of police (IGP), 296 Pocso cases were reported in their limits this year as on Thursday, compared to 305 in the same period last year. The west zone consists of Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. In Coimbatore district, the number of Pocso cases has gone up to 47 this year from 44 last year. All the cases are under trail before the special court of Pocso cases. In the Nilgiris, Pocso cases have more than doubled to 41 from 20 during the period. In Erode district, there was a marginal drop in the cases to 55 from 58. In Tirupur, Namakkal, Salem, Dhamapuri and Krishnagiri districts also Pocso cases have come down. K Periaiah, west zone IGP, said parents were aware about the crime against children and many of them have been coming forward to lodge complaints with police. As a result, he said, more number of Pocso cases were getting reported. “We won’t reveal the identity of the victim or her family details at any situation. Parents should spend some time with their children and teach them about good touch and bad touch and ask them to alert them if anyone tires to misbehave with them.” He said officers in the rank of additional deputy superintendent of police (crime against women and children) have been closely monitoring Pocso cases in each district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/child-sexual-abuse-cases-on-the-rise-in-district-nilgiris/articleshow/78210129.cms||A Subburaj
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Community spread of corona in Delhi should have been accepted: Health minister Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday felt that community spread of the coronavirus was happening in Delhi and said that the central government should have admitted it by now. In the past also when sources of infection in many of the Covid-19 positive cases were getting difficult to trace, Delhi government believed community spread of the coronavirus had begun. Jain was speaking to reporters on Covid-19 situation in the capital. “I am not technically competent to speak about community spread. It involves a lot of technicality. When people are getting infected in such a large number in the country, community spread should have been accepted by now,” he said. The minister, however, added that “only Indian Council of Medical Research or the central government can officially declare the community spread of coronavirus.” Jain said 500 beds have been added in private Covid hospitals of Delhi in the past five days and government hospitals will also increase the number of ICU beds. “In the next few days, the number of ICU beds in private hospitals will increase further,” Jain said. The occupancy of the ICU beds in private and government hospitals is increasing due to recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and due to a rush of critical Covid-19 patients to Delhi from other states for better healthcare facilities. In order to augment the ICU beds capacity, 33 private hospitals have been directed to reserve 80% of their total ICU/HDU beds for Covid-19 patients. These private hospitals have been allowed to temporarily increase their total bed capacity up to 30% with the instruction to use the increased beds only for Covid-19 patients. For the past few days, Delhi has been conducting more than 60,000 Covid-19 tests in a day, which is the highest per million tests in the world. Rapid antigen tests make many of this number. “The positivity rate is continuously falling for the past few weeks. For the past few days, the positivity rate has been under 7%. It was above 8% last week and before that week, it was around 8.5%. The positivity rate of the cumulative cases has come below 10% and is 9.8%. Earlier, it was between 11% and 12%,” Jain said hoping that next week the situation will improve further. Delhi’s Covid-19 fatality rate is 0.69% of the 10 days average. “The overall fatality rate is 2.05%,” Jain said. “Over 50% of Covid beds are still vacant in Delhi’s government hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/community-spread-of-corona-in-city-should-have-been-accepted/articleshow/78211403.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Trichy||NIT-Trichy’s IGNITTE helps four govt school students clear JEE Main||Trichy: Four government school students trained by IGNITTE, the teaching club of National Institute of Technology, Trichy (NIT-T) cleared JEE Mains this year. P Sethupathy and Hari Krishnan of government higher secondary school of Lalgudi, Aiysha Siddequa of government Syed Murtaza higher secondary school and Pugazharasi of government higher secondary school in Mannachanallur secured 91, 88, 74 and 31 percentiles respectively. Stating that the director Dr Mini Shaji Thomas congratulated the students and mentors on their success, founder of IGNITTE, V Sanjeev said that though all the four cleared the exam, Sethupathy had an edge over the others and could get admission in NIT-Trichy.On his success, Sethupathy said that it could not have been achieved by him without the effort of the IGNITTE team. “Being a government school student, I required such coaching to crack JEE Mains to join my dream course of engineering. I couldn’t afford to private coaching centres. IGNITTE came at the right and made me realize my dream almost,” he told ToI.As many as 20 students trained by the IGNITTE took up the exam in January and September, out of which four cleared the exam.The club founded by Sanjeev and other students of NIT-T, Saran Badresh, Adharsh Yeshwanth, Arun Prasanna, Aravindan C, Prem Kumar in 2017, it was aimed at providing access to resources and coaching for talented government school students in rural areas for competitive exams like JEE. With the help of the then director of NIT Richy, and then collector of Perambalur district K Nandthakumar, Sanjeev and his team conducted weekend classes in Perambalur. The success story began from then on.In 2019, the club aimed initiated IMPULSE with support from the NIT-T director, Trichy collector S Sivarasu, Trichy chief educational officer S Shanthi and the club’s faculty advisor associate professor M Venkata Kirthiga.The project IMPULSE conducted an entrance exam to select 60 out of 600 students and trained them in NIT Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-trichys-ignitte-helps-four-govt-school-students-clear-jee-main/articleshow/78212168.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Trichy||Probe on into ‘sexual assault’ of mentally ill woman||Trichy: Trichy city police rescued a mentally ill woman suspected to have been sexually assaulted by a four-member gang in Trichy city late on Friday. Acting on the information passed on by Vijayakumar, founder of an online Tamil magazine, around 11 pm., a night patrolling team visited the YMCA grounds opposite Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) around midnight. They found the 28-year-old woman of Nagamangalam there. On enquiring with her as well as some local people, they came to know that she has been roaming around MGMGH for the past two weeks. Four people who came in an autorickshaw took her with them. The woman told the police that they took her to various places and sexually assaulted her. On the evening of September 17, she was found lying near a restaurant in officer’s colony bleeding. A restaurant employee informed Vijayakumar about it who brought the issue to the notice of the police. She was brought to MGMGH for treatment and the Government Hospital police took up the investigation. GH Police said they were not sure whether the sexual assault happened on Friday night but a gang allegedly assaulted her. The police were in the process of collecting CCTV footage in the area to know more. Doctors told police that they could not examine whether she was subjected to sexual assault due to her present condition. The police are believed to have picked up a 41-year-old man in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/probe-on-into-sexual-assault-of-mentally-ill-woman/articleshow/78212170.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Cost of RT-PCR test in UK, lengthy process act as a deterrent for flyers to Kolkata||KOLKATA: The reluctance on part of passengers flying from London to Kolkata, where a Covid-negative report is a must for all incoming passengers from abroad, is a result of a lengthier, costlier and a tad difficult process to get oneself tested, according to flyers in Kolkata and the UK. Air India has also not been able to operate a Vande Bharat flight to Kolkata from Singapore because getting an RT-PCR test done in the country is difficult unless a physician recommends it. TOI had reported on Thursday how 12 out of 26 passengers headed to Kolkata in an Air India flight from Heathrow airport had to stay back as they didn’t have the mandatory RT–PCR Covid-negative report. While passengers claimed misinformation on part of the airline, they also added how difficult and costly it is to get a Covid test done in the UK. “Back there, it costs anything between Rs 13,000 to Rs 20,000 per head to get an RT-PCR test done at a private lab. Even that takes at least 70 hours for the report to arrive,” said Anchal Jagpal, who returned to Kolkata from London on Thursday. She had to pay 139 pounds (Rs 13,216) for the test and had received the report less than 24 hours before boarding. The National Health Service website in the UK mentions that free RT-PCR tests are available to anyone with coronavirus symptoms, or anyone who has been asked for a test by a relevant authority, such as a hospital, before having surgery. People can either go to a National Health Service (NHS) test site or request a home test kit. But the website adds: “Only get a test if you have coronavirus symptoms or have been asked to get tested. This will help make sure people who need a test can get one.” “At some labs, the test report takes at least five days to come. But for flying to Kolkata, the test has to be done within a maximum period of four days before boarding the flight. Plus the tests are way costlier. That makes it a bit difficult to get the tests done if a number of family members are flying together,” said Sumanta Sarathi Chakraborty, a software engineer who was stopped from boarding a flight to Kolkata last Wednesday along with his wife and two-year-old son as they didn’t have the test reports. In Kolkata, RT-PCR tests cost Rs 2,250 per head and the result is generally mailed in less than 48 hours. Some other states like Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have recently slashed it even further. In tune with the latest directive of the civil aviation ministry, asking international airports to implement testing facilities for transit passengers booked on a connecting domestic flight, Delhi and Mumbai airport has already launched Covid-19 testing facilities for all arriving passengers that can be availed at Rs1,600 onwards and the results are out within a few hours. Kolkata airport is yet to implement the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cost-of-rt-pcr-test-in-uk-lengthy-process-act-as-a-deterrent-for-flyers-to-kolkata/articleshow/78210145.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||3 deaths in Ytl, 172 new cases||Yavatmal: Yavatmal district recorded three more deaths due to Covid on Saturday, taking the death toll to 250. The fatalities include a 69-year-old man from the city, 75-year-old from Pandharkawda and a 55-year-old from Mahagaon. A total of 172 new cases were registered on Saturday — 104 men and 68 women. The district saw 155 patients being discharged on Saturday, reducing the count of active patients to 714. There are 591 in home isolation while 286 are admitted in the isolation ward. Meanwhile, the city police registered a criminal offence against a Palaswadi shopkeeper for violating the government norms. The shopkeeper was in the high risk contact category as one of his family members is admitted in the GMC after testing positive. He was supposed to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Instead, he was operating his shop regularly, which was brought to the notice of the municipal council officials. The officials, accompanied by the revenue officials and police, visited his shop and caught him red-handed. They registered an offence under sections 288, 269 and 270 of IPC along with relevant sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Prevention of Epidemic Diseases Act 1857 was invoked against the erring shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-deaths-in-ytl-172-new-cases/articleshow/78341238.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Pump makers seek govt help to keep raw material prices down||Coimbatore: Rising raw material costs may push up prices of pumpsets, pump manufacturers in the city said.In a communication, V Krishnakumar, president of the Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association (Siema), said the price of copper, the main raw material used to manufacture motors and some parts of pumps, has increased by around 25% since June 1. “Because of this, the price of cable has been revised two to three times. Aluminum, used for making motors, has become costlier by more than 15%. Similarly, prices of lamination steel and castings have also increased by about 10%. Pig iron used for producing castings for the pump industry had seen a price increase of about 10%,” the communication said.In addition to this, the increase in diesel price has made transportation more expensive both for raw material and finished products, it said. “Diesel price hike during this period is around 14%. This has resulted in an increased in freight charges by about 20%. Shortage in skilled labour has also been adding indirectly to the cost.”The price hike could be due to global buyers keeping away from China, Krishnakumar told TOI. “As exporters from India have started to see the demand, they could have hiked the prices,” he said. “But we cannot pass on the price hike fully to our customers, who are mainly farmers. We want the government to intervene and solve the issue,” he said.After lockdown relaxations, on average, pump manufacturers have been working only up to 60% to 70% of the capacity, as there is still uncertainty with states having their own phases of local lockdown, Krishnakumar said. “Manufacturers are finding it difficult to deliver to places such as Nagpur and Chhattisgarh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pump-makers-seek-govt-help-to-keep-raw-material-prices-down/articleshow/78210143.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mysuru||Muda silent on unallotted sites since 1.5 years||Mysuru: It has been a year-and-half since Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda) said that 9,508 of its developed sites have remained unallotted. Since then, there has been little or no progress about their disposal. Many sites developed by Muda have remained unsold for decades, according to a disclosure in its 2019 financial plan. There is still no sign of disposing of these sites despite thousands of waiting applicants. After it was disclosed that there were a whopping 26,147 unallotted sites, Muda took up a drive to verify records and confirmed that 9,508 sites were still unallotted. Muda authorities had claimed in the 2019 budget that they had paid Rs 9.3 lakh to the sub-registrar office to obtain encumbrance certificates of these sites. They had also claimed the sites would be disposed of in that current year, but it has not done that. Muda had said the process to identify other unallotted sites is underway as some of its layouts handed over to civic authorities must be verified. There has been little progress on that front too. Mysore Realtors’ Association member Adish Sagar says an RTI query about unallotted sites and their locations has remained unanswered. Muda has replied that it is still verifying records and the information sought would be provided once the process is over. “Muda did this only to avoid disclosing the details to me. When in its budget, it had announced that records are verified and the encumbrance certificates of 9,508 sites were obtained to confirm the sites are still vacant, what is preventing them from giving the details?” he said. “Muda has plans to dispose of these sites through auction. These sites were meant for distribution among applicants based on seniority, but officials are not doing it. Muda can help thousands of applicants by allotting the sites,” Adish said. When contacted, Muda commissioner DB Natesh said they were now concentrating on doing audit of land it had acquired since late 1960s. “The survey is being done based on survey numbers. We are assessing if the entire land is utilized for layouts and how many sites were formed. Portions of land are left out and vacant lands are still available. This apart, land records are being digitized. So far 80,000 site records are digitized and about 20% work remains. Once it is complete, we will have information at our fingertips about how many sites were allotted, cancelled and vacant,” he said. Muda chairman HV Rajeev said he wasn’t aware of the issue regarding unallotted site and said he would look into the issue. “About 85,000 site applicants are pending before Muda since 1990. We must distribute sites based on seniority, but some may have bought sites in-between. Therefore, Muda plans to link Aadhaar and PAN card details of applicants to confirm they still don’t have sites before selecting beneficiaries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-silent-on-unallotted-sites-since-1-5-years/articleshow/78209502.cms||Lawrence Milton
September 20, 2020||Trichy||Lockdown brings down fire accidents by almost half in Trichy||Trichy: With people spending more time indoors during the lockdown, fire accidents in Trichy city have come down by 48% in the past nine months compared to the corresponding period last year. According to Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services, between January and September 2019, Trichy city fire service station had received 319 distress calls, whereas this year it received only 166 distress calls as on September 17. Officials attributed the fall in fire accidents to the alertness of residents. Since mass travel to other districts and even within the city did not happen for a brief period between April and August, there were no incidents of locked houses catching fire. “Presence of people at houses round-the-clock could be the reason for checking fire accidents in the earliest stage,” a senior fire service department official said.Though commercial establishments were locked during the pandemic, commercial properties have not witnessed major fire accidents. Only a few shops in Gandhi Market in April and June reported minor fire accidents. Trichy corporation’s Ariyamangalam dump yard that usually witnesses fire accidents in summer has passed the period safely.Meanwhile, drowning incidents, which are also within the purview of the fire service department, increased slightly in Trichy city during the lockdown. The department received four distress calls between January and September 2019 regarding drowning in the Cauvery between Mukkombu and Sarkarpalayam. This year, the same period received five calls. Around 80% of the incidents end up in casualties. “Youths ventured out during lockdown and take a dip in the Cauvery. This has led to such incidents,” the fire official added. But considering the surplus flow of water in the Cauvery this year, the months have passed safely, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lockdown-brings-down-fire-accidents-by-almost-half-in-trichy/articleshow/78212172.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Ensure better health infra: Left||Coimbatore: Members of CPI and CPM on Saturday staged protests across the district seeking that the state government improve the quality of government hospitals, which is essential during the Covid-19 crisis. Representatives of the Left parties held demonstrations at their head offices and also across the district. “We also want the state government to act on private hospitals which are collecting exorbitant fee for Covid-19 treatment,” CPI PN Pudur secretary N Chandran said. Meanwhile, CPM held its district executive meeting on Saturday, where representatives decided to hold protests at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital and ESI Hospital on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ensure-better-health-infra-left/articleshow/78210149.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tribal department, teachers at odds over teaching kids at home||HYDERABAD: Primary teachers of government schools have been asked to go to every student’s home and take classes for two hours. A teacher will have to cover three students in a day. However, teachers are opposing the move. A decision to teach students at their homes was taken by the tribal welfare department and a circular was issued recently directing all tribal welfare government primary school (GPS) teachers and ashram (residential) school teachers to spend at least six hours in students’ home/village teaching. “Our school has over 350 students, who come from seven mandals of Mulugu district. There are a few villages that are far from the school’s location. How is it even possible for us to go to these villages, which are mostly in forest areas without any transportation facilities, and teach kids,” questioned, K Chenchaiah, an English teacher working at a school in Eturnagaram, Mulugu district. He said there were 17 teachers, including those above 50 years of age and woman teachers, working at the school and questioned who would be responsible for the safety of teachers. The circular, issued by the commissioner of the tribal welfare department, directed teachers to adopt the total students/villages equally. While GPS teachers were asked to go to a student home and teach him/her for two hours a day, ashram school teachers were asked to adopt villages and visit an adopted village every day and spend six hours with students. Their tasks include ensuring students watch digital lessons, tag students without devices with their neighbours/gram panchayats/peers, give adequate homework/exercise/worksheets, supply textbooks, notebooks, and SCERT material, and take two hours of home tuition. “At a time when teachers were given work from home (WFH) option as they are getting infected with coronavirus if they go to school, how does it even make sense to ask us to visit homes of three students every day. Can officials not think of a better alternative?” A Venkasteshwarulu, a GPS teacher from Bhadradri Kothagudem district, said. Teachers said if the officials could take necessary safety precautions and make students return to schools/hostels, they are ready to attend schools and teach children even during the pandemic. They, however, made it clear, it was not possible to visit students’ villages or homes to teach them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-dept-teachers-at-odds-over-teaching-kids-at-home/articleshow/78211418.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Auto parts manufacturers seek reduction in GST on spare parts||Ludhiana: Auto parts manufacturing industry of the city is all praise for the central government on the proposal to reduce GST by 10% on automotive sector, especially two-wheelers, and for cars from 28% to 18%. But at the same time businessmen are demanding that the GST on auto parts should be reduced by 10%, which is their long pending demand and the high rate of 28% GST is causing huge problems for them like high cost of production. Besides, a huge amount of money also gets stuck in GST refunds with the taxation department. Speaking to TOI, Gurpargat Singh Kahlon, president of the Auto Parts Manufacturers Association (APMA), said, “Recently a proposal has been given by several Union ministers to reduce 28% GST applicable on automotive sector by 10%, which means that two-wheelers and four-wheelers will become cheaper and there might be surge in their demand. But it’s unfortunate that there has been no assurance from anyone on the reduction of GST on auto parts, which too is 28 percent and from 2017 we have been demanding its reduction as it is the highest slab under GST.” Kahlon added, “Due to such high rate of tax not only our cost of production has risen sharply ever since it was imposed, but our investments also have increased in business. Over and above this huge amount of money also gets blocked as GST refund with the taxation department and we are unable to bear this financial burden. Therefore, we request the central government to not ignore the auto parts manufacturers and reduce GST on our industry as well along with the reduction on automobiles.” According to OP Kapoor, general secretary of APMA, “Auto parts manufacturers of Punjab have been suffering for a long time, firstly due to demonetisation our industry suffered a severe blow. Later, when GST was imposed on us, we were kept in the highest slab of 28%, whereas there are some sectors where only 5% GST was levied. Combined with this the high rate of power and now the labour shortage are killing our industry. The only major relief which can prove to be a gamechanger for us is if the GST on our industry is reduced from 28% to 18%. With the 10% reduction there will be less capital involved and most importantly it will lead to huge reduction in the cost of auto parts, which will give a push to our industry. Therefore, we request the Centre and GST council to reduce GST on the auto parts as well in addition to reducing the same on automobiles.” According to Nitin Sharma, another auto parts manufacturer, “I think along with reduction of GST on the auto parts by the centre government, our state government should also play its role in uplifting of the auto parts manufacturing industry. The most immediate relief which can be given to us by Punjab government is the reduction of rate of power to Rs. 5 per unit which currently is almost double. If both GST reduction of 10 percent and power tariff reduction are implemented then there will be significant boom in our industry”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/auto-parts-manufacturers-seek-reduction-in-gst-on-spare-parts/articleshow/78210170.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Trichy||Traders protest demanding reopening of Gandhi market after minor fire||Trichy: Traders from the Gandhi market on Saturday staged a sit-in protest demanding the district administration to reopen the market that has remained shut ever since Covid-19 outbreak. On Saturday, a minor fire broke out and subsequently extinguished. However, as this was third such incident, the traders demanded that the market be reopened. They also alleged that anti-social elements are breaking into the market and damaging the properties. The district administration, which held talks with the traders cited the stay order from the Madras high court from reopening the market. Officials also assured the traders of their concerns that will not be shifted to the Kallikudi integrated vegetable market. “District collector S Sivarasu told us that there is a stay order preventing the district administration from reopening the market till October 13. We were given an assurance that the market will be opened once the order is vacated,” Ve Govindarajalu, a representative of Gandhi market traders said. Following the assurance, traders withdrew their protest. Meanwhile, the district administration had directed corporation to clear the accumulated waste and study the feasibilty to install CCTV cameras at the market. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-protest-demanding-reopening-of-gandhi-market-after-minor-fire/articleshow/78212171.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Kas, Masai plateaus bloom bright during tourist-free time||KOLHAPUR: Blooms of myriad hues are painting bright landscapes on the Kas plateau these days as the Unesco world heritage site remains out of bounds for tourists because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Lakhs of tourists trek to this biodiversity hotspot every year during the late monsoon period for a glimpse of the vibrant flora, However, they invariably leave a trail of damage. This year though, the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing restrictions on travel meant that the plateau did not have any visitors, except a few cattle grazing on wild grass. The reduced human interference has led to an abundance of growth of around 350 varieties of flowering plants, many of which are rare and endemic species, over the 1,800 hectare plateau in Satara district. The rare Blue Utricularies, Yellow Smithia, White Pipewort and Pink Balsam are painting the plateaus in a rainbow of colours. Nearly 150km away in Kolhapur district, the Masai plateau near Panhala is covered in bloom too. Botanists and experts said both these plateaus had very little flowering last year because of the prolonged monsoon and heavy rain. In fact, this year’s unhindered growth of the flowering plants will ensure an even better bloom next year, the experts said. Botanist Madhukar Bachulkar, who is an expert on the Western Ghats, said the lockdown and prohibition of visitors to Kas, Masai and other plateaus in the western Maharashtra was beneficial and would help conserve the bio-diversity to some extent. “This year, the flower bloom at Kas is better compared to 2019. It will further increase next year with less human disturbance over the plateau,” he said. He added that nature tourism practised in our country is not eco-friendly and most of the biodiversity has come under threat due to increased tourism. “Few endemic flowering plants on the plateaus at Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani have almost vanished due to the increased human interference,” he said. Datta Jagtap, an environment conservator from Satara, said the prolonged monsoon last year had hampered the flowering season. But this year, the Kas plateau is flowering well again. “The biodiversity and life cycle of plants, butterflies, snakes and caterpillars have benefitted from lockdown. This will result in more flowering next year. Animal activities have also improved over the plateau, leading to soil loosening. This would help the plants grow,” he said. Bachulkar added that cattle grazing was also a must for such plateaus to help soil organisms that promote the flowering plants’ growth. “The fencing at Kas plateau leads to zero cattle grazing. This causes the wild grass to dominate and affect the growth of the flowering plants,” he said. Some researchers have sought better planning of the tourist movement on these plateaus to ensure people don’t end up trampling on conservation efforts. Umakant Chavan, a nature researcher from Kolhapur, said the Masai plateau was open to tourists and did not have fences like in Kas. As a result, vehicles freely move over the plateau and crush the plants. “We expect tourism activities to peak in 2021 after this year’s restrictions. There is a need to plan tourist movement in keeping with the sustainable conservation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maharashtra-kas-masai-plateaus-bloom-bright-during-tourist-free-time/articleshow/78209306.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
September 20, 2020||Hubballi||After losing house in flood, family lives in community hall for a year||Belagavi: For the past one year, this family of five in Yaragatti village in Hukkeri taluk, Belagavi, has been living in a community centre, owing to the failure of the authorities concerned to compensate the aggrieved people for the home they lost in the floods last year. Suresh Harijan and his family lost their home in the flood in August last year. Their house was completely destroyed, and after a few days’ attempt at living in the damaged house – the family had a tin roof placed and the debris cleared – they moved to the Dr BR Ambedkar Community Hall, convinced that the state government would compensate them sooner than later. The apathetic attitude of the officials concerned has prolonged what should have been a short stay at the community hall to a year. With a small grandchild in tow, life at the community hall has not been very comfortable or easy for Suresh’s family. As the days have dragged into months, his hopes of hearing from the officials concerned have been dwindling. “I have repeatedly appealed to the officials to compensate us or to get our house repaired. But all our pleas have fallen on deaf ears. I visit the deputy commissioner’s office, the gram panchayat office each month, but it is of no use,” Suresh told TOI. The adults in Suresh’s family are daily wage labourers and the family’s condition at the community hall is truly a pitiable one, for the members are forced to go out of the centre whenever it hosts a ceremony or a function. Ravi Chougale, a resident of Yaragatti village, said that they truly felt sorry at the plight of Suresh’s family. “The district administration must prevail on the state government to disburse funds for the family,” Chougale said. Belagavi deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said that, if the family members had provided the GPS coordinates of their house to the authorities, they would have received compensation by now. “If they have not been paid the money despite providing these details, it might be owing to a technical glitch. But I will take this as a special case and ensure that the family receives compensation,” Hiremath told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-losing-house-in-flood-family-lives-in-community-hall-for-a-year/articleshow/78209302.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS faculty to protest failure to implement revised pay scale||Hubballi: The failure on the part of the management of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) to implement the recommendations of the seventh All India Council for Technical Education pay commission has prompted teachers at the healthcare institution to launch a protest. Members of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences Teachers’ Association (KIMSTA) will, in a show of protest, don black ribbons on their arms while on duty from Monday to draw attention to the management’s inaction on the issue. Members of the association on Saturday submitted a memorandum seeking implementation of the AICTE recommendations to KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani. The protesting doctors have warned that failure to fulfil their demands would prompt them to take the extreme step of not attending to any but the emergency cases. Led by KIMSTA president Dr SS Shirol, the association’s honorary secretary Dr Arun Walvekar and mentor Dr KF Kammar pointed out that the recommendations of the AICTE’s seventh pay commission recommendations had been ratified by the state government on April 1. The salary of faculty in other colleges in the state had been altered accordingly, they pointed out. The doctors said that the failure to raise their salary was demotivating and demoralising. “The faculty has been working sincerely to handle the Covid-19 crisis effectively. We have been putting our safety and those of our families at stake. We are compelled to take to protest to urge the government to fulfil our demands,” the doctors said. Medical superintendent Dr Arunkumar, Dr Suryakant Kalluraya, Dr Ravindra Gadag, Dr Gurushantappa Yalgachhin were among the doctors who submitted the memorandum to Dr Antartani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-faculty-to-protest-failure-to-implement-revised-pay-scale/articleshow/78209675.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 tally crosses 25K-mark in district||Coimbatore: The district on Saturday recorded 565 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally past the 25,000-mark. The total number of cases now stands at 25,344, of which 4,288 are active cases that are under treatment at various government and private hospitals, Covid care centres and in home care. Of the total 565 cases, 562 were indigenous cases and three imported cases. The new cases accounted for 10.14% of the state’s tally on the day that stood at 5,569. As many as 308 patients were discharged on Saturday, taking the number of the total recovered cases to 20,680. This corresponds to the recovery rate of 81.59%. The district also recorded four deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 376. The four deaths recoded on Saturday included a 55-year-old man, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) with no comorbidities. The other three — a 73-year-old-man admitted to a private hospital who had hypothyroidism, a 53-year-old man admitted to the ESI Hospital who had type II diabetes and a 25-year-old man admitted to CMCH with type I diabetes — were casualties with comorbidities. Meanwhile, in an attempt to curb the number of Covid-19 cases in the city limits, the city corporation has decided to conduct fever camps at 23 places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-tally-crosses-25k-mark-in-district/articleshow/78210155.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Yelahanka general hospital yet to treat cases; infections shut OPD||Bengaluru: Nearly six months into the pandemic, Yelahanka General Hospital is still not equipped to treat Covid-19 cases, and growing infections among staff members have now forced it to shut the outpatient department (OPD). All other government hospitals in Bengaluru have been attending to Covid-19 patients, and the Yelahanka facility’s inability leaves a gap in the public healthcare system at a time when the number of cases is rising sharply. The OPD has been shut for the past one week. In the past 12 days, 34 hospital employees, including eight doctors, have tested positive for coronavirus. The hospital’s lone anaesthetist has been diagnosed with the disease, so have two of the three gynaecologists. The third one is said to have developed symptoms. “Eight out of 12 doctors are positive, so we shut the OPD on September 14 to break the infection chain. The doctors were exposed (to the virus) through patients visiting the fever clinic and their family members,” said the hospital’s medical superintendent, Dr Asma Tabassum. With a skeletal staff, the hospital is now treating only emergency cases. The fever clinic used to get at least 100 patients a day, with 25 to 30 per cent testing positive. Many people came for a check-up before being advised home isolation. The hospital has 100 beds and of these, 35 have been equipped for Covid cases. They were connected to oxygen lines recently, but treatment of Covid cases has not begun yet. “We are in a crisis and lack human resources. To run the facility, the hospital needs 12 more staff members, including six doctors. We need more manpower, and not machines alone. The government has now provided us 35 oxygenated beds and three ventilator beds for Covid patients,” Dr Asma said. The hospital has written to the state health and family welfare department and medical education department, seeking additional hands to start Covid-19 treatment. It has also asked a nearby private medical college if it can send PG medicos. The hospital has three ventilators and five more are on the way, but it doesn’t have trained personnel to operate them. “What’s the point in giving infrastructure without human resources,” Dr Asma said. Recently, the hospital published a recruitment notification, seeking three physicians, two anaesthetists and six medical officers. It received only a few responses. Two new medical officers were hired, but one later tested positive. Senior health officials acknowledged the problem. “Ideally, the hospital should have been equipped for Covid-19 treatment during the lockdown period,” said Dr GA Srinivas, district health officer, Bengaluru Urban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yelahanka-general-hospital-yet-to-treat-cases-infections-shut-opd/articleshow/78212195.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 20, 2020||Business||No decision to stop printing of 2,000 notes||NEW DELHI: The government has not taken any decision to discontinue the printing of Rs 2,000 denomination currency notes, the Lok Sabha was informed on Saturday. “Printing of bank notes of particular denomination is decided by the government in consultation with the RBI to maintain desired denomination mix for facilitating transactional demand of the public,” junior finance minister Anurag Singh Thakur said in a written reply in Lok Sabha. “During the year 2019-20 and 2020-21, no indent has been placed with the presses for printing of Rs 2,000 denomination notes. However, there is no decision to discontinue the printing of Rs 2,000 denomination bank notes by the government,” Singh said in his reply. Thakur also said that as on March 31, 2020 there were 27,398 pieces of Rs 2,000 notes in circulation compared to 32, 910 pieces as on March 31, 2019. The minister said that the Reserve Bank of India has informed that in view of nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, printing of notes stopped temporarily. However, the note printing presses resumed production in a phased manner, as per the guidelines issued by the central and state governments. The production activities at Bhartiya Reserve Bank Note Mudran Private Limited (BRBNMPL) presses were suspended from March 23,to May 3. Printing of bank notes at BRBNMPL presses resumed from May 4. Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL) has informed that printing of bank notes at their presses was also affected due to Covid-19 pandemic, the minister said. Thakur said that both, Bank Note Presses of SPMCIL, that is, Currency Note Press, Nashik and Bank Note Press, Dewas were closed from March 23 due to the lockdown declared by the central/state government for Covid-19 pandemic. The minister said that the currency note press, Nashik and bank note press, Dewas resumed full-fledged production activities from June 8, and June 1, 2020, respectively. During the period of lockdown, note printing presses have uninterruptedly supplied notes to RBI offices, currency chests from stock of notes available with them through the Indian Railway Treasury Wagons and other means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-decision-to-stop-printing-of-2000-notes/articleshow/78212388.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Trichy||State highways dept denies RTI info on road project, kicks up row||Trichy: The state highways department has landed in controversy after denying information to a query made under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005 seeking details on an ongoing road widening project. According to RTI activist, P Aiyarappan, who sought the details, the sub-section cited by the department for denying the information was irrelevant to the road project and does not exist under the Act. The department in April had launched the Karur road widening work between Kudamurutti bridge and Thindukkarai at a cost of Rs 55 crore. The road was supposed to be widened from 7m to 10.5m. Suspecting discrepancies in the project, Aiyarappan had last month sought information on the project including fund sanctioned, government order, tender documents and section-wise details on the road’s width to be altered. But, in its reply dated September 14, the department mentioned that the information sought cannot be disclosed citing section 8 (13) of RTI Act as an exemption from disclosure of information. “Section 8 shall be invoked only when the information sought affects the security and sovereignty of the country. The RTI was filed to avail details for a public road project, the reply was puzzling,” Aiyarappan said. Other activists also questioned the denial of information for a public project. “Since the project is an ongoing one, tender documents can be shared so that work quality can be ensured,” Coimbatore based RTI activist S P Thiyagarajan said. “As a public information officer, I have the right to deny information we feel irrelevant to public use. If appellate authority directs us to provide the information, we will share,” P Vadivel, divisional engineer, state highways department told TOI. Meanwhile, whistleblowers raising complaints on Karur road project claim that they are facing indirect threats. Last week, one Allur K Srinivasan, said that he was intimidated by an unidentified group near the department’s office as he had been protesting the lapses in the road project. Aiyarappan also said that he was threatened last week by a local. Cantonment and Jeeyapuram police are inquiring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/state-highways-dept-denies-rti-info-on-road-project-kicks-up-row/articleshow/78212173.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 20, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Our main demand is removal of capping on guest count’||Tent house owners and caterers of Punjab went back to work after remaining on strike for two days. According to the businessmen, they are of the view that if in coming days Punjab government does not clear its stand on their demands, then there will be turmoil in the industry. Mohit Behl speaks to Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers and Welfare Association, on hosts of issues, including the future of the industry Q. Tent house owners, caterers and allied service providers remained on strike for two days, do you think it has made any difference to the state government whom you accuse of ignoring demands of your industry? A. Our two-day strike was a big success as our entire industry, be it tent house owners, caterers, lighting providers, florists, speciality food stall providers, even waiters stood united on one platform. The unique protests which we conducted, be it the car rally or playing band outside the offices of the politicians, were noticed all over India and our voice has reached the state government as well and we are hopeful that the required steps will be taken by the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh soon. Q. What is the present situation of your industry, particularly in the wake of lockdown and coronavirus ? A. Hospitality industry is the worst sufferer of the crisis which ensued after coronavirus, as for almost five months the industry remained totally closed. As far as tent house owners, caterers and allied service providers are concerned, they suffered the most because due to capping of only 30 persons at any kind of function, all such programmes were being organised inside the hotels and banquet halls only. The entire tent house and catering industry is sitting without business for the last five months as there were no outdoor functions and as a result there was no requirement of tents, decoration, lighting and catering. Q. What is the biggest demand of your industry and what impact will it have if accepted? A. The main demand of our industry is doing away with the capping on the number of persons allowed to attend the marriage functions. Presently, the capping is at 30 persons only and despite the central government recommending that states can revise the capping to 100, there has been no word from the Punjab government on the issue. The non-commitment of state government on this subject remains the biggest roadblock in the running of businesses of tent house owners and caterers. Need of the hour is that the state government should immediately lift the capping and no restriction should be placed on the number of persons in marriage function so that tent houses and caterers get good business. Q. How many people are associated with your industry and how are they managing their livelihood amid such a crisis as being claimed by you? A. A tent house owner has a huge number of people attached to him, firstly his own labour for erecting tents, furniture, stage, etc. and dismantling these. Then we have electricians, drivers, waiters, people looking after light and sound, etc. Besides this several other small business owners like DJ, photographers, decorators, florists, valet parking contractor, etc. are associated with us. In all hundreds of people are associated with one tent house. So even if one tent house closes, imagine how many people will the closure impact. So far, the tent house owners and caterers are showing big hearts and paying their staff from their own savings but there is a limit to everything and we cannot do it any further as we too are under burden of loans. Therefore, it is our demand to the government to do away with the capping on the functions as this is the only way this industry can be saved. Q. What are your other demands besides removing or increasing the ceiling on guest count? A. Our other major demands which have sent to the Amarinder Singh include introduction of special relief package for our industry which should include abolition of GST from the catering and tent house business, providing pension for six months to our staff, which has pay scale below Rs. 15,000, providing special bank loans to our industry in which interest and repayment period should start after three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/our-main-demand-is-removal-of-capping-on-guest-count/articleshow/78210199.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Post pandemic, Bengali thriller is 1st Indian film to start England shoot||Kolkata: Shooting of a Bengali film on Wednesday at the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead that is home to Windsor Castle — the preferred weekend residence of Queen Elizabeth II — created history of sorts for not just Tollywood but Indian cinema as well. The film — directed by Kamaleswar Mukherjee — became the first Indian movie to be shot in England after the outbreak of Covid-19. Last month, Akshay Kumar began shooting for ‘Bell Bottom’ in Scotland. Titled ‘Anusandhan’, this Eskay Movies production joins the list of other international feature productions currently shooting abroad. That includes 20th Century Studio’s ‘Avatar’ sequel in New Zealand, Marvel Studio’s ‘Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings’ in Australia, Universal’s ‘Jurassic World: Dominion’ at Pinewood Studios outside London, and Sony’s ‘Uncharted’ in Berlin. The resumption of shooting in England of Indian films, which had come to a grinding halt during the pandemic, is a welcome news for the film industry. Mukherjee is happy to have begun the shooting on Wednesday. “We have to follow all safety protocols. The mood in the unit is upbeat. Being a medical practitioner, my presence on the set helps build the confidence of the unit. The UK government has been extremely supportive. Once this shooting goes off well, I am sure other Indian movies will also be keen on shooting in England,” said the director. His film is an adaptation of a play directed by Mukherjee. It is a psychological thriller. A total of eight cast members in a 42-member unit flew down to London in phases for the shooting. Apart from Mukherjee himself, the cast includes Saswata Chatterjee, Payel Sarkar, Churni Ganguly, Riddhi Sen, Priyanka Sarkar, Joydip Mukherjee and Priyanka Mondal. The entire unit tested negative for Covid in Kolkata two weeks before travelling. All members of the unit were again tested in London before shooting began on Wednesday. Thermal checks were done. Masks, face shields and sanitisers were provided by the production house. “Shooting in front of the Windsor castle on Wednesday has historic relevance for the unit,” Mukherjee said. Apart from this location, the unit also filmed in front of Queen Victoria’s bronze statue that was erected in 1887. On Thursday, the unit shifted to Cobham in Surrey. “On Saturday, we shot at Oxford. In fact, I was telling my unit about how this shooting during pandemic will take us to a city which is now the hub of Covid-19 vaccine trials,” Mukherjee said. According to Hemant Agarwal, the executive producer of the film, “The UK government has allowed those involved in sporting and filming activities to work in the UK by using the travel bubbles.” That rules out the crew having to quarantine for the first 14 days. Other shooting locations include Gaddesden Place in Herfordshire that was built in 1773. A major portion of the film will also be shot in an Oxfordshire mansion and at the car park of the Heathrow airport. Shooting is expected to be wrapped up by September 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/post-pandemic-bengali-thriller-is-1st-indian-film-to-start-england-shoot/articleshow/78210198.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
September 20, 2020||Trichy||Golu dolls’ exhibition-cum-sale begins||Trichy: Poompuhar, the handicraft showroom of Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation (THDC), on Saturday launched the exhibition cum sale of golu dolls in Trichy. Dolls in the price range between Rs 50 and Rs 50,000 are displayed. Marapachi dolls and Kondapalli dolls, made from woods and miniature dolls of Hindu gods, were also available for sale in the showroom situated at Singarathope. Carved from wood, the dolls are naturally coloured with vegetable oil. Dolls made with paper pulp were produced by artisans from Srirangam, Trichy, Thanjavur, Puducherry and Madurai. “Due to the lockdown and uncertainty, we could not bring a much of variety in dolls. Still, traditional Ettikoppaka wooden dolls from Andhra Pradesh were introduced this year for the first time,” R Gangadevi, manager, Poompuhar, Trichy said. Traditional dolls from Rajasthan and Odisha were also decked up. As instructed by district collector S Sivarasu, Poompuhar management said that all customers will be screened before being allowed inside the showroom. “Social distancing and other Covid-19 preventive protocols will be ensured. The sale of dolls were advanced this year to prevent overcrowding and last minute purchase,” Gangadevi said. The special sale will go on till October 31, including on all Sundays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/golu-dolls-exhibition-cum-sale-begins/articleshow/78212176.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata nightclubs get back in groove, but old vibe still missing||KOLKATA: The city is slowly getting back to its swinging ways but the party people are sorely missing the dance floor. Nightclubs and party zones that opened for business from the first week of September have seen footfall slide up slowly. Most party zones had a high turnout last weekend than the previous one and with the start of IPL from Saturday, the owners are hopeful of a further spike in footfall over the coming weeks. But sans the dance floor and with the number of guests still restricted, patrons say the old vibe is still missing. Even though revenue-wise it’s still not a happy picture, nightclubs are relieved to see the crowd swell with each passing week. “Footfalls remain low but we are happy to see people coming in. From the next month, we expect a bigger crowd, especially in the weeks leading up to the pujas,” said Gaurav Karnani of nightclub Grid. He added that the biggest problem could be controlling the number of guests. “We are worried about ensuring the place doesn’t get overcrowded. We realize that it will take some time for things to return to normal,” Karnani said. With a ban on dance floor, swinging to the beats while sitting on the chair is going to be the new normal for nightclubs, pointed out Varun Bhimani of Mbar. “Businesswise, it’s slow but steadily people are coming back. This weekend has been better than the last one and we expect an even bigger crowd next weekend. With the festive season already flagged off, people are venturing out. The crowd is going to be smaller but we must accept that since this is the new normal for partying,” said Bhimani. Avishikta Basu, a party-hopper, is excited about the reopening of pubs. “I was at Roxy last week and am planning to go again this week. But that old vibe is still missing since there’s no dance floor. But at least we can have that party feel,” she said. Pub owners and party hoppers are also fumed at the fact that while pubs and nightclubs in Kolkata are being allowed to stay open till midnight, those under Bidhannagar police commissionerate are being asked to shut down within 10.30pm. “Rules should be same for everywhere. We had a great time at Refinery091 last week and it was great catching up with friends like old times. But with the party getting over at 10.30pm, something was amiss,” he gushed. Nightclubs are sparing no effort to ensure that their patrons remain safe. At 10 Downing Street – a nightclub at Sector V - sanitization is under way for more than a week before it opens its doors to the public next week. We have set up two entry points — one to the kitchen for staff entry and the other for guests through the main door where guards have been placed and thermal checking will be done. We are also trying to sanitize guests’ footwear. All tables will have sanitizer sachets and the staff will wear masks or face shields,” said owner Hemant Agarwal. He added that the club will allow only 110 at present though it has a capacity to host 400 people. Music will be played but the dance floor will not be open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nightclubs-get-back-in-groove-but-old-vibe-still-missing/articleshow/78210181.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,000 schools in Gujarat on verge of closure||AHMEDABAD: While almost half of all schools in the state are fighting for survival as the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the education sector hard, some 1,000 schools are on the verge of closure, according to the Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Federation. The long period of restrictions due to the pandemic has translated into financial challenges for many schools. The fee furore created by parents is adding to their woes. While schools are expected to pay salaries to educators and bear their overhead costs, the state government mulling putting a cap on fee collection. Bharat Gajipara, president of the Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Federation, said, “If the problem persists almost 7,000 schools may be battling for survival. The federation has made a proposal and we are urging the state government to provide an economic relief package.” While Ahmedabad School Management Association president Amrut Bharwad said, “Some 45-50 schools are on verge of closure in the city itself. It is difficult for B and C category schools to survive with just 15% to 20% of their fee collection and if this situation continues, we will see the closure of many more schools.” The fees furore is because the majority of parents feel that the schools incur no expenses when they are closed. Are there really no expenses when schools are closed? Muktak Kapadia, trustee of H B Kapadia Group of Schools said, “The only expenditure that has reduced is the electricity bill. We still pay salaries to our educators and Class IV employees.” He added, “During the lockdown, we spent money on improving our IT infrastructure and training educators.” Manan Choksi, executive director, Udgam and Zebar School, says, “Almost 85% of the expenditure for running a school is of a fixed nature and 10% is variable. The talk about our reduced electricity bill is uncalled for as it just constitutes 2% of total expenses.” He adds, “The major expense is the salary of teachers, which continues even if the school is not functional.” The principal of a reputed school said, “The only transportation cost we are saving on is of fuel. We are paying EMIs on vehicles, maintenance, and the salary of drivers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1k-schools-in-state-on-verge-of-closure/articleshow/78210240.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Court upholds state govt policy on weightage marks to contract staff||Hyderabad: In a verdict that could provide huge relief to the government, a full bench of the Telangana high court has upheld the policy of the state to accord preferential treatment by giving weightage marks to its contract and outsource employees while making regular recruitment to such posts. However, the court said such weightage should not cross 20% of the total marks. The full bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, Justice A Rajasheker Reddy and Justice P Naveen Rao answered the reference made to it following conflicting judgments by two division benches on the same issue. “Granting such weightage is within the powers of the state,” it said. Though the issue of weightage to in-service candidates and the unemployed youth resisting it is an old one, it resurfaced in 2017 when TSTransco, TSGenco and power distribution companies and also departments like medical and health commenced massive permanent recruitment to more than 3,000 vacant posts in various categories. The state government, in recognition of the services rendered by temporary and outsource employees who were already doing the same job for more than 10 years, accorded weightage marks taking into account the number of years of service they had rendered. Scores of unemployed youth challenged this weightage saying that it would put them in a disadvantageous position and would make the competition unequal. The bench said the state has the power to accord such concession to an in-service candidate who by virtue of his or her service has by now become an expert or an experienced hand which is useful to the state or its instrumentalities like power utilities. Brushing aside the claims of some employees who served the organisation when power utilities were not divided between AP and Telangana, the bench said that it is a discretionary power of the new entities in Telangana. Transco is well within its powers to restrict weightage to service rendered on contract or outsourcing basis to its employees. “Merely because APTransco was the employer before bifurcation of united state of Andhra Pradesh and merely because TSTransco was carved out from APTransco, it cannot be said that an employee of AP Transco is entitled to the benefit of weightage in the fresh recruitment,” the bench said. The bench also said state has used its discretion and accorded weightage to only those categories of jobs whose expertise is useful to state and its instruments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-upholds-state-govt-policy-on-weightage-marks-to-contract-staff/articleshow/78211477.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris’ tally crosses 2,800||Udhagamandalam: Covid-19 tally crossed the 2,800-mark in the Nilgiris on Saturday, when it logged 87 new cases, even as 78 patients were recovered and discharged from health facilities. A 70-year-old woman from Coonoor, who was undergoing treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), succumbed on Saturday, taking the district’s toll to 18. The district has seen 2,830 Covid cases so far, of which 597 are active cases. As many as 2,222 people have recovered in the district at a recovery rate of 78.2%. According to deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy, the new cases are spread across the district, mostly in rural areas. While 80 new cases were primary and secondary contacts of the earlier cases, the rest had travel history to other districts. “Of the 597 active cases, almost 80% are from rural areas,” said the official. While 11 patients are being treated at the ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 111 are being treated and monitored in homes. The remaining active cases are being treated at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and four Covid care centres in the district.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-tally-crosses-2800/articleshow/78210194.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Pangolin smuggling racket busted, one held||PALANPUR: The forest department of Aravalli district busted a major wild animal trafficking racket and arrested one person with two pangolin carcasses and scales weighing over 10kg. The accused Mohammad Nadim was sent to seven-day custody of the forest department by a local court on Saturday. Pangolin is protected under the Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act. Two of Nadim’s associates had managed to escape when the forest officials tried to apprehend them near Ratanpur check post near Shyamlaji town in Aravalli district on Friday said assistant conservator of forest Shreyan Patel. “Three men from Haldwani in Uttarakhand were stopped based on a tip-off that they were smuggling wild animal carcasses. They were driving a Santro car. However, two of them managed to escape, while Nadim got nabbed,” added Patel. He said that the car in which the accused were travelling was registered in Uttarakhand. “The pangolin carcasses and the scales were destroyed after post mortem and due process. Nadim has admitted that they had brought the pangolin carcasses and the scales from Uttarakhand and were on their way to Maharashtra to sell it,” Patel said. Pangolin scales though does not have any proven medicinal value, yet it is used in traditional Chinese medicine to help with ailments ranging from lactation difficulties to arthritis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pangolin-smuggling-racket-busted-one-held/articleshow/78210266.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Trichy||Tiruvarur photographer gets explosive in courier||Tiruvarur: A photographer received a courier parcel containing gelatin and detonator near Needamangalam in Tiruvarur district on Saturday. According to police, one Veerakumar, a resident of Needamangalam has been running a photo studio. He received a parcel from a courier agency on Saturday. He was shocked to find a gelatin stick and a detonator in the parcel. Subsequently, he informed Needamangalam police and they rushed to the spot and conducted inquiry. It may be recalled that a farmer from Orathanadu in Thanjavur district also received a courier parcel containing explosives on Thursday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tiruvarur-photographer-gets-explosive-in-courier/articleshow/78212177.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Trichy||Man kills elder brother for delay in getting him married||Thanjavur: A 49-year-old farmer was arrested in Thanjavur on charges of murdering his elder brother with a grinding stone on Saturday. The incident took place over an argument for delaying his marriage.Police identified the victim as A Ilango, 56, of East Sembalur village near Pattukottai. The accused has been identified as A Balakumar.Balakumar often picked up arguments with Ilango for not getting him married. They have another brother, A Shanmugavel, 53. Their parents passed away several years ago. Balakumar said Ilango was not showing any interest in getting his two younger brothers married.On Friday night, Balakumar and Ilango’s argument turned violent. Balakumar took a grinding stone and hit Ilango's head. Ilango died on the spot and the accused fled from the spot.The Pattukottai taluk police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry with the family members. Police registered a case and arrested the accused on Saturday. Ilango is survived by his wife I Meenakumari and two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-kills-elder-brother-for-delay-in-getting-him-married/articleshow/78212178.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Districts in Delhi to extend door-to-door check||NEW DELHI: Amid mounting Covid cases, districts in Delhi are gearing up for house-to-house surveillance to check the transmission of the coronavirus. Frontline health workers will visit areas from where Covid-19 positive cases have been reported and gather information about people. The aim is to find high-risk groups of people and to ensure better Covid management even in non-containment zones. Delhi is reporting over 4,000 cases daily for the past several days and in many of the cases, authorities are unable to find the source of the infection. The house-to-house surveillance assumes significance as the fight against Covid-19 enters a critical phase. “The surveillance is very important to combat Covid-19. Under it, frontline workers like civil defence personnel and ASHA workers will go house to house in areas from where some Covid-19 positive cases have been reported and collect their details. Anyone who is found to have the slightest of suspicion of Covid-19 or those vulnerable will be tested,” said Arun Gupta, ADM, South district. An official in East district said the frontline workers would also ask the residents during the surveillance to download Arogya Setu application and fill in it the necessary information. “The information submitted in the app makes it easy for the authorities to monitor the individuals and mark them in different categories,” added the official. Delhi Disaster Management Authority in its Friday meeting directed the district authorities to start house-to-house surveillance to ensure that no one was left untraced. Even a single untraced infected person may trigger a chain reaction of infection. An official said they have come across several cases where people having fever and other Covid-19 symptoms used over-the-counter drugs only to discover later that their health condition had severely deteriorated. “They had to be admitted to hospitals in critical stages and might have infected several others,” added the official who did not want to be identified. The house-to-house surveillance will check such cases while leading to early identification of Covid-19 infected individuals so that they can be isolated immediately and their treatment can be started. The surveillance will continue to be carried out till the time battle against the coronavirus is on. Meanwhile, the districts have been directed to focus on proper delineation and strict perimeter control within containment zones. The districts are also working to enhance the enforcement infrastructure after concerns were raised in the meeting over improper Covid behaviour being displayed by many people in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/districts-to-extend-door-to-door-check/articleshow/78211510.cms||AlokKNMishra
September 20, 2020||India||Oppn targets govt in RS over Covid-19 management||NEW DELHI: Opposition parties on Saturday tried to corner the government in Rajya Sabha over handling of the Covid-19 situation in the country and accused the Centre of stepping into the rights of the states. Congress slammed the government for announcing the lockdown without holding any discussion with state governments despite they being the final executing authority. “The government has been saying how many meetings the Prime Minister has held with states to deal with Covid. But why no meeting was held before taking the big decision of nationwide lockdown?” asked Congress leader P L Punia. He said the government never gave out the number of doctors and health workers who died due to Covid while the Indian Medical Association has given a number. He also highlighted how there is no provision in the bill for compensation to the families of the victims. Responding to these charges, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the number of deceased doctors and health workers are compiled by states and if the government was not giving out the numbers doesn’t mean it isn't sensitive to this issue The opposition attack came during passage of the Epidemic Disease Amendment Bill with penal provisions against those who attack health workers or doctors. The parties said its provisions are inadequate and suggested that the government expand it to include other allied health workers, sanitation staff and police. Harsh Vardhan said the ordinance introduced in April led to a fall in cases of violence against doctors and healthcare workers. The ordinance was promulgated considering that many healthcare workers, including doctors, paramedics, were insulted in some form or the other, due to the stigma attached to Covid-19. Trinamool Congress member Derek O’Brien said the bill allows the Centre to cross constitutional bars while accusing the government of having a sinister design such as search without any reason and imposition of fine. “You can’t cross the limit. Remember states of West Bengal, Punjab, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan rejected you. Chief ministers have been elected to run the states. You cannot cross constitutional bars. There are sinister provisions in the bill. The states must be authorised to take decisions,” he said. BJD’s Sashmit Patra also said the bill has given no power to states and hence there was a need to include their role in the scheme of things. K Keshava Rao of TRS also suggested that the government should give rights to the states. Taking a dig at the Centre, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi alleged that “some” political parties were trying to find “an opportunity in crisis” to destabilise an elected government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oppn-targets-govt-in-rs-over-covid-19-management/articleshow/78212389.cms||Dipak K Dash
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||Following death of senior member, Cong postpones party events for a week||Dehradun: Following the death of its Rishikesh unit chief Shiv Mohan Mishra due to Covid-19, the state Congress on Saturday postponed all its programmes for a week. The visit of Devender Yadav, who was recently made Congress party in-charge for Uttarakhand, has been postponed and the party also cancelled protest near assembly building which was scheduled for September 23 — the one-day assembly session. Two senior Congress lawmakers — leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh and two-time MLA from Dharchula constituency Harish Singh Dhami — tested positive for Covid-19. Hridayesh, who represents Haldwani constituency, is undergoing treatment in one of Dehradun’s private hospital. Uttarakhand Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “Mishra was undergoing treatment at AIIMS and his death has come as a major blow to the party. Following which, state president Pritam Singh has announced that all events lined up for a week either be cancelled or postponed.” Dhasmana pointed out that the Mishra family for generations had been dedicated to the Congress. “His father Kamal Narayan Mishra was also a senior Congress member,” he added. “We do not want to put anyone’s life in danger. The virus is spreading fast and we need to take all the necessary precautions,” said Pritam Singh. Following Mishra’s death, the state leadership spoke with Yadav, who was scheduled to make his first visit to the state on September 22 after his recent appointment. “He was informed about the situation and a decision was taken to postpone all events for a week,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/following-death-of-senior-member-cong-postpones-party-events-for-a-week/articleshow/78209324.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Solve Ameenpur dump issue, KTR tells officials||Hyderabad: Following residents of Ameenpur kicking up a furore over foul smell emanating from the dump yard, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has finally responded asking officials to look into the matter at the earliest. KTR tweeted on Saturday asking MAUD secretary Arvind Kumar to “address the legacy dumping through a scientific solution at the earliest.” Speaking to STOI, techie Raviteja Devarapalli said several promises to shift the dump yard had been made, but nothing has happened so far. “Nearly 1,000 families are affected because of the foul stench that comes from the dump yard. People have developed health and breathing issues,” he said. Raviteja said they deserved better air and water as they were paying taxes as law-abiding citizens. Another resident Gaurav (@Gaurav51729419) tweeted, saying: “Help us out on this dumpyard issue. Looking for your help considering this dump yard is an issue related to health of people staying nearby in Ameenpur.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/solve-ameenpur-dump-issue-ktr-tells-officials/articleshow/78211515.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kochi||Arrests are further proof of al-Qaida’s links in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: The arrest of three guest workers in Ernakulam for alleged links with an al-Qaida affiliate has further affirmed the terror outfit’s links in the state. Abu Tahir, a youth from Palakkad, had travelled to Syria to join Jabhat Al-Nusra, an al-Qaida splinter group, in 2014. Investigations revealed that at least six youths from Kerala had joined Al-Nusra along with Abu Tahir. All of them were living in Qatar before leaving for Syria and one among them returned to Kerala. The NIA had registered a case in the incident. Sajeer Mangalasseri Abdulla alias Sameer Ali, the leader of the Islamic State (IS) group in Kerala had posted material on the al-Qaida on Facebook in 2016. When asked about the post, Ali had replied that it was meant for the ‘al-Qaida fanboys’ in Kerala. In an audio message, an IS cadre from Kasaragod, Abdul Rashid Abdulla, had explained the differences between IS and al-Qaida. He said the IS has high opinion about Osman Bin Laden, but that al-Qaida never tried to establish a caliphate nor did it impose Sharia in areas controlled by it. The message was also believed to have been meant for al-Qaida sympathizers in Kerala. Investigations into the 2016 low-intensity bomb blasts at court complexes in Malappuram and Kollam revealed that an organization named ‘Base Movement’ was behind them. The word al-Qaida means ‘the base’. The organization was inspired by Bin Laden, though no organizational links were established between the two outfits. Police picked up two Jama’at ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) operatives in 2018 from Malappuram, which led to the arrest of JMB leader Boma Mizan alias Munna from Bengaluru. With operations in West Bengal and Bangladesh, JMB is also believed to have links with al-Qaida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/arrests-are-further-proof-of-al-qaidas-links-in-state/articleshow/78210270.cms||Prashanth M P
September 20, 2020||Kozhikode||Arrests are further proof of al-Qaida’s links in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: The arrest of three guest workers in Ernakulam for alleged links with an al-Qaida affiliate has further affirmed the terror outfit’s links in the state. Abu Tahir, a youth from Palakkad, had travelled to Syria to join Jabhat Al-Nusra, an al-Qaida splinter group, in 2014. Investigations revealed that at least six youths from Kerala had joined Al-Nusra along with Abu Tahir. All of them were living in Qatar before leaving for Syria and one among them returned to Kerala. The NIA had registered a case in the incident. Sajeer Mangalasseri Abdulla alias Sameer Ali, the leader of the Islamic State (IS) group in Kerala had posted material on the al-Qaida on Facebook in 2016. When asked about the post, Ali had replied that it was meant for the ‘al-Qaida fanboys’ in Kerala. In an audio message, an IS cadre from Kasaragod, Abdul Rashid Abdulla, had explained the differences between IS and al-Qaida. He said the IS has high opinion about Osman Bin Laden, but that al-Qaida never tried to establish a caliphate nor did it impose Sharia in areas controlled by it. The message was also believed to have been meant for al-Qaida sympathizers in Kerala. Investigations into the 2016 low-intensity bomb blasts at court complexes in Malappuram and Kollam revealed that an organization named ‘Base Movement’ was behind them. The word al-Qaida means ‘the base’. The organization was inspired by Bin Laden, though no organizational links were established between the two outfits. Police picked up two Jama’at ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) operatives in 2018 from Malappuram, which led to the arrest of JMB leader Boma Mizan alias Munna from Bengaluru. With operations in West Bengal and Bangladesh, JMB is also believed to have links with al-Qaida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/arrests-are-further-proof-of-al-qaidas-links-in-state/articleshow/78214985.cms||Prashanth M P
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||NREGA to give makeover to DK govt schools||Mangaluru: Work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) will give scores of government schools across Dakshina Kannada (DK) a makeover. It is for the first time that the government has taken up work in schools in convergence with the department of public instruction, and has sanctioned Rs 80 lakh for the purpose. Five categories of work can be taken up under MGNREGA, which include construction of toilets, compound walls, rooms to prepare and serve midday meals in, kitchen garden and school ground work. The work approved a few days ago is likely to commence at the earliest. Giving out the details of the work, R Selvamani, CEO, DK ZP, said that Rs 80 lakh has been earmarked to improve school infrastructure, and work under the five categories has been taken up. “This is the first time the government has allocated funds for school works under MGNREGA. However, funds will not be used to carry out repairs, but only for new construction activities. Earlier, under the MGNREGA, funds were sanctioned through the ZP and various minor works were taken up, which did not make much difference. This time a large chunk of the amount is dedicated only to five categories of works, which is done in association with the department of public instruction.” Out of Rs 80 lakh, Rs 45 lakh is reserved for government high schools and the rest for primary schools. Malleswamy, DDPI, DK, told TOI that currently all the BEOs have been asked to prepare an action plan in their jurisdiction. “Construction of the compound wall and ground will be major works across schools in the district,” he said. Increase demand for MGNREGA work With several losing jobs due to the pandemic, Selvamani revealed that since the outbreak of the pandemic, 4,545 households have enrolled under MGNREGA. The highest number of households who have enrolled under the scheme are registered in Bantwal at 1,061, followed by Mangaluru taluk at 888 and Belthangady at 865. Out of the total 1,33,230 job cards issued in the district, 15,701 households provided employment and 184 households have completed 100 days of work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nrega-to-give-makeover-to-dk-govt-schools/articleshow/78209326.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Future grim for school employees||Ahmedabad: More than 10 lakh educators and class IV staff of school will be affected directly if the state government decides to cap school fees. Educators have embraced technology and are ensuring smooth online classes, but all we have to reward them with for their dedication and hard work is an an uncertain future, job losses, and salary cuts. Most schools have said that the major portion of fees goes toward payment of salaries of educators and Class IV workers. Cutting fees will translate into a disaster for educators who are already facing salary cuts. An educator with 20 years of experience, said, “Accepting it as a challenge, I adapted to technology and even bought a laptop on loan, but now if I have another salary cut, how will I survive with an EMI and my family to tale care of.” Another educator, said, “I am a single parent and if my salary is reduced further I will only be left with enough to pay rent. How will I meet other expenses?” Manan Choksi, executive director of Udgam and Zebar School For Children, said, “The schools have no extra funds to pay salaries to educators after the fee regulation committee (FRC) reduced the profit margin. If a fee cap is brought in, we will have to take some cost-cutting measures.”  Namrata Sinha, a parent of a Class XII student said, “Schools have been running online classes to ensure the child does not lose academically. If we can pay coaching institutes, why not school fees.” Dhiren Shah, a parent, said, “It is a chain reaction, if I do not pay for my son’s education, the school may not pay teachers, which will eventually affect my son who is in Class XII and I do not wish to disturb him over money matters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/future-grim-for-school-employees/articleshow/78210281.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
September 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu boy, 12, spends mom’s Rs 90,000 on games, quits after dad’s lessons||MADURAI: The parents of a 12-year-old boy from a village in Ramanathapuram district had the shock of their lives recently when they found that he had spent Rs 90,000 from his mother’s bank account in three months to play online games. They came to know about it only when his mother went to withdraw money from an ATM recently. The couple said the boy was glued to a gaming app, which they allowed since they thought playing games on mobile was better than getting exposed to Covid-19 outside. “There was Rs 97,000 in the account out of which he had spent Rs 90,000 to play the paid game. Though he first claimed innocence fearing repercussions, he slowly opened up,” said his father Senthil Kumar from Melakidaram near Kadaladi. Senthil Kumar who runs an e-seva centre said his wife took the boy’s help for ordering products online. The boy, who had completed class VII, had learnt how to make payments. Since he had access to the ATM card, there was no stopping him. He also deleted messages received from the bank after every spending so that they would not discover it, he said. Senthilkumar says he did not beat the boy though he had lost a huge amount.  Instead, he tried to wean him away from the scourge of online games. Initially his efforts didn’t bear fruit, but Senthilkumar tried out a small exercise. He asked the boy to write down the numericals from 1 to 90,000 as punishment for his mistake. The boy started writing and found it an insurmountable task after he could barely go past 3,500 in five day. “And then he told me he would instead give up playing mobile games,” said a relieved Senthilkumar. Meanwhile, the incident spread like wild fire in the village prompting the local jamaat to take up a sensitisation drive. “An announcement was made through amplifiers asking parents to keep a watch on their children,” said a villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-boy-12-spends-moms-rs-90000-on-games-quits-after-dads-lessons/articleshow/78211513.cms||V Devanathan
September 20, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP-Cong leaders indulge in politics over drain coverage project||Ludhiana: The drain coverage projects have remained a battleground for leaders of the BJP and Congress in central constituency, where from 2004 till 2017 Ganda Nullah coverage project from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib to Shagun Palace made leaders indulge in credit war. Now, coverage of 1.40 km-long another seasonal drain has started yet another war of words between both parties. Congress MLA from central constituency Surinder Dawar had inaugurated the project on Friday and this led to politics over the project. BJP ex-councillor Inder Aggarwal, whose wife is councillor from ward number 57, rued that the MLA ignored the councillor of the ward at the inauguration and they were not invited for the same. He said if they were in power they would have invited Dawar for the function. However, BJP district president Pushpinder Singal demanded an FIR against Dawar for violating the Covid norms and gathering a large number of people at the spot of inauguration. He asked the Congress leadership whether action would be taken against a Congress MLA. Reacting to the claims of BJP leaders, MLA Dawar attacked them by saying that without putting any effort the BJP leaders wanted to take credit for the project. He said this project was important for this area because the drain was a blot and people were facing many difficulties. He claimed that like Ganda Nullah coverage project was taken up by him in 2004 and in 2007 the government was changed but despite several attempts the project work was not completed during the SAD BJP regime unless he came back in 2017 and got the project was completed. He advised the BJP leaders not to indulge in politics and instead start working for public welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-cong-leaders-indulge-in-politics-over-drain-coverage-project/articleshow/78210262.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||Week-long polio drive to begin today across state||Dehradun: The health department has decided to organise a campaign to administer pulse polio vaccinations starting from September 20. The week-long drive will continue till September 26 and a total of 2,15, 389 children would be administered with the vaccine during the campaign. Additional chief medical officer, immunization, Dr NK Tyagi said a total of 1,255 booths would be set up, of which 62 would be in transit and 24 would be mobile booths. “All the children of up to 5 years of age will be given polio drops. At the booths, 251 observers will be deployed to ensure that the polio supplements are given to the maximum number of children. Also, 1011 teams have been formed for door-to-door polio feeding activity that will take place from Monday to Saturday,” he added. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anoop Kumar Dimri said a special training has been given to the team members deployed for polio booths and door-to-door visits in view of the Covid-19 infection. The team members have been directed to follow social distancing norms and other protective measures. However, in the containment zones, the polio drive will be done after it is denotified.” The CMO has appealed to all the parents to bring their children for the polio supplements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/week-long-polio-drive-to-begin-today-across-state/articleshow/78209331.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Wards 30, 31 residents not getting water for a week||Ludhiana: Residents of ward number 31 and some parts of ward number 30 have been suffering due to shortage of water supply for almost a week. They alleged that the carelessness of a contractor, who is constructing main Giaspura road, is proving dearer to the residents of both wards because water supply line on the main road had been damaged during the digging work for the road. Now, he is not getting this line fixed due to which water is not reaching the households in these wards. The residents in ward number 31 rued that due to water woes they were being forced to face tough time. An area resident, Sandeep Shukla shared that the main Giaspura road is under construction but when the contractor started digging of the road with a JCB machine the water supply line also got damaged. Water is getting wasted by overflowing on the road and it is not reaching the households. The residents further said that they brought the issue to the notice of MC officials but instead of fixing the problem they were asking the contractor to get the same done. The residents rued that they were bearing the brunt of the careless attitude of the contractor as well as civic body officials. They claimed that though water tankers were being sent to their areas but these were insufficient for the large number of people living in the areas. They also claimed that some of the residents were also approaching people in adjoining areas for fetching water. However, the executive engineer of operation and maintenance cell, Ranbir Singh, said hat the issue came to his knowledge on Saturday morning and he had instructed the officials concerned that if the contractor does not fix the problem, then they would get it done. He said they would write to the roads and bridges department for recovering the penalty from the payment of the contractor as he had damaged the water supply line. Meanwhile, the residents also highlighted that there were so many illegal submersible pumps installed in the households that water supply remained low for other houses. It is walso because of these submersibles that water the supply had become a big issue in the localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wards-30-31-residents-not-getting-water-for-a-week/articleshow/78210272.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Trichy||DMK govt will give jobs to qualified youth, says Nehru||Trichy: The DMK will roll out a scheme to provide employment to all eligible educated youths in the state after coming to power. This was stated by party principal secretary K N Nehru at a programme here in which around 300 students and youths joined the party. He said party president M K Stalin will announce the scheme in the manifesto for the forthcoming assembly election. Nehru said that DMK was denied permission to speak in the assembly to dismiss the allegation that DMK and Congress were responsible for bringing in NEET. It was the DMK government that announced monthly cash assistance to qualified unemployed youths. However, the subsequent AIADMK government opened the door to youths from northern states by signing a pact which allows anyone in the country to join the government services in Tamil Nadu. This resulted in many from the northern states joining central government agencies such as railways and BSNL, Nehru alleged. He said eligible youths from Tamil Nadu are unable to join government jobs in the northern states whereas candidates from the north can easily get government jobs by passing the examinations by hook or crook. He claimed that unlike in the northern states, all competitive examinations are conducted in a fair manner in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-govt-will-give-jobs-to-qualified-youth-says-nehru/articleshow/78212179.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Release Rs 1.4k cr due to Telangana: KTR to Centre||Hyderabad: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has urged the Centre to release pending dues of Rs 1,433 crore to Telangana. In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday, KTR said apart from the first instalment of grant of Rs 468 crore under million-plus cities and balance second instalment of grant of Rs 315 crore under non-million plus cities, the state is yet to get the statutory grant of Rs 650 crore recommended by the 14th Finance Commission to the urban local bodies (ULB). He said the state was denied its rightful share to ULBs as recommended by the 14th Finance Commission (2015-20). While the commission recommended an unconditional basic grant of Rs 2,711 crore, the Centre had released only Rs 2,500 crore. “Though the state had fulfilled all the conditions prescribed to get the performance grant of Rs 677 crore, the state received only Rs 235 crore.” He said while Telangana was denied Rs 650 crore to ULBs, some states received the full amount. He also pointed out that 15th Finance Commission had recommended that the grants of Rs 468 crore under million-plus cities and Rs 421 crore to non-million plus cities in the state should be released in two equal instalments in June and October 2020. “While the million-plus cities grant has not been released so far, the non-million plus cities grant was split into four instalments against the recommendations of finance commission. The first instalment was released only in May this year,” the minister said. KTR said several states have been in the forefront fighting Covid and improving social and civic infrastructure in urban areas. Additional budget provisions matching the finance commission grants were allocated in state budget 2020-21. “The state’s revenues have dwindled because of pandemic and lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-rs-1-4k-cr-due-to-telangana-ktr-to-centre/articleshow/78211541.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmer arrested for growing ganja||Farmer arrested for growing ganja in maize field: The Hasanur police in Erode on Friday arrested a 40-year-old Boothalapuram resident for growing ganja plants. M Gurusamy, a farmer, cultivated ganja in his seven-acre maize field, police sources said. Organised crime intelligence unit DSP Jegadeesan from Coimbatore, inspector Kamali Anand and team found 400 ganja plants on half-acre land. The plants were more than three feet heigh and weighed more than 5kg.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmer-arrested-for-growing-ganja/articleshow/78210276.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Let us compost waste locally, six villages request SDMC||NEW DELHI: People from six urban villages have written to South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) asking it to stop transporting solid waste to waste-to-energy (WTE) plants as composting could be done locally. The villagers claimed that while they were keen to carry out composting in their areas, they had received no support from the municipal corporation. They also alleged that the civic body was, instead, focusing on urban colonies. Six villages — Jhuljhuli, Rawta, Hasanpur, Shikarpur, Paprawat, Issapur— with the Delhi unit of Bhartiya Kisan Union had recently written to the district collector of Najafgarh zone requesting that organic waste from the villages be composted there. This could then be used by the farmers as manure for organic farming. “SDMC is transporting solid waste from different parts of the city to WTE plants without paying attention to the harmful effects of burning such low calorific waste,” said the letter by an NGO, Centre for Youth Culture Law and Environment. Locals, who had written individual letters describing the condition of waste management in the villages, also said that they were willing to adopt segregation at the household level and use wet waste for composting. Jitendar Yadav from Jhuljhuli said they strongly opposed the current mechanism of waste management, but nothing was done by the corporation to make the process more environmental-friendly. Ashwani Yadav, a resident of Paprawat, said the villagers had been continuously following up with the officials since July, but no composting pits or any assistance was provided to them. “Garbage is the main source of disease in our village and we want to assist SDMC in managing it better. All that can be composted should be managed locally,” said Gulshan Tyagi, a resident of Shikarpur. Rajnish Phalswal from Rawta, Hasanpur’s Ravinder Kumar and Issapur’s Surender Dagar added that they had raised similar complaints with south corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/let-us-compost-waste-locally-six-villages-request-sdmc/articleshow/78211516.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 20, 2020||India||RS okays bill to shield docs, healthcare staff from attacks||NEW DELHI: In an effort to ensure safety of healthcare workers during the Covid-19 pandemic, Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, that provides for up to five years in jail for attacks on doctors and healthcare workers fighting the outbreak. Commission or abetment of acts of violence will be punishable with an imprisonment for a term of three months to five years, and with a fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2,00,000. “Many healthcare workers including doctors, paramedics were insulted in some form or the other, due to the stigma attached to Covid-19. The central government acted on this situation and found that there was a need for a law, a prohibitory mechanism against such incidents,” health minister Harsh Vardhan said in the Upper House. The bill will replace an ordinance brought in by the government in April to ensure zero tolerance for any violence against healthcare workers. The Cabinet promulgated The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance 2020 to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to provide protection to healthcare service personnel and property, including their living and working premises, against violence during epidemics. The bill also intends to ensure that any situation akin to the current pandemic is also covered under the law. Personnel include public and clinical healthcare service providers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and community health workers, any other persons empowered under the act to take measures to prevent outbreak of the disease or its spread and anyone declared as such by state governments. The penal provisions can be invoked in instances of damage to property including a clinical establishment, any facility identified for quarantine and isolation of patients, mobile medical units and any other property in which the healthcare service personnel have a direct interest in relation to the epidemic. Offences will be investigated by an officer of the rank of inspector within a period of 30 days, and trial completed in one year, unless extended by the court for reasons recorded in writing, the bill proposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-okays-bill-to-shield-docs-healthcare-staff-from-attacks/articleshow/78212391.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Cong welcomes Nalin’s promise of sand at Rs 2k per load||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district Congress has welcomed BJP state president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel’s promise that sand will be made available for Rs 2,000 per load. Kateel had made this announcement at a blood donation camp that the BJP Yuva Morcha organised in the city to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. In reply to Congress MLA U T Khader’s demands, Kateel had said that the rate of sand during Congress rule had touched Rs 20,000. “We will frame a sand policy for the district in October. We will ensure supply of sand to the doorsteps of people at Rs 2,000. The district will be freed from the sand mafia,” the MP had announced in his speech. Reacting to MP’s statements, Congress district president and MLC K Harish Kumar said the Congress welcomes wholeheartedly the promise made by the MP since the price announced by Kateel was indeed the lowest, considering the actual cost of sand extraction. “Our MP has promised sand for Rs 2,000 per load. As per the government rule, a contractor must pay Rs 350 per ton as government cess for the extraction of sand from small streams. Hence, the actual cost of extraction is Rs 3,500 per load. Meanwhile, the price may go up to Rs 7,000 – Rs 8,000 per load after calculating the rent and labour charges. Meanwhile, the cess for sand extraction in rivers is Rs 700 per tonne and it not possible to make sand available for less than Rs 10,000 per load. We don’t know if the MP lacks information or not. Our request is that let the MP fulfil his promise by making sand available for Rs 2,000 per load,” Kumar said. Former minister B Ramanath Rai said Kateel’s promise should not turn into the Rs 15 lakh jumla of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The illegal sand trade is rampant in Dakshina Kannada. Let BJP leaders introspect on how the illegal sand trade takes place. Only for government use, sand can be extracted using dredger machines and private contractors are not allowed to use it. Despite a ban, dredging machines are used by private contractors to extract sand,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cong-welcomes-nalins-promise-of-sand-at-rs-2k-per-load/articleshow/78208645.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Dengue drive to engage Delhiites in third week||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign, 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute, is entering its third week. In the third week, the campaign seeks to engage residents to pick up the phone and call 10 of their friends/relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue. Last year, cooperation and collective measures from all people, RWAs, religious and cultural associations, ministers and MLAs and public leaders and influencers had played a huge role in reducing the impact of dengue in the capital. Only 2,036 cases and two deaths were reported in 2019 as against 15,867 cases and 60 deaths in 2015. The first edition of the anti-dengue campaign was launched in 2019. This year, it has elicited impressive response in the first two weeks. The campaign is aimed at encouraging people to inspect their houses once a week and replace any stagnant water with fresh water so that mosquitoes can be denied a breeding ground. The larva of aedes mosquitoes — responsible for dengue — breeds in stagnant fresh water and even a tastespoon of stagnant fresh water is enough for it to grow. The campaign was launched on September 6 by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who has been inspecting his residence for signs of stagnant clean water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes at 10am on Sunday for 10 minutes. It will continue for 10 weeks from September 6. The chief minister has appealed to people to spare 10 minutes to help Delhi combat dengue. Watch Dengue drive to engage Delhiites in third week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dengue-drive-to-engage-delhiites-in-third-week/articleshow/78211519.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bareilly||Preparations begin for first phase of vulture census in Uttar Pradesh||PILIBHIT: Vultures, nature's scavengers, once spanned the entire country. Today, they are in danger of becoming extinct. As part of an effort to protect and conserve this avian species, a census will soon be conducted in UP, the groundwork for which has been initiated by the Institute of Wildlife Conservation (IWC) at Lucknow University. A workshop for forest personnel, NGO representatives and avian volunteers will be held through webinar between September 21 and 30. The aim is to train the participants for vulture mapping. The state government has approved Rs 16 lakh for the census. Amita Kanaujia, a professor in the department of zoology at Lucknow University who is playing a key role in the census, said, "Of the nine species of vultures in India, eight are found in Uttar Pradesh. Four have been categorized as 'critically endangered', one as 'endangered' and three 'nearly threatened' by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Of these, the ‘Gyps Indicus’ and ‘Egyptian Vulture’ are found in Bundelkhand division and the terai arc landscape." The vultures began to dwindle rapidly in the early 1990s, said Kanaujia. This trend was evident by the two census reports of 2011 and 2015 in UP. The decline of vultures in India is attributed to diclofenac poisoning. This anti-inflammatory drug is widely administered to cattle and the bird feeds on its carcass, ingesting the drug with fatal consequences. The fall in vulture numbers is also due to road accidents, electrocution caused by high tension electric lines, loss of habitat due to human interference and acute food scarcity, she said. The census will be conducted in pre-breeding and post-breeding sessions. The first session will conclude in November when the eggs hatch and chicks come out. The second phase will be completed in March next year, she said. A GPS (global positioning system) mapping of all nests and habitats of vultures will be done. The field teams will also review the additional threats to vultures in order to find solutions and chalk out conservation plans, Kanaujia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/preparations-begin-for-first-phase-of-vulture-census-in-up/articleshow/78208642.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||Markets in Doon stay largely open despite call by traders’ body to shut shops||Dehradun: Most markets in Doon remained functional on Saturday despite an announcement by traders’ body, Doon Udyog Vyapar Mandal that shops in the city will remain shut over the weekend due to rising Covid cases. The city-based traders also held an online meet to discuss the confusion surrounding the closing of markets on Saturdays. During the meet, several business owners alleged that small and medium scale shopkeepers have been adversely affected during the lockdown and it will take time to recover losses. “In this scenario, it does not make sense to close shops on two days over the weekend. It will also result in more crowding on Fridays and Mondays,” said a business owner on Rajpur Road. Pankaj Mason, president of Doon Valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, told TOI, “ We have decided to keep the shops shut only on Sunday. We have also requested the CM to keep us in loop on any decision regarding business establishments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/markets-in-doon-stay-largely-open-despite-call-by-traders-body-to-shut-shops/articleshow/78209362.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Symptomatic cases main cause of spread in Karnataka: Study||Bengaluru: Symptomatic Covid cases were the prime drivers of the SARS-CoV-2 transmission in Karnataka, according to a study. The study was conducted by researchers from Nimhans, Indian Institute of Public Health-Bengaluru, Public Health Foundation of India along with the Karnataka government. It analysed the mode of transmission among cases reported between March 8 and May 31. The study, ‘Epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Karnataka State, South India: Transmission dynamics of symptomatic vs asymptomatic infections’, included all 3,404 positive cases in the state till May 31. It sought to examine how symptomatic persons drove transmission during lockdown, said Dr V Ravi, professor and head, department of neurovirology, Nimhans and an author of the report. “Active search for symptomatic cases, subjecting them to testing and treatment should be prioritised for containing the spread,” the report says. It indicates that despite asymptomatic and symptomatic cases transmitting the infection, the main driving force behind the spread was significantly higher from symptomatic cases. The researchers say the finding has major implications for policies related to testing. “Active search for symptomatic cases, subjecting them to testing and treatment should be prioritised for containing the spread of Covid-19,” says the study. It suggests testing symptomatic persons must be the priority as the rate of spreading is higher from them. “Testing asymptomatic persons just to increase the number of tests will not help. As per ICMR guidelines, priority must be given to those with symptoms. The need is to ensure that not even one symptomatic person is left out in testing,” says Dr Giridhar R Babu, epidemiologist, head, lifecourse epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, and a co-researcher. As per data, fatalities were seen even among asymptomatic Covid positives without co-morbidities. Of 54 Covid fatalities during the study period, seven were asymptomatic positives who had no co-morbidities. “Fatality risk is there for asymptomatic persons too, but not as severe as that of symptomatic patients. It’s possible that the asymptomatic persons may have had underlying co-morbidities that were not detected,” said Dr Babu. As per the report, the acquisition of infection was largely attributed to domestic or international travel in more than 66% of cases. History of contact with a Covid positive case was seen in 25% of cases. The study points out that no precise reason behind infection was ascertained in 8% of cases or 267 cases of the total 3,404 Covid positives studied. Impact on clusters The study looked into the clusters of cases that were the results of transmission from symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. The analysis revealed that symptomatic patients contributed to 33 large clusters with the mean size of each cluster being 17 persons. The number of affected persons in a cluster ranged from 5 to 56. Asymptomatic cases contributed to 14 large clusters with the mean size of each cluster being 8 (range 5-22 cases per cluster). The proportion of secondary cases in clusters manifesting overt clinical illness was higher among symptomatic patients than the asymptomatic. “The study was done during lockdown, when there was a controlled environment. Priority should be given to those with symptoms. Viral load in symptomatic and asymptomatic persons could be the same, but the former spread more as they cough and sneeze,” Dr Ravi told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/symptomatic-cases-main-cause-of-spread-in-karnataka-study/articleshow/78212224.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 20, 2020||Chennai||HC: No need for whip nod in land grab plaint on minister||CHENNAI: In a setback to Tamil Nadu commercial tax minister KC Veeramani, the Madras high court has held that prior sanction of chief government whip or the assembly secretary is not required to act upon complaints filed against the minister in connection with a land grab case. The first bench of Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the order in an appeal filed by B Ramamoorthy and J Jayaprakash, owners of a 6.9-acre prime parcel of land in Vellore, over alleged illegal eviction from their property by the minister and businessman Shekar Reddy. The land is worth more than Rs 200 crore. The bench said the alleged actions of K C Veeramani were carried out in his private capacity and not as a minister. The CJI bench said, “… there is certainly no necessity to obtain the prior permission of the assembly secretary and the chief government whip in order to initiate action in relation to the alleged offences by the minister.” The issue pertains to a plea moved by Ramamoorthy and Jayaprakash accusing the minister of holding a kangaroo court to evict them illegally from a 6.9-acre prime property near Vellore bus terminal. According to the petitioners, the minister had allegedly brokered a deal worth Rs 100 crore with the businessman to evict them from the property. They accused him of using his official as well as political power and threatening them with dire consequences if they did not vacate the property and surrender possession. Denying the allegation, the minister submitted that he was not party to the real estate agreement between the petitioners and the businessman and that he had no knowledge about it. He added that he had nothing to do with the transaction either in his personal or official capacity. Based on the submissions and report filed by police, a single judge of the court dismissed the petition as not maintainable on June 22. Aggrieved, the petitioners have preferred the present appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-no-need-for-whip-nod-in-land-grab-plaint-on-min/articleshow/78211522.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Crime rate dips in west zone drastically||The crime rate has drastically come down in the west zone police limits in the state. Sources said only 977 cases of murder for gain, dacoity, chain snatching and burglary were reported in the zone as on Thursday this year, against 1,555 cases in the comparable period last year. As per the data available with the office of the west zone inspector general of police, murder for gain cases have reduced by half to two in Coimbatore district from four last year. In the Nilgiris, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, no murder for gain cases were reported in the past two years during the period under discussion. Chain snatching cases have also reduced in the west zone - from 171 to 74. In Combinate district alone, such cases have dropped to 28 from 47 last year. In Erode district, there was a drastic dip in the chain snatching cases - from 20 to just two this year – while the cases came down to nine in Namakkal district from 23 last year. Burglary cases have come down to 13 from 25 in the zone during the period. In Coimbatore district, the same has dropped to four from 12 last year. West zone IGP K Periaiah hinted it was the presence of occupants at their residences that brought down the number of property crimes. “During summer, people usually visit their hometown or other places along with family after locking up houses. Because of the pandemic, this year most of the people didn’t leave their houses. Also, movement of people was very less during the night hours.” He said the presence of police, who were deployed widely in every place, had also helped contain the crime. “In most of the cases, police have acted swiftly. All the police officers in the zone have been directed to attend to property crimes immediately, arrest the accused and recover the stolen items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/crime-rate-dips-in-west-zone-drastically/articleshow/78210306.cms||A Subburaj
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSHSEB to have less elected members||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat government is set to introduce the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary (Amendment) Bill 2020 in the upcoming assembly session. The bill aims to reduce the number of elected members in the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) from 26 to nine, said sources. The election for these members is held once in three years. The decision has not gone down well with managements of schools as their representation in the board will be diminished. According to the existing rule, the representation of school principals is six. This will go down to one, if the bill passes. The representation of higher secondary teachers and secondary teachers will go down from five and three respectively to only one each. Management associations’ present strength in the board is four; it will be reduced to only one. Similarly, in the case of parents’ associations the representation will be down from three to one, said sources. The total strength of the board including the non-elected members is 59 currently. The number includes the 26 elected members. In the case of the 33 non-elected members, the strength will be reduced to 12, according to the proposed bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gshseb-to-have-less-elected-members/articleshow/78210298.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||Depressed as his coaching centre was lying closed since lockdown; owner commits suicide||Dehradun: Owing to the closure of his coaching centre since lockdown and the subesquent financial losses, a 25-year-old youth committed suicide in Dehradun on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Rishabh Gupta, a resident of Moti Bazar area under Patel Nagar police station. Gupta hanged himself to death in the house of his in-laws in Rajeshwar Colony Vidya Vihar phase 2 area of the state capital. When Patel Nagar police asked the family members, they informed that Gupta had a coaching centre in Pathribagh area and it was lying closed since lockdown was announced. According to the family members, the youth was under depression and the coaching centre did not open after the start of unlock phase. They added that Gupta was married just three months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/depressed-as-his-coaching-centre-was-lying-closed-since-lockdown-owner-commits-suicide/articleshow/78209378.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 20, 2020||Delhi||4,071 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi’s tally above 2.4 lakh||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Covid-19 tally breached the 2.4 lakh mark with 4,071 fresh cases, while the death toll mounted to 4,945 on Saturday. Thirty-eight fresh fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, officials said. According to Delhi government’s health bulletin, 61,973 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases stands at 2,42,899, out of which 2,05,890 patients have either recovered, migrated out or been discharged while there are 32,064 active cases. The case positivity rate stands around 6.6%. The number of containment zones has increased to 1,820, the government said. The capital ranks fifth among all states in terms of fatalities due to Covid-19 though it’s population is much lesser than states such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka where more than 5,000 people had died due to the viral infection. Maharashtra has recorded more than 31,000 deaths due to Covid-19, data shared by the state shows. More than 60% of ICU beds, with and without ventilator support, in both public and private hospitals designated for Covid-19 are occupied. On Saturday, 7,096 out of 15,383 Covid beds were occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds with and without ventilator support stood at 61% and 72%, respectively. Lady Hardinge Medical College, Apollo, Sri Balaji Action, Aakash Healthcare, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute and many other private hospitals didn’t have a single vacant bed for Covid-19 patients requiring ICU support. Health experts stress on the need to follow social distancing measures or wearing masks in public places to avoid a crisis situation. The cases of common flu, typhoid and dengue are also on the rise, doctors say. Public health specialists say the government needs to be very strict and vigilant about wearing masks in public places and social distancing rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4071-new-cases-tally-above-2-4l/articleshow/78211546.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t hesitate, seek help to get over suicidal thoughts: Experts||Nagpur: Suicidal thoughts can hit anyone anytime, especially during challenging situations like the one caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in the last six months. On the occasion of World Suicide Prevention Fortnight, experts explain what people can do if and when they have suicidal thoughts. “If you are having suicidal thoughts, it’s important to first promise yourself that you won’t do anything until you seek help. Many people have experienced suicidal thoughts and survived, only to be very thankful later,” said Dr Akshay Sarode, psychiatrist and district mental health programme officer of Nagpur district. “Firstly, get yourself out of danger or (if safe) stay where you are. Take a few deep inhales and exhales to regain control of your breath — four seconds in, hold for four, four seconds out, hold for four, repeat,” said Dr Sarode. According to him, individual must focus on relaxing muscles. “Start with your head and try to relax each muscle group working your way down — face, jaw, neck, shoulders, back, arms, legs, calves and others. You can use your hands to massage your neck or shoulders as well,” he said. Acknowledging the feeling is most important. Support from friends and family is also important. “Recognize that these feelings are temporary and that with appropriate treatment you can learn how to help yourself feel better about life again. Asking others for support can help you see that you have other options and give you hope about the future,” said Dr Sarode. Experts from Regional Mental Hospital (RMH) in Nagpur said that there is no point hesitating to contact psychiatrist, therapist or crisis centre to help cope with suicidal thoughts. Recently, Government of India has launched its first national suicide prevention helpline 1800-599-0019, known as ‘Kiran’ under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-hesitate-seek-help-to-get-over-suicidal-thoughts-experts/articleshow/78219206.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Key drug peddler nabbed, search on for others||Ahmedabad: Crime branch sleuths on Friday held a drug peddler Shabbir Shaikh of Jamalpur. He used to sell drugs brought in by Sehjadhussain Tejabwala and Imran Ajmeri from Mumbai. Their supplier, Afaq Bawa was caught by crime branch on Thursday from the border of Maharashtra and Karnataka. On September 12, crime branch had arrested five persons. Three, including an ASI, Firozekhan Nagori, and two others, Mohammed Arif Kazi and Imran Padhiyar were held first from near CTM Crossroads with 995 grams of mephedrone worth Rs 1 crore. The other two, Sehjadhussain Tejabwala and Imran Ajmeri were nabbed from Mumbai. Tejabwala and Ajmeri had bought the mephedrone from Bawa and sent it through Nagori, Kazi and Padhiyar in a car to Ahmedabad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/key-drug-peddler-nabbed-search-on-for-others/articleshow/78210335.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chennai||Most tobacco users didn’t quit despite knowing dangers: Study||Chennai: Two-thirds of participants in Tamil Nadu in a three-year study on tobacco use continued to use some form of tobacco despite knowing the dangers. The third who quit tobacco use said they did so more because of their determination than because of counselling or replacement therapies. The study published in open access British Medical Journal recently involved 555 people in 11 districts who were among 2,909 users identified by the Tamil Nadu Tobacco Survey (TNTS) in 2015-2016. Of them, 210 people quit using tobacco at various points over three years. “Among the 337 people who were still using various forms of tobacco, 115 said they never made an attempt to quit,” said the study’s corresponding author Surendran V from the department of Psycho Oncology at the Cancer Institute-WIA. “Besides willpower, support from family and perceived health benefits were key enablers for quitting. More importantly, the person who wants to quit should have the determination,” he said. In India, use of tobacco in any form is 29% among all adults (42% of men and 14% of women). Tobacco use contributes to nearly 10% of all deaths in the country; it caused more than 1 million deaths in 2016. The Tamil Nadu Tobacco Survey provides reliable state and district-wise estimates of tobacco use. “At least one in every five tobacco users said they intended to quit in the next one month. We wanted to know if many of them actually quit and the success rate among those who made an attempt,” Surendran said. Tobacco users in the study were from Chennai, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Tiruvallur, Villupuram, Pudukkottai, Kanyakumari, Tirupur and Erode. More than 90% of them were men. Daily wage workers made up 60.9% of the users and 44.3% of participants were educated up to secondary level. And 71% chose smoking over chewable tobacco or snuff. Those who quit the habit said their concern for personal health was a motivator. They also did want their family to be exposed to secondhand smoke. They were also worried about their social image. “They told us how women frown at them and cover their faces. Smokers felt less respected,” said E Vidhubala, a senior psycho-oncologist, who was a part of the study. At least half of people who quit said it was their own will and determination that helped them kick the habit. While 14% said they followed advice from family, 12% quoted doctors. Just 1.4% each resorted to counselling and substitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/most-tobacco-users-didnt-quit-despite-knowing-dangers-study/articleshow/78210357.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bomb scare at city airport||Ahmedabad: Authorities at city airport raised the alarm on Saturday morning when a man entered the airport manager’s office and said that he has fixed bombs on the airport premises. Security agencies swung into action and a bomb disposal squad rushed to the airport. When questioned further the intruder was found to be mentally ill. The airport was scanned for two hours but nothing was found. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bomb-scare-at-city-airport/articleshow/78210369.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||Study: People in Mizoram, Punjab, Andaman & Nicobar India’s happiest||Guwahati: If you’re looking for happiness in these depressing times, Mizoram is the place to be. India’s happiness index, prepared by Rajesh K Pillania, a professor of strategy at Management Development Institute in Gurugram, puts the northeastern state on top of the list, while Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh find a spot in the top 10 too, reports Rokibuz Zaman. The study is based on a nationwide survey covering 16,950 people between March and July 2020. Six components — work and related issues such as earning; growth relationships, including family and friends; health including physical and mental; philanthropy, including social concerns, religious and/or spiritual orientation and the impact of Covid-19 on happiness — have been used. Mizoram, Punjab and Andaman & Nicobar are the top three. Dr Ashley Whillans, assistant professor at Harvard Business School, says: “Maharashtra, Delhi, and Haryana have shown the worst impact of Covid-19 on happiness while Puducherry and J&K are neutral and Manipur, A&N Islands, and Lakshadweep have shown the best possible impact,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/study-people-in-mizoram-punjab-andaman-nicobar-indias-happiest/articleshow/78212394.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Chennai||Sole squatter on Ayappakkam lake removed||Chennai: Public welfare department authorities on Saturday removed an eatery built on the Ayappakkam lake near Ambattur. In 2014, a senior PWD official said, the eatery was begun by a man named G Boopalan under a thatched roof before it became a concrete structure following increased patronage. The eatery is part of the Ayappakkam lake, a little away from the bund, on space meant for movement of earthmovers and called ‘Ulvai’ in Tamil. A couple of months ago, the PWD issued the shop owner a notice to vacate the place and finally issued an eviction notice, giving him five days time. “Despite this, the shop owner refused to demolish the encroachment, and the PWD had to raze it,” said the official. Environmental Foundation of India, a city-based NGO, is working on restoring the lake. The eatery was the sole encroachment on the 148-hectare lake excess water from which drains into the Ambattur lake and thence to the Korattur lake. After removing the encroachment, the PWD authorities have decided to shift the bund of the lake to help avoid encroachments in the future. The erstwhile open space, which was meant for transporting earthmover-like equipment, is no more needed, as more roads have been laid due to rapid urbanisation in the past 20 years. So the space allocated for taking earthmovers into the lake is no more needed. Hence, it has been decided to shift the bund of the lake to this place, say the PWD officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sole-squatter-on-ayappakkam-lake-removed/articleshow/78210386.cms||P Oppili
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||High court records 75% case clearance rate in August||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court disposed as many 3,612 cases in the month of August as against registration of 4,803 cases in the same month and recorded a case clearance rate of 75.2% as the court continued to hear cases through video conference. In its monthly report on Saturday, the HC revealed that total5,764 cases were filed last month apart from 1,091 interim applications. Of these, 4,803 cases were registered. There were 452 sittings held in 21 days when the high court functioned in August. The judges took up 13,299 cases, with several cases taken up on multiple occasions. They passed 11,428 orders and 120 judgments.In all, the court disposed 4,371 cases including 1,189 interim applications which were filed before the Covid-19 lockdown period. All these cases were heard by the high court through video conference. The court opened a few counters for physical filing of cases but did not open courtrooms. Earlier this month the HC’s standing committee decided to open three courtrooms and the benches were also finalized. A Covid-19 testing drive took place on HC campus ahead of opening of the courtrooms. Nearly 30 employees on campus tested Covid positive and this led the HC to postpone physical hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-records-75-case-clearance-rate-in-august/articleshow/78210401.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bareilly||Man shot at after objecting to ‘illegal fishing’, two held in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 38-year-old man was shot at and two of his cousins were thrashed by local goons in Gadiya Rangeen area of Shahjahanpur district. Saurabh Singh's family said that he was beaten up and then shot at by a group, illegally fishing in his pond. The group of men also thrashed his cousins, Akash and Amit, when they tried to rescue him. Police have registered an FIR against three identified and several unidentified persons. Two of them have been arrested, so far. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “An FIR has been registered after receiving a written complaint and two accused have been taken into custody. One of the victims has been sent to Bareilly where his condition is said to be stable. No accused will be spared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-shot-at-after-objecting-to-illegal-fishing-two-held/articleshow/78208682.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 20, 2020||Chennai||No steering panel; let’s talk about CM pick, says EPS camp||Chennai: The power tussle between the OPS and EPS camps has worsened with chief minister and AIADMK joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami ruling out, categorically, formation of party steering committee, which was one of the key demands of O Panneerselvam ahead of the 2017 merger of the two camps. At the AIADMK high-level meeting held on Friday evening, power minister P Thangamani, a close confidant of EPS, sought to deflect the issue of steering committee by saying the need of the hour was to decide the chief ministerial candidate. It, however, failed to evoke any response from the OPS camp, highly placed sources said. While the main opposition, the DMK led by M K Stalin, is consolidating its position and finetuning the poll strategy, the AIADMK camp is in disarray as infighting continues over the leadership, denting the prospects of a strong alliance in 2021 polls. Sources said that EPS stunned OPS and his supporters at the high-level meeting by saying it was difficult for him to choose members for the steering committee as per the merger agreement because there were many eligible claimants. He was responding to OPS’s persistent demand for formation of the committee. OPS supporters mustered courage and raised the demand that all sections be accommodated and OPS be given due recognition. While it is customary not to intervene after the top leaders speak, JCD Prabhakar, a veteran, raised his hand to speak, triggering a sharp exchange from Thangamani. The party organising secretary recalled the sequence of events ahead of the merger, his meeting with Thangamani and the assurance that an 11-member steering committee would be formed, with six from the EPS camp and five from the OPS camp. The party had revamped the parliamentary board too in 2017, after Jayalalithaa’s demise. But Thangamani intervened to say that it was true he made a promise to Prabhakar, but that was for the party’s welfare. “The minister went on to say that the issue to be settled now is the chief ministerial candidate. There was, however, no response from the leaders nor from the audience,” another leader said. Prabhakar and later another leader P H Manoj Pandian also highlighted the rising dissidence in the party with promises not being fulfilled by the EPS camp. OPS residence has been seeing higher footfalls of his supporters in recent days. Later on Friday night, a few ministers were closeted with the CM at his residence. The developments have poured cold water over the proposed executive committee meeting scheduled for September 28. It may be concluded by passing a resolution to work for the party’s success in the 2021 assembly polls, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-steering-panel-lets-talk-about-cm-pick-says-eps-camp/articleshow/78211576.cms||Julie Mariappan
September 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Militants masquerading as migrants||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The arrests of three sympathizers of an al-Qaida-affiliate module in the state have revived the debate on preparing a comprehensive database on migrant labourers, though it is a job easier said than done. The government has data of approximately only one-fourth of the guest labour force. This was collected by the labour department under an insurance scheme launched for migrant labourers. Of the 5.25 lakh labourers on the books, approximately 3 lakh returned to their native states during the lockdown. According to police, lack of a comprehensive database on guest labourers, a large chunk of whom keeps moving about in search of jobs, has been a handicap in intelligence gathering in cases of crime. “There is a seasonal variation in their numbers, ranging from 17 lakh to 25 lakh,” sources said. However, state police chief Loknath Behera said the force is doing its part in assisting national agencies in such cases. “The agencies are not only mandated and equipped, but are also in a better position to track and crack down on such elements. As per law, the state police are bound to provide cooperation and assistance to the agencies in such operations which we have done. We are also keeping a strong watch and have in place an intelligence network for such purposes. The state police have also shared some vital inputs to national agencies regarding issues concerning national security,” Behera said. Intelligence sources said that unlike those with a criminal history or history of links with terror outfits, it is difficult to identify who is who. “In addition to our own nationals, a significant number of undocumented migrants from Bangladesh also work here claiming to be genuine Indian nationals who report Assam or West Bengal as their native states. It is practically impossible to track their antecedents, let alone identifying terror elements who have no such past record,” they said. Many workers without documents from Bagerhat, Narail, Khulna and Satkhira districts under Khulna division of Bangladesh have been intercepted by police in Kerala. Workers from Rajshahi and Rangpur divisions also cross the border to work in Kerala and other Indian destinations. The large mix of legitimate Indian labourers and illegal labourers from Bangladesh and Myanmar have provided safe haven to some anti-national elements in the country. At the same time, experts say that migrant labourers should not be treated with suspicion. “Our state has created migration corridors with eight states from where labourers arrive to work here. Of this, 40% come to Ernakulam, and among them 80% are from Murshidabad. Of this, 99.99% are genuine labourers who come here for economic reasons. Because of a one-off incident, they should not be eyed with suspicion,” said Benoy Peter, executive director of the Perumbavoor-based Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, an NGO that has undertaken detailed research in the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/militants-masquerading-as-migrants/articleshow/78210385.cms||KP Saikiran
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Day 1: Janata hain ki manti nahi even after mayor’s appeal, business as usual in markets||Nagpur: Citizens and commercial establishments by and large chose to overlook the voluntary weekend janata curfew call given by mayor Sandip Joshi. On Saturday, people moved about just like they do every day and more than half of establishments in the city’s commercial districts continued business as usual. This, even as the mayor himself taking to the streets on Saturday morning appealing to shopkeepers to keep their establishments shut. The mayor had given call for a janata curfew over the last two weekends of September with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Using a public address system atop his four-wheeler, Joshi was seen urging citizens not to venture out unless imperative. He sought to draw people’s attention by stating that the city is witnessing nearly 3,000 new Covid cases and 50 people fatalities a day this month. TOI found that many commercial areas like Sitabuldi, Sadar, Mahal etc were closed during the first half, but those in areas like Mominpura, Central Avenue and Jaripatka remained open. In the first half, shops in most parts of the city part remained closed. As the day progressed, shops in most areas of the city opened like any other day. Quite a few people in commercial areas like Jaripatka, Itwari, Mominpura, Gandhibagh etc were not following the prescribed Covid norms. At the crowded Jaripatka market, Kelibagh road in Mahal and Nangaputla in Itwari, people were moving freely with masks pulled down. Due to the rush, Covid distancing went for a toss. Mahendra Kaurani, who owns a garments shop on Kelibagh road, said that the two-day lockdown won’t serve any purpose in containing the spread of the disease. “Given the current situation, the city needed 14 days complete lockdown,” he said. Even shops on roads without dividers were found open on both sides despite odd-even formula in force. This included Old Bhandara Road, Jaripatka main market, Kelibagh Road etc. With presence of a large number of vendors and visitors, Covid distancing was clearly absent. Despite NMC’s diktat, there was no strict vigil or monitoring, be it adherence to the odd-even formula or wearing face masks or maintaining Covid distancing. When TOI pointed this to the mayor, he said, “If rules are made, there should be strict vigil.” The mayor also said he would look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-1-janata-hain-ki-manti-nahi-even-after-mayors-appeal-business-as-usual-in-markets/articleshow/78210462.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 20, 2020||Dehradun||Couple jumps into Ganga, search for bodies on||Haridwar: A young couple jumped into the Ganga from Chandi Ghat bridge on Haridwar-Bijnor highway on Saturday morning. After getting information of the incident, the police team with the help of divers launched an operation to trace them but failed to find their bodies. However, police found a bag on the bridge in which the voter identity card of the woman was found. She was from Sonipat district of Haryana. The police are trying to identify the couple. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “Around 9 am, commuters saw a young couple jumping into the Ganga. Subsequently, our team reached the spot and tried to search the bodies with the help of divers but the water current was strong there. We have not been able to find them but our search operation is going on. Meanwhile, we are also trying to identify them. We have also shared the details of the woman’s ID card with the Haryana police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/couple-jumps-into-ganga-search-for-bodies-on/articleshow/78209389.cms||MS Nawaz
September 20, 2020||Chennai||More people over 50 testing +ve in city||Chennai: Official data shows that Covid-19 infections among people above 50 years has gone up in the city in the past few weeks. This was observed even as Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) brought in more restrictions. Official data shows that exactly two months ago, on July 18, the city had 35.6% of Covid-19 patients aged 50 years and above. Ten days later, it dropped to 33.7% and on August 18, it stood at 34.2%. By September 18, it had shot up to 40%, data shows. Covid-19 is deadlier in those aged 50 and above even if they don’t have co-morbidities. Serosurvey conducted by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) along with GCC in the city in July third week also showed people in the age group made for 33% of the infections. The number trail shows that the percentage of infections remained constant when there were restrictions on movement and public transport and spiked now that the city is open. A senior civic official said they would be studying this trend and take suitable action on this. From July to September, percentage of infections in those aged 30-39 years has dropped from 18.8% to 17.8%, while that among toddlers and teenagers (0-19) has dropped by 2%. Dr S Subramanian, an infectious diseases expert, said this was expected with relaxations coming in. “A majority of the elderly stayed indoors during the lockdown but have started stepping out now for various reasons. So there will be an increase in that number as well as deaths,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-people-over-50-testing-ve-in-city/articleshow/78210430.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: District, taluk courts to reopen in phases from September 28||BENGALURU: District and trial courts will be reopened in phases from September 28, and the Karnataka high court has modified health-safety protocols accordingly. The latest standard operating procedure (SOP) requires witnesses to show the summons order and a Covid negative certificate to enter the court complex. This certificate or report must be issued by a government health officer or a recognised laboratory, stating that the person has undergone a test on the same day and tested negative. Witnesses won’t be granted entry without this document. At the time of recording of evidence in criminal cases, accused who are in jail will not be produced physically in the court. They will appear through videoconferencing. In exceptional cases, the court may allow physical production of the accused, who must be tested. The requirement of Covid negative certificate or report will also apply to police personnel escorting such accused to the court and those on bail. Standard practices such as mask use and social distancing must be followed by everyone on the premises. The temporary ban on the entry of litigants will continue. In the first phase of reopening, 55 taluk courts across 23 districts will resume normal work. On October 5, courts in Davanagere, Haveri, Chitradurga, Chikkaballapura, Raichur, Bidar, Ramanagara, Udupi, Gadag, Kodagu, Koppal, Chamarajanagar and Yadgir districts will be reopened. On October 12, all courts in the remaining districts, including Bengaluru Urban, will be reopened. Under the new system, only 15 cases per session will be listed in every court. Priority will be given to hearing of interlocutory applications, final oral arguments and recording of evidence in partly heard civil and criminal cases. Courtrooms will be modified for the purpose of recording of evidence by covering the witness box and the accused dock. The areas will be opened to record evidence of a maximum of five witnesses in the morning session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/district-taluk-courts-to-reopen-in-phases-from-sept-28/articleshow/78212257.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sex, dating app lies, and fake-cop trap; Rs 20 lakh extorted||AHMEDABAD: A man who agreed to a rendezvous with a woman he had found on a dating app had his excitement taper off into terror as fake cops stormed the room and tortured him. His ordeal included sustained beatings and the threat of a rape case. Eventually, he gave his tormentors Rs 20 lakh and was let off. The victim, a 41-year-old forex trader, is a Bopal resident. On September 9, the woman he had befriended on the dating app Tinder invited him to a flat at an isolated location near the Gota Vaishnodevi Temple. Just as a moment of intimacy appeared to loom between the two, three men burst into the flat with lathis and started beating the Bopal man, the complainant in this case. One of the men said that the woman was his sister and threatened to file a rape case. He left with the woman, who was referred to as Janvi by the assailants. According to the complainant, the other two attackers took away his phone and car keys. The two told the complainant that they were policemen from the Gota chowky. They said they will file a rape case unless he paid them Rs 50 lakh. According to a police source, at that stage another man entered the flat. He was in police uniform and identified himself as sub-inspector Yuvrajsinh. Now it was Yuvrajsinh’s turn to beat the complainant. Assistant commissioner of police, N Division, Divya Ravia Jadeja said that in the end, a deal of Rs 20 lakh was struck. “The complainant arranged the money with a friend’s help,” ACP Jadeja said. “The goons posing as policemen wanted the money sent through an angadiya firm to a man called Asik Desai.” That name would later serve as a clue for cops. At 7pm, Yuvrajsinh received a call confirming that Rs 20 lakh had been received. The complainant was allowed to go. The complainant was so traumatized that he did not move out of his house for several days. Hence his friends visited him on Friday. “When they learnt the facts, they approached the Sola police station on the same day,” Jadeja said. “They discovered there that Anandnagar police had caught a man posing as a cop. The imposter was identified as Samir Charaniya, 35, of Navrangpura.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sex-dating-app-lies-and-fake-cop-trap-rs-20l-extorted/articleshow/78210450.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||‘Aadhaar cards’ soon for 2,700 captive elephants||DEHRADUN: To reduce atrocities against captive jumbos in the country in the aftermath of the tragic death of elephants in Kerala in June this year, blood and faecal samples of all the captive elephants across the country — estimated to be around 2,700 — are being collected under the aegis of Project Elephant. This exercise, Noyal Thomas, director of Project Elephant told TOI, will give a unique identity number to the elephants “just like an Aadhaar card which will be generated based on their DNA”. “Genetic mapping will ensure that captive elephants are only kept by authorised persons after getting a nod from the state chief wildlife warden. Thus, it will ensure that all the captive elephants are under the scanner of the state forest department and incidents of poaching do not take place,” said Thomas. Currently, most captive elephants are in Assam (around 1,000). This is followed by Kerala (500) and Tamil Nadu (300). Incidentally, genetic mapping was first conducted in Kerala in 2018. As per Thomas, mapping enables tracking of elephants in need of treatment or food. “It also helps keep a track on its population.” Doon-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is co-ordinating the exercise. Dhananjai Mohan, director of WII, said the data collected will be kept at the Elephant Cell of WII. Content state: Writing In use by: Reporter(s): Last modified: 19-09 22:17 - Rajyashree Dutta Requested size: 33 lin Actual size: 49 lin - 442.65p Category: Contextual use: Normal Description: Correction: Usages of this branch: TOIJaipurBS 20-09-2020, City/1 - Nation, A/8 TOIJCP08 TOIDelhiBS 20-09-2020, Delhi/1 - Nation, A/1 TOIDPG10 TOILucknowBS 21-09-2020, Varanasi/1 - Nation, A/7 TOIVAR07 All usages:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aadhaar-cards-soon-for-2700-captive-elephants/articleshow/78212397.cms||Shivani Azad
September 20, 2020||Chennai||Cases peak in west as state logs 5,500 fresh infections||Chennai: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,569 new Covid-19 cases and 66 deaths on Saturday. The cumulative death toll touched 8,751 and the state has 46,453 active cases as per government records. In the past 19 days, the state added 1,08,552 cases, which pushed the cumulative tally to 5,36,477. Health department officials say the infection rate has slowed down in most places. Between August 13 and August 31, the state added 1,13,521 cases. The doubling period for the infection has increased to 63 days compared to 46 days on August 31. The state continues to see around 5,700 cases daily as different districts peak at different times. “While cases in the southern belt have come down, the western districts are now seeing a peak,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In September, 1,07,594 people have recovered. “We have managed to keep the recovery rates high but we want to ensure people are not over confident about this,” he said. The recovery rate rose to 89.7% while the fatality rate plateaued at 1.6%. On Saturday, though all districts recorded fresh cases, 13 districts had zero deaths. Hotspot Chennai reported 987 cases while neighbouring Chengalpet (293), Tiruvallur (282), and Kancheepuram (175) together reported 750 cases. The state capital recorded 8 deaths. Together, the 11 districts in the north – Chennai included – reported 2,713 cases and 37 deaths. The north zone had 22,597 active cases. The western districts reported the highest cases and deaths after the north. The districts had 12,669 active cases. Together the eight western districts logged 1,551 cases and 14 deaths. Coimbatore (565) had the second highest number of fresh cases after Chennai. The 10 southern districts together recorded 662 cases and six deaths while the central districts added 630 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-peak-in-west-as-state-logs-5500-fresh-infections/articleshow/78210472.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC stays demolition of G’nagar slums||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Saturday stayed Gandhinagar authorities from demolishing Gokulnagar slums behind the Mahatma Mandir Complex and near the newly built seven-star hotel. Justice S H Vora heard advocate Jeet Bhatt, who had demanded urgent hearing on Friday evening, and stayed the authorities from demolition until the court passes an order. The slum dwellers sought urgent hearing after the authorities informed that a demolition drive will take place on Saturday morning. However, after intimation about the HC proceedings by the lawyer, the authorities did not start the drive and waited for the outcome of court proceedings. On July 17, the authorities had served eviction notice on residents of Gokulnagar in Sector 13-14. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-stays-demolition-of-gnagar-slums/articleshow/78210475.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala’s 2nd brush with Murshidabad natives||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The arrest of three suspected al-Qaida operatives on Saturday is the second such instance of the NIA nabbing those with alleged terror links from among migrant labourers in the state. Agency officials had in August 2018 arrested two Murshidabad natives--Abdul Karim and Mustafizur Rehman—from Malappuram for their involvement in the Bodh Gaya blasts of January 2018. The two belonged to the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), an outfit active in the India-Bangladesh border areas. They were picked up for planting a low-intensity bomb that went off just hours after Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, finished a sermon at the Mahabodhi temple. Security personnel later found two other improvised explosive device (IEDs). The case is presently under investigation. The agency had then slapped sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, the Weapons of Mass Destruction and Delivery System (PUA) Act, 2005 and the Explosive Substances Act. “The arrest was based on clear evidence following the act of terrorism,” sources said. In the latest bust, the agency acted when the module were planning a terror attack. In both incidents, those involved hailed from Murshidabad in West Bengal. Intelligence experts cite that outfits like the al-Qaida, whose rank and file were predominantly Arab once, later began spreading to other countries and recruiting nationals from them after the emergence of the Islamic State (IS). “The racial pride of al-Qaida was diluted after IS terrorists began gaining a foothold in India and other countries,” a former intelligence chief said. He added that Murshidabad has been on the radar as a hub for fake Indian currency notes (FICN), cases relating to which are also being probed by NIA. The last time the agency busted a terror cell in the state was in October 2016 when it arrested six persons from Kanakamala, Kannur. The six were part of an IS module and were planning strikes in Kerala and neighbouring states. The agency is probing at least ten terrorism-related cases that have been registered in the state alone, most of which are related to recruitment by the IS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/states-2nd-brush-with-murshidabad-natives/articleshow/78210470.cms||KP Saikiran
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 positive Rims super suffers heart attack, saved||Ranchi: Rims medical superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap, who is undergoing treatment at home for Covid-19 and suffered a massive heart attack, gets a new lease of life after a team of cardiologists from his medical college conducted an emergency angioplasty on Saturday. Rims officials said it is for the first time in the state that the endovascular surgery was conducted on a Covid positive patient, who happens to be the top official of the medical college. Dr Kashyap had tested positive on Wednesday and he had asked all those who were in contact with him to isolate and test themselves. Around 5 am on Saturday, he suffered a heart attack and was brought to the cardiology department. Talking to TOI, Dr Prashant Kumar, assistant professor of the department, said, “He was brought to the hospital around 9 am with severe chest pain. After completing the initial diagnosis around 10 am, we decided to conduct an emergency angioplasty. The patient was then shifted to the cath lab where we conducted angiography and angioplasty to remove the blockage. He is currently stable and doing fine.” Dr Kumar, who has over 40 successful emergency angioplasty surgeries to his credit, said Covid-infected patients with a history of diabetes and hypertension have increased likelihood of heart attacks because of the alteration in the blood coagulation factor caused by the virus. He said, “Dr Kashyap has a history of diabetes and hypertension. During our observation, we detected a 100% blockage in the left anterior descending artery which was cleared after the 30-minute procedure.” Patients needing emergency angioplasty have a high chance of survival if the procedure is conducted as soon as possible, he added. Dr Kumar further said all his medical assistants, including junior doctors and nurses, took proper precautions during the surgery as Dr Kashyap was Covid positive. “We had taken up all safety measures and wore PPE kits during the operation and while inside the cath lab,” he said. Senior Rims doctors who came to enquire about the superintendent’s health at the cardiology department were all praise for Dr Prashant and said his quick intervention saved the life of the top official of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-19-positive-rims-super-suffers-heart-attack-saved/articleshow/78211408.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City plans ‘pandemic’ puja without fanfare||Jamshedpur: With the state government yet to issue any specific guidelines for organising Durga Puja in the ongoing pandemic, the organisers here have started preparing for the upcoming festival in a full-fledged way, albeit in a restrained manner. Citing time constraint, the committee members are not willing to wait till the eleventh hour for the government to issue the Covid-specific safety norms in order to move ahead with their plans. “We want to organise the puja in tandem with the safety guidelines but with roughly a month left for the festival, the committee members are putting pressure on us to ensure that the guidelines are issued at the earliest,” Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti (KDPS) general secretary Ram Babu Singh said. “The government should put the onus of complying with the Covid-specific safety norms on the Puja committees. Any deviation or laxity in compliance should attract action,” said a KDPS functionary requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, just like the ongoing pandemic has altered — and perhaps muted — the way festivals are celebrated throughout the country, Durga Puja — often considered the world's largest community-based public arts and craft festival — is following suit. This time, the organisers here have decided to do away with the usual fanfare and celebrate the festival in a modest way. The overwhelming majority of the 250 Puja committees here are going to construct moderate sized marquees and install idols measuring up to 8ft. The Sarvajanik Durga Puja Committee in Agrico said it will construct a 30x40ft canopy to cover the idols. “Unlike the humongous pandals of the previous years, we are constructing a moderate sized canopy to cover the idols. Bhog will be prepared for offering to the goddesses but mass distribution is unlikely this year,” said committee member Bhupinder Singh. Similarly, the Sarvajanik Durga Puja Committee in Kadma has decided to celebrate the festival in a muted way. Committee functionary Anjan Sarkar said, “We have placed an order for a small idol and planned for a moderate pandal and we will avoid distributing bhog to the public this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-plans-pandemic-puja-without-fanfare/articleshow/78211518.cms||B Sridhar
September 20, 2020||Jamshedpur||With no trains & passengers in sight, Tatanagar stn set to be beautified||JAMSHEDPUR: Taking advantage of the lack of movement of trains and the resultant absence of passengers at Tatanagar station, the Chakradharpur divisional railway has decided to beautify the premises by increasing the greeneries. As part of the initiative, the division has built a hanging garden at the station, besides working towards planting trees at the platforms, portico and at the facade. “I have written to the corporate houses, requesting them to cooperate with the railways in increasing the greenery around the station by donating the plants. I hope their response will be encouraging,” senior divisional commercial manager Manish Pathak said. He added that a dedicated team will look after the plants. Sharing details of the hanging garden, Pathak said it will be spread across 1700 sq ft area in the station. “The hanging garden is a large appliance board that holds plants with tubs,” he added. He informed that a private agency (M/S Mohan Enterprise) was roped in to install the garden. “The hanging garden was slated for inauguration on October 2 but due to some unavoidable reasons, it has been deferred,” he said. Besides Tatanagar, the division is planning similar plantation drives at Rourkela and Jharsuguda stations but they will not have a hanging garden. A commercial official at the Tatanagar said the initiative, taken up as per the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal, will help the railways in earning revenue. “It is a non-fare revenue generation initiative of the railway. The private agency will generate revenue through advertisements at the green space but after five years, when the firm’s contract terminates, the project will be transferred to railways,” said the official, preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/with-no-trains-passengers-in-sight-tatanagar-stn-set-to-be-beautified/articleshow/78345875.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||With no trains & passengers in sight, Tatanagar stn set to be beautified||JAMSHEDPUR: Taking advantage of the lack of movement of trains and the resultant absence of passengers at Tatanagar station, the Chakradharpur divisional railway has decided to beautify the premises by increasing the greeneries. As part of the initiative, the division has built a hanging garden at the station, besides working towards planting trees at the platforms, portico and at the facade. “I have written to the corporate houses, requesting them to cooperate with the railways in increasing the greenery around the station by donating the plants. I hope their response will be encouraging,” senior divisional commercial manager Manish Pathak said. He added that a dedicated team will look after the plants. Sharing details of the hanging garden, Pathak said it will be spread across 1700 sq ft area in the station. “The hanging garden is a large appliance board that holds plants with tubs,” he added. He informed that a private agency (M/S Mohan Enterprise) was roped in to install the garden. “The hanging garden was slated for inauguration on October 2 but due to some unavoidable reasons, it has been deferred,” he said. Besides Tatanagar, the division is planning similar plantation drives at Rourkela and Jharsuguda stations but they will not have a hanging garden. A commercial official at the Tatanagar said the initiative, taken up as per the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal, will help the railways in earning revenue. “It is a non-fare revenue generation initiative of the railway. The private agency will generate revenue through advertisements at the green space but after five years, when the firm’s contract terminates, the project will be transferred to railways,” said the official, preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-no-trains-passengers-in-sight-tatanagar-stn-set-to-be-beautified/articleshow/78341286.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Amid pandemic, Rims in a shambles, all devpt work on hold since last year||Ranchi: Jharkhand's largest hospital and run by the state government, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), has failed to convene a single meeting of its apex governing body in the last one year which is affecting the policy decisions related to matters of patient care, manpower crisis, academics as well as upgrade of hospital infrastructure amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The last governing body meeting of the autonomous hospital was held on September 26, 2019 under the chairmanship of then health minister Ramchandra Chandravanshi and a total of 24 proposals were approved. Barring a few, all proposals which were passed during the meeting, remained on the back burner due to the administrative vacuum created in past year. Delaying implementation of the decisions was a direct violation of the general body, hospital sources said. Among the 24 approved proposals are elevation of Rims as a state medical university, construction of a new OPD complex to meet future requirements, building a residential complex for residents doctors and faculty members, appointment of a law officer, establishment of a dedicated tuberculosis and psychiatry ward and construction of council offices for nursing, pharma and dental courses. Further, the meeting had also approved disciplinary action against a senior faculty member of the medicine department which was reversed by the medical superintendent in complete violation of Rims regulations, the sources said. Only a detailed proposal on elevation of the hospital was submitted by its former director Dr D K Singh to the health department earlier this year, but work on the remaining decisions have been ignored so far. A senior faculty member of the medicine department said, “Rims has no CT scan machine of its own and Covid-19 patients have been discharged without the scans. The manpower crisis has also become a challenge for us daily and I do not know why is the hospital administration sleeping on it at a time when we are fighting the pandemic.” Even the state-of-the-art new trauma centre which was inaugurated with much fanfare in July last year haven’t been equipped properly and none of the pathological and radiological devices have been installed. A senior doctor working at the trauma centre said, “We have only three nurses per shift monitoring a 30-bed ICU catering to the critically ill Covid patients. Surprisingly, we have to wait for 48 hours to get pathological investigation reports of the critically ill patients when they should be available within hours.” The other impacts of the delay on the decisions are holding up appointment of nursing staff, fixation of rate for consumables used in critical surgeries for BPL patients treated under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, fresh tenders for housekeeping and sanitation, security and pantry contracts. Under the Rims norms, the health minister is the ex-officio chairman of the governing body and it is the responsibility of Rims director to request a quarterly meeting of the body. Meanwhile, the incumbent health minister, Banna Gupta, has put a hold on all kinds of tenders as well as appointments and promotion in Rims through an order in June this year. The ban is also affecting the academic process and the patient care in the hospital. Governing body members Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth and Kanke MLA Samri Lal have sought for a meeting repeatedly but to no avail. Lal said, “What is the point of having a general body if it doesn’t meet every three months. If the monsoon session can be convened where the health minister himself was present, why can’t he call the meeting?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/amid-pandemic-rims-in-a-shambles-all-devpt-work-on-hold-since-last-year/articleshow/78341221.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Edu min clears granddaughter’s fees after name ‘struck off’ rolls||Bokaro: State education minister Jargarnath Mahto on Saturday drove down to a private school located in Chas and deposited the tuition fees of his granddaughter whose name has been “struck off the rolls” for online classes after her parents failed to pay for more than six months. While Mahto told TOI that his granddaughter Riya has been removed from the list of students undergoing online classes for standard IV because her parents failed to pay the fees for six months, officials of the Delhi Public School (DPS), who were surprised to see the education minister on their school premises, denied striking out the girl’s name. Now, the district education officials will inquire if the girl’s name was removed or not. Mahto said, “I went there as a guardian and not as a minister after my granddaughter told me over the phone that her name has been struck off the rolls two days ago as her fees were not paid. Riya also told me that she had pleaded with the school management but rued that her pleadings fell on deaf ears.” The minister’s daughter, Reena, stays in Sector-3 of Bokaro Steel Township so that she can provide better education to Riya. Her husband is a CCL employee in Bermo. So far, they have not made their relationship with the minister public. They were apparently not able to pay the schools fees because of their reduced income during the lockdown. Mahto said he paid a total of Rs 22,800 as tuition fees due from April till September. “No other fees were charged,” he said. Principal-in-charge of the school, Shailja Jaikumar, denied removing Riya’s name and said WhatsApp classes are conducted for students below Class VI and online doubt-clearance classes once a week. She said, “The name of the student was never removed. The school officials confirmed it to the minister also.” However, the minister ordered the district education officer (DEO), Neelam Ileen Toppo, who also accompanied him to the school, to make an inquiry and send a report about the amount collected as fees during the last three months by private schools, including DPS, in the district. Mahto said he sought for the report after receiving complaints that private schools are quite stringent on parents and guardians over timely payment of fees even during the Covid crisis. “I also went to the school because I wanted to understand the problems faced by the parents,” he said and urged private schools not to comprise the studies of students during the crisis period. Appealing to the parents to try and deposit the fees as early as they can, the minister said private schools fees and their collection will be discussed in the next cabinet meeting. The education ministry has already asked the schools to charge only tuition fees for the lockdown period. Earlier on August 10, the 53-year-old minister from Dumri constituency hit the headlines after he enrolled himself in Class XI arts at Devi Mahto Inter College at Nawadih. He had passed his Class X examination in 1995. Mahto decided to complete the course after he was being criticized often by opposition members and people in general for taking up the education portfolio without a higher degree. Even after his admission, Mahto’s detractors criticised him saying he will not be able to juggle between his political, official work and studies. But on Wednesday, Mahto posted a video on his verified Twitter handle where he was seen studying his textbook while travelling in a car to Upperghat in Dumri to lay foundation for several projects. His tweet read, “People often ask me how and when will I study for my intermediate course? How will I study for it? This (video) is for them. I have bought my books. I study whenever I get time, irrespective of the place I am in.” He added, “I draw inspiration from many great people, including our former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri and others, who have swum to reach their schools and studied under streetlights and even at the railway stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/edu-min-clears-granddaughters-fees-after-name-struck-off-rolls/articleshow/78211448.cms||Divy Khare
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Covid SOP ready for twin bypolls||Bokaro/Dumka: District authorities of Bokaro and Dumka on Saturday said since the twin bypolls are expected to be conducted later this year amid the Covid pandemic, they have put several safety measures in place for free and fair conduct of the polls as well prevent the spread of the dreaded virus. Both bypolls are expected to be held simultaneously with the Bihar assembly election. In Bokaro, the district administration said voters of Bermo constituency, who tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of the bypoll, can exercise their franchise through postal ballots. The administration has also decided not to deploy polling agents above the age of 55 years during the election. Bermo constituency, which is under the district, will go for a bypoll after its Congress legislator Rajender Singh died on May 25. Though the EC is yet announced the schedule, the administration has already put Covid safety measures in place. In the constituency, voting will be held in 468 polling booths. DC Rajesh Kumar Singh said he held a series of meetings with senior officials and formed a total of 18 cells, including for Covid-19, as part of the poll preparations. It will be the responsibility of the cells to keep vigil at the polling booths. SDO Shashi Prakash Singh has been nominated as officer-in-charge for the Covid-19 compliance cell. Singh said the administration is appealing to all 3,11,107 eligible electors to exercise their franchise by strictly following the Covid-19 protocols and stressed that the government has also taken up measures to prevent infections. Among the precautions are taking up steps for regular sanitisation of EVM-VVPAT machines, arrangement of wheelchairs and vehicles for physically-challenged voters among others. Singh said a direction in this regard has been issued to district social welfare officer Manisha Vats. Bermo is a semi-urban (general) constituency and comprises roughly 7.96% SC and 16.98% ST population. The estimated literacy level is 73.48%. In the last assembly election in 2019, there was a total of 3,11,107 eligible electors, of which 1,63,666 were males, 1,47,440 were females and one third gender voter. Among the first-time voters, there are 6,972 youngsters in the 18-19 years age-group, of whom 3,583 are males and 3,389 are females. Besides, a total of 2,328 voters is in the above 80 age category and 4,859 voters have been identified as persons with disabilities. In Dumka, a bypoll is due after chief minister Hemant Soren, who won from two constituencies, vacated it and retained the Barhait seat. DC cum district returning officer Rajeshwari B, who presided over an election meeting with her senior officials on Saturday, emphasised on strict implementations of central and state guidelines on Covid safety to prevent spreading of the virus to both voters and polling officials. A press release issued by the public relations department said all polling teams would be provided with sanitisers, masks and gloves. “The polling booths will have thermal scanning facilities for the voters and if their temperatures are above the stipulated range, they will be advised to cast their votes in the last hours,” the statement said. Further, there will be separate entry and exit gates for the voters who will have to wait within circles marked after every one metre to ensure proper physical distancing. A senior district official said, “The district administration has already made proposals for an increase in the number of polling booths from the existing 286 to 368. The proposal is in view of the new EC guidelines to limit voters in a polling booth to 1,000 from the existing 1,500.” Rajeshwari directed all stakeholders to ensure training of the polling officials in small groups. Meanwhile, villagers of Kesoraidih under Masaliya block said they will boycott the bypoll as their demand for a road has not been met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-sop-ready-for-twin-bypolls/articleshow/78211708.cms||Divy Khare
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Power-plant displaced continue fast for 4th day||Ramgarh: Hundreds across 25 villages of Patratu block of Ramgarh continued to sit on a hunger strike for the fourth straight day to demand for jobs and resettlement after their land was acquired for a 400-MW power plant. Protesters claimed the state government transferred their land to the joint venture of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (PVUNL) without settling issues related to displacement of residents. A mass hunger strike under the Visthapit Prabhavit Sangharsh Morcha (VPSM) banner started on Saturday after police forcibly removed them from the protest site near the main gate of PVUNL’s administrative building on September 3. Villagers claimed that police resorted to lathicharge which left many injured, a claim denied by the administration. Aditya Narayan Prasad, VPSM president, alleged government transferred nearly 1,200 acre farming land to PVUNL without proper settlement of displacement issues as their land was acquired by the undivided Bihar government for Patratu Thermal Power Station (PTPS) in Patratu. “It is unfortunate that PVUNL is trying to curb the agitation with the help of police instead of addressing it,” he said. Y Devashish, deputy manager (HR), PVUNL, said the joint venture company has not directly acquired land from the villagers and land occupied by PVUNL has been officially and legally transferred, so PVUNL has never been a party of land dispute. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said villagers have been repeatedly asked to stake claim of pending cases for settlement as per provisions, but no villager came forward to stake claim for pending cases. “Government records in land acquisition as well as land and revenue department proved that no case of land settlement is pending,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/power-plant-displaced-continue-fast-for-4th-day/articleshow/78211678.cms||N K Agarwal
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Plasma therapy for acute Covid patients starts in Hazaribag||Hazaribag: While inaugurating an RT-PCR Plasmapheresis laboratory at the Shrinivas Centre for Scientific Research and Development (SCSRD) here, state health minister Banna Gupta said the centre will prove to be a milestone for the people of Jharkhand in general and Hazaribag in particular in combating Covid-19. This is the third such centre in the state. Banna congratulated the hospital authorities for taking up the project approved by ICMR and accredited by National Accreditation Board for Training and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). The minister said this centre will give true results of Covid-19, accurate than rapid antigen tests. He further said that the state government will issue a circular through the state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni for rushing the backlog tests through this centre for detecting cases as early as possible. When asked whether this project will get co-operation from the local district administration as well as the civil surgeon, he said he has asked to administration to work in tandem with the centre. Although this hospital has a Plasmapheresis centre now, not a single case of extracting plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients have been sent to them. Addressing a press conference, Banna said, “We have decided to set up hundred more TrueNet machines in the remotest parts of the state. Hazaribag already has five such machines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/plasma-therapy-for-acute-covid-patients-starts-in-hazaribag/articleshow/78211721.cms||Abhijit Sen
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Corona scare keeps workers off Vishwakarma Puja fanfare||RANCHI: Jharkhand observed Vishwakarma Puja, which also coincides with Mahalaya this year, with simple rituals in industrial towns across the state on Thursday because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dinesh Taneja, who owns a factory in Kokar industrial area here, said most units performed a simple puja for the divine architect, who is revered and worshipped by most industrial bodies and workers. Moreover, the units remained shut on Thursday after the puja. “The usual hustle-bustle was not seen in Kokar area and also in other parts of the city,” he said. Honorary secretary of the Jharkhand Small Industries Association, Anjan Pacheriwal, said, “The big functions were cancelled this year. Everyone including the workers is aware of their safety and avoided social gathering. The industrial units kept their doors closed to prevent outsiders from coming in.” Dinesh Agrawal, owner of a workshop at Hinoo, said the rituals were performed with only a few workers and he did not bring his family to the shop given the prevailing conditions. The management of Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) also said Vishwakarma Puja this year was a low-key affair in all its units. It said, "The workers observed all safety norms, including social distancing and wearing of masks while taking part in the rituals. The participation by family members of the workers and the contractual workers was prohibited this time. All of them followed the rules and ensured no one littered around the puja sites. Officials extended greetings to the workers on the occasion.” Financial hardships faced by industrial units, employees, workers and residents also toned down the celebrations in parts of the city. Amit Munda, a taxi driver at the Kadru stand, said, “We have avoided all types of celebrations. Somehow, we managed to collect a small amount to instal an idol and perform the rituals.” Airing similar views, Asok Gope, an auto driver at the railway station taxi stand, said, "With only two trains arriving at the station in a week, our earnings have dipped sharply. Currently, no one is ready to contribute to install the idol and make other arrangements like distribution of prasad. On normal days, everyone had sufficient earnings to manage their family and also arrange a grand puja.” Similarly, the twin industrial towns — Jamshedpur and Adityapur — celebrated the puja without any fanfare. Since the slowdown in the automobile industry has hit the sector, over 40% ancillary units of Tata Motors in Adityapur are closed and the usual celebrations were missing. Moreover, the Covid safety guidelines prevented the factory owners from organising big celebrations. Those who performed the puja restricted the number of participants and ensured that all safety measures were followed. Companies like Tata Steel and Tata Motor also organised the puja at a smaller scale. Most markets were also hit because of the low-key rituals. “People preferred buying puja items in reduced quantities this year,” said Madan Sahu, owner of a puja bhandar at Kadma market. In Bokaro, the Bokaro Steel Plant management decided to cancel all rituals. Normally, idols were set up at 35 places inside the steel plant in past years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/corona-scare-keeps-workers-off-vishwakarma-puja-fanfare/articleshow/78195927.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Rims staff members thrash dead patient’s kin inside ICU||Ranchi: Around 60 people, including PG doctors, nurses, security guards and support staff of the state-run Rims hospital, badly thrashed the brother and other family members of a deceased patient at the medicine ward on Friday night. The case was resolved on Saturday afternoon after the female junior, who had filed a written complaint against the accused, 20-year-old Rishav Sinha, withdrew it. The incident happened when a grieving Rishav accidentally hurt the doctor while turning as she was reportedly standing behind him. Eyewitnesses said a 24-year-old patient, Ritu Raj Sinha, died in the intensive care unit and his family members, including his brother, were grieving over his demise. “The patient was brought to medicine ICU around 5.15 pm on Friday and 20 minutes later, he died during treatment. Soon after, his younger brother was trying to resuscitate him and accidentally hit a female junior doctor who was behind him. The incident led to the thrashing of the boy by about five dozen people,” said Arvind Kumar, an attendant of another patient at the medicine department. Dilip Kumar Sinha, the father of the deceased, was injured in the incident. Sinha said, “I was on a different floor looking for doctors to seek medicines for my son but soon after I get to know that he is no more, I rushed back only to see that my other son is thrashed by the hospital staff. When I along with my wife and some family members tried to protect him, they turned to us. I was hospitalised only after the police arrived.” The doctor, who submitted the complaint, said she was assaulted and abused verbally. She, however, refused to comment on the incident, saying she has already withdrawn the complaint. A policeman, who visited the site, said, “Only God knows what more would have happened to the family members had we not arrived on time.” Bariatu police station in-charge Sapan Kumar Mahatha said, “Rishav has been released as the complaint against him has been withdrawn. The body of the deceased has also been handed over to family members for the last rites by the hospital administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-staff-members-thrash-dead-patients-kin-inside-icu/articleshow/78211597.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Agitating assistant ‘police’ want clarity, talks with minister fail to break ice||Ranchi: Government’s effort to persuade the former assistant police personnel to withdraw their agitation on Saturday failed when the latter decided to continue their protest till the promises are delivered in writing. State water resources minister Mithlesh Kumar Thakur had a prolonged discussion with the agitating personnel while assuring that the government is ready to extend their service, increase their honorarium and also increase the marks awarded for their service in selection process for regular police. He assured the protesters that he was speaking as a representative of chief minister Hemant Soren. Thakur also cautioned, “The government will take legal action if you violate the laws. Protesting in such a large-scale during the lockdown period, that too in police uniform is a violation of law.” He said the opposition party leaders who are coming to sympathise with them are trying to get a political advantage during the ongoing assembly session. Earlier, the minister had a brief interaction with the agitators from each of the 13 districts and those who were injured in the clash on Friday. The former police, however, continued with the agitation saying they wanted clarity on marks awarded for their service and hike in honorarium and all the promises in writing. Earlier in the day, a group of BJP MLAs — Amit Mandal, Kisan Das, Indrajit Mahto and Bhanu Pratap Shahi — visited the place with water, biscuits and other refreshments. Mandal said, “We visited the spot as a humanitarian gesture. A discussion should be held in the assembly on how to regularise their services.” Meanwhile, case has been registered against 32 known ex-assistant police personnel and 1,000 unknown in connection with the aggressive agitations staged on Friday evening. Several policemen including SP (city)Saurav, were injured in the incident. The case has been registered under various sections of the IPC. Meanwhile, an assistant police was injured after getting hit by a car. Angered by the incident, a few of the protesters damaged the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/agitating-assistant-police-want-clarity-talks-with-minister-fail-to-break-ice/articleshow/78211514.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||State reports 13 deaths, over 1k Covid cases in 24 hours||Ranchi: The state reported 13 Covid deaths in the last 24 hours due, taking the toll to 615. A total of 1,222 fresh infections were also reported till Saturday evening while the number of recovered cases is slightly above at 1,274. The cumulative caseload is now inching closer to the 70,000-mark and stands at 69,860. Among thirteen deaths, 10 were reported on Saturday and three late on Friday night. East Singhbhum and Ranchi continued to post the highest number of casualties reporting three deaths each in the last 24 hours of which two were reported on Saturday and one each late on Friday night. West Singhbhum reported two deaths on Saturday while Ramgarh, Latehar Dhanbad and Chatra reported one each. Even though the number of recovered cases picked up pace during the last three weeks, the positivity rate continued to maintain its streak and stood around 5.30% as 1,222 out of the 23,042 samples tested for the virus returned positive on Saturday. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to remain on top in detecting the maximum number of cases at 284 and 179 respectively on Saturday. Godda (92), Bokaro (91) and Seraikela (90) are the three other districts which reported a high number of fresh cases. Dhanbad and Palamu also reported 74 and 65 cases respectively. Among the districts, Bokaro and Godda reported a surge almost after a week. With 1,222 fresh infections and 1,274 recoveries till Saturday, the caseload stood at 69,860, of which 13,548 are active and 55,697 have recovered. With the state reporting more cured cases in comparison with the fresh infections daily in the last two weeks, the number of active cases has taken a dip. The weekly growth rate and the doubling rate improved in comparison with the national rate as the gap was a meagre 0.28%. Jharkhand’s growth rate is now 2.09% while the national average is 1.89%. The state’s weekly doubling rate stood at 33 days while it is 37 days nationally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-reports-13-deaths-over-1k-covid-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/78211186.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 20, 2020||Ranchi||Roman Catholic Church seeks Sarna code||Ranchi: The Roman Catholic Church on Saturday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren requesting a bill for a separate code for Sarna religion, guaranteeing rights of the tribal community to their language, religion and culture be introduced and passed during the current session of the Jharkhand assembly. The monsoon session of the Jharkhand assembly, which commenced on September 18, is slated to continue till September 22. “Tribals of the country are placed under the Scheduled Tribes list. Their safety, rights and identity are guaranteed under Articles 25, 29 and 342 of the Indian constitution. Jharkhand is home to numerous tribes. To ensure protection of tribal identity, culture and their existence, a separate Sarna bill be brought and passed during the ongoing monsoon session of the Jharkhand assembly and sent to the Union government for concurrence,” a letter, jointly signed by Felix Toppo, archbishop and Theodore Mascarenhas, auxiliary bishop, Ranchi, said. The letter further added that in all the tribal dominated states, including Jharkhand, the process of implementation of the National Register of Citizens be kept in abeyance till a separate Sarna religious code is granted to tribes all over the country. “The demand for a separate Sarna religious code has the support of all the bishops of Jharkhand and Andamans,” the letter stressed. Talking to TOI, Mascarenhas said prior to the Jharkhand assembly elections held last year, a number of political parties had included the demand for a separate Sarna religious code in their poll manifestos and that the parties are now expected to honour their commitments. “A separate Sarna code would enable Tribals to register themselves as Adivasis when Census is conducted in 2021. A distinct Sarna code will also guarantee protection of tribal identity, language and culture. The Roman Catholic Church has always been a strong proponent of a distinct Sarna religious code for Tribals,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/roman-catholic-church-seeks-sarna-code/articleshow/78211625.cms||Tapas Biswas
September 20, 2020||India||Guj lions freed of radio collars||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat forest department has been removing radio collars from lions in the last few weeks. At least 20 lions have been freed of the collars, said officials privy to the development. The issue of radio collars was raised by Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil during Zero Hour in the Rajya Sabha on September 17 where he had demanded that the collars be removed. TOI had reported on August 24 that 25% of the radio-collared lions had died in the last year. Wildlife experts were concerned as radio collaring is done on young lions in the age group of 3-6 years, whose usual mortality rates are among the lowest — about 10-12%. Cubs have the greatest mortality rate, 50%, followed by old lions and sub-adults at 20% each, according to experts. Dushyant Vasavada, chief conservator of forests, Junagadh circle, said so far the department has removed radio collars of 20-22 lions. tnn Experts claim the number of deaths of radio-collared lions could be as high as 25. The state forest department had bought 75 radio collars last year for research, disease surveillance and tracking purposes. At least 19 lions who were radio-collared died in the last year, TOI had reported. The forest department aims to remove all collars as their study period is nearing an end. Content state: Writing In use by: Reporter(s): Last modified: 20-09 01:08 - Sanjay Versain Requested size: 33 lin Actual size: 47 lin - 424.59p Category: Contextual use: Normal Description: Correction: Usages of this branch: TOIChandigarhBS 20-09-2020, Chandigarh/1 - Nation, A/10 TOICC10 All usages:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/guj-lions-freed-of-radio-collars/articleshow/78212401.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘NMC regn rule to affect 10k lawyers, CAs’||Nagpur: Even as he was abruptly transferred from the city, former municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde has left his imprints behind. One of them was issuance of a circular on July 11, directing all professionals, including lawyers, chartered accountants (CAs), auditors and others to register with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for obtaining licence under Section 376 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act. Though the decision was opposed from all quarters, protests didn’t last long due to Covid-19 spread. Former advocate general of Chattisgarh High Court, Jugalkishor Gilda, who hails from city claimed that the circular is contrary to law and similar attempts made earlier were quashed by the judiciary. According to him, if the circular is not withdrawn by new commissioner Radhakrishnan B, about 10,000 lawyers and CAs each along with others would suffer. In a chat with TOI, he explains the impending effect of the circular on professionals. Excerpts: Q. Tell us about yourself. A. In over three decades of my legal practice, I was appointed as the youngest government pleader at 36, breaking former Chief Justice of India Mohamammed Hidyatullah’s record, who became GP at 37 in 1942. Prior to it, I had a stint with journalism from 1979-83 as a reporter of an English daily from Amravati while studying. I was appointed as additional AG in 2006 and later handed over full-time charge. I had the privilege of pleading many high-profile matters in the Supreme Court, like the entry tax case before a nine-judge bench and former chief minister Ajit Jogi’s case. Q. Why do you feel the circular is contrary to law? A. Though Mundhe did exceptionally well as a civic chief to contain Covid-19 virus, he erred in taking some decisions without consulting seniors in respective professions. By virtue of July 11 circular, he asked all professionals to get registered with NMC. It’s contrary because we have already registered with our apex bodies like Bar Council of India (BCI), Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and others. In simple words, NMC is trying to include professionals under the Shops and Establishment Act, like shopkeepers, which is akin to Licence Raj. Q. You said similar attempts in the past were quashed by the judiciary. A. There have been attempts since 1936 during British regime in erstwhile Central Provinces and Berar region. That time, city corporation tried to bring professionals like doctors and lawyers under commercial establishments. Justice Gilbert Stone, who was Chief Justice of Nagpur High Court, termed the move in an article as illegal while quoting Queens Bench judgment of 1919 that ruled that doctor or lawyers working with churches can’t come under definition of commercial establishment. Another attempt was made after states reorganization in 1960 by Maharashtra government. It was struck down by the Bombay High Court in 1962 ruling that solicitors can’t be asked to register under Bombay Shops and Establishments Act. Q. Even the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court had quashed one such move. A. It was in 1962, when NMC had made an attempt to include lawyers in Shops and Establishments Act. It was challenged by lawyer SN Kherdekar and HC gave verdict in his favour. In 1963, the Bombay Municipal Corporation had asked CAs and their firms to get registered under the same Act. It was struck down by a division bench led by justice DG Palekar holding that lawyers can’t be compelled to register under the 1948 law. Q. Has this issue ever reached the Supreme Court? A. In 1977, the issue again came to fore after Bombay Shops Act was amended and definition of professionals was extended to lawyers, CAs and others. It was challenged in Nagpur bench by Narendra Fuladi and Dr Thrity Patel, former head of Nagpur University’s law Department. Former advocate general Arvind, father of Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde, pleaded for them. He was assisted by veteran lawyer Prabhakar Marpakwar. HC bench comprising justices BA Masodkar and MS Deshpande again set aside an amendment holding that it violated the constitutional mandate of right to equality. The ruling was challenged by Maharashtra government in the apex court, but was rejected in 1985. Q. How this new circular would affect professionals? A. All of them again have to go through hassles of applying for registration with their documents and pay a licence fee. This licence would be renewed every year, unlike our prevailing registrations with apex bodies. As per circular, the formalities need to be completed within 30 days, else the NMC officials could initiate coercive action, including filing of criminal proceedings. Fortunately, after Mundhe’s transfer, there’s not much activity on this front. Once situation get backs to normal, civic officials would start their drive to fetch revenue. The new commissioner should take steps to withdraw the circular immediately; else someone would challenge it in the judiciary and again history is likely to be repeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-regn-rule-to-affect-10k-lawyers-cas/articleshow/78210522.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 20, 2020||Nagpur||Many cops get first choice stns in CP’s on-the-spot transfers||Nagpur: City police commissioner Amitesh Kumar on Saturday conducted an innovative ‘on-the-spot’ transfer of around 554 cops in a marathon short interview session spanning almost 10 hours at a stretch at police gymkhana on Saturday.This is the first time the traditional pattern of transfer through declaring it in a list was discontinued for a more transparent and open system.There was surprise, shock and awe in the constabulary when most of their first choice of police station was granted by the CP. Apart from the transfer process, the session gave a chance to many of them to meet the top cop in person, which is uncommon in the force. In the past, there had been serious allegations against the clerical staff and senior officers of malpractices, nepotism and mistakes in issuing the general transfer list which was delayed this year due to the pandemic.Three-hour slots were allotted to head constables (9am to noon), naik police constables and constables (noon to 3 pm) and asst sub-inspectors (3pm to 6pm) to appear before the transfer committee headed by the CP. The two other members of the committees were joint CP Nilesh Bharne and DCP (headquarters) Gajanan Rajmane. The clerical staff was also present for documentation and record support which too was handled, monitored and checked by Kumar. “There was complete transparency, feeling of justice and no scope for any wrong-doings as the cops eligible for transfer had appeared before the CP and voiced their choices as per the vacancies available. Most of them got their first choice of posting,” said Bharne. Rajmane said the time slots and arrangements were made in accordance with Covid distancing norms. “The interviews were conducted on loudspeaker so that everyone can hear what was going on and see in front of them,” he said. It’s learnt that Kumar had asked several cops interested in working in the crime branch to prove their mettle with a detection first before getting a permanent posting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-cops-get-first-choice-stns-in-cps-on-the-spot-transfers/articleshow/78210574.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: College teachers protest against government’s directive on 100% staff attendance||MUMBAI: Over 2,000 teachers from colleges affiliated to Mumbai University signed a petition opposing the state government’s directive on 100% staff attendance. Two teachers’ organisations have written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and higher and technical education minister Uday Samant seeking withdrawal of the directive. On Friday, the higher and technical education department issued a circular making 100% attendance mandatory in university and its affiliated colleges for smooth conduct of final-year exams for the 2019-20 graduating batch. A government official, however, clarified the order is meant only for teachers involved in exam work. A clarification to this effect will be issued on Monday. “The government’s priority is to ensure exams are smoothly conducted across state universities. Some university officials had reported shortage of staff for exam work. The directive is only meant to ensure this work is not disrupted and no student is inconvenienced,” said another official. While Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) has written a letter to the CM requesting withdrawal of the order, another organisation, Mumbai University and College Teachers’ Association (MUCTA), has written to Samant with the same request. “More than 2,000 teachers have signed mails to the CM. We have mentioned there is no justification in calling 100% staff as teachers are involved in online classes and exam preparation at the same time. It will also violate health directives issued by the disaster management authority and will only lead to further spread of Covid-19,” said a MFUCTO representative. MUCTA questioned the state's contradictory stand in Supreme Court, where it claimed holding exams would be detrimental to safety of students and staff. “Now, when the exams are being held online and students will take it from their respective homes, what can teachers do on campuses. Visiting college would disrupt online classes for other students too. They said that the state should either withdraw the order or allow teaching and non-teaching staff to use public transport and even cover each one of them with an insurance of Rs 5 crore,” said the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-college-teachers-protest-against-governments-directive-on-100-staff-attendance/articleshow/78217594.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||Agusta: CBI chargesheet against Saxena, 14 others||New Delhi: The CBI has filed a supplementary chargesheet against 15 accused, including UAE businessman Rajiv Saxena,who was earlier an accused and later turned approver in the AgustaWestland chopper scam. “It was alleged during further investigation that the two accused through their New Delhi-based company had acquired a company based at Kolkata in 2009 to launder illicitt kickbacks money and received it through banking channels in collusion with other accused who created shell companies and opened fake accounts in different banks for returning such kickbacks,” the agency said in a statement. The CBI informed the court that they could file another supplementary chargesheet in connection with the scam later on. The agency stated that the other accused through their respective companies had facilitated in routing the kickbacks paid by a company based in UK. The other accused allegedly prepared fake invoices and sent mails for transferring the said kickbacks through said companies. The copies of documents and details were recovered as well. The CBI had earlier filed a chargesheet in the case in September 2017. Christian Mi chel was taken into custody by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on December 5 last year after his extradition from Dubai. UAE-based businessman Saxena was extradited to India on January 31, 2019 in connection with the scam relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from Agusta Westland. Saxena had later turned an approver in the case but has been named as an accused. The agency has also filed an application to cancel his approver status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/agusta-cbi-chargesheet-against-saxena-14-others/articleshow/78212408.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Many bars across Andhra Pradesh stay shut despite open permit||VIJAYAWADA: Many bars across the state remained closed on Saturday even as the government accorded permission to resume operations. A majority of bar owners haven’t paid license fee due to prevailing uncertainty surrounding the pandemic. While the state government has extended the licenses of all 840 bars in the state, bar owners reportedly haven’t managed to obtain requisite authorisation letters to restart business by Saturday. The state government has levied a 20% ‘Covid fee’ on the base price of the license fee, which otherwise increases by 10% every year. Moreover, the additional retail excise tax (ARET) has also been revised to 10% on the issue price to price instead of a fixed Rs 40 on a 180ml bottle earlier. The state government was also planning to reduce the number of bars in the state by 40% as part of its policy to implement complete liquor prohibition in a phased manner. However, since the matter is currently sub judice, the government has decided to renew all licenses. While the government’s decision to reopen bars comes as a relief to bar owners, they are wary of the imposition of the 20% ‘Covid fee’. Bar owners are also unhappy with the ARET revision to 10% of issue price as the expected it to be 5%. The Wine Dealers’ Association had been asking for reduction in ARET even before the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The association has submitted representations to the government to consider the losses they have made and requested a reduced rate of ARET. Rayala Subbarao, president of Wine Dealers’ Association, said that it may take two more days for bars to start operations. Most bar owners are struggling to mobilise funds because of the loss of business over the last six months, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/many-bars-across-ap-stay-shut-despite-open-permit/articleshow/78210742.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 20, 2020||Business||Amendments to Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code gets RS nod||NEW DELHI: The Rajya Sabha on Saturday approved the amendments to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which provides for not initiating any fresh insolvency proceedings against companies hurt by the Covid-19 pandemic for at least six months starting March 25 and which can be extended by up to one year. Replying to the debate on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the law provides for carrying out insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings against corporate debtors as well as personal guarantors together. “The corporate debtor often has guarantors. For comprehensive corporate insolvency resolution and liquidation we felt it was necessary that the insolvency of the corporate debtor as well as its guarantors are considered together,” Sitharaman said. Responding to charges from some of the opposition parties on why the government has been promulgating ordinances, including the amendments to IBC, the FM said the government wants to meet the requirements based on the ground situation. The FM said the amendment does not mean that the insolvency proceedings won’t be applicable for cases before March 25, 2019. She said this provision will be applicable only for the Covid period. On why the government has put the limit of the amendment to only one year, the FM said this has been done to ensure that the executive doesn’t get excessive power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amendments-to-insolvency-bankruptcy-code-gets-rs-nod/articleshow/78212409.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Rushikonda beach in the fray for Blue Flag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has recommended Rushikonda Beach for the coveted international eco-label, the ‘Blue Flag’ certification. Rushikonda is one of eight beaches recommended for the label. The recommendation was on the occasion of International Coastal Clean-Up Day. An independent national-level jury comprising eminent environmentalists and scientists have made these recommendations. Blue Flag beaches are considered the cleanest beaches in the world. Rushikonda is the only beach in Andhra Pradesh and one of 13 beaches in India vying for the Blue Flag eco-label assigned by Denmark-based Foundation for Environmental Education. Around Rs 7.3 crore has been spent on Rushikonda beach to equip it with various infrastructure facilities to match standards for certification. The Blue Flag certification aims at ensuring coastal protection and enhancing of local livelihoods through sustainable tourism activities. Factors considered for certification include: quality of bathing area, beach management, protection of dunes and vegetation, keeping beaches clean and free of plastic, pollution and other non-biodegradable waste, safety and making the beach environment friends. In more good news, urban local bodies in Visakhapatnam district are in the race for Prime Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration. Visakhapatnam is one of 10 districts shortlisted for the award. The theme for this year’s award is ‘Promoting People’s movement- Jan Bhagidari through Swachh Bharat Mission Urban’. The screening committee inspected various parts of Vizag on Saturday. Ahead of the screening committee’s visit, Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand and GVMC commissioner G Srijana visited several areas of the city and observed the cleaning practices. They spoke to resident welfare associations about solid waste management in their colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rushikonda-beach-in-the-fray-for-blue-flag/articleshow/78210888.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Placement season begins in AP’s colleges, orientation goes online||VISAKHAPATNAM: Amid lingering doubts over the placement season for the 2020-21 academic years, several corporate groups have initiated the first phase of recruitment drives in various colleges and universities in AP. However, in a major shift from tradition, like with everything else, recruitments too are happening online. So Some companies are expected to announce their results over the next few days. Placement officers are hopeful that this year’s offers will surpass last year’s packages even amid the economic gloom surrounding the pandemic. While a number of educational institutions got a head start on the placement process by finishing their exams some time ago, some institutions are yet to conduct their final exams as mandated by the University Grants Commission (UGC). Speaking to TOI, Gurumoorthy Gangadharan, director of training and placements at Gitam Deemed to be University, said that Gitam’s placement calendar is full right now till the third week of October. “Recruiters are coming to us with enhanced packages and numbers. The only major difference is the virtual mode of hiring.” Parallel placement drives of six major companies are currently going on at Gitam. Information technology majors such as Deloitte, Mindtree, Accenture and TCS have conducted interviews. As some of the institute’s students live in remote areas where there are bandwidth and connectivity issues, Gitam has opened sanitised interview rooms in campus from where students can partake in the selection process, Gangadharan said. Meanwhile, educational institutions are also conducting webinars to train students on virtual interviews, written tests and psychometric interviews. Corporates too are on-boarding fresh graduates through online mentoring, skill upgrades and leadership programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/placement-season-begins-in-aps-colleges-orientation-goes-online/articleshow/78210947.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Film producers line up to shoot in scenic Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: After a hiatus of nearly six months, film shooting and post-production activities have resumed in the city and popular scenic locations like Borra Caves and Araku Valley. It is learnt that at least 10 major and minor film production units have sought permission to shoot this month. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), VMRDA, forest department and city police commissionerate besides the Visakhapatnam railways are usually approached by filmmakers. Vegi Venkata Rao, a production manager of Tollywood films said that they have already started shooting under the AK Films banner in the city. “We are shooting at the RK beach. We have secured permission from the authorities for our eight-day shoot in the city. Delighted that we have resumed our regular film shoots, which are bread and butter for nearly 5000 people in the city,” Rao said. Tollywood film director RV Subbu said that his unit will visit the city next month to select locations for his upcoming films. “We hope film theatres would be allowed from the Dasara or Diwali festivals. Our target is to release our film for the Sankranti festival in 2021. I am planning to include the experiences of people during the lockdown period in my upcoming film” Subbu told TOI. The pandemic had a huge impact on the film industry as many people lost their livelihood. With sun-baked beaches and stunning mountain ranges Vizag, is one of the most preferred locations for filmmakers from the Telugu, Tamil, Bengali, Bhojpuri, and Kannada industries, particularly between March and May. In these months the weather conditions are favourable for shooting with temperature ranging between 34-37°C. Small-time artists and support staff live in Allipuram, Barma Camp, and Kancharapalem areas in the city. They work under 10 production managers. With activity resuming now, these artists, technicians and workers are a relieved lot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/film-producers-line-up-to-shoot-in-scenic-vizag/articleshow/78210982.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 20, 2020||India||Govt, oppn spar in LS over PM Cares||The PM Cares Fund is a transparent, registered fund unlike the PM National Relief Fund which was formed in 1948 but was not registered under relevant sections of prevailing laws and of which the Congress president was a member, minister of state for finance, Anurag Thakur said in Lok Sabha on Saturday. The government faced off with opposition parties like the Congress, DMK and the TMC as Lok Sabha passed the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020. The exchange led both sides to question each other’s claims over “transparency”, with Thakur asserting that while trustees of the PM Cares Fund are the PM, the home minster, the finance minister and the defence minster, PMNRF had earlier appointed the Congress chief, and leaders from no other political party, as managers of the fund. Amid the pandemic, the taxation bill seeks to provide reliefs to taxpayers, such as extending deadlines for filing returns and linking PAN and Aadhaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-oppn-spar-in-ls-over-pm-cares/articleshow/78212421.cms||Swati Mathur
September 20, 2020||India||DMK lawmaker flags ‘diversity deficit’ in SC||NEW DELHI: DMK lawmaker and advocate, P Wilson raised the issue of poor representation of many social groups in the Supreme Court, in Rajya Sabha on Saturday terming it as a “diversity deficit”. He said, “Significant over representation of certain sections calls into question the objectivity of the current system and its inability to recruit from different social groups and ensure social justice. Thus Parliament must step in to ensure social justice and diversity and the government should bring in suitable measures.” Wilson said there has been declining representation from all sections of the society in SC. “Judicial diversity is fundamental to the quality of judging. Many social groups are poorly represented in the apex court. There is lack of women judges and judges from historically oppressed and marginalised sections of the society,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dmk-lawmaker-flags-diversity-deficit-in-sc/articleshow/78212431.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||Allahabad HC list for judges' post stirs row||NEW DELHI: A list of 31 advocates recommended by the Allahabad high court collegium recently for their elevation as judges of the country’s largest HC may come under scrutiny after members of the Allahabad and Lucknow bar associations alleged “nepotism” in selection of candidates. A preliminary review shows there is only one candidate from OBC and none from the SC/ST community in the list. Son of a former Chief Justice of India, son of a former HC judge, a chamber junior of a former HC judge are among those recommended in the list for judgeship of the high court. A similar controversy involving allegations of nepotism in a list of 15 candidates recommended by the Patna High Court collegium resulted in the Supreme Court collegium rejecting all the names recently. The Centre is awaiting Intelligence Bureau findings into allegations that caste considerations were in play in recommending appointment of judges for the Allahabad HC which has 63 vacancies against a sanctioned strength of 160 judges. This is the third time in two years, with nearly 100 recommendations made by the Allahabad HC collegium, that allegations of nepotism have been made. The government’s assertiveness on merit being the sole criteria for selection often resulted in the SC collegium rejecting the candidature of many. Sources say, preliminary review of the recommendations made by the HC collegium revealed that at least half a dozen candidates failed to meet some of the criteria. A candidate has to be within the age group of 45-55 years to be considered for HC judgeship. Also a candidate has to have a minimum annual income of Rs 7 lakh in the preceding five years before his/her name is recommended for HC judgeship. The Centre had last year put on hold the Supreme Court collegium’s final recommendation for appointment of at least 10 advocates as judges of the Allahabad High Court reiterating its initial objections that these lawyers, considered for elevation by the apex court, do not meet the minimum income qualification required to be recruited in the higher judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allahabad-hc-list-for-judges-post-stirs-row/articleshow/78212436.cms||Pradeep Thakur
September 20, 2020||India||Girl ‘struck off rolls’ J’khand edu minister’s grandchild||BOKARO: Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who resumed his interrupted childhood learning at the age of 54 by enrolling in Class XI at a junior college last month, on Saturday drove down to a private school in Bokaro to clear his grand-daughter’s pending tuition fees and restore her name in the rolls. Mahto told TOI his granddaughter Riya, a Class IV student at Bokaro’s Delhi Public School, had been removed from the list of students eligible for online classes because her parents failed to pay her fees for six months. Taken by surprise when the minister turned up on the campus to pay Riya’s fees, DPS officials denied striking out the girl’s name. Sources said district education officials would verify the school’s claim. Mahto said he did not visit the school as a minister. “I went there as a guardian after my granddaughter told me over the phone that her name had been struck off the rolls two days ago. Riya also told me that she had pleaded with her teachers to allow her to attend online classes.” The minister’s daughter and Riya’s mother Reena stays in Sector 3 of the Bokaro Steel Township just so that the little one can go to one of the best schools. Her husband is a Central Coalfields Ltd employee in Bermo. The couple has never made their relationship with the minister public. Sources said Reena and her husband weren’t able to pay their daughter’s school fees because of reduced income during the lockdown. Mahto said he paid Rs 22,800 as tuition fees for the April-September period. “The name of the student was never removed,” principal-in-charge Shailja Jaikumar said. Mahto directed district education officer Neelam Ileen Toppo, who accompanied him to DPS, to conduct an inquiry into how much private schools across Bokaro have collected as fees in the past three months. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/girl-struck-off-rolls-jkhand-edu-ministers-grandchild/articleshow/78212443.cms||Divy Khare
September 20, 2020||Business||LS passes bill to amend companies law||Lok Sabha on Saturday passed a bill to further amend the Companies Act and decriminalise various offences and promote ease of doing business. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 — which seeks to decriminalise various penal provisions and introduce a new chapter related to producer organisations in the legislation — was passed by the Lower House. Speaking on the bill, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said decriminalisation of various provisions under the companies law will also help small companies by reducing litigation burden on them. Around 48 sections of the Companies Act, 2013 will be amended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ls-passes-bill-to-amend-companies-law/articleshow/78212444.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||Now, NSCN-IM claims Naga peace deal soon||GUWAHATI: Days after the conglomerate of seven Naga groups pursuing a peace deal with the Centre claimed to have signed the prelude to a final settlement, the supposedly sidelined other half of the negotiating party — the NSCN(IM) — on Saturday announced that it, too, was “on the threshold” of a breakthrough. Terming speculation about its role in the Naga peace talks getting reduced because of differences with the Centre’s interlocutor, the NSCN(IM) blamed “vested interests” for the confusion. A 15-member NSCN(IM) delegation is currently in talks with the Centre in Delhi. Talks with the NSCN(IM) are believed to be stuck over two issues — a separate flag and a separate “Naga constitution”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-nscn-im-claims-naga-peace-deal-soon/articleshow/78212445.cms||Prabin Kalita
September 20, 2020||India||34K startups gave direct employment to 4.2L: Govt data||BENGALURU: Emerging as a major job creator, more than 34,000 startups, as of September 2020, gave direct employment of over 4.2 lakh people. According to data released by the ministry of commerce and industry, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) has so far recognised 36,106 startups, of which 34,267 have self-reported employment data. The 4.2 lakh count is a significant increase from the 1.9 lakh such jobs startups created in 2016. At that time, DPIIT had listed only 16,105 recognised startups. Guruprasad Mohapatra, secretary, DPIIT, told TOI, “The figures have been provided by startups registered with us. The registration enables them to avail some direct and indirect tax benefits. It also helps them gain access to other departments and ministries of the central government. But yes, not all startups register with us.” While the present dataset did not give a sector-wise break-up, past trends show that a majority of these jobs are likely to be in the Information Technology services sector, followed by healthcare and life sciences, education and food and beverages. A DPIIT document released in November 2019 shows that of the 24,948 registered firms, 3,443 were involved with IT services, 2,063 were in healthcare and life sciences, and 1,766 and 1,009 were from the other two categories. The latest data trend shows that 36% of the jobs were created in Maharashtra and Karnataka, which are also states that have the most number of startups, followed by Delhi. V Balakrishnan, chairman, Exfinity Ventures, a venture capitalist firm that invests in startups, said, “The overall number is positive, but new employment is happening only in patches. The startup job environment is not so bad, but it is not as good as last year as firms are more concerned about fundraising and business management.” Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/34k-startups-gave-direct-employment-to-4-2l-govt-data/articleshow/78212451.cms||Chethan Kumar
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||MACT rejects claim of employed father of dead man, awards Rs 15 lakh to housewife mom||MUMBAI: Observing that an employed father cannot be said to be economically dependent on his son, a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has said that only the housewife mother would be entitled to the compensation awarded for his death in a motorcycle accident. The tribunal directed the owner of a truck and insurance company to pay a compensation of around Rs 15.5 lakh to the mother of the 19-year-old victim, Aniket Kamble, who worked part time at a construction firm and made Rs 7,000 per month. “In the cross-examination, the father of the deceased stated that he undertakes work of printing. The father of the deceased on the day of incident was 47 years old. Aniket, after attaining majority, had just started to earn. Under these set of facts in no manner it could be said that the father of the deceased and his two sisters were economically depending upon him,” the tribunal said. Following Aniket’s death in February 2015, his family, parents Shrinivas and Shobha Kamble and sisters Puja and Ujwala, submitted their compensation claim in the tribunal. The claim was submitted against the New India Assurance Co Ltd and truck owner Nitin Navghane. The family said that on February 15, 2015, at 8.20pm, Aniket was riding his motorcycle from Vashi Naka towards the Chembur-Sion Road. His friend was riding pillion. The family said that when he was close to the Chembur fire brigade, the truck came from behind and rammed the motorcycle. Aniket suffered multiple injuries and was declared dead when taken to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mact-rejects-claim-of-employed-father-of-dead-man-awards-rs-15-lakh-to-housewife-mom/articleshow/78212448.cms||Rebecca Samervel
September 20, 2020||World||China readies blacklist of ‘unreliable entities’ to counter US’ TikTok ban||As the US and China trade blows over technology, Beijing on Saturday moved to create a blacklist of foreign companies seen as threatening its national security or acting against Chinese business interests. The plan for a blacklist, which was short on details and included no companies’ names, appeared to be retaliation for the Trump administration’s decision to ban the Chinese-owned apps TikTok and WeChat from American app stores starting at midnight on Sunday. China’s ministry of commerce said that companies that end up on “unreliable entity” list could be banned from importing or exporting from China, and may be barred from investing in the country. Other measures include imposing fines, entry restrictions on employees into China and revoking their work or residence permits. The ministry condemned the ban on TikTok and We-Chat, and urged the US to stop what it called bullying behaviour, adding, China will “take necessary measures to resolutely safeguard legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies”. Meanwhile, US national security adviser Robert O’Brien on Friday defended Trump’s decision to ban Chinese apps, saying the country has been “incredibly aggressive” against its neighbouring countries, including India. “They (Chinese) do seem pretty adversarial, and they seem pretty aggressive, but not just to the US , but to countries all over the world. You look at what they’ve done to India and how they’re treating smaller countries, and with respect to the South China Sea, you see what they’re doing to Taiwan, That’s why the president has taken tough action... we’re doing anything we can to protect the American people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-readies-blacklist-of-unreliable-entities-to-counter-us-tiktok-ban/articleshow/78212453.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chemist jumps to death from hospital building after ‘seeing bill’||MUMBAI: A 40-year-old patient at a private hospital in Boisar allegedly jumped to his death from the third floor of the hospital on Saturday morning. The patient, a chemist, had undergone a kidney stone surgery at the hospital earlier this week. Boisar MIDC police said that the man’s family claimed that the surgery bill handed to him shocked him, and caused him to take the extreme step. Police said his medical records and hospital bills have been called for. His body was sent for an autopsy, and a case of accidental death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-chemist-jumps-to-death-from-hospital-building-after-seeing-bill/articleshow/78217496.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ex-trustee who sold grave of Yakub Memon arrested||MUMBAI: The L T Marg police on Friday night arrested Parvez Sarkare, an ex-trustee of Juma Masjid of Bombay Trust, for allegedly selling four graves including the one in which Yaqub Memon is buried, for Rs 5 lakh. Memon, a convict in the 1993 Mumbai bomb blast cases, was hanged to death in 2015 at a jail in Nagpur. TOI, in its edition dated September 12, reported about the FIR. Memon, a chartered accountant, younger brother of Tiger Memon, was buried in one of these four graves at Marine Lines bada Qabrastan. The graves are referred to as otthas. Sarkare (54), who resides at Bhendi Bazaar, was arrested from Kurla. “He has been sent to police custody for three days,” said a police officer. The Qabrastan properties are registered with the Waqf Board and cannot be sold or purchased. An officebearer of the trust had told TOI that otthas are not sold, but given to families, who pay for maintenance. The average annual fee to maintain an otthais around Rs 4,000. Memon’s cousin, Mohammed Abdu Rafu Memon, had lodged an FIR on March this year. Two accused, Sarkare and Jazil Navrange, also a trustee of Juma Masjid of Bombay Trust, were booked for cheating, forgery and theft. “Sarkare had taken money to sell the graves and also stole the receipt book of the Bada Qabrastan. Later, he and Navrange had issued receipts to the two grave buyers, Fayyaz Merchant and Anjum Merchant. The accused had forged the signature of the Qabrastan’s Nazir (manager) on the receipt book,” Rauf told TOI. He had earlier said that the receipts, issued by the accused do not reflect in computer records of the trust either. Assistant police inspector Sushant Sawant is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ex-trustee-who-sold-grave-of-yakub-memon-arrested/articleshow/78212457.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 20, 2020||World||Envelope with deadly poison ricin addressed to White House intercepted||WASHINGTON/OTTAWA: An envelope addressed to the White House and intercepted by US authorities contained a substance identified as ricin, a deadly poison that appeared to have been sent from Canada, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said on Saturday. An RCMP spokesman confirmed "it has received a request for assistance from the FBI in connection with a suspicious letter sent to the White House." The RCMP added "the FBI conducted an analysis on the substance found in the envelope. This report indicated the presence of ricin, a toxic substance." RCMP said it working with the FBI but declined to discuss further details. The envelope was intercepted at a government mail center before it arrived at the White House. Asked about the reports, the FBI said the agency and "U.S. Secret Service and U.S. Postal Inspection Service partners are investigating a suspicious letter received at a U.S. government mail facility. At this time, there is no known threat to public safety." The White House and US Secret Service declined to comment. Ricin is found naturally in castor beans but it takes a deliberate act to convert it into a biological weapon. Ricin can cause death within 36 to 72 hours from exposure to an amount as small as a pinhead. No known antidote exists. There have been numerous incidents involving envelopes mailed with ricin to U.S. officials. In 2018, a Utah man, William Clyde Allen III, was indicted for making ricin-related threats, including mailing a threat against Trump and other federal officials including FBI Director Christopher Wray, with all the letters "containing castor bean material." Allen remains in custody. Two people were convicted in separate incidents of sending ricin-tainted letters to then-President Barack Obama. In May 2014, a Mississippi man, James Everett Dutschke, was sentenced to 25 years in prison after pleading guilty to sending letters with the deadly substance to Obama, as well as a US senator and a state judge. In July 2014, a Texas actor was sentenced to 18 years for mailing letters containing ricin to Obama and former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Watch Envelope with deadly poison ricin addressed to White House intercepted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/envelope-with-deadly-poison-ricin-addressed-to-white-house-intercepted/articleshow/78212458.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Sikkim opens to tourists next month||Siliguri: Sikkim is all set to welcome tourists, as well as allow free interstate movement of people without registration, from October. However, Gangtok Municipal Corporation (GMC) area of the Himalayan state will be under complete lockdown for 7 days to contain the spread of Covid-19. A notification from principal secretary R Telang on Saturday said: “It has been decided to allow free interstate movements of the people without any requirements of registration with effect from October 1 and also permits hotels, home stays and other tourism related services to operate from October 10.” The health department shall issue a fresh Covid-9 protocol list for free interstate movement. Inner Line Permits for foreign tourists with valid visas shall be issued from October 10. The tourism department, in consultation with the health department, shall issue an SOP for operation of tourism services. Bookings for hotels and homestays complying with SOPs shall start from September 27. The helicopter service shall resume regular operations from October 1. Odd-even restrictions on movement of taxis and passenger vehicles shall be lifted on the same day. Private vehicles shall continue to follow these restrictions till further orders, said Telang. The notification further read, “after careful consideration of the situation, it has been decided to go for a week-long lockdown in the Gangtok Municipal from September 21 September 27”. Central government offices shall continue to function. State government offices shall remain open with up to 30% staff strength. Essential and emergency services shall be exempt from closure. Movement of people and vehicles shall be restricted, except for the supply of essential commodities. Vehicle movement for medical emergencies will be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sikkim-opens-to-tourists-next-month/articleshow/78211992.cms||Roshan Gupta
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Onion export to Bangla resumes after DGFT nod||Kolkata/Malda: Onion exports that had been suspended a few days ago resumed on Saturday following a communication from the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to Kolkata Customs, urging the latter to release trucks stuck at multiple border points with Bangladesh. In a communication to Customs on Friday, DGFT said consignments of onions that were lying at ‘Custom Ports’ after the Centre imposed a ban on its export needed to be released as they had already had the Letter of Credit. Some quantity of onions was already handed over to the Customs on September 14. On Saturday, seven trucks of onions were sent through the Mahadipur Land Port Station in Malda. The consignments were originally due for export on September 14, but were held up. Nearly 1,000 trucks headed to Bangladesh with around 25,000 tonnes of onions were left stranded along the Indo-Bangla border in Bengal after the Centre banned export of onions. The DGFT notification prohibiting export of onions came into immediate effect from the evening of September 14. Traders feared damage to the perishable crops languishing in trucks. Meanwhile, the price of onions hit a new high across the border. Uzzwal Saha, general secretary of West Bengal Exporters’ Coordination Committee which had written to DGFT to allow consignments for which Letter of Credit has already been opened by different banks of the importers’ countries, said: “It will be difficult for any consignment meant for export to resend to the domestic market due to export documentation formalities.” Exporters like Ashok Mandal feared a huge loss if these crops were not allowed as a portion of onion already began to rot. “We can keep them for a maximum seven days after packing. After that, they would begin to get rot and lose their export quality,” said Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/onion-export-to-bangla-resumes-after-dgft-nod/articleshow/78211987.cms||Subhro Maitra
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Eighties redux: In pandemic year, pandals go retro in Kolkata, keep it simple||KOLKATA: This Durga Puja, time will roll back by at least three decades when pandals were simple bamboo structures draped with coloured cloth and the idols were placed atop platforms so that they were visible as you walked or drove past. The emergence of ‘themes’ in the 1990s had changed the way the city celebrates Durga Puja. Over the years, pandals became more elaborate and intricate and the four-day festival turned into arguably the world’s biggest street art installation show that not only mesmerised its residents but drew lakhs from adjoining districts and thousands of others from across the world. But Covid-19 has sent all calculations haywire this year. If footfall was a measure of a ‘theme’ pandal’s success till last year, the focus this year is to prevent crowding. Puja organisers have been forced to return to the simple form of yesteryears when pandals were basic structures and the idols were clearly visible from outside. CM hief Minister Mamata Banerjee has also made a similar appeal to the organisers following suggestions from an experts’ group that has been advising the government on its Covid response. The team led by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee has suggested it would be better if pandals are open on three sides to allow cross-ventilation that reduces the chance of droplets remaining suspended in air. Partho Ghosh, founder of Forum for Durgotsav, a platform representing major Durga Puja organisers in Kolkata, said this year would mark a return to the simplicity that was on display prior to the advent of theme Pujas. “Till the early 1990s, the Sib Mandir pandal used to be across the road with the idol on one pavement and a stage on the opposite pavement. One could view the goddess as one drove down Lake Temple Road,” recalled Ghosh. The direction of the pandal changed when themes were ushered in. One needed to see the pandal from a distance and then enjoy the intricacy of craftsmanship inside. The idol was positioned at the very end with exits on either side. That will not happen this year. Decorations will be on the pandal facade or on the idol’s backdrop,” said Ghosh. Kajal Sarkar, the current president of Forum for Durgotsav, said people will again be able to view most idols and pandals while driving past. Three rival Puja organisers in a south Kolkata neighbourhood have joined hands to work on a common theme and agreed to vacate the road and restrict the pandals to only the pavement to enable a drive-through experience. “We don’t want elderly people who are susceptible to infections to park their car at a distance and then walk down to see the pandals and idols. We have therefore chalked out a drive-through concept,” said Rajat Sengupta, president of 66 Palli and coordinator of the concept that has participation from Badamtala Ashar Sangha and Nepal Bhattacharjee Street Club. But what will make the most significant difference in crowd control, believes Sarkar, is the decision to ensure that the pandals look and feel the same during the day and night. “When theme Pujas were ushered in, illumination became important. The biggest change since the 1980s has been the build-up of crowds after dusk and night-long pandal-hopping. To ensure that the crowd gets distributed evenly through the day, pandals will not look more spectacular at night this year,” said Sarkar, who is also the man behind Bosepukur Sitala Mandir Puja that had made a big impact in 2001 when it decorated a pandal with earthen tea cups. Themes, Sarkar says, will be on display this year too, but they will be muted due to budgetary constraints. “Some Pujas may go in for the old-style decor with coloured cloth, but most have engaged theme artists to do the decor aesthetically. Only, all the display will be on the pandal’s exterior,” he explained. The duration of the celebration, too, may change this year with some organisers keen on returning to five-six days from what has become a 10-day affair. “Every additional day adds to the cost,” Ghosh pointed out. Maddox Square, one of south Kolkata’s largest crowd pullers despite not going for themes, will not erect a pandal at all this year. It will organise a very private puja in its club room within the park with only members joining in. “We do not want people to come this year. We will worship the goddess with all earnestness. But it will be a private affair,” said member Ranajit Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eighties-redux-in-pandemic-year-pandals-go-retro-keep-it-simple/articleshow/78212053.cms||Subhro Niyogi
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘Small’ step for IT companies, big jump in Sector V office space||KOLKATA: Small- to medium-sized warehouses and co-working spaces are suddenly the rage in the Sector V IT hub of Salt Lake owing to the pandemic, which has made WFH the new normal and forced IT firms and private companies to do away with expensive — and expansive — office spaces. While smaller startups have been among the first to let go of large office spaces, several bigger companies with multiple commercial spaces are also recalibrating their options. “Global economic challenges and an increase in WFH culture is leading to a muted demand for office spaces in the city,” said Kalyan Kar, the secretary of Sector V stakeholders’ association and the MD of Inthink Knowledge Ventures. “Sector V is one of the most heavily affected places because of this trend and a large number of companies — mostly startups and even some companies with multiple office spaces in the township — are revising their options. While some are letting go of the spaces completely, others are going for a space-sharing model,” he added. Arindam Ray, director of AQB Solutions in Sector V, who had shifted to an 8,000sq ft office at the start of the year, is also planning to shift to a smaller space. “As of now, we don’t need such a large space. We had set up this place at a huge cost but, only 2-3 of the 80-odd employees are coming to office. We have reached an agreement with the owner to pay a much reduced rent, but we are also thinking of shifting to a smaller space in a month or two,” Ray said. The AQB Solutions director said he was in talks with the landlord to share the current space with some other company, which would halve their cost. While city-based officials in major corporates and IT firms told TOI they were in no hurry to return to pre-Covid office norms, and many even planned to let go of large spaces, emailed queries to spokespersons of major players like Cognizant, TCS and PWC did not generate in any replies. Ravindra Chamaria, the chairman-cum-managing director of Infinity Group, which owns major Sector V commercial spaces like Infinity Thinktank, Infinity Benchmark and Godrej Waterside, confirmed the trend, saying companies were trying their best to reduce cost. “It is true that people are trying to cut down costs. But there are also some companies who are coming over to Sector V, shifting their offices from the city’s central business district, in a bid to cut down on expenses. At offices where most employees are working from home, they cannot afford to shut down the office completely, as there is always the need for servers and tech support. Overall I believe this is a temporary phase; but, in the long run, people will need more office space in the new normal future,” said Chamaria. The current situation has also boosted a demand for co-working spaces. Neetish Sarda, the founder of Smart Works, a leading co-working centre in the country, said there had been a sudden spike in the number of queries and finalisation of deals in their co-working spaces in Kolkata over the last few months. “Although we have a big set-up in Kolkata, business was a bit slow. But since the pandemic, there has been a steady spike in the number of queries and closure of deals. We are also in the final stages of deal completion with some big multinationals, who are willing to let go of their large office spaces and shift to our co-working spaces spread across the city,” Sarda told TOI. Industry experts said even though corporates may think it’s more viable for employees to WFH during the pandemic and using smaller office spaces, it is not a permanent solution. “A large chunk of work needs constant monitoring, which is only possible in an office environment. When people start coming back to office, they would need even larger spaces to suit the new normal norms. We believe this is a passing phase,” said Chamaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/small-step-for-it-cos-big-jump-in-sec-v-office-space/articleshow/78211996.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Leopard cub goes missing from cage||Burdwan: A leopard cub has allegedly gone missing from its cage a week after its birth at the Zoological Park in East Burdwan. When staff went to clean the cage on Saturday, they found only the mother. While officials are probing the matter, they have said chances of the mother killing the cub can’t be ruled out. Kaali gave birth to the cub at the park in Ramna Bagan last Saturday. Chief wildlife warden V K Yadav said: “We have ordered a probe. But it’s also possible that the mother has eaten the cub. It happens in the wild. The mother can gauge whether the cub will survive or not. If it’s weak, they sometimes abandon it or kill it themselves.” On Saturday, soon after getting the information, zoo officials visited the park. They have reportedly asked the staff to send scat samples of the mother leopard for tests. “This will help us find out if it has indeed eaten the cub,” said an official. The zoological park, which is under CCTV surveillance, is closed due to the pandemic. It will be thrown open to the public on October 2. One and a half years ago, two leopards were brought to the park. Officials had named them Kaali and Dhruba — the male. While Kaali was brought from Cooch Behar’s Rasik Bill, Dhruba was brought from Jaldapara Khoirabari Nature Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/leopard-cub-goes-missing-from-cage/articleshow/78212003.cms||Mohammad Asif
September 20, 2020||Kolkata||Abhishek notice to Babul over video comment||Kolkata: Trinamool leader and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday served a legal notice on Union minister Babul Supriyo for his post on social media regarding a statement made by the former in a video. In the notice, Banerjee said he never meant “inhuman”, as alleged, and that his words were cherry-picked to present a false and defamatory picture. The MP also claimed that the video posted by Supriyo was cropped and did not corroborate his allegation. Supriyo said on Twitter on Saturday: “Those who are having discussion over my post related to the video of @abhishekaitc should know that there is a difference between ‘amanabik parisram’ and ‘amanushik and atimanushik parisram’. They have absolutely different meanings.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abhishek-notice-to-babul-over-video-comment/articleshow/78211994.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Four-time MLA from Mulund Sardar Tara Singh dead||MUMBAI: Sardar Tara Singh, former BJP MLA from Mulund, passed away at Lilavati Hospital on Saturday following a prolonged illness. He was 81. His funeral will be held on Sunday at Sion where he lived. Condolence messages flowed through the day for the veteran leader, a popular figure who was elected four consecutive times to the state legislative assembly from the Mulund constituency between 1999 and 2019. BJP leader of the opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted: “…we lost a senior and our valued colleague in@BJP4Maharashtra. His active participation during assembly proceedings, commitment for his constituency and common man will be remembered forever.” Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari too tweeted: “In his demise, the city and the State have lost a dedicated Lok Sevak. Offer my prayers for the departed soul and convey my condolences to the bereaved family.” BJP MLA from Malabar Hill Mangal Prabhat Lodha said, “A vacuum has been created by his passing away. May Waheguru grant moksh to his soul.” Singh had served as a BMC corporator from 1985 till 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-time-mla-from-mulund-sardar-tara-singh-dead/articleshow/78212469.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Minorities panel member dies due to Covid-19||NEW DELHI: A member of the Delhi Minorities Commission has died due to the novel coronavirus, chairman of the panel Zakir Khan said on Saturday. “Singh, around 60 years old, was admitted to Balak Ram Hospital over ten days ago after (getting) infected with novel coronavirus. He died there on Friday,” Khan told a news agency. Singh became a member of the Delhi Minorities Commission last month. AAP MLA Dilip Pandey condoled Singh’s death, referring to him as an old friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-minorities-panel-member-dies-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/78212489.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Ex-JD(S) MLA’s revolver seized inside Kempegowda airport||BENGALURU: Central Industrial Security Force sleuths on Saturday detained former JD(S) MLA Anand Asnotikar at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) for carrying a licenced revolver without prior permission. Airport police have registered a non cognizable report (NCR) and seized the revolver. Asnotikar was scheduled to board a flight to Goa, which was to depart at 11am. Sources said the revolver was found in the hand luggage during security check at 9.45am. “CISF staff questioned Asnotikar and he claimed that he forgot to mention about it as he was in a hurry to reach Karwar,” sources said. Police arrived at the spot and took charge of the situation. In his statement to police, Asnotikar said his mother, who lives in Karwar, was unwell and in a hurry to catch the flight, he forgot about the revolver kept in the luggage. “The revolver will be returned to Asnotikar once he produces the licence,” said police. “If a person taking a flight wants to carry such arms, he should approach the CISF with a written requisition,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ex-jds-mlas-revolver-seized-inside-kempegowda-airport/articleshow/78212514.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Will expand ministry ahead of session if party agrees: BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Ministerial aspirants continued to be on tenterhooks as CM BS Yediyurappa, on his return from a two-day Delhi trip on Saturday, said he is keen to expand the cabinet before the start of the monsoon session but is awaiting word from the BJP brass. “My desire is to complete the process (before the session begins on Monday), but everything will depend on what the party leadership decides. I am hopeful that they will give the green signal on Saturday night or Sunday,” the CM said. Will take decision based on PM’s suggestions: CMf no approval comes from the Ihigh command by Sunday evening, the expansion will have to be postponed till the session ends on September 30,” the CM said, On Friday, Yediyurappa had met PM Narendra Modi and BJP president JP Nadda and explained the need for a cabinet expansion. He pointed out that disgruntlement is growing among ministerial aspirants. In Bengaluru, the CM said he spoke to Nadda for half an hour and the party chief said he would convince the PM and Union home minister Amit Shah. Asked how many ministers could be inducted and if he would go for a reshuffle too, Yediyurappa said, “We will have to see, based on the suggestions given by the PM and the national president, I will take the decision”. The cabinet rejig is expected to be a tightrope walk for Yediyurappa, considering the number of aspirants clamouring for berths. While many from the old guard are waiting for a chance, those who defected from Congress and JD(S) — AH Vishwanath, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj for instance — believe their induction is long due. The cabinet currently has 28 members and six berths are vacant. “My Delhi trip has been very successful. The PM and all ministers have responded positively to the requests we put forward for the development of Karnataka,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-expand-ministry-ahead-of-session-if-party-agrees-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/78212539.cms||---
September 20, 2020||India||Farmer outfits to organise ‘chakka jam’ in Haryana today||Farmer outfits in Haryana are going to hold road blockades across the state on Sunday to protest against the three farm bills. Bharatiya Kisan Union Haryana (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “A statewide chakka jam (road block protest) will be held from 12pm to 3pm on September 20 in Haryana. If our demands are not accepted, a countrywide protest will be staged on September 25. We have the support of 17 organisations of farmers, arhtiyas (commission agents), and labourers in Haryana.” BKU Haryana (Charuni) has already been staging symbolic protests at all district headquarters in Haryana from 10am to 4pm since September 16. BKU Haryana spokesman Rakesh Kumar Bains said, “The government should sit with the farmers, answer the questions raised by the unions... The arbitrary functioning of the government to push these three ordinances raises several questions as farmers are major stakeholders who have been kept out of this process.” The Haryana State Kacha Arhtiyas Association and Haryana Rice Millers Association also extended support to the farmers on Saturday. Gaurav Gupta, a commission agent, protesting in Ambala, said, “Our organisations have extended support to the protesting farmers until these ordinances are withdrawn.” Meanwhile, the BJP government in Haryana advised authorities to exercise restraint while dealing with protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmer-outfits-to-organise-chakka-jam-in-haryana-today/articleshow/78212540.cms||Jaskaran Singh
September 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS to vote against ‘anti-farmer’ bills||HYDERABAD: Terming the three farm reform bills brought in by the NDA government as ‘antifarmer’, TRS president and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday asked his party MPs to vote against them in the Rajya Sabha. Observing that the bills would hurt farmers and benefit corporates, Rao told the TRS parliamentary party leader K Keshav Rao to strongly oppose them in the Upper House. Lok Sabha, through a voice vote, passed the farm bills on Thursday, the same day that Shiromani Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union cabinet. TRS had opposed the bills in the Lok Sabha too. TRS leaders alleged these bills would help no one except big corporates and destroy farmers’ livelihood. These legislations should be opposed at all costs: KCRKCR wondered how farmers could take their produce long distances by spending huge sums on transport and get a good price when the Centre says farmers can sell produce anywhere in the country. “These bills are nothing but a sugar-coated pill. These legislations should be opposed at all costs,” the CM said. TRS parliamentary party leaders Nama Nageswara Rao and K Keshava Rao told reporters in Delhi that the Centre had permitted import of 50 lakh tonnes of maize and reduced the import duty hurriedly. Nageswara Rao said the TRS opposed the bills in the Lok Sabha but the NDA government ensured their passage as it has majority. He said farmers in Telangana, AP, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka will suffer the most with these legislations. The CM said these bills, in reality, will enable traders to go anywhere in the country to buy the produce. “The bills will also help the corporate lobby to expand their businesses and pave the way for entry of more private traders,” he said. Since the bills went against the interests of farmers, KCR said his party would vote against the legislations in the Rajya Sabha and instructed his party MPs to do so. The TRS president said import duty on maize is 50%, which the Centre had reduced it by 15% and wanted to import one crore tonnes of maize. “The government has already procured 75 lakh tonnes of maize. For whose benefit, the import duty has been reduced. When the country is going through an economic crisis, how did the Centre take such a decision. Maize is cultivated in a big way in the country. If we reduce the import duty on maize, what will happen to our own maize producers,” KCR sought to know.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-to-vote-against-anti-farmer-bills/articleshow/78212570.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Choreographer among two held for drug peddling in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Two persons, including movie choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty, were arrested on Saturday for peddling and consuming MDMA. Police seized Methylene dioxymethamphetamine valued at Rs 1 lakh from them. The CCB and Economics and Narcotic police station sleuths nabbed Shetty, 30, a resident of Kulai, and Akheel Nausheel, 28, a resident of Surathkal, and seized the MDMA near Kadri. The duo was caught red-handed while trying to sell drugs. Police also recovered a bike from them. Vikash Kumar, Mangaluru police commissioner, said investigators suspect the duo has a nexus with Bollywood industry. “We’re probing it,” he told mediapersons. Shetty, a city-based dance choreographer, participated in a famous dance reality show in 2011-12 and was part of the Bollywood movie ABCD. Akheel worked as a safety officer in Dubai. He quit that job a year ago and never took up any work here. He allegedly started selling drugs in Bengaluru, Mumbai and other places. Vikash Kumar said they used to buy drugs in Mumbai and sell it in Mangaluru. Asked whether Kishore had any connection with Bollywood, Vikash said the accused had spent most of his time there (Mumbai). “We suspect he’s involved in selling drugs in the industry too. There is also information that the accused arranged drugs for parties in the city and we’re probing that too.” A case was registered and investigation is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/choreographer-among-two-held-for-drug-peddling-in-mangaluru/articleshow/78212590.cms||---
September 20, 2020||Mumbai||Election Commission sends poll plaints against Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya Thackeray, Supriya Sule to CBDT||NEW DELHI: Complaints lodged with the Election Commission alleging discrepancies and omissions in poll affidavits filed by Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, his son and minister Aaditya Thackeray, and by NCP MP Supriya Sule have been referred to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) for investigation, sources told TOI on Saturday. The heavyweights belonging to ruling parties of Maharashtra could face scrutiny for allegedly giving false information or withholding full details of their assets and liabilities in their poll affidavits. Sources indicated the complaints against Sule, Uddhav, who is an MLC, and two MLAs - Aaditya and Nathabhai H Patel from Gujarat - were sent for a probe based on an administrative scrutiny by the poll panel. Routine move, says Shiv Sena minister who framed the Thackerays’ affidavits TOI has learnt that the relevant complaints cite material in support of the claim about the details furnished by the legislators in their affidavits not being true, a possible reason why the poll panel found it appropriate to refer them to CBDT. The allegations relate to discrepancies between affidavits filed by Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aditya. Shiv Sena described the move as routine. “It is a routine process to cross-check information given in an affidavit with the income tax authority. EC and Income Tax (dept) normally share the information, so there is nothing new in this issue,” said Sena spokesperson and advocate Anil Parab, who is the transport minister in the Thackeray government. Parab, being a lawyer, was involved in preparing the election affidavits of both Uddhav and Aaditya. NCP spokesman Nawab Malik also called it a routine exercise of the EC. “It is not for the first time, information in the affidavit is compared with the income tax returns. If there is specific query, we will reply to it,” he said. An update from CBDT is awaited by EC on the followup action. If the allegations are found to be prima facie true, a case may be filed by the CBDT under Section 125A of the Representation of the People Act. The section provides for a maximum sixmonth jail term or fine or both, as penalty for candidates who failed to give information or furnished false information in poll affidavits. A candidate, in a poll affidavit, discloses his/her criminal antecedents, assets and liabilities and educational qualifications. EC had in 2013 decided that the assets and liabilities of the candidates, as filed in their affidavits, would be verified by CBDT. EC had in June decided that it shall, in pursuit of a level-playing field, take cognisance of complaints which indicate serious omission on the part of the candidate, and refer such matters to the relevant investigating authorities “on a case-to-case basis”. Prior to this, individuals, as per the provisions, were filing such complaints in the competent court. Watch Election Commission sends poll plaints against Maha top leaders including CM to CBDT||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/election-commission-sends-poll-plaints-against-uddhav-thackeray-and-his-son-aaditya-thackeray-supriya-sule-to-cbdt/articleshow/78212600.cms||Bharti Jain
September 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate better than national average||LUCKNOW: Despite witnessing a surge in cases this month, UP’s figures of Covid-19 recoveries and deaths are better than the national average. The data shared by the state health and family welfare department on Saturday revealed that the national Covid-19 recovery rate was 79.28% on Saturday, but in UP it was marginally higher at 79.39%. Similarly, the coronavirus infection death rate of 1.42% in UP is less than the national average of 1.61%. However, UP’s proportion of active cases (19.18%) was slightly higher than the national average of 19.10%, due to the spike in cases in September. “We are slowly inching towards the 80% recovery mark in a few days,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, adding that 6,596 recoveries in the last 24 hours further improved the total to 2,76,690. Additional chief secretary, home and information, Awanish Awasthi said that CM Yogi Adityanath expressed satisfaction over higher recovery and fewer deaths in the Covid-19 review meeting earlier in the day. “Our cases and deaths per million are way less than many big states. In fact, we do not even figure in the top eight as on date and the CM expressed satisfaction over this. However, he has instructed that all current efforts and measures must be sustained with the same energy to stay ahead of the pandemic,” Awasthi said. Meanwhile, 5,827 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 3,48,517. The state also recorded death of 84 patients pushing the number of deaths to 4,953 with Lucknow (9) and Kanpur (7) accounting for maximum deaths in 24 hours. The CM especially reviewed the situation in Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Jhansi, Ayodhya, Meerut and Gorakhpur and directed officials to strengthen health services in these districts and continue mass awareness for protection and treatment of Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-covid-19-recovery-rate-better-than-national-average/articleshow/78212616.cms||Shailvee Sharda
