September 21, 2020||World||Tropical Storm Beta churns slowly toward Texas and Louisiana||HOUSTON: Tropical Storm Beta trudged toward the coasts of Texas and Louisiana on Sunday, threatening to bring more rain, wind and stress to a part of the country that has already been drenched and battered during this year's unusually busy hurricane season. While Beta could bring up to 20 inches (51 centimeters) of rain to some areas of Texas and Louisiana over the next several days, it was no longer expected to reach hurricane intensity, the National Weather Service said Sunday. Beta was set to make landfall along Texas' central or upper Gulf Coast late Monday or early Tuesday, with rainfall as its biggest threat. It was then expected to move northeastward along the coast and head into Louisiana sometime mid-week. Forecasters said Beta was not expected to bring the same amount of rainfall that Texas experienced during either Hurricane Harvey in 2017 or Tropical Storm Imelda last year. Harvey dumped more than 50 inches (127 centimeters) of rain on Houston and caused $125 billion in damage in Texas. Imelda, which hit Southeast Texas, was one of the wettest cyclones on record. The first rain bands from Beta reached the Texas coast on Sunday, but the heaviest rain wasn't expected to arrive until Monday into Tuesday. In low-lying Galveston, which has seen more than its share of tropical weather over the years, officials didn't expect to issue a mandatory evacuation order but they advised people to have supplies ready in case they have to stay home for several days if roads are flooded. The coastal city about 50 miles (80 kilometers) south of Houston could get up to 15 inches (38 centimeters) of rain. ``We're not incredibly worried,'' Galveston resident Nancy Kitcheo said Sunday. Kitcheo, 49, and her family had evacuated last month when forecasts suggested Hurricane Laura could make landfall near Galveston, but they're planning to buy supplies and wait out Beta. Laura ended up making landfall in neighboring Louisiana. Kitcheo, whose home is 18 feet above the ground on stilts, said she expected her street to be impassable as water from rising tides was already flooding neighboring roadways on Sunday. ``This has definitely been more stressful, this hurricane season,`` she said. Galveston, which has about 50,000 residents, was the site of the deadliest hurricane in U.S. history, a 1900 storm that killed an estimated 6,000 people. The city was also hit hard in 2008 by Hurricane Ike, which caused about $30 billion in damage. Kitcheo's previous home was heavily damaged during Ike and had to be torn down. Beta was churning slowly through the Gulf of Mexico on Sunday morning about 140 miles (225 kilometers) southeast of Galveston, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said. The storm had maximum sustained winds of 60 mph (95 kph) and was moving west-northwest at 5 mph (8 kph). In Victoria County, about 120 miles southwest of Houston, officials asked residents to prepare for up to 10 to 15 inches (25 to 38 centimeters) of rain. ``As with any event, panic is never helpful or necessary, but preparation is, and now is the time to finalize those plans,'' said County Judge Ben Zeller, the top elected official in Victoria County. Beta is forecast to dump heavy rain on the southwestern corner of Louisiana three weeks after the same area got pounded by Hurricane Laura. More than 41,000 homes and businesses remain without electricity, and Beta could add to that figure by toppling trees that were left leaning by the previous storm, said meteorologist Donald Jones of the National Weather Service office in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Storm debris from Laura clogging draining ditches in hard-hit areas such as Lake Charles could increase the threat of flooding. Beta was one of three named storms whirling in the Atlantic basin during an exceptionally busy hurricane season. If the system makes landfall in Texas, it would be the ninth named storm to make landfall in the continental U.S. in 2020. That would tie a record set in 1916, according to Colorado State hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach. Forecasters ran out of traditional storm names on Friday, forcing the use of the Greek alphabet for only the second time since the 1950s. A stretch of the Gulf Coast from Port Aransas, Texas, about 165 miles (265 kilometers) southwest of Galveston, to Morgan City, Louisiana, 80 miles (128 kilometers) west of New Orleans, was under a tropical storm warning Sunday. Meanwhile, Teddy remained a powerful hurricane on Sunday, with maximum sustained winds of 105 mph (165 kph) and moving northwest at 9 mph (14 kph). Teddy was centered 270 miles (435 kilometers) south-southeast of Bermuda less than a week after Hurricane Paulette made landfall in the wealthy British territory. A tropical storm warning was in effect for Bermuda. Tropical Storm Wilfred was still at sea but was expected to dissipate by Tuesday. Parts of the Alabama coast and Florida Panhandle were still reeling from the effects of Hurricane Sally, which roared ashore on Wednesday. At least two deaths were blamed on the system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/tropical-storm-beta-churns-slowly-toward-texas-and-louisiana/articleshow/78224417.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||In single-day record, India conducts 12L Covid-19 tests||NEW DELHI: India scaled yet another high in Covid-19 testing by conducting tests on over 12 lakh samples in a single day on Saturday, even as 92,605 new positive cases took the total tally past the 54 lakh mark. “This strongly demonstrates an exponential increase Covid-19 testing infrastructure in the country. The country’s testing capacities have multiplied manifold. From conducting merely 10,000 tests per day on 8th April, the daily average has crossed 12 lakhs,” health ministry said. The last one crore tests were conducted in merely nine days, it added. Testing dropped for a day on Friday, that saw only 8.8 lakh samples getting tested. So far, India has tested over 6.37 crores samples for Covid-19. Helped by increased testing of over 12 lakh samples, the daily positivity rate dropped to 7.67% on Saturday, as against 10.58% a day ago when testing was low at 8.8 lakh samples. The total Covid-19 case tally stands at 54,00,620.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-single-day-record-india-conducts-12l-covid-19-tests/articleshow/78224972.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||Over 78% of arms licences issued in J&K in last over 2.5 years||NEW DELHI: Over 78% of the arms licences issued with all-India permission between January 1, 2018 and September 15, 2020 were in Jammu & Kashmir, while Uttar Pradesh accounted for an equal share (78%) in the arms licences cancelled during this period, according to the home ministry. Of the 22,805 fresh arms licences issued across the country between 2018 and September 15 this year, 17,905 were issued in J&K, with UP a distant second with 952 fresh licences. While 666 new arms licences were issued in Madhya Pradesh, 623 were granted in Himachal Pradesh and 314 in Punjab, MoS (home) G Kishan Reddy said in reply to a written question in the Lok Sabha on Sunday. As per state-wise breakup of 94,400 arms licences renewed countrywide between January 1, 2018 and September 15, 2020, UP emerged on the top with 19,238 renewals, followed by J&K with 14,172, Haryana with 12,230, and Rajasthan with 7,085 renewed licences. The maximum of 2,435 licences cancelled nationwide between January 1, 2018 and September 15, 2020, were in UP (1,911), with all the other states showing such cancellations only in double digits. Arms licences are granted, renewed and cancelled under the Arms Act, 1959 and the Arms Rules, 2016. While arms licences with all-India validity for restricted category of arms are issued by the home ministry, those for the permissible category of arms are issued by the state governments or UT administrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-78-of-arms-licences-issued-in-jk-in-last-over-2-5-years/articleshow/78224989.cms||Bharti Jain
September 21, 2020||India||Opposition breaks mic, heckles Rajya Sabha deputy chairman||NEW DELHI: Dramatic scenes played out in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday soon after agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar started replying to the debate on the controversial farm bills. All social distancing and Covid-19-related precautions were violated as opposition members climbed the chairman's podium, yanked his mic, tore official papers and heckled the presiding officer as they opposed the government's push to pass the two bills without considering their demand to refer them to a House committee. Pandemonium prevailed after deputy chairman Harivansh overruled opposition pleas to postpone Tomar's reply till Monday as the scheduled sitting time of the House was over. MPs from Congress, TMC, DMK and Left parties stormed the well. Congress’s Rajeev Satav and AAP’s Sanjay Singh climbed the House table and were pulled down by additional security forces called in to stand guard. As the security detail formed a human chain around the House table to prevent MPs from climbing it, amid uproarious scenes, the RS passed the two contentious farm bills through voice vote. The disruption began soon after Harivansh allowed the House to be extended. Leader of the opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad demanded that the reply to the debate be postponed for Monday. He cited precedent to say consensus should guide the decision on extending the House. As Harivansh put the motion to refer the bills to a select committee to vote, the sloganeering opposition MPs rushed into the well. The motions were negated through a voice vote even as its movers sought division of votes. As the chair took clause-by-clause passage of the bills, Derek O'Brien of TMC and some other opposition members climbed onto the podium showing the rulebook to Harivansh. Slogan-shouting members also tried to heckle the presiding officer who was protected by House marshals. The latter also tried to save the mics. The deputy chairman’s pleas citing the coronavirus and the importance of social distancing failed to deter members who kept shouting slogans. The mics installed in the House were muted and a few minutes later, the proceedings were adjourned for around 15 minutes. The same scenes played out after the House resumed and at least one member climbed on the table of officials. On the demand for division of votes, Harivansh said a division could not be sought from the well of the House and asked the members to return to their seats. As per procedure, lobbies have to be cleared for enabling electronic voting on a legislation. As the chaos continued, the deputy chairman put the two bills to vote and they were approved through voice vote. Despite the adjournment, protesting MPs lingered with their protests inside the RS chamber. This had a trickle-down effect on the proceedings of the Lok Sabha, which were scheduled to begin at 3pm, and whose members also sit in the RS chamber in light of the Covid physical-distancing protocols. Watch Farm Bills: Heated debate on farmer issues in Rajya Sabha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-breaks-mic-heckles-rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman/articleshow/78225087.cms||---
September 21, 2020||World||Joe Biden to focus on health care in Supreme Court debate||WILMINGTON: Joe Biden is expected to use the sudden Supreme Court vacancy to reinforce his argument that the upcoming election should be a referendum on President Donald Trump's handling of health care and the coronavirus. The death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg jolted the presidential campaign just six weeks before the election and as several states are already voting. Trump has seized on the opportunity to nominate a new justice to motivate his most loyal voters. Biden hopes to keep the focus on health care, which has proven to be a winning issue for Democrats during previous elections and could be even more resonant amid the pandemic. “So I think in that sense, the vacancy will really sharpen the focus on the stakes in this election when it comes to life and death and the health of Americans,” Sen. Tim Kaine, a Virginia Democrat who was Hillary Clinton's 2016 running mate, said Sunday. The Supreme Court will hear a Republican-led case challenging the Affordable Care Act, which the Trump administration supports, the week after the Nov. 3 election. Biden is expected to charge Trump is seeking to undermine the protections for people with pre-existing conditions under the ACA, as well as its provisions covering preventative care for women. The Supreme Court could also hear cases on a few more particularly salient issue in the next few months: Voting rights, and potentially who wins the November election. A Biden aide who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe internal conversations said Biden will focus in the next few months on the Democratic fight to prevent a nominee from being confirmed to the court, with a particular emphasis on the effect the court could have on health care and climate change. The aide said not to rule out the possibility that the campaign will advertise around the court fight, though that decision hadn't been finalized. Biden is still not, however, planning to release a list of potential Supreme Court nominees, because putting out a full list, the aide said, would just “further politicize” the court and the nomination process. Biden's aides say those interested in his thinking on a justice can look to his long history as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee for guidance. Their refusal to put names to Biden's potential court pick underscores the political peril that the Supreme Court debate holds for Biden. Conservatives are still energised by the issue, and putting out names could offer Trump and his allies a list of conservative boogeymen to use against Biden to rev up his base. Trump himself, at a rally Saturday night, basked in chants of “fill that seat” from the audience, and has pledged to move quickly on the nomination, whom he says is likely to be a woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/joe-biden-to-focus-on-health-care-in-supreme-court-debate/articleshow/78225212.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||All PG medical students to spend 3 months in district hospitals||NEW DELHI: In a far-reaching move to ensure availability of specialist doctors in rural areas, the Centre has made it mandatory for all medical students pursuing MD or MS to undergo compulsory posting for three months at district hospitals as part of their medical course curriculum starting from the 2020-21 academic session. The government has introduced a new district residency programme for all PG students under the new medical education regulations. Satisfactory completion of the district residency will be a vital condition before the candidate is allowed to appear in the final exam of the respective PG course. PG medical education is a three-year programme and students will be posted at a district hospital in their third, fourth or fifth semester. “All postgraduate students pursuing MD/MS in broad specialities in all medical colleges/institutions under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 shall undergo a compulsory residential rotation of three months in district hospitals/district health system as a part of the course curriculum,” read the gazette notification issued by the government through the MCI Board of Governors (BoG), headed by NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul. Officials said the move will not only help ensure availability of specialist doctors in rural areas across the country but will also help in better on-ground training of doctors. “The scheme enables training of future specialists in settings of district hospitals where higher priority clinical conditions are dealt with. This makes the training more grounded, deeper and contextual. Equally importantly, the district hospitals will get strengthened for care with deployment of specialty residents to team up with district specialist teams. Each district hospital in the country would eventually have four-eight residents at any time, thus augmenting workforce leading to gains in quality and volume of care. It is a win-win program,” Paul said. “This rotation shall be termed ‘District Residency Programme’ (DRP) and the postgraduate medical student undergoing training shall be termed as a ‘District Resident’,” the notification said. The scheme is also likely to open up more PG seats in medical colleges because a quarter of the PG batch will be away at all times once the programme starts and medical colleges will be allowed to apply for extra seats to compensate for reduced student presence on the campus. “Medical colleges may send an application to the MCI BOG for the enhancement of seats, as hospital work may be affected due to out-posting of students. Colleges can apply for it after one year of the implementation of the District Residency Programme,” says the notification. Last month, the health ministry had allowed two-year post-graduate (PG) diploma courses in eight specialities that applicants can pursue after completing their MBBS. Watch Mandatory posting of all PG medical students for 3 months in district hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-pg-medical-students-to-spend-3-months-in-district-hospitals/articleshow/78225248.cms||Sushmi Dey
September 21, 2020||India||Won’t change programme on Muslims: Channel to SC||NEW DELHI: Sudarshan TV hardened its stand on Sunday by refusing to carry out any change in its controversial programme ‘Bindas Bol’ which alleged that Muslims were “infiltrating UPSC” and gave a bald assurance to the Supreme Court that it would strictly adhere to the programme code mandated by law. In response, the channel gave no details about changes it would carry out, except for reiterating its earlier stand that it would scrupulously stick to the programme code as enshrined in law. It also said it had no ill-will against any community and that it was not against any Muslim candidate entering the civil services. It said the theme of the programme was the terror-linked funds received by Zakat Foundation, which met the civil services coaching expenses of Muslim students. It also clarified that it did not mean to project that all funds received by Zakat Foundation were terror linked. Referring to the judges’ objection to stereotyping of a community with beards, green T-shirt and skull caps, the channel extracted two programmes shown by NDTV in 2008 and 2010 titled ‘Hindu Terror: Myth or Fact’ and ‘Is Saffron Terror Real’. The channel said in the first programme, “a Hindu saint is shown with ‘tilak’ and ‘chillum’ and also a trishul”. In the second programme, “a Hindu gathering was shown in saffron clothes”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-change-programme-on-muslims-channel-to-sc/articleshow/78225307.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 21, 2020||India||Ayodhya land prices double in a month||AYODHYA: As reality bites realty across cities, property prices in Ayodhya have defied the pandemic-induced slowdown to almost double in the span of just over a month since the Ram temple “bhoomi pujan” in August. This is not counting the 30-40% appreciation between the Supreme Court’s verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit nine months ago and the temple ceremony last month. “Property rates even in Ayodhya’s hinterland have shot up to Rs 1,000-1,500 per sq ft. In the heart of the town, the rates are currently in the range of Rs 2,000-3,000 per sq ft,” property consultant Rishi Tandon told TOI. “Before the Supreme Court verdict, one could easily buy land in Ayodhya town for less than Rs 900 a sq ft.” The immediate trigger for this unprecedented demand for land was the announcement of large infrastructure projects, 3-star hotels and an international airport by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who also promised to turn the pilgrimage town into “India’s Vatican”. Although Ayodhya has occupied the political centre-stage for decades, the state of infrastructure in the temple town belied its importance. The nearest hotel was 6km away, in Faizabad city. Land rates on the town’s outskirts mirrored the lack of amenities, with the going rate being Rs 300-450 per sq ft. While land isn’t exactly being gobbled up, this has more to do with the state government’s plan to acquire large parcels for various projects. Prospective buyers are wary of their investment getting frozen if they buy land for a premium and it is later acquired by the state, Tandon said. “This is the flip side of the boom. If new landowners are paid as per the current circle rates, which haven’t increased, they would suffer big losses. Hence the hesitation.” Property liasioning agent Saurabh Singh said the local administration had already put land registry strictures in place. Also, many properties have disputed ownership and the majority of plots tagged for sale are wetlands near the Saryu that are under the watch of the National Green Tribunal. While some buyers want land for purely religious purposes like setting up dharmshalas and community kitchens, many are looking at it as a future-proof investment. Delhi-based real estate consultant Imran Rasool said he wasn’t surprised by the scramble for a piece of Ayodhya. “People from across India, and all income groups, now want property in the temple town. The rates are market driven, albeit unheard of elsewhere amid the still raging pandemic.” But Om Prakash Singh, executive counsellor of Awadh University, cautioned against jumping onto the bandwagon. “Top bureaucrats, police officers and politicians are in the race to buy land. Benami properties have further jacked up prices,” he said. Watch Land prices in Ayodhya double since Ram Temple Bhoomi Pujan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayodhya-land-prices-double-in-a-month/articleshow/78225306.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Over two years on, PPU faces shortage of staff, infrastructure||PATNA: Patliputra University (PPU), a dream project of CM Nitish Kumar, is yet to get the 8.05 acres of land near the Mithapur bus stand as promised by the state government to build the infrastructure, even after two-and-a half-years of its creation. It is currently functioning from a 4000 square feet area old branch office of the MU at Kankarbagh. The PPU came into existence after bifurcation from Magadh University ( MU) on March 18, 2018 . PU vice-chancellor (VC) Prof Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal said, “The university has been recognized by the UGC under its clause 2(f) only, while recognition under 12(B) of the UGC Act 1956 has not been accorded. The varsity is thus not entitled to get any financial assistance from the UGC. “Though the PPU has started PG teaching in 18 subjects, the teachers are still on deputation from other colleges as the state government has not sanctioned any post for the PG departments despite repeated reminders,” he said . Under the UGC rule, PG departments should have its own faculty working on the sanctioned strength post in each department. The PPU has submitted a proposal to state government to sanction 126 regular posts of professors (18) , associate professors (36) and assistant professors (72) to run its PG departments, the VC said . The university initiative to set up five different wings of research namely—Mahatma Gandhi , Gautam Buddha , Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar , Pt Deendayal Upadhaya and Pt Madan Mohan Malaviya—is still a far cry. As such, the vision to make PPU research-centric has received a jolt. “Besides, PPU is yet to get the required strength of staff from the MU on the basis of an MoU signed between university officials and state government at the time of its bifurcation,” the VC added . It was a setback for the PPU when 11 of its constituent colleges were disqualified by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in December 2019 as their self- study reports ( SSR ) were turned down by the NAAC committee for various lapses . Though PPU has set up a NAAC monitoring committee to make damage control exercise, much headway has not been made so far in this connection as the government did not provide financial assistance to the university to give a new momentum to the NAAC accreditation . The PPU had proposed to set up a central library at a cost of Rs 15 crore to fulfil the needs of research scholars and students. Unfortunately, this proposal remained on papers only . The fate of the proposed digital lab in the university is also gathering dust. A senior official of state’s higher education department said that the government had already allotted the land to the PPU at Mithapur to develop its required infrastructure and new building. The land paper was also given to the PPU administration to take possession and Patna DM office was directed to do the needful in the matter, the official said adding the land could not be acquired by the university due to its slackness. The official said, “The principal sectary (education) Sanjay Kumar has convened a meeting on September 23 to take up the issues related to sanctioning of posts of teachers in PG departments of the university.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-two-years-on-ppu-faces-shortage-of-staff-infrastructure/articleshow/78222202.cms||Kumod Verma
September 21, 2020||Goa||After heavy rain, lockdown, farmers brace for harvest season||PANAJI: After a bumpy start to the crop production season due to lockdown restrictions and the current spurt increase in Covid positive cases, farmers and experts have mixed reactions to the upcoming harvesting stage. While arecanut farmers have felt the brunt of the fungal infections from rains on their crop, grain and horticulture farmers are a little more optimistic about their produce that weathered the season. Using equipment like coconut climbers, mechanised harvesters and ensuring social distancing, farmers are readying for the harvest season during the pandemic. “The harvest of Rabi crops, besides cashew and mango was successfully done by farmers during the lockdown. Now for paddy they will have to rent harvester machines for the harvesting. One of the perks of mechanised harvesting is that the cost of labour comes down,” director of ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, EB Chakurkar said. Plucking long beans, chilli, cucumber is done manually and farmers get help from their families. However, paddy and tree crops are a challenge. Though many farmers are open to renting machines, it comes with drawbacks. “This monsoon season has brought heavy rain which has made the fields difficult to tread in. The harvester can manoeuvre through the paddy fields only if there is a dry spell,” said farmer, Satish Tendulkar. Sanjeev Barve, a Valpoi farmer, who is keen on harvesting his arecanut and coconut crop said, “I can purchase the equipment through schemes of the directorate of agriculture. However the machines must be operated by someone. For coconut climbing especially, experience is more important than technology.” Farmers are also trying to figure post-harvest tasks without incurring a loss. A Valpoi farmer who annually produces about 3,000 litres of feni was forced to discard the cashews from his farm this year as he didn’t have enough resources and labour for the distillation. “We had a big problem when the lockdown was announced during the peak cashew season. Though things have normalised now, we hope that we are able to market our produce without problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-heavy-rain-lockdown-farmers-brace-for-harvest-season/articleshow/78224671.cms||Nida Sayed
September 21, 2020||Mysuru||Coffee growers seek assistance from Karnataka, Centre||MADIKERI: Kodagu Coffee Growers Federation has demanded financial help from the Union and state governments. Heavy rain for three years and floods have affected the growers, due to which they could not repay their loans and could not maintain their plantations. Federation president Harish Appaiah has sent memorandums to the Prime Minister, finance minister and commerce minister, explaining the serious financial problems faced by coffee growers. He requested them to help small growers, whose plantations are smaller than 10ha, by waiving their loans. He requested for waiving interest on loans for growers having plantations that are larger than 10ha. He appealed to give fresh loans at a reduced interest rate of 3%, and to provide 10 years for the repayment of pending loans. He recalled a recent discussion with Union finance minister Nirmala Seetharaman, where they had explained to her about the problems faced by coffee growers, through a webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/coffee-growers-seek-assistance-from-state-centre/articleshow/78224971.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Patna||‘Restoring past glory of Patna University my priority’||PATNA: To head an academic institution, which has been one’s alma mater and workplace, is a dream come true for a teacher. But, for Girish Kumar Choudhary, the new and 53rd vice-chancellor of Patna University (PU), the opportunity has come as a challenge of sorts as the expectations of teachers, students and non-teaching staff have gone high. He tells B K Mishra in an interview that restoring the past academic glory of the university will be his topmost priority. Excerpts: You have been a student as well as a teacher of PU for several years. How do you feel on being appointed its VC?It’s indeed a moment of great pride and happiness for me. I owe much to this university and I would work hard to repay my debt by ensuring the university’s all-round progress. What will be your topmost priority for raising the academic standard of PU?Any university is known by its academics. PU was considered as one of the topmost universities in the country until three to four decades ago, but unfortunately its academic standard has declined considerably in recent years. My first priority is restoring the old academic glory of the university by creating a healthy atmosphere of research and innovations. What will you do to promote quality teaching and research in the university?Regular academic activities will be ensured in all the colleges and postgraduate departments. The process of appointment of teachers has already begun and, hopefully, all the vacant posts would be filled by the Bihar State University Service Commission soon. Younger teachers of different colleges and PG departments will be encouraged to submit research proposals to different funding agencies like UGC and DST. PU and two of its premier colleges – Patna College and Patna Science College – have fared badly in their recent NAAC grading and accreditation. What are your plans?The grades awarded to historical PU and its colleges by NAAC are certainly not satisfactory. I will try to find out the reasons for the institutions’ poor performance and plug the loopholes. I believe that the grading of the university and its allied institutions will automatically improve if the standard of teaching is raised. All the teachers, research scholars and students will have to perform their duties sincerely. In due course, PU will also apply for National Institutional Ranking Framework and strive for getting a better rank on the basis of its improved performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/restoring-past-glory-of-pu-my-priority/articleshow/78222146.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Business||Edtech funding jumps 4x to $1.5 billion this year||BENGALURU: The amount of money invested in India’s education technology startups has increased nearly four times to $1.5 billion in the first nine months of 2020 as compared to $409 million in entire 2019, according to data from Venture Intelligence. The development signifies the fast emergence of the edtech segment as a favourite among global venture capital and private equity firms. While Byju’s and Unacademy have raised the most money from investors like SoftBank, Tiger Global, Silver Lake and General Atlantic, more action is expected to continue as adoption of technology in the sector zooms due to the Covid-19 pandemic. For instance, the Ronnie Screwvala-promoted online higher education & skilling startup Upgrad is looking to raise $100 million. Similarly, Teachmint — which lets private tutors conduct online classes with their students — is closing a new round of $8 million from Lightspeed, said sources briefed on the matter. This comes as investors feel that edtech startups don’t only have a big market in India with increasing home learning, but can also serve global markets as many companies start getting significant revenues from overseas. Upgrad is venturing out to raise external capital for the first time since it started operations in 2015 and has appointed Credit Suisse for the fund-raise, three sources confirmed the development. Upgrad’s need for external capital is also fuelled by its plan to enter new segments like overseas education as well as make local acquisitions. “We are seeing strong traction from international markets and there are potential merger and acquisition options in our adjacent businesses. We also have a strong pool of students looking at overseas studies,” said Mayank Kumar, co-founder and MD, Upgrad. According to him, the firm is looking at a Rs 150-crore revenue for the current quarter, which should double to Rs 300 crore in the January-March quarter. It recorded a revenue of around Rs 230 crore in the previous fiscal year. For Teachmint, which raised its first round of capital from Snapdeal founders’ Titan Capital and Better Capital last month, Lightspeed’s investment marks the wide array of opportunities still available to be tapped by early stage startups. “Small individual tutors or local brands of education will be leading their own respective brand in the localities through a platform like ours. The common usage is a tier-2 or -3 teacher, mostly tutoring local students in a vernacular way, which clicks with those students,” said Teachmint co-founder and CEO Mihir Gupta. He declined to comment on the new fund-raise. Companies in edtech have also been able to build an international revenue base, and some are expected to turn profitable. For instance, code-learning startup WhiteHat Jr gets the majority of its revenues from overseas. It was acquired for about $300 million in cash earlier this year by Byju’s, one of the world’s most-valued edtech startups at $11 billion. Eruditus, which provides executive education courses in collaboration with top universities like MIT and Harvard, gets 80% of its revenues from overseas. The company raised $113 million in funding from South Africa’s Prosus Ventures and PE firm Leeds Illuminate, besides Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg’s philanthropy firm Chan Zuckerberg Initiative last month and was valued at $800 million. While Byju’s is already profitable, Eruditus expects to be in the current financial year. The rush of funding into the market has raised questions about frothiness of valuations, but investors feel that in the longer term, these companies have a big potential given the size of the market. “Valuations are a function of growth, profitability and depth of market — edtech companies have clearly demonstrated the first two, and size of market in most cases is not an issue in India. If these companies grow 2-4x in 12 months, then they will look cheap,” said Rajat Agarwal, MD at Matrix Partners India, which has backed edtech startups like Pesto and Testbook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edtech-funding-jumps-4x-to-1-5bn-this-yr/articleshow/78224787.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 21, 2020||Agra||Stage set for panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh||AGRA: Massive preparations to hold panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh have kick-started following the orders of state election commission. The process of appointment and training of booth-level officers (BLOs) and supervisors has been started and is scheduled to be completed by September 30 in most of the districts. The tenure of incumbent panchayat representatives ends on December 26. According to the schedule issued by UP's election commissioner Manoj Kumar, BLOs will visit each house to check voter list from October 1. District magistrate (DM) of Agra, Prabhu N Singh, said, “Preparations for the panchayat elections have been started. BLOs and supervisors for 3,478 booths in the district are being appointed to update the voter list. They will do door-to-door verification of over 19 lakh voters. After sorting out the objections, the final voter list is targeted to be published on December 29.” According to the UP’s election commission records, there are 75 zila panchayats (district councils), 821 kshetra panchayats (block council) and 59,074 gram panchayats (village councils) in the state. Presently, there are around 12 crore rural voters in the state. And, this time, there is a possibility that over 550 posts of village heads will be slashed, because 587 panchayats have been completely merged with urban areas while 680 have been merged partially. Of the 680 panchayats, wards of those with a population below 1,000 might be merged in another panchayat. According to the sources, the panchayat elections are now likely to take place in April-May 2021. Originally the panchayat elections were likely to be conducted in November-December but were deferred due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. And, this time, the majority of the village heads and members of block development councils (BDC) and district panchayats from all districts are likely to be debarred from contesting the elections because of new guidelines. According to them, those village heads and members of BDC and district councils, who didn’t provide details of expenditure from previous panchayat polls, would be barred from contesting the upcoming polls. This also includes those who contested the elections but lost. According to additional district magistrate Yogendra Kumar who is deputy district election officer for Agra, 90 per cent candidates are yet to file expenditure details of 2015 panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/stage-set-for-panchayat-polls-in-up-blos-to-start-voter-inspection-on-oct-1/articleshow/78221592.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 21, 2020||Business||IPO rush returns as quality companies line up offers at attractive prices||MUMBAI: After a relative lull of five months, companies are rushing in to go public with the stock market witnessing low volatility, which is conducive for fund-raising. This surge is triggered by strong demand from IPO-starved retail investors and quality offers from good companies at attractive prices, market players said. Consider this: Between April and June, no IPOs hit the market due to lockdowns and the reopening that gave limited leeway for businesses to operate. Then there was just one IPO in July: Rossari Biotech, which raised Rs 496 crore. Again, August drew a blank in terms of fund-raising through the primary market route. September has seen two successful IPOs: Happiest Minds Technologies, which listed last week and Route Mobile, slotted to list on Monday. Three more IPOs are set to be launched this month. On Monday, the Rs 2,242-crore offer by CAMS, which services a majority of mutual fund houses as their register & transfer agent (RTA), and the Rs 318-crore offer by Chemcon Speciality Chemicals will be launched. On Tuesday, one of the country’s leading stock brokers Angel Broking is set to open its Rs 600-crore offer, merchant bankers said. Two more companies are also on the verge of launching their IPOs soon: UTI Mutual Fund, the oldest fund house in India, and Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders, the government-owned company that specialises in building warships and submarines. The debut by Rossari Biotech and Mindspace REIT in July instilled faith in the investors, according to Hemang Jani, head (equity strategy, broking & distribution), Motilal Oswal Financial Services, Subsequently in September, these listings were followed by listings of Happiest Minds and Route Mobile, he wrote in a note. “In the last five months, several new retail investors have come into the market. As there had not been any lucrative offers since March, these investors participated heavily in the recent IPOs. They were attracted by strong grey market premium, which has the potential to give substantial listing gains,” Jani said. “Further, the IPOs were good offers that came after a long time.” In 2020 so far, about Rs 12,150 crore has been raised from four offers but the same has been skewed by the Rs 10,355-crore SBI Cards IPO. Other than the credit card company’s offer, only Rs 1,798 crore has been raised from three listing offers. In comparison, in 2019 over Rs 12,000 crore was raised from 16 IPOs. Other than the IPOs on the main platforms of the stock exchanges, Mindspace Business Parks also had its offer in July for listing its real estate investment trust (REIT) through which it had mobilised Rs 4,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ipo-rush-returns-as-quality-cos-line-up-offers-at-attractive-prices/articleshow/78224643.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vadodara||From jaws of death, doctor emerges Covid slayer||Vadodara: Brain stroke, severe bleeding in intestine, spiking sugar levels and dangerously elevated heart rates. This 29-year-old doctor from the city not just fought back coronavirus infection, but all these life-threatening complications that happened just within a month of testing positive on June 14. What’s more, Dr Vishal Sardhara is back to work after recovery that took 48 days. Doctors also say he is the first patient in Gujarat to recover using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) treatment. Now, he walks five km daily and has started handling administrative work as director of a chain of hospitals for a month now. As he could not maintain oxygen saturation on bi-pap machine, Dr Sardhara was shifted on life-support system. Just as he recovered and was about to be discharged, he had a brain stroke and excessive bleeding in the intestine. He was given 32 units of blood within just 12 hours. Sardhara, who has become Gujarat’s first Covid-19 patient to successfully recover with the help of ECMO treatment. And now he can even blow a conch with ease. “On 13th day after I was admitted to Savita Hospital, I was kept on ECMO. Before that I was maintaining oxygen levels on bi-pap, but I realized that I will not be able to stretch on this machine any longer. Later, I was kept on a ventilator with planned intubation and ECMO treatment had also started,” said Sardhara, who also faced severe dehydration as his sugar levels spiked. At one point, his heart rate touched 240 per minute after which he himself asked for a defibrillator which is used as a last attempt to restore beating if the heart suddenly stops. Surat-based Dr Haresh Vastarapara, who along with Dr Deepak Viradiya were part of the team that gave him ECMO treatment, said, “He was hospitalized for basic treatment but his condition had started deteriorating as his lungs had got almost dysfunctional. After he was kept under ventilator, his ECMO treatment continued for 12 days. Of all the ECMO patients that we have treated, he is the one who has completely recovered.” “There were many complications including a stroke as blood vessels in his brain had ruptured. But after 48 days of treatment, he has fully recovered and is living a normal healthy life. His recovery is also because he is a fighter,” said Dr Vastarapara. Sardhara told TOI that his long treatment in the ICU has also helped him understand the needs of patients in ICU. “As I was conscious, I got the first-hand experience as a patient of critical care,” said the doctor, who has started physiotherapy to build his muscles and respiratory exercises as post-Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/from-jaws-of-death-doctor-emerges-covid-slayer/articleshow/78221597.cms||Prashant Rupera
September 21, 2020||Hubballi||Air-purifying respirator developed for Covid-19 doctors||Hubballi: A city-based engineering firm - Abslon Engineering Pvt Ltd, in collaboration with Sankanur Hospital in Gadag, has developed what is being claimed as the first indigenously developed air-purifying respirator ‘Puri Flow V1.0’. The device is meant for the use of those on the frontlines of the battle against the pandemic. Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar, who launched the device at the KCCI Auditorium in Hubballi on Friday, said that doctors treating Covid-19 patients were much more susceptible to contracting the infection, adding that there was always the chance of the novel coronavirus entering the body when one worked in such proximity with those who were infected. “The ‘Puri Flow V1.0’ is certainly better than N-95 masks. It will certainly bolster the spirit of the Covid warriors treating the patients. We are very proud that this device, sold by many US-based companies has been developed locally,” the minister said. Chairman of Sankanur Hospital Dr Prakash Sankanur said that the device was developed with locally-available materials. “We have designed it in accordance with the NIOSH specifications, and its safety and efficacy have been verified at laboratories accredited by NABL,” he said. The device will be manufactured in bulk based on demand. Dr Sankanur said that there were plans to make the device available at a concessional price for government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/air-purifying-respirator-developed-for-covid-19-doctors/articleshow/78224979.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Business||D-St expects another blockbuster debut||Mumbai: Dalal Street could witness another blockbuster listing on Monday if one takes a cue from the grey market for the stocks of Route Mobile, which offers cloud communication platforms to businesses. The stock, offered at Rs 350 apiece, could list at over Rs 625, when it debuts on Monday. Last week, Happiest Minds was listed at more than double its offer price of Rs 166 and on Friday, the stock closed at Rs 358 on the BSE. Route Mobile closed its Rs 600-crore IPO on September 11 with an oversubscription of more than 73 times. On Sunday evening, the grey market premium (GMP) for the Route Mobile stock was hovering around Rs 300, indicating a listing price of around Rs 650, that is the IPO price of Rs 350 plus the GMP, an indicative listing gain of over 85%. Social media chat rooms are full of expected price for the stock with some predicting more than doubling of the price on listing. For hugely oversubscribed IPOs, the GMP usually shows an uptrend as the listing day nears. This value also depends up on the market conditions on the day of listing, Dalal Street veterans said. Route Mobile’s shares to successful IPO applicants were allotted during the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/d-st-expects-another-blockbuster-debut/articleshow/78224746.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi cops took cue from West, used new tech in riots conspiracy probe||NEW DELHI: The chargesheet filed in the February riots conspiracy is not only the biggest one volume-wise, but also reportedly based on new scientific investigation techniques used by Delhi Police. Given the sensitivity and the complexity of the case, it is learnt that investigators used additional technological tools, other than the usual call details records analysis, etc. For example, an experiment was conducted with Internet Protocol Details Records analysis, often used by police forces in the West nowadays. This is the study of internet traffic from smartphones that establishes communication between two entities through VoIP calls, etc. This came in handy as many accused were communicating through calls and chats on apps like WhatsApp and Telegram.  “We also used software for facial reconstruction to identify burnt bodies by superimposing skulls on the photograph of victims,” an investigator said. Police also used technology to follow the money trail, a source told TOI. A software for fund flow analysis was used to identify patterns in the transactions done by the accused and to establish its circulation for allegedly organising and funding the riots. The identity of the alleged rioters was also corroborated from text messages sent to e-Vahan reportedly to seek ownership details of vehicles before setting them ablaze. “The numbers from which messages were sent on the rioting day were obtained from the government database,” said a source. These techniques were also being used in other riots cases being probed by the Crime Branch Special Investigation Team. Geo-location analysis was also used by police to extract details from Google Maps installed on the phones of the accused to establish their movements. An officer said this technique had come in handy in the murder case of Rahul Solanki, who was shot dead on February 24 at 5.50pm. Asked to elaborate on the use of video analytics and facial recognition, an officer said, “We obtained 945 video clips from CCTV cameras installed on roads, video recordings from smartphones, media houses and others, and analysed them with the help of the analytics tools and facial recognition system.” “The photographs extracted from them were matched with multiple databases, including the Delhi Police criminal dossiers and other databases maintained by the government. This helped in identifying 2,655 people and taking legal action against them with other supporting evidence,” added the officer. The facial reconstruction technology helped identify bodies charred beyond recognition. This was used specifically in the murder case of Shahbaz from Karawal Nagar. Data recovered from mobile handsets seized from the accused proved helpful in gathering evidence against them with the help of mobile forensics, cloning and other scientific methods. Several self-incriminating digital evidence, such as recorded conversation, videos, etc, were recovered from the handsets. When contacted for a comment, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said, “The cases are sub judice, so details can’t be shared. But I do agree that our investigation is, to a large extent, based on scientific tools and methods.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-cops-took-cue-from-west-used-new-tech-in-riots-conspiracy-probe/articleshow/78223601.cms||Raj Shekhar
September 21, 2020||Patna||Bhojpur SP suspends SHO, 4 constables||ARA: Taking cognizance of a video grab that went viral showing two young persons indulging in extortion of money from truck drivers, right under the nose of the constables on duty near the Koilwar bridge, Bhojpur SP Har Kishore Rai on Sunday suspended four constables for dereliction of duty. Rai said, “Four constables on duty near the Koilwar bridge have been suspended for not taking appropriate action while the video showed extortion by some people. Two persons have been arrested and sent to jail in this case.” The SP also suspended the SHO of Bihiya police station for dereliction of duty in another matter. The SP said, “Bihiya SHO Shashikant has been suspended for being lax in disposal of warrant. Kurki , laxity in arresting of culprits of heinous crimes and laxity in work related to the preparation for upcoming election.” Rai added , “SI Dilip Kumar Nirala has been posted as the new SHO of the Bihiya police station .” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhojpur-sp-suspends-sho-4-constables/articleshow/78222566.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Allahabad||PDA razes illegal portion of building owned by Atiq||Prayagraj: A day after it razed a house registered under the name of a relative of jailed don and former MP Atiq Ahmed, the Prayagraj district administration demolished a portion of a building owned by the MP in Khuldabad’s Karbala area on Sunday. Prayagraj Development Authority’s officer on special duty Alok Pandey said, “PDA took cognizance that a portion of his office building was not built in accordance with the sanctioned map. A joint team of PDA, police and district administration demolished the illegal portion of the office building in Karbala on Sunday.” He added that PDA’s demolition squad started razing the illegal structure in the morning and that the work continued till late evening. Police had recently attached the office building in Khuldabad area under the provisions of Gangsters Act. Heavy police force was deployed on the spot during the demolition. Last week, a joint team of PDA, police and district administration had razed an illegal cold storage owned by Ahmed in Katka in Jhunsi, which was built illegally. The cold storage was spread on an area of around 10,000 square metre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pda-razes-illegal-portion-of-building-owned-by-atiq/articleshow/78221721.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Rajkot||Sign language explains Corona to Rajkot’s handicapped||Rajkot: ‘Harshe Corona Ane Jeetashe Rajkot’ (‘Corona will be defeated and Rajkot will Win’). However, the importance of this positive message in a city fight a fresh battle against the dreaded virus would have gone amiss for the hearing and speech impaired, had it not been for Hiren Pandya, a deaf and mute person, who took it upon himself to help others like him understand the underlying meaning in sign language. “I have made several videos using pantomime in sign language sensitizing the deaf and mute viewers to the evils of Coronavirus as well as teach them about the precautions to be exercised to avoid infection,” said Pandya in sign language, which was interpreted to TOI by Hina Padia from Gujarat Information Bureau. Pandya has been teaching at Shri Virani School for Deaf and Mute since 2009. “Encouraging him in his efforts, his school has provided him with with a movie camera, lighting and tripod and bore the expenditure of his videos,” Padia said. “In his videos, Pandya tells his special viewers how to safeguard themselves using face masks, sanitizers and also about the need for social distancing. He also describes the roles of frontline Covid warriors such as doctors and para-medical staff, sanitation workers and police exhorting his viewers to respect these people who risk their lives for everybody,” Padia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sign-language-explains-corona-to-rajkots-handicapped/articleshow/78222747.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Relentless rain wreaks havoc in Udupi & M’luru||Mangaluru/Udupi: Continuous downpour since Friday in the coast has thrown normal life in Udupi out of gear, with all low lying areas under one to six feet of water. Houses and temples, especially the Sri Krishna Mutt premises, fields, shops and establishments in Mathada Bettu, Nittur, Kodankuru, Chitpadi areas were inundated. The rain also left a trail of destruction in Mangaluru and the loss is estimated in excess of several crores. This type of destruction due to the rains is said to be happening in Udupi after three to four decades. The highest rainfall was recorded in Udupi taluk at 399mm, followed by 296mm in Kaup and 220 in Hebri. Of the 77 villages affected in Udupi district, maximum 30 were in Kaup followed by 25 in Udupi and 18 in Brahmavara. Three boats capsize Three boats that were caught in the cyclonic rain capsized off Malpe coast, fortunately the fishermen found a safe spot on a rock near the shore till they were rescued. Dakshina Kannada district in-charge minister Kota Shrinivas Poojary instructed NDRF personnel in Mangaluru to assist in search and rescue operations in Udupi. When last reports came in, NDRF was in Udupi with special equipment to shift stranded people to safer areas. 2.5k people shifted According to Udupi DC G Jagadeesha, the district received 399 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours. Udupi had 77 villages affected due to rains and 2,874 people were evacuated and 1,201 people were shifted to 31 relief camps. In DK, the number was much less at 49 in five relief camps, though 1,250 people were evacuated in 28 affected villages. No human loss was reported in both districts. The fire department personnel and police deployed boats to evacuate people stranded in their homes to safer places. Both the Rivers — Swarna and Sitanadi — were flowing above danger levels. Udupi DC visited affected areas and gave directions to personnel involved in relief and rescue operations. NDRF rescued two persons, pump house operators, who were trapped in the Bajpe Pump House at Hiriyadka. Road connectivity lost The rain also left the Malpe-Molakalmuru road under water. In Karkala taluk of Udupi District, several houses in Yennehole and Hermunde, close to the river bank, were inundated. Karkala-Ajekaru road connectivity has been lost due to landslides. 13 houses destroyed in DK The effects of the downpour in Mangaluru city limits was restricted to a few houses getting damaged due to retaining wall collapse at Saripalla and a concrete road getting damaged due to earth below it caving near Kelarai Church, Neermarga. The low lying areas which were inundated last week, however surprisingly saw no ingress of water, belying fears of another nightmare for the residents of Jappinamogeru. The Addepady-Kenjaru road near Mangaluru International Airport was blocked after a landslide. While 19 houses were partially damaged in DK, the number stood at 1,107 in Udupi. As many as 13 houses were completely damaged in DK and none in Udupi. Choppers to the rescue Chief minister B S Yediyurappa called Udupi DC directing him to take all steps to shift people from low lying areas to safer places. Meanwhile, Udupi district in-charge minister Basavaraj Bommai, also the home minister, in a tweet stated that he has dispatched a team of 250 member SDRF team to Udupi. “I have spoken to revenue minister R Ashoka to send a defence helicopter for rescue and relief operations in Udupi,” he further tweeted. In the last 24 hours till Sunday 8.30am, the DK District received an average of 149 mm of rainfall, with Mangaluru taluk receiving the highest at 190 mm. Bantwal and Belthangady taluks received similar amounts of rainfall at 150mm each. The least was in Sullia at 110 mm. Exams deferred Following red alert in Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Udupi districts, Mangalore University postponed all UG and PG examinations which were scheduled to be held on Monday, according to an official communiqué from Mangalore University. Top three high Rainfall locations in the State (in mm) Irodi (Udupi): 449mm Kodi (Udupi): 445mm Bammarabetta (Udupi): 439mm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/relentless-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-udupi-mluru/articleshow/78224898.cms||Stanley Pinto
September 21, 2020||Business||Lodhas to challenge HC order||Udit Prasanna Mukherji & Partha Sinha | TNN Kolkata/Mumbai: The Lodha family that is fighting a legal battle against the Birla family for the control of M P Birla Group, is all set to challenge the verdict of the single bench of Calcutta high court this week. Legal advisers to the Lodhas feel that Friday’s judgment, which restrained Harsh Vardhan Lodha from holding any position in the conglomerate, is a violation of the rule of natural justice. The court had also restrained Lodha from drawing any benefit from the assets of the estate of Priyamvada Devi Birla. Lodhas are prepared to move the division bench at the same court as early as Monday. The single judge bench, however, refused to pass any order against any of the M P Birla Group companies, as was sought by the Birlas. Justice Munshi, who passed the order, had further held that all the companies and entities holding shares of M P Birla Group have to vote in accordance with the direction of the administrators. Birlas had argued that according to the court order the administrator pendente lite (APL) committee has stepped into the shoes of Priyamvada Devi Birla (PDB), who was a single individual promoter. Therefore, the APL committee had all the controlling power by virtue of statutory devolution and it can exercise all such powers which were with PDB during her lifetime. The Lodha camp, on the other hand, is of the opinion that the verdict has decided how all shareholders within the MP Birla Group are to vote, following instructions from the APL committee. But none of these entities was granted hearing in the case. Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal, a law firm representing the Lodhas, pointed out that Friday’s verdict runs contrary to many laws and earlier decisions of the same and higher courts. “It is a clear violation of natural justice as well because orders were passed against dozens of legal entities without even giving them any hearing.” Since some of the companies within the M P Birla Group are listed entities, stock analysts are of the opinion that the HC verdict will not have any impact on these listed entities. “We believe (Friday’s) judgement by itself will have no material impact on Harsh Lodha or any of the MP Birla Group companies as the same would be challenged by Lodhas,” wrote Kunal Shah of Yes Securities in a note. Another note from Edelweiss said that the judgment doesn’t decide on who is the rightful owner of the M P Birla business empire and that suit is being heard separately in the high court. “The judgement was about whether the APL committee…has the power to exercise voting rights of all directly or indirectly controlled entities and whether decisions are to be taken unanimously or through majority,” it noted. There are chances of some negative reaction on the Birla Corp stock on Monday but Edelweiss analysts continue to hold their thesis for the company that market share gains, sustained profitability and de-leveraging will drive re-rating for the stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lodhas-to-challenge-hc-order/articleshow/78224843.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
September 21, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC defers proposal to rename Lady Hill Circle||Mangaluru: Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has deferred the proposal to rename Lady Hill Circle after philosopher and social reformer Sri Narayana Guru, following objections from many quarters. A resolution in this regard was expected to be part of the agenda at MCC’s second council meeting, which will be chaired by mayor Diwakar on September 22. However, MCC has decided to defer the proposal as citizens have been raising objections and putting pressure on the city corporation not to rename Lady Hill Circle. Prashanth Mannagudda, a senior citizen, told TOI that Ladyhill has its own historical significance. “The Apostolic Carmel Sisters landed in Mangaluru from Beyonne, France, and started its Mission of Education. In 1885 when Mother Marie Des Anges first Superior General came down to Mangaluru, local people requested her to open a school for girls. St Ann’s Ladyhill Victoria Girls High School was started in a hilly area. A large number of girls were being educated in the said school. The term Ladyhill assumes its importance mainly for the reason that girl children were provided education. As a mark of respect for the women empowerment, everybody called the area as a ‘Ladyhill’. Thousands of women have benefited through education here. Hence historical significance of this area cannot be allowed to be changed, since more than 100 years the said place is called Ladyhill Junction/Ladyhill Circle,” Prashanth said, adding that he has requested the city corporation not to permit any changes and maintain status quo. Senior BJP corporator Premanand Shetty, who is also the chief whip in MCC council, said the proposal will not be included in the agenda of the next council meeting. “We have discussed the issue and it is not easy to rename a circle/ road if it has a name. We can move a proposal if a circle or road has no official name. The town planning section has suggested scrutiny of the proposal through the standing committee. Further, if people object strongly for any such proposals, it will be difficult for the council to adopt a resolution. Hence, this proposal will not be part of the agenda in the next council meeting,” he added. Renaming only on paper Many roads and circles in the city have been renamed in the past, but most of them continue to be remembered by the people with their old names. Dr BR Ambedkar Circle is one of the best examples as people still remember it as Jyothi Circle. Similarly, Pumpwell Circle was renamed as Mahaveer Circle, but the old name continues. Similar is the case of Mangalore airport road from Karnataka Polytechnic (KPT) Junction to Maravoor that was renamed after Bharat Rathna Sir M Visvesvaraya. People still remember the controversy surrounded the proposal of renaming a road from Catholic Club and Ambedkar Circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-defers-proposal-to-rename-lady-hill-circle/articleshow/78224947.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Trichy||Corpn floats tender for Trichy’s first STEM park at Srirangam||Trichy: Trichy corporation has narrowed down on a site near Yatri Nivas at Srirangam to set up a STEM Park (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) for children. The urban local body has floated a tender to establish the first of its kind public park in the city at a cost of Rs 14.90 crore under the smart cities mission. The edutainment facility is to be named after C V Raman, a Nobel laureate in Physics from Trichy.The STEM Park will have activity-based learning for school kids to induce curiosity in science and technology. On the six-acre land parcel identified on the Kollidam Flood Bank Road, close to one acre will be utilised for the park. Science apparatus and interactive equipment engaging kids to learn the fundamentals of mathematics and engineering are planned in the park. The high-powered committee has approved the layout of the park submitted by the corporation. Having floated the tender now, officials said that the work will commence in a month or two. “The STEM park will have unique features. A mini meeting hall and amphitheatre to accommodate 100 people are part of the proposal,” a corporation official said.The STEM Park will be completed likely by the first quarter of 2021. As a bus stand was planned on the site, local people asked the civic body to identify an alternative space for the bus stand. “Since the land near Yatri Nivas is a low-lying area near the Kollidam, the bus stand proposal was dropped,” the corporation official said. The civic body, however, is silent on identifying an alternative land for Srirangam bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-floats-tender-for-trichys-first-stem-park-at-srirangam/articleshow/78224654.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 21, 2020||Business||Shell to arm mechanics with workshop vans for doorstep servicing of vehicles||Chennai: Lubricant maker Shell India has kicked off an initiative to turn its mechanic customers into entrepreneurs. As part of this project, Shell will help fund mobile vehicle servicing vans with which mechanics can take servicing, sanitising, tyre check and change and oil change of cars and two wheelers right to your doorstep. “These mobile workshops will be run by mechanics who have a long association with Shell. We have a community of around 40,000 mechanics of which we are targeting upto 10,000 in the next 24 months,” Said Raman Ojha, country head, Shell Lubricants India. Shell will fund the mobile workshop vans, which costs around Rs 5-Rs 6 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shell-to-arm-mechanics-with-workshop-vans-for-doorstep-servicing-of-vehicles/articleshow/78223168.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
September 21, 2020||Surat||Boat capsizes in Ukai dam; 1 drowns||Surat: A 52-year-old fisherman drowned, while others could swim to safety after the boat carrying six fishermen in Ukai dam water in Tapi district capsized on Saturday midnight. The deceased was identified as Meraji Godia, a resident of Manekpur village in Uchhal taluka of Tapi district. All six are residents of Manekpur village. “Six persons went in a boat for fishing in Ukai dam at around 7 pm on Saturday and were returning at around 11 pm when the boat capsized due to strong winds. While five of the occupants could swim ashore, one elderly man could not swim and drowned. We received a message about the missing fisherman and launched an operation with the help of fire brigade and local swimmers who fished out the body on Sunday afternoon,” Rajendra Chaudhary, mamalatdar, Uchhal, told TOI. Meanwhile, Ukai dam authority has started releasing water into Tapi river on Sunday. At 6 pm on Sunday, 99,849 cusecs water was being released into the river. People residing in downstream areas have been alerted as the dam authority may increase outflow in stages up to 1.75 lakh cusecs. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked people to stay away from riverfront and riverbanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/boat-capsizes-in-ukai-dam-1-drowns/articleshow/78222579.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Patna||Patna: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, seasonal flu cases on rise||PATNA: Hospitals in city have been witnessing a sudden rise in cases of seasonal flu like fever and cough following change in weather conditions. As the symptoms of seasonal flu are similar to Covid-19, people are found rushing to hospitals, clinics and labs to get their swab samples tested. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said there has been a 20-25% increase in number of patients visiting the hospital with complaints of seasonal flu. “Many think that they have contracted Covid-19 as the SARS-CoV-2 and influenza viruses have common symptoms like fever, cough, body ache, fatigue and shortness of breath,” he added. Dr Kumar said Covid test reports of most such patients came negative and they recovered from seasonal flu in 5-6 days. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary said at least 20 to 30% patients visiting the hospital in last 8-9 days complained of seasonal diseases. “The symptoms of Covid are quite similar to seasonal flu. Rise in number of such patients between September and November is common,” he said, adding people should seek medical assistance immediately after developing symptoms of flu. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak has not ruled out the possibility of outbreak of dengue in September. “The hospital has kept a 30-bed dengue ward ready,” he added. Asked about treatment protocols for Covid and seasonal flu, former president of Indian Medical Association (Bihar) Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Covid is much more infectious and contagious than seasonal flu. The line of treatment for the two viruses is different. In Covid, the patients are initially given anti-viral medicines because the virus affects multiple organs. In flu, there is no involvement of organs. The two viruses have similar presentations initially, but different consequences.” He added people having fever, cough or cold should isolate themselves or get their samples tested. “Seasonal flu subsides in 5-6 days. However, if it lingers, people should seek medical help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amid-covid-19-pandemic-seasonal-flu-cases-on-rise/articleshow/78222022.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Facilities improved at railway hospital||PATNA: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, the Danapur divisional railway hospital at Khagaul has been equipped with centralised oxygen supply facility to cater to the needs of patients. At least 80 beds of the hospital have been supplied with oxygen line. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the facility would ensure better medical facilities to indoor patients, particularly Covid-infected people undergoing treatment at the hospital. The DRM said the railways has taken various measures to keep this hospital well-equipped for treatment of Covid patients. “Face masks, PPE kits, ventilators, oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs have been stored in the hospital. An advanced ambulance fitted with ventilator, oxygen and oxygen monitoring equipment has also been hired to shift serious patients to any specialised hospital in the city,” the DRM said, adding a railway doctor and other trained paramedical staff will be there in the ambulance while shifting the patients to any other hospital. According to chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Danapur railway hospital Dr R K Verma, doctors have conducted Covid tests on 625 railway employees so far at the hospital. Of them, 288 tested positive and four died during treatment. “At present, five Covid patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. The rest of patients were either discharged after recovery or shifted to NMCH for further treatment,” he said. The railways has also kept in readiness 156 beds as ‘quarantine home’ in Madhu Vihar railway colony at Khagaul. “A well-furnished rest house has been built near the railway hospital at Khagaul for doctors and nursing staff of the hospital. The rest house also has canteen facility,” the CMS added. Though Covid-19 cases have come down in the city, railways has tied up with IGIMS for quick disposal of surgical waste materials of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/facilities-improved-at-railway-hospital/articleshow/78222169.cms||Kumod Verma
September 21, 2020||Patna||Home guard jawan shot at by drunk ASI in Bihar's Saran district||PATNA: In a shocking incident, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) shot at a home guard jawan following an altercation during night patrolling under Masrakh police station area in Saran district late Saturday night. The ASI, identified as Harendra Kumar (50), was allegedly drunk. The ASI was evading arrest. Both Harendra and the injured jawan, Ashok Kumar (40), are posted at Masrakh police station. Police sources said Ashok was shot at in his abdomen. An FIR was lodged on Ashok’s written complaint on Sunday. Ashok alleged that when he told the ASI about liquor smell from his mouth, the latter started hurling abuses and fired from his service pistol. In the FIR, Ashok also alleged that the Masrakh station house officer (SHO) had called a doctor at the police station for his treatment. The jawan said the policemen took him to the government hospital only when he started writhing in pain and fell unconscious. When asked, Saran SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram said, “Both had an altercation after which the ASI opened fire. The home guard received minor injury.” Marhaura SDPO Indrajit Baitha said the patrolling party consisting the accused ASI, home guard jawan and others had left Masrakh police station at around 10pm. “The altercation took place on SH-90 near Chainpur. It is still not clear what actually happened between the two,” he said. Baitha said the patrolling party reached the police station with the injured jawan at around 10.50pm. “An FIR against the ASI has been lodged,” he said. “The SP had visited the Masrakh police station on Saturday and the ASI was also present. I don’t know why he opened fire,” he said. Meanwhile, Bihar home guards’ association general secretary Sudeshwar Prasad demanded immediate arrest of the ASI and proper treatment to the injured jawan. “We demand the ASI’s dismissal from service,” Prasad said, adding this is for the first time that such an incident took place in the state police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawan-shot-at-by-drunk-asi-in-saran-dist/articleshow/78222592.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Patna||Six arrested as video of illegal firearms worship goes viral in Bihar||PATNA: Six youths were arrested in Vaishali on Saturday evening after their video of worshipping illegal firearms on Vishwakarma Puja went viral on social media. Vaishali SP Maneesh on Sunday said the six youths were arrested from Rambhadra Colony under Town police station area. Three semi-automatic and one single bore countrymade pistols, ten rounds of live cartridges and cellphones were recovered from their possession. Maneesh said they were arrested on Friday night after police ascertained their identities from the video and photographs which had surfaced on social media. “Police also recovered a photograph in one of the seized cellphones showing them worshipping illegal firearms on the occasion of Vishwakarma Puja,” he said, adding all were sent to jail on Saturday evening. Town police station SHO Subodh Kumar Singh said the arrested youths were identified as Bhola Kumar, Ravi Bhushan, Sonu Rai, Mohammad Chand and two named Kundan Kumar. He said they were aged around 22-25 years. Singh said three more youths managed to flee during the raid. He said the arrested youths were residents of Patwa Toli, Masjid Chowk and other locations under Town police station area in Hajipur. “Kundan, a resident of Patwa Toli, is accused in at least two criminal cases of snatching. He had been to jail in the past as well. Details about the criminal antecedents of arrested youths are being gathered,” he said. Singh said flowers and other items used for worshipping were visible in the viral video, which revealed their identity. The SHO said eight to nine youths were seen worshipping illegal firearms. He said the arrested youths confessed to the police that they had gathered there to plan a robbery and loot the collection money of a woman self-help group. He said raids were on to nab the other youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-arrested-as-video-of-illegal-firearms-worship-goes-viral/articleshow/78222616.cms||Debashish Karmakar
September 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: BJP seeks suggestions to make ‘sankalp patra’||PATNA: State BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said on Sunday that his party would prepare the ‘Sankalp Patra (Resolution Paper)’ from suggestions made by people at large that would serve as a guideline to make the state take a “big leap” the path of development over the next five years. At the same time, the BJP would hold its own sittings as also with the representatives of the NDA constituents – BJP, JD(U), LJP – to prepare a joint manifesto of the NDA for the coming assembly elections, he added. Dr Jaiswal, along with agriculture minister Prem Kumar, was addressing a press conference regarding the ‘Sankalp Patra’ and the joint manifesto of the NDA. Former minister and state BJP senior functionary Nitish Mishra, along with other functionaries, was also present on the occasion. “In the last 15 years, a lot of development works have been done in all the areas in the state under the NDA government, but the need now is to make the state take a big leap forward. The next NDA government will achieve it,” Dr Jaiswal said. He also said that the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by the Centre to tide over the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, including Bihar, would also benefit the state’s agriculture, fishery, dairy and poultry sectors, as well as micro small and medium enterprises and makhana cultivation. “The aim of the BJP Sankalp Patra is not only to take the state forward, but to also create an atmosphere where youths become entrepreneurs and employment providers,” Dr Jaiswal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-sankalp-patra-a-guide-to-for-states-big-leap-forward/articleshow/78222528.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ex-Union minister launches three railway projects||MOTIHARI: Former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh on Sunday inaugurated three railway projects and laid foundation for extension of different station buildings on Muzaffarpur-Narkatiyaganj section of East Central Railway worth Rs 23 crore through videoconferencing from Motihari. Singh inaugurated two foot overbridges at Motihari and Jiwdhara railway stations. He also inaugurated a 24-hour medical facility at Bapudham station in Motihari. Speaking on the occasion, he said works on beautification of Bapudham station and railway electrification from Muzaffarpur to Gorakhpur have been completed. Singh also laid foundation for foot overbridge, raising of platforms and station extension buildings at Chakia, Mehasi, Pipra and Motihari court stations. These projects will be completed soon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-union-min-launches-three-railway-projects/articleshow/78222724.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Patna||1.2 lakh to take BEd entrance test on Tuesday in Bihar||DARBHANGA: Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), which has been made nodal university for conducting Bihar Combined Entrance Test for BEd 2020 by the chancellor’s office, has made all necessary preparations to hold the exam at 278 centres. The centres are spread over 10 towns – Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Ara, Chhapra, Darbhanga, Madhepur, Munger and Purnia. There are 84 centres in Patna alone and 36 in Darbhanga. According to state nodal officer for BEd 2020 Ajit Kumar Singh, altogether 1,22,331 examinees will appear for the test. Singh said the test would be conducted following approval from the apex court and the standard operating procedures prescribed by the Centre and UGC in view of Covid-19 pandemic would be followed. “Funds for sanitising the centres and other expenses have been sent to all the centre superintendents,” Singh added. Magistrate-cum-observer will be deployed at all the centres with adequate police forces to ensure free and fair exams. Raj Bhavan will also depute its observer for each district headquarters separately. The exam will take place between 11am and 1pm. Examinees, officials and police personnel will be allowed to enter the centre only after thermal screening. “If any examinee is found running temperature above the normal, s/he will have to write papers separately. All examinees have been asked to come to the centre wearing masks and carrying a small bottle of sanitiser,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-2l-to-take-bed-entrance-test-tomorrow/articleshow/78222076.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Patna||Minister opens new facilities at IGIMS||PATNA: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday inaugurated the newly constructed ‘physical medicine and rehabilitation (PMR) centre’ and ‘in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) centre’ at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) through videoconferencing. Speaking on the occasion, the minister vowed to upgrade the institute at par with AIIMS-Patna. “The central government will provide technological help in order to upgrade various superspecialty departments of IGIMS even though the state government is competent enough to do so,” Prasad said. He suggested the institute’s director, N R Biswas, to send a proposal in this regard to the Centre soon. Prasad said the IVF centre would help couples embrace parenthood and it would soon become a state-of-the-art facility. Ravi said people are now aware that infertility is not incurable. “People will get all information and treatment at the centre,” he added. The minister had earlier donated Rs 2 crore from his MPLAD fund for the development of PMR and IVF centres at IGIMS. For test tube baby, one has to shell out Rs 30,000 while the intra cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) will cost around Rs 35,000, excluding the cost of medication. Kalpana Singh, additional professor and head of the department of reproductive medicine, IGIMS, said the centre will also provide facilities like sperm cryopreservation, embryo cryopreservation, laser assisted hatching and blastocyst biopsy. The PMR centre, on the other hand, will deal with sports, brain and spinal injuries. It will have a nerve stimulator, ultrasound and electrotherapy unit and a shock wave therapy unit. State health minister Mangal Pandey, who also attended the event through videoconferencing, bed capacity of IGIMS would increase from 750 to 2,500 soon. IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said doctors at the hospital have performed many surgeries amid Covid pandemic. “At least 150 children were operated for congenital anomalies during the pandemic period,” he added. MLA Sajeev Chaurasia and PMR’s head of department Dr Raj Kumar also attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-opens-new-facilities-at-igims/articleshow/78222098.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 21, 2020||Kochi||Businesses in shock as activists seek caution||Kochi: The arrests of suspected members of an al-Qaida affiliate cell have shocked businesses in the district that employ guest labour. Activists, at the same time, have cautioned against increased stigmatization of migrants. V Jayapal, state general secretary of Kerala hotels and restaurants association, said the government should adopt active measures to prevent the issue from escalating. “We are looking at the development with obvious fear. Other than going by Aadhar or other identity cards that they produce, what other option do we have? Also, Indians have the right to travel anywhere in the country in search of work. They are just like Malayalis who migrate in search of better opportunities,” said Jayapal, who runs a hotel at Perumbavoor. He urged the government and law enforcement machinery to put in place a foolproof system for background verification. “What has been going on is namesake surveillance. There should be a permanent solution to the lack of a background-verification system. Whenever cops ask business owners for documents of their employees, we hand it to them. We are willing to cooperate with the government and we hope that they will hold discussions, including with representatives of merchants, to find a solution,” said Jayapal. Activists who work with migrants, meanwhile, called for increased awareness to avoid painting them with the same brush. “It is likely that people would generalize and see them differently now. For instance, the family of one of the accused is still in Perumbavoor and life could get very difficult for them. We have to create awareness among people so as to avoid their stigmatization,” they said. In reaction to the NIA action local police have heightened surveillance measures. Three police sub-divisions under Ernakulam rural have been asked to revamp information collection, which was impacted by the lockdown. “We were in the process of collecting information on migrants even before the lockdown. Many had returned home during this time as well. Instructions have been issued to officials to conduct examinations at camps of migrant workers and the process has been initiated,” a source with the force said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/businesses-in-shock-as-activists-seek-caution/articleshow/78223609.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Business||Kia to sell 1,50,000 units in domestic and export sales over next 12 months||Chennai: Korean car maker Kia has announced that it will produce 150,000 vehicles at its Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) factory in the next one year selling 100,000 units in India and exporting the rest. At the launch of its new compact SUV model Kia Sonet -- priced at Rs 6.7 - 10.4 lakh -- company MD Kookhyun Shim said: "Our plant has a capacity of 300,000 units which is enough to take care of current sales and export needs. We have already started second shift in our factory to make sure there will be no delay in deliveries. Our bookings are open and we have clocked 25,000 bookings already." Kia Sonet is being offered with the widest variety in its category in terms of powertrains and trims. In total, the Sonet is being offered across 17 variants, including two petrol engines, two diesel engines (WGT & VGT configurations), five transmissions and two trim levels. The Sonet will go head to head against competitor models like the Maruti Vitara Brezza, Hyundai Venue, Tata Nexon and Ford EcoSport. The Sonet is the third model to be launched in India by Kia after the Seltos SUV and Carnival MPV. It is among a clutch of top-end launches this month including the Toyota Urban Cruiser which is due for debut later this month. Kia currently has 265 customer touchpoints across 160 cities, said Shim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kia-to-sell-150000-units-in-domestic-and-export-sales-over-next-12-months/articleshow/78223488.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Rajkot||Covid positive patient jumps to death from pvt hospital||Rajkot: Coronavirus has not only proven its debilitating effect on the body, it has also shown its devastating impact on patients’ psyche with yet another positive patient in Junagadh taking his own life out of depression from the dreaded infection.In the second such tragic case of Covid patient committing suicide in Junagadh district in the past two months, this patient admitted in a private Covid hospital in Keshod jumped to death from the third floor on Sunday morning. Police said the deceased, Pravin Dadhania (61), was admitted to the Covid dedicated Nobel Hospital after testing positive of the virus. “On Sunday morning, Dadhania jumped out of the window of his room of the third floor. He was rushed to Keshod Civil Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival,” said an official from Keshod police station. Dadhania, who had retired from Gujarat Electricity Board in 2017, had apparently sunk into depression after testing positive for coronavirus on Friday, an official said. “According to the hospital staff, Dadhania, who was depressed and restless, spent a sleepless night and was given sleeping pills by the hospital staff. “He, however, stayed awake till the morning,” said the official, adding that Dadhania’s son has a readymade garment shop in Ambavadi market of Keshod. Earlier, Ashok Chudasma, another patient suffering from depression after testing Covid-19 positive, jumped to death from the eighth floor of Kalp Hospital in Junagadh city on the night of August 23. Three days after Chudasma’s suicide, unable to bear the loss of her husband, his wife Nita along with their five year old son, Het, jumped into a well on the outskirts of Moti Ghansari village, eight km from Keshod town on August 26 and died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-positive-patient-jumps-to-death-from-pvt-hospital/articleshow/78222689.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Raj tweaks unlock SOPsdue to rising Covid cases||Jaipur: In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the state government has scrapped its previous order permitting resumption of several activities from September 21 as part of its Unlock 4.0 guidelines. According to a home department order on Sunday night, activities such as sports, political, social, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions will remain prohibited till October 30. The state government, which had allowed a gathering of 50 people for funerals in its August 30 order, has now reduced it to 20 people. For marriages, 50 people will be allowed with prior permission of SDMs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tweaks-unlock-sopsdue-to-rising-covid-cases/articleshow/78224653.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Tourist guide alleges rape by 5 in five-star hotel in Delhi, 1 held||NEW DELHI: A 27-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by five men at a room of a five-star hotel in Lutyens’ Delhi. The survivor said a woman provoked the men to rape her. The latter has also been booked for rape. The survivor, a tourist guide-cum-ticket booking agent, has told police that she went to receive the second instalment of a loan from the accused, who were known to her, on Friday night. The prime accused, Manoj Sharma, a resident of Malviya Nagar, has been arrested while the cops are probing about others. Sharma, who works as a contractor, reportedly dropped the woman home after the incident, police said. “The survivor has claimed that she was allured to the hotel room on the pretext of providing the loan at a subsidised rate by these people. The survivor was in dire need of money,” said a senior police officer. The woman said in her statement that she was asked to come outside a complex that was near the hotel around 9.30pm. She alleged that the accused, on the pretext of giving her the money, took her to a room where the men took turns to rape her till 1am on Saturday. When she resisted, they threatened to harm her and also beat her up. The police were informed about the incident on Saturday. An officer privy to the investigation revealed that the room was booked in the name of two businessmen. The survivor had met Sharma through a third person and wanted a loan of Rs 18 lakh. A payment of Rs 7 lakh was made earlier and the second instalment was pending, for which she had come to meet them on Friday, said an officer. Sharma, along with the accused woman, met the survivor outside the hotel and took her to the room where four men were already present. The survivor alleged that the woman had provoked the others to assault her. All accused have been identified, the police officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tourist-guide-alleges-rape-by-5-in-five-star-hotel-1-held/articleshow/78223605.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||In times of social distancing, Delhi Metro’s set to mend the gap||NEW DELHI: The “missing link” of Delhi Metro’s longest corridor, Pink Line, is likely to be bridged by March next year as the construction work of a viaduct between Trilokpuri and Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 stations is in progress. The 58.6km Pink Line from Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar is one of the most ambitious corridors built by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). It is also known as the “ring corridor” as it functions as an arc, connecting all the existing corridors. Unavailability of land at Trilokpuri had meant that DMRC couldn’t construct the crucial stretch connecting Mayur Vihar to Trilokpuri. As a result, the longest single corridor currently functions as two independent corridors. While one section operates from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket-1, the trains coming from Shiv Vihar return from Trilokpuri station, leaving a gap of almost 4km in between. Trilokpuri is a densely populated residential area and land was needed for the construction of 10 pillars to build the viaduct. The occupants of 108 plots in Block-15 had to be relocated to make this land available. DMRC relocated most of the occupants to flats built nearby and then floated tenders for construction of the missing link last year. “The foundation work has been completed and pier casting is going on in this section. The total length of this stretch is 289 metres and preparations are in progress for pier cap casting too,” DMRC said in a statement. “However, 17 houses have still not been evacuated and the matter is sub judice,” it added. Though DMRC was tight-lipped, sources said the construction was likely to be completed by March 2021. Once the viaduct was complete, Pink Line would most likely witness a spike in footfall as it would connect large parts of east Delhi with south and west. Also, DMRC has started construction work on the 12.6km Majlis Park–Maujpur corridor, which will turn Pink Line into a complete circle. The Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor is part of DMRC’s Phase-IV project and will also boast of the first cantilever bridge across the Yamuna. The tenders for construction of the viaduct were floated mainly for civil work. The work is expected to be completed within about eight months at a cost of Rs 15.6 crore. While finding enough land nearby to rehabilitate all the families took a long time, DMRC finally managed to accomplish the feat. The lottery for allotment of flats for “project affected persons” at Trilokpuri was held on the order of Delhi High Court under the supervision of an observer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-times-of-social-distancing-metros-set-to-mend-the-gap/articleshow/78223610.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid tally goes past 1.68 lakh as 1,555 more test +ve||PATNA: With 1,555 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours, the state’s Covid tally increased to 1,68,542 on Sunday. The health department said 1,76,511 samples were tested across the state in the last 24 hours. As three more people succumbed to the virus on Sunday, the official death toll in the state has mounted to 864. Patna, Begusarai and Samastipur districts reported one death each on Sunday. The state currently has 13,235 active Covid cases as 1,54,443 patients have so far recovered from the virus. With more than 1.7 lakh tests in one day, the total number Covid tests in the state since the outbreak of the virus crossed 57 lakh-mark on Sunday. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Sunday that 1,487 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state after recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s recovery rate has reached 91.63%. State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, in his daily Covid briefing on Sunday, said of 1,76,511 samples tested in the last 24 hours, only 0.88% of people found positive for Covid. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said at 91.63%, the state’s recovery rate is 13% higher than the national average. As per the figures released by the department, 10,691 Covid patients are in home isolation in the state, 379 at dedicated Covid hospitals, 218 at dedicated Covid healthcare centres and 428 at Covid care centres. There are 2,569 active containment zones in the state. As far as new Covid-19 cases are concerned, Patna recorded 209 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the district’s tally to 25,569. However, with 23,419 recoveries, active cases stand at 1,953 in the district. So far, 197 Covid patients have died in the district. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 101 cases on Sunday, Supaul 93, East Champaran and Purnia 73 each, Araria 64, Nalanda 59, Jamui 58 and Rohtas 53. Two people succumbed to Covid at AIIMS-Patna on Sunday, including a 62-year-old man from Indirapuri and a 73-year-old man from Kankarbagh. AIIMS-P Covid nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar has confirmed the deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-tally-goes-past-1-68l-as-1555-more-test-ve/articleshow/78222122.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 21, 2020||Patna||Patna University set to conduct offline examinations from today||PATNA: The stage is set for Patna University to conduct its first offline examinations since the Covid-19 outbreak and closure of colleges. More than 2500 boys and girls of Degree Part III course, who could not take their examinations scheduled on March 14, would be writing their papers on Monday. PU examination controller R K Mandal said all necessary arrangements were made for conducting the examination at Patna Women’s College, Magadh Mahila College, B N College, Patna College and Patna Science College centres. “The examination centres have been completely sanitised and seating arrangements have been made in such a way that examinees must maintain a distance of at least two metres between them. Besides, all the examinees have been asked to wear face masks and try to come with sanitisers, if possible. Otherwise, sanitisers would also be made available at the examination centres,” he said. All the examinees have been informed about the examinations well in advance and hostels have been reopened for the examinees coming from outside Patna only. They would be asked to vacate the hostels after the end of examination, Mandal added. PU has also announced the programme of Degree Part II (Honours) examinations scheduled to commence on October 5. The programme of Degree Part I examination and that of PG semester II and IV examinations would also be announced shortly, the controller said. Meanwhile, PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said the combined entrance tests for admission to BA, BSc and BCom Part I (Honours) courses shall begin from September 26. As many as 42,000 students have applied for admission to different courses of PU this year and the last date for submission of online application forms for admission to UG courses ended on August 31. As per PU’s programme, the entrance test for admission to the BCom (Honours) course will be held on September 26 and that for BA (Honours) courses on September 30. The entrance test for BSc (Honours) course and BFA course will be held on September 29 and 30 respectively. While Magadh Mahila College has been authorized to hold combined entrance test for admission to BA and BCom (Honours) courses, Patna Science College will conduct the entrance test for BSc (Honours) course, Jha said. The entrance test for all self-financing courses, both at UG and PG level, would be held between September 30 and October 7. Admission to all the conventional PG courses will be held on the basis of marks obtained in the last graduation examination. The last date for submission of online forms for admission to conventional PG courses is September 21, but it would have to be extended till the results of Degree Part III examinations are published, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-set-to-conduct-offline-examinations-from-today/articleshow/78222054.cms||B K Mishra
September 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No seat-sharing talks with NDA partners yet says Chirag Paswan||PATNA: LJP national president Chirag Paswan on Sunday said his party has so far not held any seat-sharing talk with senior leaders of the NDA constituents for the upcoming assembly elections in the state. In an emotional letter addressed to workers of the party, Chirag said he had not been able to remain present in Patna due to the health condition of his father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who is admitted to the ICU of a Delhi hospital for treatment. Chirag said the senior Paswan, Union minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, ignored his routine health check-up due to his busy schedule to ensure timely implementation of free ration scheme of the central government during Covid-induced lockdown. The letter said senior Paswan’s health condition subsequently deteriorated. About three weeks ago, he was admitted to a Delhi hospital. “I see him in the ICU every day fighting with the disease. We hope he will be with people soon after getting well,” the Jamui MP said. He added, “Although my father has been asking me to return to Patna and be with workers of the party when the assembly polls are round the corner, I can’t do so. Being a son, I think it is not proper to be away from my father when he needs my help,” Chirag said. Chirag said he had also made it clear at the meeting of the parliamentary board of the party and again at the meeting with the MPs of the party held in New Delhi recently that seat-sharing talks were not held with any NDA partner for the Bihar assembly election. Taking a dig at the state government (of which LJP is not a part), Chirag said the state government led by CM Nitish Kumar is focusing on ‘saat nishchay’ programme, which was launched in 2015 when JD(U) was part of the Grand Alliance comprising RJD, Congress and the JD(U). The LJP chief asked the workers of the party to continue their work on presenting a different development road map, ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’. He also exhorted party men to work sincerely with people who are grappling with foods and Covid-19 pandemic. Chirag’s letter came barely two days after a senior JD(U) MLC, Gulam Gaus, suggested him not to work as ‘rajkumar (king’s son)’. Last week, Chirag had written to PM Narendra Modi, saying that people of Bihar were not happy with the functioning of CM Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-seat-sharing-talks-with-nda-partners-yet-chirag/articleshow/78222704.cms||Ramashankar
September 21, 2020||Patna||Unemployment in Bihar to be a major poll issue: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: In a fresh salvo against CM Nitish Kumar, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday alleged that corruption was at its peak in the government offices and people were forced to oblige the officials for getting their work done. Tejashwi said the issues of unemployment, inept handling of floods and Covid-19 pandemic and poor health services will dominate the electioneering for state assembly election due in October-November. “I challenge CM Nitish Kumar to name a block or a police station where people’s work is done without ‘sushashni chadhawa’ to the officials concerned. If he has any doubt, visit those offices incognito,” he tweeted. He also took a dig at Nitish and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi over their on providing jobs to migrant workers and transferring money in their bank accounts during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The ground reality is different altogether,” he said. Reacting to the RJD leader’s statement, IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar said, “When his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad is serving jail sentence in fodder scam cases and his family has been accused of amassing unaccounted assets, he (Tejashwi) has no right to speak about corruption.” Neeraj said CM Nitish has always fought against corruption and has put behind bars those who defied the ‘zero tolerance’ policy of the government on corruption. Meanwhile, in an interview to PTI on Sunday, Tejashwi asserted that RJD is the “natural leader of the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ and seat-sharing issue will be settled soon. Hitting out at the Modi government at the Centre over the issue of the three farm bills, he said RJD will fight “tooth and nail” against this “corporatisation of the agriculture sector”. “These bills will strip farmers of their financial security net which has been safeguarded by provisions like public procurement and MSP (minimum support price),” he said. Why did a Union cabinet minister resign if the bills were not “anti-farmer”, he asked, referring to Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Asserting that his party will fight the Bihar polls on people’s issues, Tejashwi said this is going to be an election between “unemployed youths, pro-democracy and pro-Constitution forces versus an authoritarian, divisive and anti-constitution regime”. Asked if the Sushant Singh Rajput case could be a poll issue with many leaders raising it, Tejashwi said, “We were the first to demand a CBI inquiry into Sushant’s death. Since the investigation has begun, we shall have faith in it and wait for its results. We never made it a political issue and it shouldn't be one,” he said. Claiming that Nitish has “failed miserably” on all these fronts in his nearly 15-year-long rule, he said, “Our state should not suffer due to shrewd deflection strategies of the BJP-JD(U).” The leader of opposition in state assembly asserted that unemployment was the most critical challenge the country and Bihar in particular should address. “Over 4.5 lakh posts are lying vacant since long and I assure the youth of Bihar that if voted to power, our government in the first cabinet meeting will float these vacancies and the process will be completed within a stipulated time frame,” he said, adding he would also bring in a ‘domicile policy’ in government jobs if voted to power. Asked about the Centre rolling out a slew of development projects and schemes for Bihar, Tejashwi alleged that announcing projects on the eve of election to lure voters were “hallmarks” of both Nitish and PM Modi.  “Grandiose PR (public relations) exercises are a poor substitute for governance. Nitish ji cannot cheat Bihar again. ‘Kaath ki haandi baar baar nahi chadhti’,” he said. Asked about LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s jibes at Nitish and JD(U), Tejashwi said he would not comment as it’s NDA’s business, but added that people are observing how an NDA ally is questioning own government, its policies and echoing opposition’s voice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/unemployment-in-state-to-be-a-major-poll-issue-tejashwi/articleshow/78222654.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Rajkot||23-year-old man rapes ex-girlfriend, booked in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 23-year-old man was booked on Saturday night for allegedly raping his ex-girlfriend in Bheem Nagar on Kalawad Road in Rajkot. Police said the accused, Mukesh Makwana, had allegedly raped the survivor after calling her into a cabin on September 17. According to the police, Makwana and the survivor were in love in the past. However, the survivor had walked out on him after getting engaged to some other youth. Makwana, however, started pestering her with threats that if she did not continue with the relationship, he would commit suicide. “On the day of the crime, Makwana allegedly called the survivor, telling her that if she did not come, he would consume poison. The survivor went to meet him in a cabin in Bheem Nagar, where Makwana first beat her up and then allegedly raped her,” said S R Patel, inspector with Rajkot Mahila Police Station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/23-year-old-man-rapes-ex-girlfriend-booked/articleshow/78222834.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Meerut||Four labourers on their way to Punjab killed in a road accident||MEERUT: Four people lost their lives after a canter with at least 25 inter-state migrant labourers on board was hit from behind by a speeding truck in UP's Saharanpur district on Saturday night. According to police, the deceased - all residents of Titavi area in Muzaffarnagar - were on their way to Punjab. They were working as labourers at a brick kiln in Ludhiana. The accident occurred within the Titora police station limits. "Three people had died on the spot while the six injured were referred to Saharanpur district hospital. One of the critically hurt was later referred to a higher centre in Meerut where he succumbed during treatment," Ashok Kumar Meena, Saharanpur SP (rural), said. Notably, at least four persons, including a woman, with serious injuries are being treated at different hospitals in Saharanpur. The woman - in a critical condition - has been referred to a higher centre in Meerut. An FIR has been registered in the case. "Efforts are on to trace the driver who had fled from the spot," SP (rural) Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-labourers-from-up-on-their-wayto-punjab-killed-in-a-road-accident/articleshow/78222458.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Business||‘RBI letting rupee firm up to tame inflation’||MUMBAI: The RBI appears to be following a strategy of allowing the rupee to firm up in order to keep inflation under check, according to a report by Bank of America Securities. The rupee has gained 2.7% against the dollar and the central bank might be less aggressive in buying dollars as it has achieved adequacy of foreign exchange reserves, the report said. The RBI has historically followed a policy of graded weakening of the rupee by buying dollars when the domestic currency is firming up and allowing it to depreciate when there is a rupee sell-off, although it does use its forex reserves to prevent excess volatility. The risk in allowing the dollar to gain is that imports become cheaper and exports are disincentivised. Also, it is profitable for foreign investors to sell Indian assets. A weaker rupee, on the flip side, increases domestic inflation by increasing oil prices. The rupee, which had weakened to almost 77 in the post-pandemic market crash in April, has recovered substantially and had closed at 73.46 against the dollar on Friday. “We think the RBI will buy forex less aggressively than in the past, having achieved adequate forex reserves (over $500 billion) again. Second, it has stated that appreciation helps cool high CPI inflation, although we find ‘imported’ inflation relatively weak. Finally, the RBI will likely allow rupee to weaken if the dollar strengthens, as it can sell up to $50 billion to fend off any speculative attack on the rupee,” the report said Incidentally, the rupee has firmed up despite the RBI purchasing $24 billion of foreign currency between July and September 11, 2020. “As inflation peaks off, we think that there still will be a policy bias towards a weak rupee till growth revives. Our forex strategists see the rupee at 74 per dollar by December,” the report said. While low global rates are ensuring that funds continue to move to emerging markets, the rupee could come under pressure because of geopolitical reasons. “The mixed US data is losing the economic confidence and weighing on dollar. But in coming sessions, the Indo-China border and Brexit uncertainty will occasionally keep the dollar bulls active. This week, the spot respected both the crucial support of 73 and the resistance of 73.75. Even next week, we expect the sideways trend to continue. Unless the support zone of 72.9-73 doesn’t break, the spot will trade higher towards 73.75,” said Rahul Gupta, head of research (currency), Emkay Global Financial Services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-letting-rupee-firm-up-to-tame-inflation/articleshow/78224582.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Agra||Kafeel Khan writes to UNHRC about violations of NSA/UAPA||AGRA: Paediatrician Dr Kafeel Khan, who was recently absolved of charges under the stringent National Security Act (NSA), has written a letter to the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHRC) informing them about “widespread violations of international human right standards in India and misuse of draconian laws like NSA and UAPA to suppress voices of dissent”. In his letter, Dr Khan thanked the UN rights body for urging the Indian government to protect human rights of activists arrested for “peacefully protesting against CAA” and said that the government “has not listened to their appeal”. “Authorities continue to invoke counter-terrorism and national security legislations using procedural police powers against these human right defenders for raising issues which would affect India’s poorest and most marginalised community, violating international human right standards,” Khan wrote. On June 26, the UN body had written to the Indian government, mentioning 11 cases, among those that of Kafeel Khan and Sharjeel Imam, for “serious allegations of human rights violations, several relating to due process failings during arrest and detention, as well as allegations of torture and ill-treatment”. Describing his days in jail, Khan wrote, “I was tortured mentally and physically and also denied food and water for many days and treated inhumanely during my 7 months of incarceration in a congested, overcrowded Mathura prison. Fortunately, I got my NSA and all 3 extensions of detention quashed by the high court, which called the whole process illegal.” He also mentioned about the Gorakhpur tragedy on August 10, 2017 at Baba Raghav Das Medical College, in which many children lost their lives due to unavailability of liquid oxygen. The high court categorically stated in its April 25, 2018 order that there was “no evidence of medical negligence found against him and he was not even involved in the oxygen tendering process”. Dr Khan has since been suspended from his job, but not relieved from the state services. That renders him unable to practise or join elsewhere. Eight different inquiries were conducted by the UP government and they have all absolved him of any wrongdoing in the tragedy, and he is widely perceived as a scapegoat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kafeel-khan-writes-to-unhrc-about-widespread-violations-and-misuse-of-nsa/uapa-in-india/articleshow/78221609.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Satellite population of blackbuck recorded in Gujarat's Dhrangadhra||AHMEDABAD: The recent wild ass census for the first time officially recorded a satellite population of blackbuck (Antilope cervicapra) in the Rann in Dhrangadhra taluka. This is the first time that 50-odd blackbuck were officially recorded in the taluka by the forest department. A senior official of the department said, “During the wild ass census this year we recorded some 50 blackbuck in areas of Dhrangadhra taluka and the enumerators were surprised. Inquiries revealed that the population was stable and had been in the area for over three years.” Officials from the area said they had earlier recording sightings but they were scattered. Officials said this is a satellite population that is not linked to the Velavadar blackbuck sanctuary. The department is now focusing on establishing this as a habitat for blackbuck. Officials said a satellite population helps protect the species in case of an outbreak of disease. They added that the blackbuck census was done in 2016 and had recorded more than 6,000 animals. The next blackbuck census is due next year. The blackbuck population in Gujarat was found to have increased by 25% in 2016, prompting the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to put the species in its “nearly threatened” category. In the late 1990s, blackbuck was classified as ‘vulnerable’ in the state. According to the state forest department, Velavadar National Park has the largest blackbuck population in the country. Apart from Gujarat, the antelope is found in Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra. IUCN, in its report stated that although blackbucks have disappeared from many parts due to destruction of habitat and conversion to agricultural use, the antelopes are growing in numbers in many protected areas. D T Vasavda, chief conservator of forests, said, “There is a satellite population of blackbuck in Dhrangadhra. There are also reports of populations in Kutiyana, Pandesari and Mehsana. Satellite populations are good for the conservation of the species.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/satellite-population-of-blackbuck-recorded-in-dhrangadhra/articleshow/78223612.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Freedom of expression with a sword? Delhi Court denies bail||NEW DELHI: Wondering what kind of freedom of expression is exercised “with a sword or a stick in hand”, a Delhi court hearing the northeast Delhi communal riots cases dismissed the bail plea of two men allegedly involved in attacking policemen at Wazirabad in north Delhi. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav made strong observations on the conduct of the two accused — Badrul Hassan and Mohammad Ibrahim — while rejecting their bail. Based on Closed-circuit television and independent footage tabled by the prosecution, the additional sessions judge noted the “demeanour” of the accused moving very aggressively with a “sword” and a stick in hand respectively, while both were seen exhorting the other persons purportedly to move towards the scene of the crime. “It is clearly evident that the protesters, organisers, motivated persons in the mob and certain unscrupulous elements had surrounded the scene of the crime and appeared to be fully equipped with rioting materials like stones, sticks, sharp-edged weapons and other types of raw weapons. Even burqa-clad women are clearly seen attacking the police party with sticks and other materials in their hands and they clearly appeared to be charged up,” the court noted after Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad argued against any relief to the accused. The court further observed that as per the record, some of the persons of the mob reached the rooftops of high-rise buildings at or around 25 Feet Road in Wazirabad with firearms. “All this prima facie indicates that everything was being done under a well-hatched conspiracy, the common objective whereof was to cause blockade of the Main Wazirabad Road and if resisted by the police, then to go to any extent to liquidate them by use of force,” ASJ Yadav noted. The court also rejected the argument that the accused and others had gathered to hold peaceful protests. “I fail to understand as to what kind of right to freedom of speech and expression was being exercised by the applicant with a “sword” in his hand. It is a matter of record that the mob had become unruly and had given merciless beatings not only to police officials, but also to senior officers who had reached at the spot to pacify them,” he observed, while dismissing the bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/freedom-of-expression-with-a-sword-court-denies-bail/articleshow/78223608.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Call a friend: Arvind Kejriwal urges Delhiites to spread awareness about Covid, dengue||NEW DELHI: In the third week of Delhi government’s ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ anti-dengue campaign, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged Delhiites to call 10 friends or relatives and spread awareness not only about the measures to prevent dengue, but also how to remain safe from Covid-19. “Right now, we are dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, but it is also the season when dengue cases in Delhi significantly increase. We have re-launched the ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute Har Ravivar Dengue Par Vaar’ this season and this is the third week of our anti-dengue campaign,” Kejriwal said. “Last year, the citizens of Delhi defeated dengue due to their collective efforts and I hope that the people must be checking their houses this year as well. We do not want people to suffer from dengue and we have to be conscious about both dengue and Covid-19.” “Citizens must help in spreading awareness about measures to prevent dengue. They must pick up the phone and call 10 of their friends or relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue, such as draining stagnant water and replacing it. They must also advise their friends and relatives to take all measures to remain safe from coronavirus,” he said. While inspecting his own residence at 10am on Sunday, Kejriwal said that the collective efforts of the people will help Delhi in defeating dengue like last year, which saw a significant decrease in the number of dengue cases in the capital. The first edition of the ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ anti-dengue campaign was launched by Kejriwal in September 2019. Last year, 2,036 dengue cases and two deaths were reported, compared with 15,867 cases and 60 deaths in 2015. This year, the campaign was launched on September 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/call-a-friend-kejriwal-urges-delhiites-to-spread-awareness-about-covid-dengue/articleshow/78223624.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Trichy||Vandalism of roadside trees continues unabated in Trichy||Trichy: The callous and insensitive attitude of residents coupled with poor enforcement have been sounding the deathknell of roadside trees in Trichy of late with several of them being trimmed indiscriminately. At least six such decades-old trees were reduced to trunks by apartment dwellers in Srirangam without securing the formal permission of authorities.The well-grown trees dotting Amma Mandapam main road were trimmed by residents of an apartment on Sunday morning much to the shock of passersby. While it is usual to trim overgrown parts such as branches, that too if the trees were touching live electric wires or cables passing over them, the native trees on Amma Mandapam road were denuded except for the main trunks. When asked about it, the apartment dwellers said the trees were weak and appeared to fall anytime. “We were facing insect and ant menace too. Oral permission was obtained from the state highways department before trimming the trees,” a representative of the apartment said. While six trees were completely trimmed, one Konrai tree (golden shower) was found uprooted. Activists said that it is unclear whether it was uprooted during the trimming or before it. The apartment dwellers maintained that the tree fell on its own in recent the showers.“We need a committee to monitor and prevent such threats. As a punishment, the offenders should be asked to plant and maintain tree saplings,” K C Neelamegam, state adviser, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam, said. Indiscriminate trimming of public trees near roads has become a routine in Trichy city. Both Trichy corporation and state highways officials said that permission was not granted for trimming the trees on Amma Mandapam road. “After receiving the information, we stopped the residents from proceeding further. We cannot give permission to trim trees in such a manner,” a senior official with state highways said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vandalism-of-roadside-trees-continues-unabated-in-trichy/articleshow/78224673.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Cop suspended over live-in relation||KOZHIKODE: The order of city police chief A V George suspending a civil police officer for alleged ‘living together’ has landed in a controversy with the woman concerned filing complaint against the police for insulting her dignity. Umesh U, working with the police control room, was suspended pending inquiry for denting the image of police force and for ‘gross violation of discipline’. The order said that the mother of Athira K Krishnan, hailing from Parambil Bazar, lodged a complaint that her daughter was taken from her residence and housed at a rented flat by Umesh ‘for living together’. Assistant commissioner (special branch) K V Sudarshan conducted an inquiry and reported that Umesh was estranged from his wife in 2011 but is not legally divorced. Umesh has a daughter but he made Athira believe that he would marry her after getting divorce. The report said Umesh misled the real estate broker that he and Athira were husband and wife and obtained a rented flat. The AC said Umesh frequents the flat. But Athira refuted the references in the suspension order and approached the inspector general (north zone) against George and Sudarshan. In the complaint, Athira said she rented the flat after there were some problems in the family over composing music, which is her passion. She said the actual reason is a long-standing enmity George has with Umesh. Umesh had incurred the wrath of the police authorities after he commented on the police’s inefficiency in dealing with the violent Sangh Parivar mob at SM Street during the Sabarimala agitations. His Facebook comment on the film ‘Kadupookkumbol’ after the arrest of Allan and Thwaha was also controversial. Athira (31), working as a counsellor in a school, said the references in the order is an affront on her individuality and self-respect. Stating that there are no frequenters in her flat, she said even if there is one it would not amount to any crime. Athira has given another complaint against the assistant commissioner saying that he recorded the statement on his own and forced her to sign it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cop-suspended-over-live-in-relation/articleshow/78223630.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Agra||AMC to repair 40 pothole-riddled roads in Agra||AGRA: With the monsoon drawing to a close, Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has chalked out a Rs 2.64-crore plan for repairing 40 major roads in the city that are in a poor condition. The tendering process for the road repair work will start on Monday, said civic body officials. Municipal commissioner Nikhil T Funde said, “On the basis of reports of the civil department engineers, a plan for repairing 40 damaged roads has been prepared. The entire work is estimated to cost Rs 2.64 crore. After the tendering process, the road repairs is targeted to begin on October 1.” Roads in Madia Katra, Rajamandi, Sikandra, Awas Vikas, Bodla Road, Lawyers Colony to ISBT, KK Nagar and Deewani crossing are among those to be repaired. In February, Allahabad high court had summoned AMC commissioner, vice-chairman of Agra Development Authority and executive officer of Agra Smart City Limited following a petition over pothole-riddled roads in the city and road traffic mismanagement. The petition was filed by a social organization, Civil Society of Agra. In its petition, it had said poor maintenance of roads caused frequent accidents. Agra city is divided into 100 municipal wards with a 1,720-km road network. Every year, more than Rs 2 crore is spent on repairing the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-to-repair-40-pothole-riddled-roads-in-city/articleshow/78221632.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Meerut||Pharmacist’s murder in UP: Three days on, police yet to trace killers||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Three days after the murder of a 40-year-old local pharmacist who was gunned down at his doorstep by atleast three assailants, the local police are yet to get any breakthrough in the case as the killers are still at large. Intensifying its search operation to trace the killers, police have now deployed drones to scan the forested areas. According to sources, heavy police force, including PAC, launched a search operation in the jungles of the three villages, including Morna village. Several drone cameras were also used to trace the killers, but to no avail. Bhopa deputy superintendent of police Sumendra Kumar Naigi said, “After getting a tip-off, we launched a search operation in the sugarcane fields. Several drone cameras were also used to locate the culprits but even after hours of search, we found nothing. We will continue the search operation.” It should be noted that on September 17, one Anuj Karanwal was sprayed with bullets by assailants at his doorstep when he was about to enter his house after returning from his medical store at Morna village under Bhopa police station in Muzaffarnagar. On hearing the gunshots, Karanwal’s family rushed outside to find him lying unconscious in a pool of blood. He was hit by three bullets. He was taken to a local hospital and later shifted to the district hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav said, “Preliminary investigations revealed that the deceased had a personal dispute with the attackers who have been identified and will be arrested soon.” Meanwhile, members of the Muzaffarnagar’s chemist and druggist association met police officers and demanded that the culprits be arrested as soon as possible. Several politicians offered condolences to the deceased’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pharmacists-murder-three-days-on-police-yet-to-trace-killers/articleshow/78222483.cms||Mohd Dilshad
September 21, 2020||Varanasi||Woman shot, teen daughter hurt in attack||Gorakhpur: In a shocking incident, two unidentified bike-borne assailants wearing helmets followed a woman and her daughter going on a scooty and fired at them in broad daylight on Sunday afternoon in Basharatpur area of Shahpur police station in Gorakhpur. SSP Gorakhpur Joginder Singh set up two probe teams while police launched a combing operation to nab the assailants. Locals told police that 40 years old Nivedita Major alias Devina, principal of a primary school, was going with her 16 years old daughter Delsia on scooty. As soon as they reached Ashiaana turn at Rajiv Nagar, two bike-borne miscreants came from behind and opened fire at them. Devina and Delsia fell on the road. The assailants turned around and sped off firing in air. Police rushed them to BRD Medical College where doctors declared Nivedita dead, while her daughter Delsia is undergoing treatment.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-shot-teen-daughter-hurt-in-attack/articleshow/78221762.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Trichy||Outfit calls for holding serosurvey in Trichy city||Trichy: With the fresh Covid-19 infections in the city gradually declining, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam has urged the corporation and district administration to conduct serosurvey in the city. With more than 5,600 Covid-19 cases reported from Trichy city, of which more than 5,100 have recovered, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam said that the time is ripe for a serological survey. Serosurvey will examine the blood sample of residents of a particular area to check for the presence of antibodies. The association said that asymptomatic cases which have not been screened could be three to four times more than the total infections recorded so far. “The serosurvey will be highly helpful for the district administration to plan strategies at a zonal level to handle the pandemic in a better way. Trichy Corporation can initiate the survey which shall serve as a benchmark for other local bodies to follow,” said K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary of the association said. The association pointed out the serosurvey conducted in Chennai recently helped identify Madhavaram zone as the least affected. Meanwhile, experts in the district administration under the condition of anonymity said that Trichy city needs to wait some more time for a serosurvey. “Right now, we are witnessing around 60 cases per day. Previously, it was around 100 positive cases per day. The infection should further dip to a scale of 20-30 cases per day, then serosurvey is suggestible,” the expert added. The serosurvey was suggested to be conducted in an area with static population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/outfit-calls-for-holding-serosurvey-in-trichy-city/articleshow/78224678.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Schools divided over reopening, spike in corona cases across Jaipur worries parents||JAIPUR: Amid pandemic, the state government has allowed schools to re-open from September 21 to provide guidance to student from Class IX-XII. The decision has evoked mixed response from schools as a few institutes have have started to rollout a safe and secure environment for both students and teachers. However, parents are apprehensive about sending their kids to schools. CEO of Tagore Public School Ruchira Solanki said that they are working on a hybrid model that would include online classes and offline classroom consultation. “We are planning to call teachers subject-wise to school after their online classes gets over in the morning. Students with written permission from parents can come to the school to clear their doubts by following social distancing guidelines. For classes up to VIII standard, only regular online classes will be conducted,” said Solanki. Many schools have already started sanitizing their campus and preparing to install necessary amenities that would be required to prevent coronavirus spread. Principal of Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan Vidhyashram School Pratima Sharma said, “We are prepared to provide consultation to students after getting permission from parents following all the government guidelines for Covid-19. We will create a roaster to provide the time and date of a subject for which consultation will be provided. For board classes, it is a necessity. But Covid-19 protocol will be followed.” Principal of SMS School Manisha Tyagi said that the school won’t open from Monday. “Parents are reluctant to send their children to school even for a few hours. The number of cases is rising, the risk is there. So, we are focusing on strengthening the online classes and will give remedial sessions as well. Later, if parents agree we will open our school as well.” Meanwhile, principal of Maharani Gayatri Devi School, Archana Mankotia said that they are in no hurry as of now. “We are consulting parents and if they would agree, then we will chalk out a plan to call students in limited number for guidance. Final decision will be taken later,” said Mankotiya. However, parents are still unwilling to send their wards to school due to the rising number of coronavirus cases. Sunil Yadav of Jaipur and father of two children, said, “It doesn’t matter whether schools are re-opening for just consultation, the risk of Covid-19 is always there. How can the government expect us to send children to school when in Parliament ministers were tested positive? This is not good for students.” Rajasthan Abhivavak Sangh president Sushil Sharma questioned the government’s wisdom of implementing this order. “The state government on Saturday imposed fresh guidelines on various districts of Rajasthan looking at the rising number of coronavirus cases. Still the government implemented the Centre’s decision to open school for Class IX to XII students for consultation. This will be disastrous as children are vulnerable. Recently, seven teachers of a private school were found positive. How will the students be safe,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-divided-over-reopening-spike-in-corona-cases-across-city-worries-parents/articleshow/78224675.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Palavakkam residents protest inaction by local authorities||Chennai: At least 100 residents of Palkalai Nagar, Palavakkam, held a protest on Sunday, saying open grounds in the neighbourhood meant for building community halls and grocery stores are being used to park trucks and dump garbage. They have also become havens for miscreants, the residents said, accusing the authorities concerned of inaction. S P Murali Krishnan, member of the Madras University non-teaching staff residents’ welfare association at Palkalai Nagar, said the vacant grounds are owned by the university and had been earmarked for these facilities. But, recent encroachments made it difficult for the authorities to start the projects. “It was about to start last year but got delayed and this year due to the pandemic was delayed again. But people have now started dumping waste on the land and releasing sewage,” he said. Murali Krishnan alleged that most of the trucks and vehicles parked in the vacant plots were owned by a businessman who lives in the area. “When we asked him to remove it, he refused and then filed a complaint against us claiming that we were harassing him. Many others have started occupying this land, leaving us no place to start construction,” he said. A L Lakshminarayanan, secretary of the association, said complaints were lodged repeatedly, but the authorities did not act. “Even the local police do not interfere. It has also become unsafe for us to walk in this area because of the miscreants. This is only getting worse,” he said. To prevent people from entering, members of the association put up wooden fences around the ground, only to find them broken. “We are now pooling in money to put up metal fences, but these people somehow find a way to enter. It would be very helpful if the local authorities could intervene,” said Lakshminarayanan. “There is a case going on about the land, and the matter is subjudice. But yes we will put up fences around it to ensure that it is not misused,” said a corporation official from zone 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/palavakkam-residents-protest-inaction-by-local-authorities/articleshow/78222526.cms||Aditi R
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||HC appoints ex-CJ as observer for district cricket body polls||Ludhiana: Ahead of the October 11 elections of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), the Punjab and Haryana high court has appointed its former Chief Justice, Justice Vijender Jain, as an observer. The court has also made it clear that in case any objection was filed by any party regarding the elections, it would be decided by the observer. It has also been ordered that LDCA would bear the expenses for the observer. The development comes on a petition filed by former cricketers, Inderjit Singh Malhi (state cricketer) Manjeet Mahal (international umpire), Satish Mangal and Karan Goyal (Ranji Trophy player).With this development, a war of words has started between two factions — one of former cricketers led by Inderjit Singh Malhi and the other of LDCA general secretary Vinod Chitkara. Terming the court order a major victory, Malhi claimed that finally elections were being held after 17 years. Chitkara said the poll date was already decided by the association and they had submitted an affidavit on it before the court. Firing another salvo at LDCA, Malhi said, “It’s a victory for all the former cricketers from Ludhiana who gave their sweat and blood to the game, the city and the state. For over 17 years, the LDCA working was being carried out in a very secretive manner by a few individuals, who have not even disclosed details about the members and membership criteria. How the so-called office-bearers were elected, where was the voting held and how many votes were polled? Time and time again, we approached LDCA to make the working of the association transparent, but we were always snubbed. Therefore, we were forced to knock on the high court doors.”On the other hand, Chitkara said, “The claims of Malhi are frivolous. He is not even a member of LDCA, so how can he be aware when the elections took place last time and who all are our members. The working of LDCA is being conducted in a fair manner by following all rules and regulations. Our elections are held every five years. Our working can be ascertained from the fact that the last elections were held on October 11, 2015.”Malhi said, “We are least bothered about what the LDCA office-bearers say about us. We are confident that the court order and elections will prove to be a new beginning in the history of LDCA and the new body will be formed with full transparency and it will work for new talent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hc-appoints-ex-cj-as-observer-for-district-cricket-body-polls/articleshow/78222508.cms||Mohit Behl
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmer bodies burn effigies of PM, copies of agri Bills in protest||TNNLudhiana: Members of various farmers’ organisations burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and copies of farm ordinances at several places in the district on Sunday. They also announced a complete strike in Punjab and other states.President of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) Balbir Singh Rajewal said with the protest, they wanted to highlight the anti-farmer policy of the Union government. He alleged the Prime Minister was lying about the legislation and working to hand over everything to corporate houses. Reacting to the passage of the bills in Rajya Sabha on Sunday, the farmer leader said it would be marked as a black day, not only for farmers but for the entry country. He added that despite strong opposition, the BJP has got the bills passed, but they would not allow it to be implemented and were prepared to pay any price for it.Rajewal said members of farmers’ organization burnt effigies of the PM and copies of the ordinances outside Khanna SDM office, Samrala grain market and in Machhiwara. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of BKU (Lakhowal), said they protested at 200 places across the state and in Ludhiana district at Kohara Chowk, Samrala, Dehlon, Jagraon, Chowkiman, Mullanpur, Machhiwara and Khanna. The farmer leader said the Union government did great injustice to farmers by passing the bills. He added that they will shut down Punjab and Haryana and have talked to farmers’ organisations in Uttar Pradesh and they would also join them on September 25, when they would not allow any traffic, including on railway tracks and roads, and opening of shops.Lakhowal alleged that the Union government was benefiting corporate houses and handing over farming to them was detrimental as it contributed to the national income. He said they have called a meeting of 31 farmers’ organisations in Moga to decide the future course of action and will announce it on September 25. He added that they were also seeking a legal opinion on the matter and would knock on the court doors for justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmer-bodies-burn-effigies-of-pm-copies-of-agri-bills-in-protest/articleshow/78222512.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Meerut||Govt school teacher seen asking for Rs 200 in name of audit of each school on video, suspended||Meerut: A day after a video of a school teacher purportedly asking for Rs 200 in the name of audit of each school went viral on the internet, Meerut's basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) ordered an inquiry in the matter. The teacher in question was suspended with immediate effect."The teacher is seen asking for Rs.200 in the name of auditing of each school in the said video,” said Meerut BSA Satendra Kumar.The teacher’s action was against the norms and a probe has been set up, Kumar said. “A two-member committee comprising block education officers, Doorala and Rajpura, will investigate the matter. Till they submit their report, the teacher will remain suspended,” the BSA added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-school-teacher-seen-asking-for-rs-200-in-name-of-audit-of-each-school-on-video-suspended/articleshow/78222514.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer sees spike in cases||Jaisalmer: Unprecedented increase in coronavirus cases has left the residents worried in Jaisalmer. It is expected that the cases will further increase during the upcoming panchayat elections.Many colonies in ward number 37 imposed voluntary lockdown for 24 hours on Sunday which was successful. Ward councillor Chanchal Anand Vyas encouraged local residents to adhere to it.Pokhran SDM Ajay Amrawat, Jaisalmer municipal council commissioner Fateh Singh Meena, discom AEN and many other officers have been tested corona positive. A large number of people who came in contact with these officers have given their samples for testing. Last week, Jaisalmer MLA Ruparam and his wife were tested positive. They have been shifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. Their condition is said to be normal. The MLA’s relatives in his native village were reported to be corona positive including a four-month-old baby. Of the total cases reported in the last five months, maximum were reported in the last 17-18 days. The first case in Jaisalmer was reported on April 5 and till August 25 there were 339 cases. While the figure touched 719 till September 17.The biggest worry is that corona is spreading in villages. In last few months, the virus has spread in over 100 villages. During the panchayat elections, the situation could worsen. Another reason which has come to light is that there are many people who have symptoms of Corona but they are not going to give their samples. This increases chances of infecting more people. People fear that if they test positive they will get a bad name in the society. Meanwhile, district collector Ashish Modi on Sunday inspected a covid centre and gave directions with regard to arrangements. He said that flouting government guidelines was behind the spike in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-sees-spike-in-cases/articleshow/78224679.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Five men held for bike stunts on Delhi's Vikas Marg||NEW DELHI: Five men were arrested on Sunday on charges of performing stunts on motorcycles around 8am on the busy Vikas Marg in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar. The men have been booked for rash and negligent driving. The video of the stunts shot by passersby on their phones were widely circulated on social media following which Delhi Police identified the bikers. A police officer said that on the basis of the footage, a Bajaj Pulser motorcycle was identified first. Initial investigations revealed that some other men were also accompanying the stunt bikers in other cars and scooters. “We have arrested Sonu Kashyap, a 25-year-old driver, and his friend Kamal, a resident of Suraj Mal Vihar who works in the office of a chartered accountant,” said the officer. “On the basis of their information, three of their friends — 20-year-old Pawan, who is completing his Class XII from Open School; Sachin (20), an animation student; and Vipul Sharma, a salesman, were also arrested,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/five-men-held-for-bike-stunts-on-vikas-marg/articleshow/78223632.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||Probe ordered after Pilibhit jail prisoner dies of heart attack||PILIBHIT: A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the death of a 70-year-old prisoner, Dori Lal, lodged at the district jail here. He died early on Sunday morning of a cardiac arrest. Jail superintendent Anoop Manav Shastri said he had no history of cardiac trouble. A resident of Mundela Kalan village under Gajraula police station, Dori Lal was brought to the jail on August 12. He was lodged in jail under the Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act. Shastri said early on Sunday, he complained of chest pain. He was given oxygen and shifted to the district hospital, where doctors declared him as brought dead. The probe into his death has been ordered as part of protocol. Dori Lal had first been lodged in the district jail in March 1998 after he had been sentenced to 10 years in jail under the NDPS Act by the Pilibhit sessions court. Later, he was granted bail by the Allahabad high court. When he failed to appear before the high court for several hearings, an NBW was issued against him by the chief judicial magistrate in Pilibhit. Subsequently, he was arrested last month, Shastri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/probe-ordered-after-pilibhit-jail-prisoner-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/78219287.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Varanasi||Replacement of old signboards at Banaras rly station stalled for now||Varanasi: The work of replacement of old signages carrying old name Manduadih railway station following its official renaming as Banaras Railway station was stopped on Sunday as manual signboards seemed to look out of place and did not match with the ambience of the beautified station. Besides, process of change of code of railway station in centre of railway information system (CRIS) and freight operations information system (FOIS) is still to be changed and old code of railway station still exists on tickets.The North Eastern Railway Varanasi division spokesman Ashok Kumar said, Manduadih railway station has been beautified and modernised with an investment of Rs 36 crore in past six years. On Saturday, when the new name of the railway station was manually painted on a few sign boards, the officials found that it did not match the ambience of the station hence it was stopped. It was decided that sign boards at platforms and other places in and around the railway station will be replaced by retro-reflective boards only.The process of replacement of new code on CRIS and FOIS platforms is in progress hence old code of Manduadih railway station is still being printed on the journey tickets as well as information boards, time tables and online information system which may confuse passengers, he said adding that this was another reason to stop the name replacement works. Kumar said that NER has decided to start the replacement work after railway board completes this process.Divisional railway manager of NER (Varanasi) Vijay Kumar Panjiyar on Saturday had disclosed that NER received the approval letter of Indian Railway Conference Association regarding renaming of the Manduadih Railway Station as Banaras Railway Station on Friday night. The station code has also been changed from MUV to BSBS, he had said. After receiving the letter, he along with a team of NER officials, had inspected the railway station he said. The process of replacing the name on manually painted boards, notice, glow sign and electric lighting boards in and around the railway station was started following the inspection, however, on Sunday NER claimed that these works were done on a trial basis only. Officials expressed hope that CRIS and FOIS will be updated by the railway board by Monday evening.As per the NER officials, process of renaming of Manduadih railway station had been initiated by former minister of state for railway and now Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha in February 2019, By the end of 2019 Yogi Adityanath government accepted the proposal and forwarded it to ministry of home affairs. Principal secretary (PWD) Nitin Ramesh Gokarn said the Governor had formally renamed Manduadih railway station as Banaras Railway Station on September 16.After the formation of NDA government, modernisation and beautification work worth Rs 36 crore was done at Manduadih station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/replacement-of-old-signboards-at-banaras-rly-station-stalled-for-now/articleshow/78224768.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Hospitality sector questions govt’s silence on raising guest count||Ludhiana: Much to the disappointment of the hospitality industry, the Punjab government has failed to issue any order on increasing the number of guests allowed in a marriage and other functions in the state from the current 30.The central government’s recent recommendation allowing up to 100 guests in such functions are set to come into effect from Monday in various parts of the country, but the state government has not taken a call on it, though a group of ministers (GoM) had assured the businessmen that the new guidelines of the Centre would also be implemented in Punjab.Owners of hotels, banquet halls and marriage palaces are getting restive over the silence of the state government and believe that the delay in lifting the restrictions would prove disastrous for the industry.Speaking to TOI, Amarveer Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, said, “It’s very sad that despite the promise by GoM to us, the restrictions on the number of persons allowed in functions in banquet halls, hotels, marriage palaces still remain unchanged at 30. In other states, from tomorrow the guest count will be raised to 100, which will give a significant push to the hospitality industry of those states.” Expressing dismay, he said they are shocked over no decision yet by the state government despite knowing the condition of this industry, which is on the brink of permanent closure. “If the limit is not changed in the coming days, the results will be disastrous for our industry and the people connected with us,” he said.S S Rai, a hotelier and general secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association, said, “We are feeling humiliated as even after a series of representations and keeping our businesses shut for two days as a mark of protest, the government has failed to wake up to our woes. It is shocking that the Punjab government and its leaders are watching the marriage palaces, hotels, banquet halls and the catering industry go bankrupt but no action is being taken.”Expressing similar sentiments, Amarjit Singh Sant, president of Ludhiana Marriage Palace Welfare Association, said, “Due to the restriction on the number of guests, we have been unable to do even a single penny’s business ever since the Covid-19 started. The marriage palaces will be able to operate only if the guest count is increased to 100-200, or else we will have to shut down our businesses permanently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hospitality-sector-questions-govts-silence-on-raising-guest-count/articleshow/78222515.cms||Mohit Behl
September 21, 2020||Kanpur||11-yr-old girl attacked by leopard||Kanpur: An 11-year-old girl was seriously injured in attack by a leopard in Pachhaygaon police station area in Etawah district on late Saturday night. Sona, daughter of Lakhan Singh, was sitting in front of her house in Madaiyya Kareelgarh village when the leopard attacked her. She raised an alarm hearing which a group of villagers rushed to her rescue. On seeing the villagers, the leopard escaped into the Chambal forest cover. The girl was rushed to the district hospital in a serious condition. The locals thereafter informed the local police, who in turn alerted forest department officials. Locals told wildlife officials that a couple of leopards have been spotted by some villagers since past few days. They, said, “We are afraid to go to work in fields.” Chambal Sanctuary warden Diwakar Srivastava said, “We are trying to zero in on the leopard and at the same time we are also making the villagers aware of the precautions to be taken.” There has been increase in leopard attack cases in the district. In January this year, a flour mill owner was attacked by a leopard when he had gone to Neelkanth temple area close to ravines on a morning stroll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/11-yr-old-girl-attacked-by-leopard/articleshow/78224782.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports 9% of its cases in last 6 days||JAIPUR: More than 9% of the total cases in the state so far have been reported in the last six days. Since Monday, the state has reported more than 10,000 cases as it added 10,851 new infections accounting 9% of the total cases reported from March. For the third consecutive day, the state reported the biggest-single day spike of 1,865 cases taking the state’s overall tally to 1,14,989. For last three days, the state has been reporting more than 1,800 new infections daily. Jaipur is worst Covid-hit district with 6,305 active cases, followed by Jodhpur (2,724) and Kota (2,634). Total active cases in the state are 18,184. In the last 24 hours, 14 people died due to the virus, taking the state’s toll to 1336. Health department officials said the state government on Saturday night imposed Section 144 of CrPC to prevent five or more people from gathering at one place. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (328), Jodhpur (301), Udaipur (140), Pali (125), Alwar (114), Bhilwara (104), Ajmer (101), Kota (62), Bikaner (58), Nagaur (42), Tonk (41), Sikar (39), Bharatpur (37), Hanumangarh (34), Jhunjhunu (31), Churu (30), Chittorgarh (29), Sriganganagar (29), Banswara (26), Dausa (22), Bundi (22), Jhalawar (21), Dholpur (20), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (16), Barmer (14), Rajsamand (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Karauli (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Jalore (4). Kota reported its 94th Covid-19 death, Nagaur 46th, Pali 54th, Sirohi 20th, Udaipur 42nd, Ajmer 95th, Alwar 33rd, Banswara 9th, Bharatpur 75th, Bikaner 102nd, Jodhpur 132nd, Karauli 10th Jaipur reorted two deaths taking its toll to 310.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-9-of-its-cases-in-last-6-days/articleshow/78231826.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports 9% of its cases in last 6 days||JAIPUR: More than 9% of the total cases in the state so far have been reported in the last six days. Since Monday, the state has reported more than 10,000 cases as it added 10,851 new infections accounting 9% of the total cases reported from March. For the third consecutive day, the state reported the biggest-single day spike of 1,865 cases taking the state’s overall tally to 1,14,989. For last three days, the state has been reporting more than 1,800 new infections daily. Jaipur is worst Covid-hit district with 6,305 active cases, followed by Jodhpur (2,724) and Kota (2,634). Total active cases in the state are 18,184. In the last 24 hours, 14 people died due to the virus, taking the state’s toll to 1336. Health department officials said the state government on Saturday night imposed Section 144 of CrPC to prevent five or more people from gathering at one place. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (328), Jodhpur (301), Udaipur (140), Pali (125), Alwar (114), Bhilwara (104), Ajmer (101), Kota (62), Bikaner (58), Nagaur (42), Tonk (41), Sikar (39), Bharatpur (37), Hanumangarh (34), Jhunjhunu (31), Churu (30), Chittorgarh (29), Sriganganagar (29), Banswara (26), Dausa (22), Bundi (22), Jhalawar (21), Dholpur (20), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (16), Barmer (14), Rajsamand (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Karauli (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Jalore (4). Kota reported its 94th Covid-19 death, Nagaur 46th, Pali 54th, Sirohi 20th, Udaipur 42nd, Ajmer 95th, Alwar 33rd, Banswara 9th, Bharatpur 75th, Bikaner 102nd, Jodhpur 132nd, Karauli 10th Jaipur reorted two deaths taking its toll to 310.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-9-of-its-cases-in-last-6-days/articleshow/78224680.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Those with illegal water connections get MC notice||tnnLudhiana: The municipal corporation has started serving notices on those who have illegal water supply and submersible connections.The defaulters are given three days to bring documents to prove that they had taken the connections legally, else they will have to get these regularised. MC officials said if people would not come forward, they would snap the connections.The MC has started a survey in the city to identify migrant quarters with illegal water supply and sewer connections. After 2010, the district administration had imposed a ban on installation of submersibles because of the groundwater depletion.An official said, “We had issued notices to find illegal submersibles last year as well. Most of the residents had claimed that their submersibles were installed before 2010. Still, we will have to recover the disposal charges from them because they used sewer system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/those-with-illegal-water-connections-get-mc-notice/articleshow/78222531.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Man dies in Delhi lockup, family alleges torture||NEW DELHI: The body of a 40-year-old man, who was arrested for sexual assault of a minor girl, was found hanging in the lockup of Samaypur Badli police station in Outer-North district on Sunday morning. The same compound houses the DCP’s office. While the family of the accused claimed that police tortured him to death, cops claimed he had hanged himself. The deceased, Dharmender, is survived by his wife and four children. He had been convicted in a robbery-cum-murder case registered in northeast Delhi’s Khajuri Khas in 2005. In 2012, he had sodomised a 10 -year-old boy in Alipur and was convicted in that case too. He was released from jail on parole on February 2, which got extended due to the lockdown. He was to return to jail on October 17. This time, he had been accused of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl in outer Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar on Saturday. Neeraj, Dharmendra’s nephew, told TOI, “A policeman called me yesterday evening asking about my uncle's whereabouts. I told them he was roaming around somewhere. Some cops also came to our house for verification. Around 11pm, I got a call asking me to come to the police station with my family members. When I reached there, I saw my uncle being thrashed and made to consume liquor forcefully by the policemen.” The family members said Dharmendra was in jail for the past 15-20 years and was scheduled to go back next month. “Why will he kill himself in police lockup if he did not do it in jail all these years? If he was accused of rape, they should have sent him to jail instead of thrashing and killing him. Till 11am on Sunday, we were still waiting for clarity. We hadn’t even seen the body till 6pm,” said Neeraj. DCP (Outer-North) Gaurav Sharma said that constable Yashveer, who was on duty outside the lockup at the time of the alleged suicide, had been suspended. “Dharmender used a bed sheet to hang himself from the iron grilles of the lockup. We have preserved the CCTV footage. A magistrate is conducting an inquiry,” he added. On Saturday, Dharmender allegedly sexually assaulted the girl after entering her house. Her father is no more and her mother, a labourer, was out for work at that time. He was arrested on Saturday evening and booked for rape and under sections of Pocso Act. His family also raised the question as to why he was taken to Samaypur Badli police station when he was arrested in Swaroop Nagar. Police clarified that Swaroop Nagar didn’t have a lockup. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/death-in-police-stn-suicide-say-cops-family-disagrees/articleshow/78223646.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vadodara||Heavy rains damage many vehicles in city||Vadodara: Heavy rains accompanied by strong winds lashed the city late on Saturday night. Six motorbikes in different areas got crushed under uprooting trees during the thunderstorm that lasted for more than an hour. Nearly two inches of rain left the old city areas waterlogged for more than one hour. The fire brigade got many calls as hoardings came crashing down along with trees in Warasia, Manjalpur and Jubileebaug. Five motorbikes parked in Warasia area got damaged as a tree fell on them as well as on a car in Manjalpur area. The main roads in Raopura, Mandvi, Dandia Bazaar and Panigate witnessed waterlogging. Residents of some western and northern parts were hassled due to power cuts after the heavy rains. Skies remained clear during the entire day on Sunday but the city received yet another bout of heavy rain in the evening. Apart from the city areas, even Dabhoi received two inches of rain on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/heavy-rains-damage-many-vehicles-in-city/articleshow/78221625.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Covid positive candidates to take oath in front of doctor||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If candidates for local body polls test positive, doctors will administer the oath as part of the declaration that needs to be submitted along with nomination as per the draft guideline prepared by the state election commission (EC) for conducting local body polls in compliance with Covid-19 safety protocols. The candidates are mandated to take an oath in front of a gazetted officer. Usually this is done at the time of submitting nomination papers. The EC has drafted guidelines considering the possibility of candidates testing positive or being under quarantine. “A medical officer or a gazetted officer is allowed to administer the oath as per rules. Given the present situation, a doctor alone will be able to do this if a candidate is under treatment or under quarantine,” an EC official said. During such circumstances the proposer will submit the nomination paper on behalf of the candidate. The oath will have to be taken in front of the doctor. The declaration can also be submitted during the scrutiny of nomination paper. If the proposer tests positive, another person will have to be chosen as proposer for submitting the nomination. The guidelines for campaign have also been laid down. Only maximum of five people, including the candidate, will be allowed for house visits and nobody shall enter houses as part of campaign. The customary processions, gatherings and celebratory culmination of campaign will have to be avoided this year. The political parties which took part in the meeting recently demanded that they be allowed to hold family meetings and a limited number with social distancing measures has been allowed. Hard copies of notices, pamphlets will also have to be avoided. The candidates should also exhort voters to strictly use masks and sanitizers. The EC has also said no to reception programmes involving garlands, shawls, bouquets and currency-made adornments. The commission has raised the expense slab for local body poll campaign. For panchayats, the limit has been raised from Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000. The candidates of block panchayat and municipalities can spend up to Rs 75,000 for campaigns. Till now it was Rs 30,000. Corporation and district panchayat candidates can spend up to Rs 1.5 lakh as the limit has been raised from Rs 60,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-ve-candidates-to-take-oath-in-front-of-doc/articleshow/78223651.cms||Aswin J Kumar
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt changes strategy to fight virus, curbs take backseat||JAIPUR: In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the state government is now focusing more on ensuring facilities for treatment of patients and empowering people with correct information about the virus rather than imposing restrictions on people. As part of the move, state-level helpline 181 has been strengthened for better coordination in preventing and treatment of infection. In addition, war rooms have been set up up in all the districts. Health minister Raghu Sharma said a Covid patient or his family members can get any kind of information or advice from Helpline 181. The general public can also use the helpline to inform about problems they were facing because of corona. Adequate telephone lines are being ensured for this helpline. Earlier, the state government was focussing more on creating ruthless containment zones and was involved in extensive contact tracing while conducting mass surveys and screening, but most of the measures taken in initial days aren’t being followed with the same emphasis. The focus is now more on developing facilities for Covid treatment. Sharma said proper arrangements had been made for treatment of Covid cases in all districts. There is adequate lifesaving equipment such as oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators in all the districts. Principal health secretary Akhil Arora said people calling helpline 181 will be given information related to corona and problems brought to notice by the general public will be resolved. He said the state and district-level war rooms for assistance of corona patients and their family members will function round-the-clock. “Earlier, police were involved a lot in containing the spread of the virus by way of containment zones. Likewise, there were education department employees, panchayati raj and other department officials who were actively involved in preventive activities. But, now most of the department officials who were involed in activities for containing the spread have returned to their original deparments,” said a senior health department official. The health department also appealed to people to adopt preventive measures. “We are appealing people to wear masks, follow social distancing, avoid going in crowded places and wash hands frequently and follow hand hygiene practice,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-changes-strategy-to-fight-virus-curbs-take-backseat/articleshow/78224681.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Meerut||Three ‘friends’ arrested for Ghaziabad auto driver's murder in Amroha||BIJNOR: With the arrest of three people, Amroha police has claimed to have solved the "blind" murder of a Ghaziabad based auto driver, Anmol Singh, whose body was found in a field near Kudaina village in the district's Brajghat area on August 26. The three arrested -- identified as Anmol's friends Nanhe, Yashpal and Ramavtar -- are all auto drivers. A fourth accused, Dhara, is at large. The murder was the fallout of an ongoing dispute over picking passengers between the victim, on the one hand, and Nanhe, Yashpal and Dhara, on the other, police claimed. Ramavtar allegedly helped the accused in the murder, they added. Giving details, Vipin Tada, Amroha superintendent of police, said, "Three days after discovery of the body, the deceased was identified as Anmol, a resident of Banthala, under Loni police station of Ghaziabad district. He had been bludgeoned to death." Investigations revealed that four months ago, there was a scuffle over taking passengers between Anmol and the three auto drivers. At that time, Anmol snatched Rs 700 from Nanhe. An enraged Nanhe, Ramavtar and Dhara of Amroha, and Yashpal of Delhi, ganged up to exact revenge from Anmol. They hired Anmol's auto for luring him to Brijghat, Gajraula, where they killed him, the SP said. A hunt is on to nab Dhara, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-friends-arrested-for-gzb-auto-drivers-murder-in-amroha/articleshow/78222534.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports 9% of its cases in last 6 days||JAIPUR: More than 9% of the total cases in the state so far have been reported in the last six days. Since Monday, the state has reported more than 10,000 cases as it added 10,851 new infections accounting 9% of the total cases reported from March. For the third consecutive day, the state reported the biggest-single day spike of 1,865 cases taking the state’s overall tally to 1,14,989. For last three days, the state has been reporting more than 1,800 new infections daily. Jaipur is worst Covid-hit district with 6,305 active cases, followed by Jodhpur (2,724) and Kota (2,634). Total active cases in the state are 18,184. In the last 24 hours, 14 people died due to the virus, taking the state’s toll to 1336. Health department officials said the state government on Saturday night imposed Section 144 of CrPC to prevent five or more people from gathering at one place. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (328), Jodhpur (301), Udaipur (140), Pali (125), Alwar (114), Bhilwara (104), Ajmer (101), Kota (62), Bikaner (58), Nagaur (42), Tonk (41), Sikar (39), Bharatpur (37), Hanumangarh (34), Jhunjhunu (31), Churu (30), Chittorgarh (29), Sriganganagar (29), Banswara (26), Dausa (22), Bundi (22), Jhalawar (21), Dholpur (20), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (16), Barmer (14), Rajsamand (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Karauli (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Jalore (4). Kota reported its 94th Covid-19 death, Nagaur 46th, Pali 54th, Sirohi 20th, Udaipur 42nd, Ajmer 95th, Alwar 33rd, Banswara 9th, Bharatpur 75th, Bikaner 102nd, Jodhpur 132nd, Karauli 10th Jaipur reorted two deaths taking its toll to 310.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-9-of-its-cases-in-last-6-days/articleshow/78231828.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports 9% of its cases in last 6 days||JAIPUR: More than 9% of the total cases in the state so far have been reported in the last six days. Since Monday, the state has reported more than 10,000 cases as it added 10,851 new infections accounting 9% of the total cases reported from March. For the third consecutive day, the state reported the biggest-single day spike of 1,865 cases taking the state’s overall tally to 1,14,989. For last three days, the state has been reporting more than 1,800 new infections daily. Jaipur is worst Covid-hit district with 6,305 active cases, followed by Jodhpur (2,724) and Kota (2,634). Total active cases in the state are 18,184. In the last 24 hours, 14 people died due to the virus, taking the state’s toll to 1336. Health department officials said the state government on Saturday night imposed Section 144 of CrPC to prevent five or more people from gathering at one place. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (328), Jodhpur (301), Udaipur (140), Pali (125), Alwar (114), Bhilwara (104), Ajmer (101), Kota (62), Bikaner (58), Nagaur (42), Tonk (41), Sikar (39), Bharatpur (37), Hanumangarh (34), Jhunjhunu (31), Churu (30), Chittorgarh (29), Sriganganagar (29), Banswara (26), Dausa (22), Bundi (22), Jhalawar (21), Dholpur (20), Dungarpur (17), Sirohi (16), Barmer (14), Rajsamand (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Karauli (10), Baran (10), Jaisalmer (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Jalore (4). Kota reported its 94th Covid-19 death, Nagaur 46th, Pali 54th, Sirohi 20th, Udaipur 42nd, Ajmer 95th, Alwar 33rd, Banswara 9th, Bharatpur 75th, Bikaner 102nd, Jodhpur 132nd, Karauli 10th Jaipur reorted two deaths taking its toll to 310.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-9-of-its-cases-in-last-6-days/articleshow/78231829.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana added maximum cases to state’s tally last week||Ludhiana: After a brief respite, Covid-19 situation once again seems to be on the slide in Ludhiana, as the district last week saw the highest number of cases recorded so far over a period of seven days. On Saturday, Ludhiana once again climbed to the top position among the districts of the state in terms of weekly count of cases.As per the state’s Covid bulletin released on Saturday, the number of new cases in Ludhiana last week was 2,802, highest since the start of July — around the time the surge began. Prior to this week, the highest case count the district had seen was during August 15-21, when 2,169 cases were recorded, while the third-highest 1,718 cases were seen in the week ending August 14. The lowest count was between July 4 and 10 when just 316 cases were reported.As per the bulletin data, Ludhiana’s 2,802 cases in the last seven days were highest among the districts of the state last week. SAS Nagar with 2,287 new cases was at number two position, while Patiala was at number three with 1,867 cases. Moga district with just 169 cases last week was at the bottom of the list.Not just the positive cases, Ludhiana also saw the highest number of deaths in the last seven days compared to the other districts of the state. While maximum 86 patients succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana, Jalandhar with 60 deaths and Amritsar with 49 were at number two and three positions, respectively, in terms of fatalities last week. Mansa with just three deaths was at the bottom of the chart.The health department officials said the numbers are high as the district is passing through the peak of the pandemic. “The number of new cases is high, but currently we have lesser active cases as compared to many districts. The number of cured patients has also been increasing. Once we cross the peak, the number of new cases will decline. However, 86 deaths in seven days is a cause of concern and we are making all efforts to bring the fatalities down,” said an official.He said they are requesting the people with symptoms to report early for tests, so that their treatment begins right in the initial stage. Besides, they are also creating awareness among people about the need to wear masks, and maintain social distancing and hand hygiene, he added.BOX:Fatality rate downEven as new cases in the district are on the rise, the case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with the disease during a particular period — in Ludhiana district witnessed a decrease in the last four days till Saturday. While it was 4.3% on September 15, it dropped to 4.2% the next day and reached 4.1% on Saturday evening. The CFR% for the state is 2.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-added-maximum-cases-to-states-tally-last-week/articleshow/78222529.cms||Shariq Majeed
September 21, 2020||Surat||70 doctors in Surat donate plasma, blood||Surat: Making examples better than precepts, convalescing frontline warriors who have recovered from Covid-19 have donated plasma in the city. Many doctors of Mota Varachha Medical Association (MVMA) also donated blood on the same day looking at the present shortage of blood in the city’s blood banks. “Out of the 70 doctors, 37 of them donated plasma while 33 donated their blood and became an inspiration for others to come forward in time of need and help needy patients,” said Dr Sanjay Thummar, president of MVMA. Thummar said that they conducted antibody test of 70 doctors who had shown Covid-19 symptoms. Of them, 37 doctors’ antibody test came positive and they donated plasma at SMIMER Hospital while 33 donated blood. “I got infected on June 30 and recovered after 14 days of home isolation I donated plasma on July 20,” said Dr Yogesh Vaghani of MVMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/70-doctors-in-surat-donate-plasma-blood/articleshow/78222598.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mysuru||Fear of flood grips areas downstream of Kabini Dam||Mysuru: Incessant rain in its catchment areas having resulted in a marked increase in the inflow to the Kabini Dam in HD Kote taluk, the authorities at the reservoir on Sunday released up to 35,000 cusecs between Saturday evening and Sunday morning. This was the second occasion in less than a month when the authorities at Kabini have been prompted to open the flood gates. The monsoon having become particularly active in Wayanad in Kerala, the volume of water entering the dam has risen significantly compelling the authorities to open the reservoir’s gates. However, farmers and locals in areas downstream of the reservoir are none too pleased with such a copious quantity of water being released without any warning or a siren to alert them. Furthermore, inflow to all the reservoirs in the Cauvery basin, particularly to the Hemavathi Dam, has risen. Meanwhile, officials and members of taluk panchayat in the Cauvery basin districts have been told to be on alert with reports suggesting possibility of the Cauvery and Kapila rivers flooding. Residents of localities in Nanjangud taluk and Chamarajanagar district downstream of the Kabini Dam said that the sudden release of water from the reservoir resulted in blocked roads. Residents admitted to feeling afraid of being caught in a flood. The weather remained overcast in Mysuru city, which also received light to moderate rainfall on Sunday, much to the disappointment of the residents, whose weekend plans were upset. Showery encore in KodaguKodagu, which is yet to recover wholly from the torrential rain it received in the first week of August, has been receiving continuous rain since Saturday, with Talacauvery and Bhagamandala taluks being among the worst-hit. Water level in the Triveni Sangama has risen, while the Talacauvery-Bhagamandala Road has been submerged. The district administration has called on the public against venturing close to the forests or the rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/fear-of-flood-grips-areas-downstream-of-kabini-dam/articleshow/78224943.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 5 lives & infects 244||TNNLudhiana: Twelve persons, five from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 on Sunday, when 244 from the district and 47 outsiders tested positive.As per the local media bulletin, the Ludhiana casualties included an 80-year-old woman of Basant Avenue who had hypertension; a 77-year-old man of Urban Estate with heart disease and hypertension; a 59-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan who had diabetes and chronic kidney disease; and a 51-year-old diabetic woman of Machhiwara. A 55-year-old man of Malsiyan Bhai Ke died at a Faridkot hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally has climbed to 663 and that of outsiders to 196.To date, 2,28,251 suspects have been tested.The local health department bulletin stated that of the positive patients from Ludhiana, 82 were from flu corner (influenza like illness patients), 47 positive cases’ contacts, 72 from OPD, one healthcare workers, two pregnant women, 38 through tracing process, one severe acute respiratory infection case and an undertrial.Ludhiana case count now stands at 16,295, including 1,648 active cases, and that of outsiders at 1,876.With the discharge of 13,981 patients, the district recovery rate is 85.79%.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the number of persons home quarantined was 4,392. As many as 4,951 samples were collected on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-5-lives-infects-244/articleshow/78222521.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man posed as exporter, duped many of crores||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Sunday arrested a 45-year-old man who posed as an exporter and cheated several grain merchants in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi of crores of rupees. He received goods from them but did not make the payments. The accused has been identified as Rakesh Singh, a resident of Sector-60 in Gurugram and a BTech graduate. The forgery surfaced when the Kalkaji branch of Lakshmi Vilas Bank gave a complaint alleging that on September 22, 2015, a company named Jiya Agro Pvt. Ltd, through its directors, Jyoti Chaudhary and Harbind Singh, had availed cash credit facility of Rs 2.5 crore. The bank told police that a woman, Neeta Rani Gupta, was the guarantor who mortgaged her property in Daulat Pur. But during a legal audit in 2018, it was discovered that a sale deed in the possession of the bank was forged. The guarantor, Gupta, was also untraceable. KYC documents of Gupta were found forged. Joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said during the inquiry, officials of the bank informed the cops that it was Rakesh Singh who had been handling the affairs of Jiya Agro Pvt Ltd. “On Sunday, he was arrested from Gurugram. Efforts are on to nab his accomplices,” Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-posed-as-exporter-duped-many-of-crores/articleshow/78244558.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kanpur||Gyan Pathology sealed for issuing false Covid reports||Kanpur: Kanpur Nagar DM Alok Tewari on Sunday sealed Gyan Pathology located in Swaroop Nagar on account of irregularities and carelessness towards Covid patients. As per district administration sources, the DM and chief medical officer Anil Kumar Mishra were receiving complaints against Gyan Pathology that they were issuing false Covid reports to the patients. The pathology was also not keeping a complete record as asked by the administration and charged more money than the stipulated amount from patients. The DM and CMO on Sunday raided the pathology and themselves observed the pathology’s apathy. The pathology was then sealed, and a three-member committee headed by the additional district magistrate (city) was constituted to conduct an inquiry and submit report in two days. Other two members of the committee include two additional chief medical officers. The investigation commenced after the DM’s instructions. Tewari further ordered to cross-check the positive reports issued by the lab in the last three days by RTPCR test method. He also instructed to summon the family members of patients who had been declared positive by Gyan Pathology and record their statement. The DM emphasized that the family must also mention the amount charged from them by the pathology. If the charges levelled against the lab were found correct, an FIR would be lodged against it, said the DM. He added that the samples taken by the lab recently must be sent to the government lab for examination. DM Tewari, thereafter, visited Regency Hospital, Govind Nagar. An inquiry against the hospital was being conducted by the district administration on the complaint of a Swarup Nagar resident, who had alleged that the hospital had released the body of a Covid positive patient after charging Rs 15 lakh for his treatment. The district magistrate checked if the hospital complied with the order of increasing the ICU beds to 60. The hospital apprised that the target of 60 beds had already been achieved. When asked about specialists, the hospital administration said that two anaesthetists and three medicine experts had been engaged and were present in the hospital. Tewari asked the hospital management to appoint one more anaesthetist and an MD expert at the hospital within next four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gyan-pathology-sealed-for-issuing-false-covid-reports/articleshow/78224790.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Paramour’ arrested 2 days after woman ends life||TNNLudhiana: Two days after a 38-year-old woman ended her life, the police on Sunday arrested her alleged paramour on the charge of abetment to suicide. The accused, who is in his 40s and lives in her neighbourhood, had sent her objectionable pictures to her husband.The woman’s 17-year-old son said in his police complaint, “The accused had clicked objectionable pictures of my mother and would harass her. Fed up of it, she jumped into Gill Canal on Friday.”Dehlon police station SHO inspector Sukhdev Singh said the accused has been arrested under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.Police said the woman, who gave private tuitions, was married for 20 years and had a son and a daughter. “She had an affair with the accused for the past about one-and-a-half years. After her husband came to know about it, he tried to stop the accused, but the latter sent him their objectionable pictures, saying his wife had clicked those. Her husband told her parents about it after which she jumped into Gill Canal,” a cop added.Police said some boys who were bathing in the canal informed the police about a body floating in the water. The body was shifted to a hospital and identified.Husband charged with abetment to suicideLudhiana: The police on Saturday booked a man for abetment to suicide after his wife ended her life.Kulwinder Kaur, 37, had tied the knot with Jumma Ram of Jevnewal village 17 years ago.Her brother, Sukhwinder Lal of Sikanderpur, said in his police complaint, “Fed up of Jumma Ram’s thrashings, Kulwinder consumed a poisonous substance on Friday.”The body had been sent to civil hospital for post-mortem.Koom Kalan police have booked the accused under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.Sub-inspector Ragbir Singh said the accused was yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/paramour-arrested-2-days-after-woman-ends-life/articleshow/78222541.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Fire breaks out in Bhilwara hosp, 52 patients shifted||JAIPUR: A fire broke out in the third floor of a private hospital in Subhash Nagar police station area of Bhilwara on Sunday forcing the evacuation of 52 patients admitted there.Police along with the health department, local administration and hospital staff evacuated the patients. At the time when the incident 10 patients who were on ventilator were shifted to other hospitals. The fire had broke out around 8.20am.It is the same hospital which had reported 25 Covid-19 cases in the second half of April. District collector Shiv Prakash Nakate, SP Preeti Chandra, chief medical health officer Dr Mushtaq Khan, Subhash Nagar SHO Pushpa Kasautiya along with other officials rushed to the spot.Police said of the 52 patients who were undergoing treatment for different ailments, there were some Covid patients and a few suspected cases. Police said there was no loss of life in the incident. “We have a UPS room on the third floor of the hospital. The smoke came out from the room. The first thing which came into our mind was safety of patients. We shifted them to other hospitals with the help of police and local administration,” said a hospital staff.DGP Bhupendra Singh praised the role of his officers in safely evacuating the patients and shifting them to other hospttals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fire-breaks-out-in-bhilwara-hosp-52-patients-shifted/articleshow/78224689.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Woman cop in Amethi threatens to resign||LUCKNOW: A woman sub-inspector Sudha Verma accused Additional SP Amethi and SHO for high-handedness and said she was contemplating to resign due to the treatment meted out to her. “I had joined the police service to serve people and do justice but had to struggle to save my self-esteem. I am thinking of resigning to save my self-esteem,” she said while talking to newsmen on Sunday evening. The woman SI alleged that Amethi police take bribes and gives patronage to cattle smugglers in return. “I was transferred to another police station for raising objection on taking bribes from smugglers. I had caught a truck laden with animals, but had to let the driver off on the intervention of SHO. I was posted to a place where no woman SI was posted till date,” she alleged. SP Amethi, Dinesh Singh said the SI never represented her case before him or any officer senior to him. “Whatever she has done is not permitted in service rules and code of conduct of a police officer,” he added. A probe has been ordered and action will be taken as per the findings, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-cop-in-amethi-threatens-to-resign/articleshow/78225052.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||CMDA moves SC, land acquisition for MRTS delayed again||Chennai: Land acquisition for the last 50m stretch of the Velachery-St Thomas Mount MRTS project is likely to get delayed further. Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has approached the Supreme Court against the Madras high court order of March 8, 2019, which directed the agency to provide enhanced compensation to the landowners who were litigating for the past decade. CMDA filed a special leave petition on September 14. This comes even as CMDA has vetted papers of all landowners and promised to process the compensation as per the high court order in the past four months. TOI had reported how the state government’s red tape is delaying the process. In its petition, filed on behalf of N Ravikumar, senior planner of CMDA, the state government’s pleader has asked for an ad interim stay on the high court order of March 8, 2019. The government has prayed for permitting it to deposit in court the extra amount of compensation to be paid as per the court’s order and also asked for directions to the landowner to hand over the land. In its petition, the state government has said it wants to pay compensation only according to a 2016 order, which calculates the value of the land as on January 1, 2011. This means that it wants to pay only Rs 1912 per square feet, whereas as per the 2019 order of the high court, the state government has to pay enhanced compensation of Rs 4500 per square feet. The case has other complications. For instance, some landowners have relinquished the property and are fighting for enhanced compensation along with others. However, as per the state’s SLP, it wants to deposit the difference in compensation in the court and take possession of the land. Ezhilarasan, one of the landowners who is a respondent in the SLP, told TOI that they were surprised and frustrated. “Just as we were waiting for the compensation to be released and the process to be completed, the CMDA has done this. Many government officials promised that the enhanced compensation would be released,” he said. Land acquisition officials from CMDA did not respond to calls for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cmda-moves-sc-land-acquisition-for-mrts-delayed-again/articleshow/78222569.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Rights panel apprised of ‘unhygienic’ SBS Nagar||tnnLudhiana: The “unhygienic condition” of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar has reached the Punjab State Human Rights Commission, with a resident of the area lodging a complaint against Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) officials.Arvind Sharma of E Block had recently taken up the matter with the CM office as well.He said heaps of garbage, filth and wild growth in parks and at roadsides were an invitation to diseases. “I was down with dengue in August as no fogging was done in the area, which is dotted with wild growth, providing a conducive environment for breeding of mosquitoes. Filth and foul odour all around the area are against human rights. Therefore, action should be taken against the Ludhiana Improvement Trust officials, who do not care about the safety of residents. We had taken up the matter several times with the authorities, too, but it fell on deaf ears.”“The City Centre site, too, is a major problem for the area residents as it is full of garbage and stagnant water. Residents want the authorities to resolve the issue,” he added.LIT executive engineer Boota Ram said, “We have handed over garbage lifting work to A2Z waste management company and trash is being lifted from there. As far as fogging and other issues are concerned, everything is taken care of.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rights-panel-apprised-of-unhygienic-sbs-nagar/articleshow/78222560.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC to hear only urgent cases through video conferencing||JAIPUR: Taking cognisance of rising Covid cases in the state, Rajasthan High Court has decided to hear only emergency cases through video link from Monday till October 1. While counsels are allowed to participate in proceedings through video conferencing, judges will have to be in the court from 10.30am to 1pm on certain days. In an order on Saturday, the registrar general of the high court stated that during this period, the personal appearance of the accused in appeal and revision would be exempted. “Also, the entry of law students and interns in the high court will be banned. No big events bringing crowds and gathering will be allowed during this period,” the order said. According to the guidelines, the advocates who were earlier attending courts have now been allowed to join proceedings of their cases through video conferencing. “Also if there is some networking issue while getting connected to the court, no adverse order would be given,” the order stated;. Cases which were fixed to be heard from Monday onwards have been given next dates of hearing from October 19 onwards. The high court Administration has issued guidelines on 39 points and asked the staff and public prosecutors to sanitize the premises and adopt safety norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-to-hear-only-urgent-cases-through-video-conferencing/articleshow/78224687.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Varanasi||Migrants being lured back with paid travel, advance salary||Rajeev.Dikshit@timesgroup.com Chandauli: After a treacherous trek back home following Covid-19 lockdown, defying hostile employers in Maharashtra and Gujarat, migrant labourers from UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal are being lured back with advance salaries, paid travel in buses and sponsored Covid tests. TOI, on Sunday, caught one of the buses carrying 40 migrant labourers, mostly jewellery artisans from West Bengal districts, to Rajkot in Gujarat at Naubatpur checkpoint on UP-Bihar border. Cleaner of the bus Ismail disclosed that his owner had sent a bus with sleeper coaches to Kolkata paying the entire cost of the journey to bring the labourers without charging any fair from them. One of the passengers and a jewellery artisan from Burdwan (West Bengal) Mehar said, “After the lockdown jewellery units of Rajkot and adjoining cities were closed. I and many members of my group became jobless and decided to return. But, my elder brother did not return home. When the jewellery units restarted he asked me to return.” Sitting at a dhaba along national highway-II, members of Mehars group said they all had returned home by a special train in May and June. “We are skilled in jewellery making, hence when the units in Gujarat where we worked, were reopened we got call from the owners. Those, who agreed to return, boarded the buses sent by jewellery units of Gujarat,” they said without disclosing their negotiations with employers. Some of them admitted that the advance they had been given would be adjusted in future salaries. Similarly, many buses carrying ferrying migrants from Bihar, Jharkhand, WB and parts of east UP to Rajkot, Surat and Mumbai can be seen. After entering the UP border from Naubatpur, these buses are opting Mirzapur-Jhansi highway via Tengramod or Dhaphi by-pass routes. A Tengramod native said movement of buses with registration numbers of Gujarat and Maharashtra had surprisingly increased on this route in past one month. A medical practitioner Dr Anand Pandey said that labourers, mainly working in industrial units, are being called back in Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states through agents, called as ‘thekedar’ who are convincing doctors of reputed hospitals for Covid-19 and other necessary tests and provide medical certificates to laboureres. The cost of medical examination is also paid by thekedars, he added. Long queues of migrant labourers for boarding flights for especially Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru has also become eveident with the restoration of flight service at LBS International Airport. One of the agents leading a group of labourers at airport said, youths leaving for Hyderabad and Bengaluru from Varanasi airport are mainly from Jaunpur, Azamgarh and Sonbhadra districts. Their airfare is being born by employers, he added. A civil engineer and builder Rajiv Rai said, “Labourers are not only leaving for western and southern states but are also coming to east UP region. When we called back a batch of 22 labourers from Jharkhand, who were working at our construction site, they bargained for remuneration. They also asked to send vehicle for bringing them to workplace from their villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/migrants-being-lured-back-with-paid-travel-advance-salary/articleshow/78224764.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||Bills proof of PM’s commitment: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said passage of the two farm bills was another testimony of PM Modi’s commitment towards welfare and empowerment of farmers even as BJP said the opposition resorted to disruptions in Rajya Sabha as they were frustrated at not having enough support to defeat the bills. “Passage of the two bills reflects the commitment of PM Modi towards holistic development of farmers and agriculture sector,” Shah said. He added that parties which governed the country for decades were once again trying to misguide farmers and disrupt the most important reform in the agriculture sector. BJP said the opposition was giving vent to their frustration at not having the numbers. BJP president J P Nadda hit out at the opposition for calling the bills anti-farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bills-proof-of-pms-commitment-amit-shah/articleshow/78225321.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||4 skeletal remains of 2013 flash floods victims found in Kedar valley||DEHRADUN: A joint search team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and state police personnel on Sunday recovered skeletal remains of four people believed to have perished during the June 2013 flash floods in Kedarnath. The remains were found just above the Rambara area of Kedar valley. Navneet Bhullar, superintendent of police (SP) Rudraprayag, confirmed to TOI the recovery of the skeletal remains, adding that the remains were recovered on the Garudchatti-Gaumukhda trek route. “The DNA samples of the remains have been taken by the health department personnel accompanying the team. The remains were brought to Nandprayag in the evening where their cremation was conducted as per Hindu rituals,” the SP said. He added that the DNA samples will be matched with the family members of the missing people subsequently in order to find out their identities. The search operation that had begun on September 16, was concluded on Sunday, the SP said. Incidentally, similar search operations were conducted by the police in the past as well in the Kedar valley in which remains of 699 pilgrims were found. Of these, 545 were found in 2013, 63 in 2014, three in 2015, 60 in 2016, seven in 2017 and 21 in 2018. With the recovery of the four skeletal remains on Sunday, the total number of remains of the victims of the tragedy found till date is now 703. Over 3000 people though are still reported missing. Last month, the Uttarakhand high court, while disposing of a PIL filed by Delhi resident Ajay Gautam — which alleged that the government had not done enough to find the people missing in the Kedarnath tragedy — had directed formation of a committee comprising experts from Archaeological Survey of India, Survey of India, Wadia Institute of Himlayan Geology and the State Disaster Response Force. The court had also directed that the committee should submit its report in two months. The search operation to find the remains was subsequently mounted this month after the court’s directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-skeletal-remains-of-2013-flash-floods-victims-found-in-kedar-valley/articleshow/78220976.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Cops seize hard drives of cameras from Hanumangarh bank||Jaipur: In the bank heist at Hanumangarh, cops have seized the hard disk of CCTV cameras installed inside the private bank which is being sent to Jaipur for testing.Even after three days of the loot, the bank had not given the CCTV footage to police. On Thursday, three accused had taken off with Rs 1.13 crore from a private bank in Sangariya police station area.While the cops have accessed the CCTV camera footage placed outside the bank where the accused are visible, though their faces are covered, the bank did not provide the footage from inside the bank.Sangariya SHO Inder Kumar said, “The bank was not cooperating in the investigation and even after three days of the loot, they did not give us the CCTV footage, as a result we seized the hard drives of the cameras and sent them to FSL in Jaipur. There could be valuable clues in the footage which could lead us to the accused.”Around 8pm, when the private bank was about to close for the day, the three accused entered the bank and threatened the security guard as well as another employee with weapons following which they took the cash from the locker and locked the two individuals inside the vault. The accused made their escape in a vehicle used by the bank.Elaborating on the role of bank employees in the loot, the SHO added, “We do have a few persons on our radar, but at this point, details cannot be revealed. We will look at the employees’ history minutely to find if any of them had a role to play in the loot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-seize-hard-drives-of-cameras-from-hanumangarh-bank/articleshow/78224693.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kochi||Govt allots payout to survivors||Idukki: State government has allotted compensation to Pettimudy landslide victims and issued an order for its distribution. Government had announced Rs 5 lakh for victims of Pettimudy landslide. Rs 1 lakh has been allotted from Chief Minister’s Grievance Redressal & Distress Relief Fund and Rs 4 lakh from State Disaster Mitigation fund, said district collector H Dinesan. Government also allotted treatment cost of those injured in the landslide, said officials. “ Devikulam tahsildar has been directed to submit details of eligible people. After the hearings, the compensation money will be distributed,” said Dinesan. Dinesan constituted a 12-member team, headed by Munnar special tahsildar Binu Joseph, to analyze the damage and recommend steps to rehabilitate the surviving families. The team submitted its report recently. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-allots-payout-to-survivors/articleshow/78223660.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kanpur||Jeweller robbed, shot dead||Kanpur: Unidentified armed men shot dead a 45-year-old jeweller after holding him at gunpoint, and fled with cash and jewellery worth several lakh rupees in Thariyaon police area in Fatehpur district on Sunday evening. Jeetpal Maurya, a resident of Malanv pocket, was shot in his head while on his way home after closing his shop at Chakeewa crossing, police said. “It was around 7 pm when my father was returning home after closing the shop, when he was shot dead by robbers, who decamped with gold and silver ornaments worth several lakh, besides cash,” said Jeetpal’s grieving son Ramu Maurya. Police said it appears the alleged robbers were following Jeetpal from Chakeewa crossing. “We are yet to ascertain the number of assailants, besides their getaway vehicle. We are also probing the case from enmity angle,”said Thariyaon inspector Rajiv Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jeweller-robbed-shot-dead/articleshow/78224777.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Amid pandemic, corpn collects Rs 100cr property tax in 2 months||Chennai: Greater Chennai Corporation has collected one-third of its half-yearly property taxes so far despite Covid-19 and the lockdown. About Rs 100.74crore was collected in the past two months. The total half-yearly property tax target is Rs 373crore from 12.43 lakh property assessments. About Rs 86crore in professional taxes has been collected since August. However, with Covid-related expenditure, that includes paying salaries to the door-to-door fever surveillance workers, the corporation has been spending more. “Despite Covid-19, residents have come forward to pay their taxes online. We sent them SMS requests and our tax collectors visited them personally requesting them to pay the taxes. We concentrated on the high-value properties and big commercial establishments first. We are hopeful of collecting the arrears as well,” said Meghanatha Reddy, deputy commissioner, revenue. The highest collection has been from Adyar (Rs 17.53crore) followed by Teynampet (Rs 17.27crore) and Ambattur (Rs 12.36crore). The corporation has an annual property tax target of about Rs 720crore, professional tax target of Rs 340crore and Rs 50crore in trade licences, parking fees and rents. It spends around Rs 100crore in salaries, Rs 150crore in annual loan repayment and Rs 60crore on annual interest outgo. An official said the corporation’s financial position was slowly improving. So far, it had received Rs 297crore from the World Bank for the stormwater drain project of the Rs 330crore promised, Rs 338crore from capital grant fund from state government of the Rs 451crore sanctioned and Rs 54crore from Chennai mega city development fund of the Rs 220cr sanctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amid-pandemic-corpn-collects-rs-100cr-property-tax-in-2-months/articleshow/78222584.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How doorstep delivery of services got Covid reboot||NEW DELHI: On September 1, Delhi government restarted the doorstep delivery of services after suspension of nearly five months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The demand has been slowly picking up, but the numbers are yet to reach March levels. Started two years ago, the scheme offers 100 services across 14 departments, which Delhiites can avail of by calling the helpline 1076 or booking online. The backbone of the scheme are the “Mobile Sahayaks”, who visit the home of applicants and take necessary documents for further processing for a charge of just Rs 50. “The public response is quite good and we receive 2,000-5,000 calls a day and 100-200 service requests daily. Not all calls turn into service requests or appointments because many are just general queries. Unless the applicant has all the documents available, the appointment is not booked,” said a Delhi government official. The official said, “At the end of March, the project hit a pause as all public services were stopped when the lockdown started. However, the call centre was only shut from April till mid-May. The call centre executives worked from home to address any calls made by people in panic regarding applications.” “When unlocking was initiated, Delhi government considered restarting the service. However, the spread of Covid-19 made dealing with the pandemic a priority,” he added. When the government finally decided to restart the project, it needed to retrain personnel and make a standard protocol. After discussions with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the team behind the project worked out a detailed process to bring it back to its full glory. “Call centre executives were retrained regarding the project and the things they would have to take care of in context of the pandemic. As we didn’t want to restart the doorstep services until we were ready, we directed the call centre to follow up all pre-lockdown applications, which were cleared before the project was restarted,” said the official. The Mobile Sahayaks were retrained and provided masks, sanitisers and gloves. They were instructed to process applications with social distancing of six feet. After every service process, they were asked to sanitise their tablets. The Aarogya Setu app was made compulsory and if any sahayak showed symptoms, they were not allowed to work until they were fit or the Covid-19 test result was negative. Special operating procedures have also been put in place by the government. “No appointments will be booked for containment zones. The call centre has the updated data for them. While booking the appointment, call centre executives ask applicants regarding any infection reported in or near their house. In case of positive cases, the applicant has to make sure the patient has recovered,” the official said. “This project can revolutionise the world of public services and also help reduce community spread of the viral infection in government offices. We are planning to slowly close public dealing in government departments. The pilot stage has been successfully completed in some district offices,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-doorstep-delivery-of-services-got-covid-reboot/articleshow/78223654.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Leopards in Jawai gasp for breath amid increasing encroachment||JAIPUR: Encroachers at the Jawai Leopard Conservation Reserve (JLCR) are on the verge of breaking the fragile entente between humans and leopards persisting in the area for over 150 years. The region having a population of over 65 (cave-dwelling) leopards has a history of harmonious coexistence. However, encroachers are forcing for a conflict as they continue to block the path and entrance of the caves of these wild cats in alleged connivance with the local administration. In a fresh incident, recently a barbed wire was erected on a hill situated on khasra number 35 in Bera (Ist) village, where a leopardess dwells with her two cubs in a cave. Pali collector Ansh deep said, “The matter has been brought to our notice. The barbed wire fencing will be removed if it has been done on the government land.” Environmentalists allege that hills encroached are located on the government land as per revenue records. The law which is meant to protect caves of leopards from fragmentation activities and encroachments is being rampantly abused as the administration is allegedly shielding the encroachers. Gaffar Khan, a member of Jawai Conservation Society, said, “We have given memorandum to the district administration several times. But no action has been taken. On Sunday, we requested the district collector to carry out a drive to remove barbed wire fencing erected by encroachers as it could injure the leopardess.” Wildlife enthusiasts fear that increased human activity will either affect the solitude of these hills and push leopards far from the reserve or lead to man-animal conflict. “If human encroach into their territory, sooner or later a conflict will occur. These caves have been an integral part of the habitat of Jawai Dam reserve inhabitants. Miscreants on large scale are destroying wild habitats,” said another conservation member. The Jawai forest was previously a closed wildlife area. On February 23, 2010, the state government declared it as Jawai Bandh Leopard Conservation Reserve. As only, 19.79 square kilometres is included under the reserve, the forest department has expressed its helplessness to act on the matter as mostly leopards are found in abundance outside this protected area, either on revenue or government land. A forest official, who wished not to be quoted, said, “The matter has been brought to the notice of senior district administration officials. A report is been prepared. Soon, action will be taken to conserve the habitat of these wild cats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopards-in-jawai-gasp-for-breath-amid-increasing-encroachment/articleshow/78224690.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||NTCA team inspects Mukundra reserve||Jaipur: After a recent debacle, a team of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on Sunday reached the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) to investigate the matter.In the past three months, two big cats (MT-2 and MT-3) and two cubs died at the reserve. Also, tiger MT-1, which is missing for the past two months, is feared dead.An official source said, “The team enquired about the defunct collars on the neck of tigers. It also raised a question, why they were not replaced.”Sources said, the three-member committee will submit its report to the NTCA. After the death of the tigers, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who represents Kota constituency, took a serious note and called a meeting of Rajasthan’s senior forest officials and NTCA. Birla asked NTCA to look into the aspects of the safety of tigers and also suggest ways to develop it as a tourist spot.At present, there is only one tigress MT- 4, surviving in the reserve, where country’s third reintroduction programme was initiated. The tigers were relocated in the Darrah range after constructing 24km chain-link fencing and 31-km of stone wall, spending approximately Rs 30 crore. Sources said discussions were also made about the forest of Seljar Range of MHTR, for which the NTCA gave the permission to shift the tigers. However, against the apex body’s will, the tigers were shifted to Darrah range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ntca-team-inspects-mukundra-reserve/articleshow/78224692.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Fresh Delhi assembly notice to Facebook boss||NEW DELHI: The assembly’s peace and harmony committee has sent a fresh notice to Facebook India vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan to ensure his presence for deposing before it on Wednesday. The committee, under the chairmanship of AAP legislator Raghav Chadha, had summoned Mohan to appear on September 15 but neither him nor any other representative of the social media company turned up for the proceeding and overriding jurisdiction of the central government was cited as the reason. Chadha, however, clarified that the notice was directly related to the incidents of violence and riots that occurred in Delhi in February 2020, whereas the proceedings in Parliament were on the subject, safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms, including special emphasis on women’s security in the digital space. In a statement, the committee said any rebuttal or disregard to the fresh notice would be deemed as a wilful act of breach of privilege and, thus, would entail various proceedings against Facebook India. The committee said it had noted that despite being crystal clear about the objective behind calling the Facebook officials, Facebook chose to dishonour the powers and privileges of the assembly panel in the garb of obliging with the directives of a parliamentary committee. “Taking a strong note of the disobedience displayed by Facebook India, it appeared to the committee that Facebook is deliberately and intentionally trying to evade the process of law as well as showing absolute non-cooperation in enabling the committee to ascertain the genuineness of the allegation put out against it,” the statement pointed out. “Having regards to their disobedience, the committed mulled over exercising its powers and privileges conferred to it by the Constitution of India by applying its penal jurisdiction against Facebook after affording them one last opportunity to appear before the committee.’ In case of subsequent default, the assembly panel stated, “it shall be constrained to proceed against Facebook India for committing the breach of committee’s privilege which shall follow consequent penal jurisdiction of the House under the relevant laws and rules and regulation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-house-panel-notice-to-fb-official/articleshow/78223664.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kanpur||Suspended SI arrested for social media remarks against PM, CM||Kanpur: A suspended sub-inspector, who was booked for posting derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on social media, was arrested from Friends Colony area of Etawah district on Saturday. According to police, the SI identified as Vijay Pratap Singh is also accused of speaking against a particular religion. “Following complaints by district BJP president Ajay Pratap Dhakre and Akhil Bharatiya Brahmin Sabha president Shailendra Chowdhary, Singh has been arrested from near ITI crossing in Friends Colony area on Saturday. Two cases were lodged against him under various sections of IPC, besides IT Act on August 27 for making derogatory remarks against PM Modi and CM Yogi on social media,” informed Civil Lines station house officer Vijay Shukla. Singh had hogged limelight for embarking on a 65-km-run to protest his transfer to Bitholi police station in November, 2019. He had also posted a tweet during the same time stating, “I am being transferred due to the dictatorial attitude of RI (reserve inspector of police). I was asked by the SSP to stay back at Reserve Police Lines, but now I am being forcibly transferred to Bitholi by the RI. You can call it my anger or unhappiness but I’ll run and go to Bitholi.” SP (city), Etawah, Ram Yash Singh had then said: “The sub-inspector was transferred from Reserve Police Lines to Bitholi. Instead of accepting the transfer order like a disciplined officer, he posted a misleading message on social media.” Sub-inspector Singh had also been accused of misbehaving with Sadar MLA once. He hails from Shahubari area under Haldar police station in Mau district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/suspended-si-arrested-for-social-media-remarks-against-pm-cm/articleshow/78224815.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Two more flights resume operations from Jaipur||JAIPUR: With gradual improvement in the load of air travellers from the Jaipur airport, two more flights have been added to its schedule. Now, Jaipur airport has 32 flights in its schedule out of which 28 flights are operated. One additional flight to Hyderabad and one flight to Bengaluru have started operating from Thursday onwards. Except for Agra and Lucknow flights to various destinations are gradually getting a good load factor. “Now, we are handling 5,500 to 7,000 passengers daily and the two new flights will increase our number of passengers. Since majority of the operators and we are following every Civid-19 SOPs, it has given confidence to the travellers,” said a senior officer on Sunday. Senior officers of Jaipur airport stated that since May 26 when the domestic flights operations were started, there is a continuous increase in the number of passengers travelling to Mumbai and Delhi. Authorities said that by October first week, the number of flights would further increase. “Prior to Covid-19 outbreak, we were operating 55 to 60 flights daily. We are hopeful that in the coming months with the increase in passengers load, everything will be normal,” said an officer. Jaipur airport is been operating flights to cities including Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkata, Amritsar and other cities. Senior officers at the Jaipur airport further stated that relaxation in the quarantine norms by various states has been the major reason that has brought good passengers load and thus motivated various operators to introduce new flights. “Earlier, there were different norms in different states and people had this fear of getting quarantined. Now, within domestic travel, there is no need of quarantine for those who have no serious illness or symptoms. Thus, it has certainly facilitated the aviation sector,” said a local tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-more-flights-resume-ops-from-jaipur/articleshow/78224712.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Kanota Tragedy: Cops question person named in suicide note||Jaipur: Kanota police questioned the person named in the suicide note of the Soni family against whom a case of abetment to suicide was registered, though no one has been arrested yet.According to officials, the family members hung themselves simultaneously and their autopsies were done on Sunday. The four members were found hanging at their house on Saturday morning.The deceased were identified as Yashwant Soni, 45, his wife Mamta Soni, 41, and their sons Ajit, 23, and Bharat, 21.The father owned a jewellery shop in the Walled City area. The deceased were found hanging at their residence and police also found a suicide note according to which it appears that the family was under financial duress due to which they took this extreme step. A case of abetment to suicide has been registered against one person who was named in the suicide note. The person was apparently not returning the deceased’s money because of which they were unable to pay the lenders.Rahul Jain, DCP, Jaipur East, said, “We have questioned the person who was named in the suicide note and apparently he owed the deceased somewhere between Rs 70 lakh-80 lakh and they had been asking for it for a while. We have not arrested anyone yet in the case.”While the bodies of Yashwant and his two sons were found hanging in the courtyard of their residence, Mamta’s body was found hanging in one of the bedrooms. They all had used ‘sari’ to hang themselves and the case got more intriguing as the feet of the two sons were tied together loosely to ensure that the feet do not touch the ground, claimed officials, which gives rise to the possibility that they could have been hung by another person, though officials did not confirm it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kanota-tragedy-cops-question-person-named-in-suicide-note/articleshow/78224698.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath hails agriculture bills, says farm sector set for turnaround||LUCKNOW: Hours after the twin farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha, CM Yogi Adityanath came out in open support of the two legislations, saying these would usher a sea change in the country’s agriculture health. Yogi categorically attacked Opposition leaders for misguiding farmers through their statements and appealed to them not to fall in the trap of Opposition leaders, who are “averse to farmers’ prosperity and consider them as mere vote banks”. Yogi said, the bills were a reflection on PM Narendra Modi’s resolve to boost the agricultural sector. “The legislations will mark a new era of welfare in the farming sector,” the UP CM said, thanking the PM. “Both bills are for the welfare of agriculture and farmers,” Yogi said, adding the move would help them raise their income. The UP CM said, farmers would be freed from legal wrangles and the sector is on the verge of a huge turnaround. He said, entry of private investment in agriculture would help to expedite development in the farm sector and boost employment. “A robust agronomic would help strengthen the national economy,” Yogi said. He said, Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill will lend a decisive thrust to hassle-free inter-state and intra-state trade and commerce and give farmers a free choice to sell and purchase agri products. “The bills are in favour of farmers whose income would double in coming years,” he said, underlining the fact that the Modi government raised the minimum support price of crops, besides bringing in requisite transparency in rates of agricultural produce. Maintaining that the state government was committed to farmers’ welfare, Yogi said, farmers would get full price on their produce and even during the pandemic the state government freed fruits and vegetables of 45 mandi taxes, which ensured direct benefit to farmers. “They are now free to sell their produce anywhere in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-hails-agriculture-bills-says-farm-sector-set-for-turnaround/articleshow/78225057.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Veggie prices continue to soar, to ebb after October 15||JAIPUR: Poor supply and non-availability of local produce have increased the retail prices of vegetables in the markets here. Muhana Mandi traders on Sunday said that prices will continue to rise till October 15. The prices are likely to come down once local produce starts arriving in the second half of October, they said. The prices of tomatoes are Rs 60-80 per kilogram in the retail market. “Even during complete lockdown, we were selling tomatoes for Rs 20-30 per kilogram in the retail market. But as the locally harvested tomatoes are over, we are dependent on Andhra Pradesh and Nashik for this vegetable,” said Ashok Suthar, a wholesale dealer at the Sodala Sabzi Mandi said on Thursday. Coriander, which is an essential ingredient for garnishing of curries, is away from the reach of homemakers. “We are selling it from Rs 250 to Rs 300 per kilogram. But, in terms of its supply, we are merely getting 25% of what we used to get till July,” said Naresh Saini, a retailer at Jhotwara vegetable market said. Other locally harvested vegetables, including bottle gourd, ladyfinger, beans and others are completely exhausted. “These vegetables are available from January to June only. Thus, for coming months, we are dependent on other states for the timely vegetable supply. Hopefully, we would start getting them especially ladyfinger from the local markets of Sikar, Chomu and Tonk,” said Abdul Sagir, a wholesale trader, at the Muhana Mandi. “In May 2020, the prices of bottle gourd, ladyfinger, round gourd, coriander, tomatoes and ginger were low to an extent that they were sold at cheaper prices compared to May 2019. However, since August 1, the prices are increasing mainly because of short supply, damage to local harvest and increased demand,” said Pappu Lal Prajapat, president of Rajasthan Phal Sabzi Thok Vyapaar Mahasangh. Bottle gourd was sold between Rs 15 and Rs 20 per kilogram in May. Now, it is sold between Rs 30 and Rs 40 per kilogram. “Similarly, the prices of ladyfinger are Rs 40-60. Tomatoes that were sold at Rs 30, now available at Rs 60 to Rs 80 per kg,” said a retailer in Jhotwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veggie-prices-continue-to-soar-to-ebb-after-oct-15/articleshow/78224715.cms||Ashish Mehta
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Despite high court order, illegal flagpoles plenty in Chennai||CHENNAI: It has been more than a year since the Madras high court declared that erecting unauthorised flagpoles would amount to encroachment of public land and ordered removal of such poles. But the menace is still rampant. On Sunday morning, Hindu Makkal Katchi erected a flagpole near MGR Nagar, Anna Main Road. Flagpoles of the AIADMK, BJP, DMDK and Naam Thamizhar Katchi could be seen near Padi Saravana Store. Last April, a division bench of Justice S Manikumar (now Chief Justice of Kerala high court) and Subramonium Prasad (now judge of the Delhi HC) passed the order appalled over the fact that ‘on record’ only two flagpoles in the entire state were erected with proper approval and prior permission. The bench then directed district collectors to initiate action against such illegality. The court passed the order on a PIL moved by A Radhakrishnan. The object of the statutory provisions under the Tamil Nadu Highways Act, the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, the Tamil Nadu Panchayat Act, the Tamil Nadu Panchayat (Prohibition against obstruction in or over Public Roads, prevention of encroachments, etc.) Act is not to allow any unauthorised occupation of such places. The local bodies and highways department are duty-bound to initiate action on encroachment and measures to be taken to prevent the same, the bench said. Asserting that nobody has the right to encroach upon public properties, the court said measures being taken during the election on the basis of the code of conduct alone would not serve the purpose. There should be statutory compliance in the matter of erection of poles and discharge of statutory duty cast upon the authorities not to permit such poles. The departure of law should not be permitted, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-hc-order-illegal-flagpoles-plenty-in-city/articleshow/78222606.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kanpur||SI suspended after video of youth selling ganja near police outpost goes viral||Kanpur: A Sub-inspector was sent to lines after a video in which a youth is seen selling ganja near Namami Gange police outpost under Gangaghat police station in Balughat area of Unnao district went viral on social media on Sunday. Poet Kumar Vishwas also tweeted on the issue sarcastically and narrated the poem of Raskhan on his Twitter handle on Sunday. In the video, the youth is seen saying that he used to bribe the local police outpost in-charge Manoj Singh with Rs 20,000. The young man further said that other family members would arrange a deal for him if he is willing to join in the plan. “SI Manoj Singh has been sent to lines for negligence on late Saturday night after a video of a youth selling ganja near a police outpost went viral. An inquiry has been set up in this connection,” said Unnao SP Sureshrao A Kulkarni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/si-suspended-after-video-of-youth-selling-ganja-near-police-outpost-goes-viral/articleshow/78224819.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: South corporation agrees to demands of domestic breeding checkers||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to extend contractual period of domestic breeding checkers (DBC) from six months to one year. The decision was taken after DBC workers warned they will stop working if a decision was not taken by September 30. Leader of House, SDMC, Narendra Chawla said, “In a joint meeting with the commissioner and other members of the deliberative wing, the issue was discussed in detail. Looking into the hard work these DBC workers put in, we decided to extend their contractual term to a year and a proposal in this regard will be presented before a standing committee meeting by the public health department.” “We have also decided to work on changing their designation from DBC to field workers in a phased manner, since there is no such position as DBC in municipal rules,” he added. Last week, at least 1,350 DBCs of SDMC had threatened to go on strike if their contractual agreement is not extended for a year. “We still stand by our demands unless a copy of the order is given to us, making everything formal. We respect all senior officials and representatives of the ruling party but we can’t take this chance. We had a meeting with the mayor and municipal health officer last week but let them come with the official order first,” said Devanand Sharma, president of Anti-Malaria Karamchari Sangh. The strike, if it happens, may hamper the exercise of spraying and fogging of insecticides to control vector-borne diseases. Unlike east and north corporations, which have extended the agreement for a year, SDMC is extending the contract for these workers for just six months. Their present contract will get over on September 30. “This situation has occurred despite the assurance given by former mayor Sunita Kangra for extending the contract by a year,” added Sharma. “It is difficult to work under the fear of losing our job. We have also asked them to fix our designation as field workers,” said another DBC worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-coprn-agrees-to-demands-of-domestic-breeding-checkers/articleshow/78223668.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 21, 2020||Vadodara||Will never wear a mask in temple, says BJP MLA Madhu||Vadodara: Waghodia BJP MLA Madhu Srivastava found himself in yet another controversy on Sunday after a video of him dancing in a temple in the city went viral. Srivastava was seen dancing to some religious tunes in a Hanuman temple in Wadi area. The video where Srivastava is seen surrounded by other devotees is said to be of September 19. The BJP MLA is seen dancing amid the devotees without wearing a face mask or maintaining social distance. Many of the devotees around too hadn’t worn face masks. Srivastava had tested positive for the Covid-19 about three weeks ago and recovered too. When asked, Srivastava defended his act and said he wouldn’t wear a mask in the temple. “I have been offering puja and doing bhajan at this temple for the last 50 years. I never wore a mask in this temple that is just next to my home. Rather it is a part of my home,” Srivastava told TOI. He added that he won’t wear a face mask and continue visiting the temple. When pointed out that the devotees around him too were not wearing face masks, Srivastava said that only rich people can afford masks.  “From where would poor people get face masks?” questioned the MLA who has been in the middle of several controversies in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/will-never-wear-a-mask-in-temple-says-bjp-mla-madhu/articleshow/78221638.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Surat||Gang involved in debit card frauds nabbed||Surat: Crime branch sleuths nabbed a gang of five from Dindoli area on Sunday for allegedly duping over 250 citizens through a series of debit card frauds. Debit card data of hundreds of others were found on them. The gang used to come to the city by flight from Gaya in Bihar via Delhi. They are natives of Chovar of Gaya district and cops claim that the entire village is involved in such fraudulent activity. Police nabbed Bittu Kumar Navin Bhumihar, Himanshu Shekhar alias Chhotu Ramanandan Bhumihar, Murari Kumar Vijay Pandey, Ruturaj alias Bittu Niraj Bhumihar, and Sonukumar alias Bipin Bhumihar, all from Chovar village. They will be arrested after Covid-19 test. One accused Manish Kumar is yet to get nabbed. Police seized cash and valuables worth Rs 3.37 lakh including one laptop, five card readers, six mobile phones, two card skimmers, Rs 61,530 cash one moped, 10 debit cards, a tool box and adhesive tapes from them. The had installed a skimmer in an ATM in Sachin GIDC which is yet to be recovered. After examining details of various ATM tampering and theft of card readers from the machines, the cops zeroed in on involvement of the gang. They were traced through human intelligence. Police nabbed them from a rented accommodation in Dindoli. They came to the city a few days ago and rented a room claiming to be employees of a textile unit. The gang used to conduct recce of ATMs and targeted those of Axis Bank only. “They had master keys to open the hood of the ATMs. Another common thing in all frauds is that the debit cards that were cloned were normal cards and did not have digital chips. Most of the latest debit cards have digital chips in which cloning is not possible,” said a crime branch official. After identifying the ATM, the gang used to fix debit card skimmer by opening the hood. They used to stand alongside the bank customer during the transaction to notice their PIN which they registered in their mobile phones. After a few transactions, they opened the hood again and stole the ATMs card reader, removed the skimmer and went to another ATM. In each visit, they targeted multiple ATMs. Once the data was collected, they used to return to Chovar. They manufactured clone cards using the data and went to Faridabad near Delhi to withdraw money to avoid getting traced in Bihar. The gang targeted ATMs in Limbayat, Sachin, Sachin GIDC, Pandesara and Puna areas. They were trained for six months to carry out the frauds successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gang-involved-in-debit-card-frauds-nabbed/articleshow/78222642.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 21, 2020||Trichy||Andankoil East panchayat wins award||Trichy: Andankoil East panchayat in Thanthoni block of Karur district has won the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP) for the year 2018-19. The award is given out by the ministry of panchayati raj for panchayats across the country with best practises in fulfilling basic needs of people and necessary infrastructure. Apart from Andankoil East, Kurumanthur, Ambukovil, Nedungal, Ikkarai Boluvampatti and Mevalurkuppam have won the award from Tamil Nadu. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami gave away the award to representatives from respective panchayats at an event organised in Chennai on Saturday. The award is given out to panchayats with best practises like speedy grievance redressal, steps to increase panchayat revenue, regular conduct of grama sabhas, selecting maximum beneficiaries for the state and Central government schemes, framing annual plan and village development plan. The award comes with a cash prize of Rs 15 lakh, which was announced by the ministry last week. “Effective waste disposal is an advantage for the panchayat. It is adjoining an urban local body and has a comparatively huge population and commercial activity. Despite that, the panchayat was able to perform well and get the award,” said S Uma Shankar, assistant director of panchayats, Karur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/andankoil-east-panchayat-wins-award/articleshow/78224721.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Trichy||IIM Trichy’s 9th batch of PGPBM inaugurated at virtual event||Trichy: Urging students to make use of the executive MBA program as an opportunity to develop an all-round personality, Ganesh Mani S, director–production, Hyundai Motor India Ltd, emphasized that MBA gives a wider view of the business and the economic environment.In addition to teaching what is to be done, MBA also teaches what path should be avoided, said Ganesh Mani, who was the chief guest of the virtual inauguration event of the ninth batch of the post-graduate programme in business management (PGPBM) of IIM Trichy on Saturday.He shared his experience in the automotive industry and asked the participants to become growth drivers for taking the Indian economy to next level.On the challenges of Covid-19, he said that adversity gives an opportunity. He asked the participants to utilise the time they allocate for coursework towards achieving bigger goals.He also said that quickness is becoming the need of the hour as the definition of long-term and short-term has shrunk from years to weeks.Lakshmi Priya, manager, Rane Madras Ltd, and an alumnus of PGPBM 2014-17 Batch, IIM Trichy, emphasized on the open-mindedness, sincerity and dedication, taking the employer, spouse and family members into confidence and managing work-study-life balance.With a batch size of 50 and average work experience of 8.5 years, this batch is comparable to other international executive program batches, said Bhimaraya Metri, director, IIM Trichy, while congratulating students on joining the institution.Term Wise Merit awards for best academic performance in Term IV of the PGPBM 2018-20 batch was awarded to Arasuprakash S, Term V of the PGPBM 2018-20 batch to Mahesh Sundar N.Merit awards for the first year of the PGPBM 2019-21 batch were also announced to be given to Ram Selvan V for Term I, Godse Rujul Mohan, K Srividya and Vatsavi S for Term II and N Nanda Kishore for Term III.Director’s merit awards to top 5% of students in an entire batch of PGPBM 2018-20. Kamalaganesh T, Arasuprakash S, Balagee Ramiah, Tusar Kanti Giri, Mahesh Sundar N, Nibedita Shome and Rajesh R were selected for the award. The awardees for best industry project were given to S Sundarakamatchi, Rajarajan V V and Neha Viya Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-trichys-9th-batch-of-pgpbm-inaugurated-at-virtual-event/articleshow/78224717.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||Over 54k basic teachers to be transferred||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday gave his nod to inter-district transfer of 54,120 basic education teachers on compassionate grounds. Of the total, 28,306 are females and 25,814 males. A state government spokesperson said that the transfer of the teachers will be done in various districts after considering their due priorities. “The state government has given a formal nod to transfer of teachers. The transfer will be done in a transparent manner,” said director basic education, Sarvendra Vikram. The government spokesperson said that all applications of teachers seeking transfer have already been accepted by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) in a scientific manner. Of the total, 917 teachers are those associated with the armed forces and security forces. They have been given the transfer without any pre-condition. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that this is the first time that teachers associated with the family of army personnels or security forces would be given due preference in transfers. Besides this, 2,285 teachers with physical disabilities and 2,186 teachers having serious disease/ailments would also be transferred. The transfer policy of the basic education department came into being on December 2, 2019. The department sought application from the teachers in January 2020. As many as 70,000 application came up for basic education department consideration, The state government had subsequently decided to transfer the teachers in March but the process was deferred following the Corona out break. The matter again came up before the state government in July but the state government had put a ban on transfer of officials. On Sunday, CM formally gave his nod to the transfer of teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-54k-basic-teachers-to-be-transferred/articleshow/78225059.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||Farm bills Modi govt’s ‘death warrant’ for farmers: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi on Sunday dubbed the controversial agriculture bills as Modi government’s “death warrant” for farmers as Congress upped its protest by calling passage of the bills a “black day” for democracy. The party also said the bills would be struck down by the Supreme Court as they dealt with subjects which were in the domain of states. Congress member Ahmed Patel said, “First, the government brought an amendment to the Land Acquisition Act but had to withdraw it in the face of farmers’ protest. When the government could not give land to corporates, they have brought bills to hand over farming to big capitalists.” Dismissing the assurances on MSP, Patel argued that when mandis were abolished, the support price would automatically end. “The PM is making baseless statements on MSP,” he said. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh said, “The dictatorial attitude of the chair (Harivansh) in not wanting to get a sense of the House... to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1pm led to bedlam and chaos. The bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency?” He alleged government managers unilaterally slashed the agreed time for discussion by 45 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-bills-modi-govts-death-warrant-for-farmers-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/78225332.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kochi||Govt corrects a ‘jumbo’ mistake||THRISSUR: The government has corrected its earlier order listing elephants as domesticated animals after elephant lovers pointed out that it could adversely impact several ongoing litigations. The earlier order, issued on April 15, had the laudable objective of allocating funds to provide feed to the domesticated animals during the lockdown. Elephants were also cited as domesticated animals in the order. However, Kerala state animal welfare board member M N Jayachandran Nair submitted a complaint to the governor pointing out that Asian elephants belong to the Elephas Maximus genus and they are included in the Schedule 1 category of wild animals in India. “It is illegal to describe elephants as domesticated animals and this can have detrimental effects in several pending cases relating to elephants,” Jayachandran said. The government has now issued an order directing that in the future captive jumbos must be described as as “elephants under private ownership”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-corrects-a-jumbo-mistake/articleshow/78223716.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Trichy||BDU set to initiate selection process for next VC||Trichy: Bharathidasan University syndicate will convene a special meeting on October 1 to initiate the process of selecting the next vice-chancellor of the university. The tenure of vice-chancellor P Manisankar, who assumed charge on January 8, 2018, will come to an end on January 7, 2021. A three-member search committee will be constituted to recommend a panel of three names to the chancellor. The meeting will be held at 11am on the university campus, said a statement from registrar G Gopinath. A meeting of the senate is also scheduled for October 9 to decide on the senate nominee for the selection committee. Members of the syndicate who are unable to attend the meeting in person have been asked to attend through video conferencing. The committee of three members - one nominated by the government, one each by the senate and the syndicate – will call for applications for the vice-chancellor. After scrutiny of applications, 10 candidates will be shortlisted and the committee will narrow it down to three after interviews. The list of three candidates will be sent to the governor who will select the vice-chancellor. Ideally, the selection process should have started by July this year as the process should start six months before the tenure of incumbent vice-chancellor ends. Former AUT president K Pandiyan said that at least the process was initiated before the tenure of the VC ended, unlike in the past when the university remained headless for even a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-set-to-initiate-selection-process-for-next-vc/articleshow/78224749.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Chasing butterflies: Week-long census ends, 71 species spotted||NEW DELHI: A week-long butterfly census in the capital, which ended on Sunday, has recorded 71 species. The final results will be declared on October 10 after the wildlife week celebrations. Among the rare sightings were a striped albatross, while the most commonly spotted species in Delhi-NCR were common silverline, plains cupid, tiny grass blue and danaid eggfly. While Delhi has been conducting a butterfly census since 2017, it was held at an all-India level this year and for a week from September 14. All participants were asked to log their submissions onto an online platform, iNaturalist. Due to Covid-19, the census was largely restricted to gardens and backyards. The butterfly month kicked off on September 5, with various activities such as online workshops, butterfly gardening classes, contests on butterfly photography, videography and butterfly origami throughout the period. Webinars for school and college children were also conducted to create awareness about the importance of butterflies. “The difference this year was that the count was being conducted simultaneously across different states and Union territories. Unlike a one-day census, there was also more time to record species and this has allowed more sightings,” said Sohail Madan, singling out the sighting of striped albatross as an important sighting for Delhi. Across the capital’s biodiversity parks, which fall under Delhi Development Authority, the highest number of species were recorded at Aravalli Biodiversity Park in south Delhi, which saw 56 species and over 1,000 butterflies. This was followed by 41 species at Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park, 33 at Kamla Nehru Biodiversity Park and 30 at Yamuna Biodiversity Park. “Biodiversity parks enabled butterflies and other vertebrates and invertebrates to grow and bring more awareness about the importance of ecosystem approach of conservation initiatives in India,” said Faiyaz A Khudsar of Yamuna Biodiversity Park. Indian skipper butterfly was spotted for the first time at the biodiversity park this year, he added. Experts say butterflies are highly sensitive and, therefore, one of the best indicators of environmental changes. M Shah Hussain of Aravalli Biodiversity Park said, “Their presence in any area in large varieties and numbers is an indicator of quality environment. The first action-based initiative for the conservation of butterflies was started in biodiversity parks, and to showcase butterflies, conservatories in natural settings were set up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chasing-butterflies-week-long-census-ends-71-species-spotted/articleshow/78223702.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||Four booked for torching thatched house to kill occupants after a dispute||PILIBHIT: Four residents of Devipura village under Jahanabad police station were booked on Sunday morning for allegedly setting on fire the thatched house of one Mewa Ram (45) of the same village “to burn alive” him and his family members when they were sleeping on Saturday night. Mewa Ram and his family were, however, rescued by locals. In his complaint, Mewa Ram stated that he had a dispute with four people — Chhote Lal, Mansa Ram, Tota Ram and Babu Ram of the same village — on September 18 after they destroyed his green fodder crop. They had abused him, beaten him up and threatened to kill him, he alleged. After the accused torched his hut on Saturday night, locals rescued him and his family members, but all his household goods worth over Rs 50,000 were gutted, said Mewa Ram. SHO Harsh Vardhan Singh said the accused were booked under sections 436 (committing mischief by fire or any explosive substance, intending to cause the destruction of any building which is ordinarily used as a place of worship or as a human dwelling) 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-booked-for-torching-thatched-house-to-kill-occupants-after-a-dispute/articleshow/78221789.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sellers fail to book profit as weekly market yet to take off||NEW DELHI: After waiting for a fortnight, Nyma Khan of Chandni Chowk finally decided to visit the Sunday Book Bazaar with her friends this week. While the 18-year-old got to know about the reopening of the market from booksellers in Daryaganj two weeks ago, the fear of pandemic had stopped her from visiting it. “The Class XII results are out but nothing much is happening. That’s why I was keen to visit the market to pick up bestsellers at cheap prices. I have been here several times in the past but now my parents are apprehensive. My cousin has also come to buy some competition exam books,” she said. Like Khan and her friends, there were many apprehensive buyers hunting for books of their choice from limited varieties on offer. However, the footfall was not even one-tenth of what it used to be before Covid-19. Vendors blame the timing of the market for limited numbers and have decided to meet Delhi government and civic agency officials next week. “Earlier, we were keeping stalls open from 6am to 6pm. But now we are allowed 4-10pm. The government needs to understand that we are not hawkers selling vegetables or groceries,” said Asharfilal Verma, 61-year-old vice-president of the market association. “We are selling books and most of our buyers are students coming from different universities and campuses. They don’t want to come after 7-8pm and we automatically wrap up by 9pm.” Verma claimed that at least 10,000 people used to visit the place while not more than 1,200 people were coming nowadays. “Due to the odd timings, people from far-flung areas or the rest of NCR aren’t coming. With more transport options, I urged people to come. We are even assuring our visitors to arrange for books next week,” said Rajendra Singh, general secretary of the association. TOI found only 70 stalls displaying books while maintaining social distancing. “Only 90-100 hawkers are allowed to display books at a time. But not even these many people are coming. Some have no money to pay even Rs 185 as the stall fees while many others have probably shifted to other professions,” said Qamar Sayeed, president of Daryaganj Patri Book Bazaar Welfare Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sellers-fail-to-book-profit-as-weekly-mkt-yet-to-take-off/articleshow/78223722.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||Four booked for torching hut thatched house to kill occupants after a dispute||Pilibhit: Four residents of Devipura village under Jahanabad police station were booked on Sunday morning for allegedly setting on fire the thatched house of one Mewa Ram (45) of the same village “to burn alive” him and his family members when they were sleeping on Saturday night. Mewa Ram and his family were, however, rescued by locals. In his complaint, Mewa Ram stated that he had a dispute with four people — Chhote Lal, Mansa Ram, Tota Ram and Babu Ram of the same village — on September 18 after they destroyed his green fodder crop. They had abused him, beaten him up and threatened to kill him, he alleged.After the accused torched his hut on Saturday night, locals rescued him and his family members, but all his household goods worth over Rs 50,000 were gutted, said Mewa Ram.SHO Harsh Vardhan Singh said the accused were booked under sections 436 (committing mischief by fire or any explosive substance, intending to cause the destruction of any building which is ordinarily used as a place of worship or as a human dwelling) 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-booked-for-torching-hut-thatched-house-to-kill-occupants-after-a-dispute/articleshow/78221032.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||60-year-old woman run over by speeding truck||PILIBHIT: Hit by a truck near Lalpur crossing on the Bareilly-Hardwar national highway 74 on Saturday evening, a 60-year-old woman succumbed to her injuries at the district hospital in Pilibhit on Saturday night. Police lodged an FIR into the matter and sent the body for autopsy. According to the victim’s son Sartaj, his mother Kubra Begum of Sundarpur village in Jahanabad area was on her way home after visiting a doctor in Pilibhit. She took an auto-rickshaw to Lalpur crossing and had been waiting on the roadside for another vehicle to reach home when the accident took place. Jahanabad police station SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said the victim was rushed to the district hospital, but she died after a few hours. While the driver fled the spot, police impounded the truck and registered an FIR against the unidentified truck driver under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (rash driving on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/60-year-old-woman-run-over-by-speeding-truck/articleshow/78221041.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||2018 Unnao hooch tragedy main accused, three of his aides arrested||BAREILLY: Main accused of the 2018 Unnao hooch tragedy Vikas Gupta and three of his aides were arrested by Shahjahanpur police during a raid on an illegal liquor manufacturing and packaging unit in Kaanth area of Shahjahanpur on Saturday. Police on Sunday said Gupta, a resident of Kanpur, was the main accused of the 2018 Unnao hooch tragedy that had claimed four lives. Gupta was sent to jail after the hooch tragedy, but he came out on a bail, said police. Police said the accused used to manufacture liquor illegally and would bottle and pack the liquor with stickers of various brands. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand told TOI, “Gupta was running the illegal liquor manufacturing unit in a rented godown since August 9. We have also arrested his close aides Pratap Kumar and Pramod Kumar, also Kanpur residents, and Chaman Singh, their local support, and seized five large drums of spirit, 157 cartons of illegal liquor, fake labels of different liquor brands, bottling machine, etc.” “We are now gathering information about the supplier of spirit to the accused as we suspect the involvement of sugar mills’ employees. The accused have been booked under sections 420 (cheating), 272(adulteration of food or drink intended for sale) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Excise Act,” added the SSP. Shahjahanpur district magistrate Indra Vikram Singh, meanwhile, said, “Shahjahanpur police’s crackdown on liquor mafia was highly appreciated by the UP Principal Secretary and a cash reward of an undisclosed amount was also announced for the police team.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2018-unnao-hooch-tragedy-main-accused-found-running-illegal-liquor-manufacturing-unit-in-shahjahanpur-arrested/articleshow/78221054.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: MSU's Arts faculty to start online classes||VADODARA: M S University’s Faculty of Arts will kick off online classes of first year bachelor of arts (BA) students from Monday. Arts is the first faculty of the university that will begin online classes of all first semester students. The faculty recently finished the first round of admission process through which 1,376 students took admission. Of these, 275 students have taken admission in English, 69 in Gujarati, 62 in Hindi, 160 in Political Science, 50 in Archaeology and Ancient History, 87 in History and 198 in Economics. From Monday, the online classes will be conducted for allied, core and interdisciplinary elective courses of first semester on Microsoft Teams,” said the Dean, professor K Krishnan, adding that the faculty is already conducting classes for second and third year BA students and second year MA students. The faculty officials have asked teachers to create classrooms and add their respective students. Simultaneously, they have also been asked to email all the students details of the online classes. For the benefit of those students, who will be taking admission in the later rounds, the teachers have been asked to record their online lecturers. “We have asked our teachers to create a Google Meet link which has been mailed to students,” said head of the Department of English and vice-dean, professor Hitesh Raviya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-arts-faculty-to-start-online-classes/articleshow/78221648.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Surat||17-year-old Surat girl UNEP’s green ambassador in India||SURAT: Being passionately involved in the protection of her environment has literally taken her places. Meet Surat teenager, Khushi Chindaliya, who has been appointed as Regional Ambassador (RA) for India by United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Tunza Eco-Generation (TEG) this September. When TOI asked what inspired her to achieve this great role as the green ambassador of the country, the ebullient 17-year-old replied promptly: “My sensitivity towards the degradation of nature and understanding of its repercussions.” Elaborating her point, Khushi said, “A few years back when I first came to live in New City Light area as a child, I had befriended a chikoo (sapodilla sapota) tree near my house which was also the resting place of many birds. In fact, the whole area was green. But as I grew up, I kept seeing how concrete jungle crept in and replaced my greenery. I was worried that my younger sister will never get to see what I had enjoyed.” This was the cornerstone of her quest which developed towards conservation of environment and helped her bag the ambassadorship for UNEP. She will now be working on various awareness projects with TEG till February 2021. Amid the lockdown and Covid-hit world, the daughter of textile businessman Basant Chindaliya and astro vastu counsellor mom, Binita, Khushi invested her entire time working on the environment, a subject closest to her heart, trying to understand the causes of its degradation and chalking out plans to protect it. Due to limitations in the physical movement at the moment, Khushi will be working on her awareness plan online. “This month I will be sharing reports and speaking on what my government is doing for the environment and how education can help arrest the decline. I get to interact with RAs from across the globe and understand situations in their part of the globe as well,” she explains. Khushi is among 100 young people of India whose essays were chosen by UNESCO to be published in a book ‘Year 1 AC (After Coronavirus): Essays by 100 Young Indians.’ She was inducted as a member and international ambassador of the National Society of High School Scholars, an international society run by the descendants of Sir Alfred Nobel in 2019. Khushi, who has completed her schooling this year will join college from next year and plans to study Economics and Liberal Arts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/17-yr-old-surat-girl-uneps-green-ambassador-in-india/articleshow/78222612.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||#DurgaPuja2020: Metro comes to shoppers’ rescue||It’s that time of the year when city markets are buzzing with activity as Puja shopping is on in full swing. Though the pandemic left the shopping districts deserted for a few months, the scenes at some of the most popular markets this weekend prove that the city’s festive spirit remains undeterred. With Kolkata Metro resuming services and just one month to go for the biggest festival of the state, shoppers are making the most of the Puja countdown to make up for the retail therapy they missed out on during the lockdown. To gauge the festive mood across the city, CT visited three Metro stations that are located close to the three popular shopping hubs. We met cautious yet excited shoppers who are hailing the Metro for making offline shopping possible for them despite all odds. Here’s what they had to share: Shyambazar Metro station for shopping at Hatibagan MarketPriya Mondal, a Class XII student, who went uja shopping with her mother, Papia: We were waiting for Metro services to resume before starting our Puja shopping. Since we live in Noapara, Metro is the most convenient option to commute. Due to the lockdown, we were not able to buy clothes for regular use, so we decided to start with that. Puja shopping is not a one-day affair. So, we’ll be visiting other markets, especially Ram Mandir, next week. Though Metro is the most comfortable and safe option, the pre-booked slots don’t work for shoppers like us. Today, we came here around 2 pm and booked a slot between 6 pm and 7 pm to return. That means we will have to complete our shopping in that duration. How can one schedule their Puja shopping like that? Proma Mukherjee, an FMCG professional: Before March, I used to regularly travel by the Metro and I took a train the day they resumed services earlier this week. Today is the first day of my Puja shopping and I am here to buy an eye makeup kit. I am also looking for saris, but I’ll have to come back for that. For shoppers like us, Kolkata Metro is the best way to travel. Not because it is safer and less crowded than a bus and cheaper than auto, but mostly because all the important shopping destinations are connected by it. Tomorrow, I am planning to go to Esplanade to buy shoes and I will be taking the Metro again. I have heard many people complaining about the time slot system, but I find it extremely useful and easy. It is helpful for keeping the trains less crowded and clean. This is probably the only public transport system where social distancing is being followed. Kalighat Metro station for shopping at Gariahat market:Amrita Chattopadhyay, actress: I am on my way to New Market to buy makeup essentials from a particular shop that I have been buying from for years now. Since Puja is just round the corner, I will treat myself to some silver jewellery too. Initially, I thought this year I’d have to give Puja shopping a miss. But now that the Metro is back, life is much easier. I am riding the Metro after years as I do not have my car today. I’ve been assured by several people that they are maintaining hygiene and following the guidelines thoroughly. Manisha Chowdhury, third-year student: Since college is still shut, I went shopping at Gariahat with my father. We took a Metro till Rashbehari, and then an auto to Gariahat. From thermal checks to sanitisation and social distancing, everything was being strictly followed, and we felt quite safe travelling by the Metro. It was pretty clean too! It has been a very difficult year, but Puja is coming and I want to soak in the festive spirit. Coming out for Puja shopping was a great idea, I’m so happy! Esplanade Metro station for shopping at New MarketSagar Jha, Arijit Laha and Sudipta Senapati, professionals: Our friendship goes a long way and we usually shop for Puja together. New Market is the ideal place for Puja shopping, as you can find both ethnic and western wear under one roof. This place also has great collections of footwear and cosmetics. We stay at Dum Dum, so for us, Metro is the best possible way to go to New Market. We were waiting for the Metro to resume and we’re glad it happened well in time for Puja. The way the Kolkata Police and Metro officials are maintaining safety -- both at the stations and inside the coaches -- is praiseworthy. No one is allowed without a mask and thermal checking is a must. Today we bought Puja gifts for each other. That’s how we like to begin our Puja shopping every year. We bought saris, dress materials and shirts. It is so heartwarming to see people accepting the new normal and overcoming their fears. Puja shopping is incomplete without munching on the mandatory kathi rolls. The queue at the shop indicated that the festive season is here. Prarthana Ram, student and model: On Saturday, I rode the Metro for the first time after lockdown to visit New Market for my Puja shopping. I am impressed by the safety standards being maintained inside the trains and at the stations. My parents trust Kolkata Metro and that is the only reason they allowed me to go out. There is no overcrowding and it feels safer. Seeing so many shoppers buying saris and shoes for Puja filled my heart with joy. I’m relieved to see that the shops are back to business after months of losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/durgapuja2020-metro-comes-to-shoppers-rescue/articleshow/78223635.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
September 21, 2020||Surat||Insurance agent nabbed for making fake documents||Surat: Police nabbed a 40-year-old insurance agent for allegedly making forged marksheets and other documents. Kamlesh Gopal Rana used to make fake school leaving certificates, voter ID cards, PAN cards and various other documents and selling them to people in need.Following a tip-off, police sent a dummy customer posing as Class VIII pass and Rana agreed to make a marksheet of Class X for him. He demanded Rs 1,000 from him and fell into the trap. Rana promised him to provide the marksheet on mobile in a PDF format. Meanwhile, Rana called the dummy buyer on Saturday and asked him to come to a photocopy shop to get a colour copy of the marksheet. Police nabbed him from the shop. Police recovered a laptop, a blank school leaving certificate and few forged documents from him. While examining the laptop, police found that Rana had made fake documents for many people.“He charged money as per the financial condition of the buyer. It ranged from a few hundred rupees to thousands,” said a police officer in Salabatpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/insurance-agent-nabbed-for-making-fake-documents/articleshow/78222720.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hubballi||BJP borrowing money to run the state: Rayareddy||Hubballi: Senior Congress leader Basavaraj Rayareddy came down heavily on the state government alleging that the BJP leadership has mismanaged financial aspects and Covid-related issues. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Rayareddy said the government has failed in all fronts. “The government is borrowing money for all its expenditures including payment of salaries of employees. The loan amount was Rs 2.42 lakh crore at the end of Siddaramaiah-led government. It will be Rs 4.01 lakh crore by the end of 2020-21. The BJP government is now planning to raise Rs 90,000 crore more by amending the Fiscal Responsibility Act,” he said. Rayareddy urged the government to extensively deliberate on the fiscal condition of the state so as to keep people informed. Congress leader Anilkumar Patil, Altaf Halwoor and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bjp-borrowing-money-to-run-the-state-rayareddy/articleshow/78224998.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hubballi||Cracks Develop on Navaluru Bridge, MLA seeks action||Dharwad: Aerated concrete blocks on the western side of the Navaluru Bridge on the Dharwad-Hubballi road have got detached and some of the blocks have fallen down, due to waterlogging on the bridge, as a result of which a huge quantity of soil used to make the elevated road has come off it. According to the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS) officials, the construction of the bridge is incomplete due to various reasons, and hence it has not been opened for traffic. Vivekanand Vishwajnya, division controller of the Hubballi-Dharwad city division, said the blocks got detached due to seepage of water into the foundation soil of the flyover. “There was no asphalting on the bridge, due to which the seepage of water happened. We will look into it,” he said. Bellad seeks action Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad has expressed his anguish at the poor quality of work. He told TOI on Sunday that he will write to the government, urging it to file criminal cases against those responsible for the poor quality work. The residents of Navalur had alerted the MLA a year ago, that the bridge is likely to collapse, and Bellad in turn had sounded the BRTS officials. “The officials have not taken any action even after being sounded by me. Now the pillar of the bridge has collapsed. I will write to the government on the issue,” Bellad said. Refuting charge that political leaders were responsible for the poor quality of work, he said the entire plan itself was faulty, and that the negligence of the officials and engineers had spoiled a good project. On the pathetic condition of the roads in Dharwad, he said five roads in Gandhi Nagar, Kusum Nagar and Manjunathpur have been severely damaged, and that they should have been repaired last year. “However, it could not be done due to the pandemic,” he said and added that he would apologise for the delay. The work will be taken up in November, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cracks-develop-on-navaluru-bridge-mla-seeks-action/articleshow/78224907.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Expert stresses holistic approach towards pain management||Mangaluru: After more than four decades, amid an unprecedented healthcare crisis, the International Association for Study of Pain (IASP) has, perhaps taking cognisance of the prevalent situation, decided to revise the definition of ‘pain’, for the first time since 1979, in order to incorporate within its ambit the manifold complexities of the physical experience. This, the association feels will make way for a more nuanced approach towards pain management. Dr Naveen Salins, head of department for palliative medicine and supportive care at Kasturba Medical College in Manipal, pointed out that pain management had primarily focussed on the physical sensation, its emotional, social and spiritual strains not factored. “It was thought that pain could be managed using painkillers or blocking of nerves. The new definition of pain provides a comprehensive understanding of the term. This will pave the way for holistic management of pain,” Dr Salins told TOI. He said that, redrawing the contours of the term last month, IASP had decided to incorporate the other aspects of pain too. “It is a personal experience that is influenced in varying degrees by biological, psychological and social factors. Most doctors do not acknowledge the role of pain modulation, and their understanding of pain management is often limited to prescribing painkillers or performing procedures to block transmission of it. But these may not completely relieve one of pain,” Dr Salins added. Defining pain merely as ‘nociception’ which is denotative of an electrochemical mechanism is very reductive, he said. “Pain is a much broader phenomenon with many layers of modifiers and influencers. Individuals learn about pain through their experiences in life, which means that something painful in their past, and that memory will determine one’s response to pain in the present,” the HoD said. Emphasising the need to respect an individual’s version of his or her experience with pain, Dr Salins said, “Medical training encourages doctors to view things differently. It could be body temperature, pulse rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation level, they are viewed as specific numbers. But assessment of pain and symptoms are more subjective in nature. The rule of thumb is that when the patient reports pain, it is there. Doctors must rely more on the rich description and experience of pain instead of objectifying it with plain measurement. Although pain usually serves an adaptive role, it may adversely impact the psychological wellbeing of an individual. An oral description is one of the many behavioural methods that can be used for expressing of one’s pain,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/expert-stresses-holistic-approach-towards-pain-management/articleshow/78224987.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 21, 2020||Surat||12 petrol pump staff infected||Surat: As many as 16 employees of petrol pumps, 12 from just one pump, have tested positive for Covid, of the 884 whose samples were taken. “Twelve of one petrol pump on Udhna-Magdalla Road were found infected out of the total of 126 employees tested. The fuel pump was ordered to shut,” said an SMC official. Over 60 ‘Covid-19 super spreaders’ had been found during the mass rapid antigen testing by the SMC in different parts of the city in the last few days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/12-petrol-pump-staff-infected/articleshow/78222737.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Man slits open pregnant wife’s belly to 'check baby’s gender'||BAREILLY: The belly of a four-month pregnant woman was slit open by her husband who charged on her with a sickle after being told by a priest that she was expecting another girl child, the sixth in a row. Pannalal, 43, attacked his wife Anita Devi on Saturday night at their home in UP’s Budaun district, leaving her in a pool of blood. Anita’s family told investigators that Pannalal attacked and cut open her stomach to “know the gender” of the child. An FIR was registered and Pannalal booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) and other sections of the IPC. Though the baby in the womb was unhurt, Anita’s condition deteriorated due to severe damage to her insides and excessive bleeding. As her condition worsened at the district hospital in Bareilly, her brother, Ravi Kumar Singh, took her to a private hospital. But she could not be admitted as authorities there asked him to deposit Rs 4lakh to start the treatment. It was then that Anita’s family rushed her to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, where doctors were operating on her on Sunday evening to save her life and that of the unborn child. According to police, convinced by the words of a village priest that Anita was expecting another girl child, Pannalal was forcing her to abort it. He wanted a son. But Anita was adamant on keeping the child. Anita’s brother said, “My brother-in-law often used to beat my sister for giving birth to five daughters. Our parents had intervened on several occasions. But no one imagined that he would take such a cruel step.” He added: “When I reached there, I saw blood everywhere. Anita’s stomach was slit, and she told me that her husband did this. I took her to the hospital with the support of the police. Fortunately she has been admitted at Safdarjung hospital and doctors here are supportive.” Additional superintendent of police (city) Praveen Singh Chauhan said, “Pannalal has been arrested. He has been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder). SHO of Civil Lines police station Sudhakar Pandey told TOI, “The woman’s family has alleged that Pannalal took this step to know the gender of the foetus. We are still investigating the reason. Pannalal has been sent to jail.” Watch Bareilly: Man hacks pregnant wife after priest “predicts” 6th girl child||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-slits-open-pregnant-wifes-belly-to-check-babys-gender/articleshow/78221060.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 21, 2020||Surat||SpiceJet flight with 175 passengers aborts landing||Surat: Around 175 passengers onboard the SpiceJet flight from Delhi experienced anxious moments when the landing of the aircraft was aborted in the first attempt on Saturday night. However, the flight landed successfully in the second attempt.Sources said that the flight’s landing was faulty with high speed on the runway. Before the touchdown, the Air Traffic Control (ATC) informed the pilot of SG-127 flight about the faulty landing. However, the pilot aborted the landing after coming close to the runway.The flight landed at at around 8pm in the second attempt on Saturday after hovering overhead for about 20 minutes.When contacted, SpiceJet spokesperson was not aware about the incident and refused to comment. Despite repeated attempts, Surat airport director Aman Saini was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/spicejet-flight-with-175-passengers-aborts-landing/articleshow/78222729.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||Opposition behaviour shameful, say Rajnath, 5 other senior mantris||NEW DELHI: Coming out strongly in support of Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh, six senior ministers, including defence minister Rajnath Singh, held a press conference on Sunday evening and condemned the unruly behaviour of some opposition MPs during the debate on farm bills and termed the incident “unfortunate and shameful”. “I am also a farmer and was the agriculture minister and I can never believe the government... will take any step against the interest of farmers. What happened is against the decorum of the House,” Singh said. He was accompanied by Thaawar Chand Gehlot, Piyush Goyal, Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi. The defence minister said attempts were being made to mislead farmers s and assured that the government would not end the system of minimum support price and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (AMPC) Act. “I know it is the responsibility of the ruling side to run the House smoothly. The support of the opposition is also expected. Confusion was created among farmers for their vested interests. It is not good for healthy democratic values,” he said. “I have never seen such misconduct in Parliament. It is condemnable,” he added. Responding to a question on the notice against Harivansh by opposition parties, Singh said, “Notice has been given to the chairman. A decision will be taken by himThis is the prerogative of the chairman”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-behaviour-shameful-say-rajnath-5-other-senior-mantris/articleshow/78225421.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Ganja worth Rs 1.9 lakh seized from three operations, three arrested||RAJKOT: A total of 20.500 kg ganja (marijuana) worth Rs 1.88 lakh was seized from three different operations carried out in Porbandar, Rajkot city and Shapar-Veraval in the past 24 hours. Three drug traffickers were arrested in these connections. In Kutiyana village of Porbandar taluka, a total of 15 kg ganja plants worth Rs 1.52 lakh were found grown in the garden of the house belonging to Balwant Aparnathi (44). “There were nine plants of ganja found in the garden. Aparnathi said that he was a ganja addict and had cultivated ganja plants to sell them to other addicts. We called forensic experts who confirmed the plants as ganja, after which we booked Aparnathi under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act,” said A I Jadeja, inspector with Porbandar special operation group (SOG). In Rajkot city, a total of 4.266 kg ganja worth Rs 25,596 was found from a pick-up van near Cosmo multiplex on Kalawad Road. “We have arrested Anil Parsana (36) for allegedly ferrying the contraband in the pick-up van. During interrogation, Parsana confessed, he had procured the contraband from a drug dealer from Surat,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot SOG. In Shapar-Veraval industrial zone on the outskirts of Rajkot, a total of 1.80 kg ganja worth Rs 10,380 was seized from the possession of Niraj Tiwari (23). “Tiwari is a native of Uttar Pradesh who had migrated to Shapar-Veraval industrial zone to work as a labourer. After conducting Covid-19 test on Tiwari, we will be producing him before a court here to seek his remand to find out as to from whom he had procured the contraband and to whom he was going to sell it,” said A R Gohil, inspector with Rajkot rural SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ganja-worth-rs-1-9l-seized-from-three-operations-three-arrested/articleshow/78222779.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||105-year-old, one of oldest WWII veterans, dies in Uttar Pradesh||BAREILLY: One of the longest living World War II veterans in the country, Wahid Ali, who fought for the British Indian Army in Burma (Myanmar) and chose to stay in India after partition even as his eldest son and most of the family moved to Pakistan, died after prolonged illness at 105 years old in his native village in UP. The veteran’s last rites were conducted in Katra town of Shahjahanpur district on Sunday and were attended by serving and retired Army men. The Shahjahanpur police also presented him with the guard of honour at his funeral. As a sepoy in the Army Ordnance Corps regiment in the British Indian Army, Ali was known for his skills in armament, hardware and explosives. He retired in 1947, the year India got its independence from the British. Soon after partition, Ali’s son and eldest of seven siblings, Intezaar, along with many of his relatives moved to Pakistan. “Love for the motherland kept my father here. He never wanted to leave this country,” his son, Shahid, told TOI. Shahid’s mother passed away five years ago. “We survived on my father’s pension of Rs 6,000 per month,” he said. Shahid recalled that his father considered Subash Chandra Bose as his hero and had met him in Myanmar when he was serving there. Ex-army man and district president of ex-army men welfare association M M Verma remembered Ali as a “true patriot”. Retired group captain (IAF) P K Gupta, a patron of the association, added, “I had met him a few times and he was truly an inspiration. He fought in Burma during World War II and was likely the oldest surviving veteran of the war in the country. He was recognised by the state government on numerous occasions and was honoured by deputy chief minister Dr Dinesh Sharma in 2018.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/105-year-old-one-of-oldest-wwii-veterans-dies-in-up/articleshow/78221092.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 21, 2020||Rajkot||Trial run of Girnar ropeway takes off||Rajkot: Under the supervision of four engineers from Austria, trial run of Girnar ropeway was carried out at Girnar on the outskirts of Junagadh on Sunday. One trolley was used for the run without any weight. A dream project of PM Narendra Modi, Girnar ropeway is the biggest ropeway project in Asia. In 2007, Modi, as the then chief minister of Gujarat, had presided over the foundation stone laying ceremony of the project. The total cost of the project is estimated to be Rs 110 crore. “The ropeway connects Bhavnath Taleti with Ambaji Temple, covering 2.3 km in just seven minutes,” said an official from Junagadh district administration. “Nine towers have been erected between Bhavnath Taleti and Ambaji Temple, the highest being 66-metre on the thousandth step of Girnar. There are 5,000 steps between Bhavnath Taleti and Ambaji Temple,” described the official. “Once the project is accomplished, there will be 24 trolleys strung along the ropeway. Each trolley will have the capacity of accommodating eight persons. Thus, in one run, 192 passengers will be able to travel,” the official added. Managed by Usha Breco Limited, the Girnar ropeway project was first proposed in 1983. However, the construction work on the ambitious project could take off only in 2017, after clearing several pending approvals from the government as well as many a litigation against it.Considering the project to be a threat on their livelihood, several palanquin-bearers, who carried pilgrims from Bhavnath Taleti to Ambaji Temple, had moved the Gujarat high court (HC) against the ropeway. However, HC junked their petition after Usha Breco Limited offered alternative jobs to these displaced palanquin-bearers as compensation. Again the outbreak of the global pandemic stalled the project further after it was supposed to take off in May 2020. “This is a very positive sign. We have given the company a mandate to complete the project by October 15. So far, everything is going as per the plan,” said Jenu Devan, MD, TCGL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/trial-run-of-girnar-ropeway-takes-off/articleshow/78222804.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolhapur||36 deaths, 493 Covid cases across Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 36 Covid-related casualties, including 12 from the city, on Sunday along with the addition of 493 cases, taking the total number of patients to 39, 801. Of the total number of patients in the district, 1,257 have succumbed to infection so far while 10,730 are currently undergoing treatment. On Sunday, 629 patients were discharged after successful treatment. Meanwhile, Kolhapur city also reported lowest single day cases in recent weeks. On Sunday, the city registered 150 cases, taking the total number of patients to 12,325. Sambhajinagar locality from the city has once again emerged as a hotspot after multiple cases were reported from the area in last three days. On Sunday, 17 Covid cases were reported from Sambhajinagar while 10 were registered on Saturday. So far, 309 cases have been reported from the locality. The civic staff has stepped up efforts to contain the spread of the contagion as most cases are reported from congested slum areas. Rajarampuri and Kasba Bawda areas continue to report highest number of Covid cases in the city Sangli reports 32 deaths Sangli district reported 32 deaths and 811 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. With this new addition, the total number of cases in the district has reached 29,322, of which, 1,102 have succumbed to infection while 9,640 are undergoing treatmen in various Covid care facilities across the district. Sangli district guardian minister Jayant Patil said that there is a need to check whether the treatment protocol is strictly followed in hospitals. Patil inaugurated the100-bed Covid hospital in Mohamaddiya Anglo Urdu high school building in Sangli city. During the inauguration, he said, “Given the rising death count, there is an urgent need to check the treatment protocol followed by hospitals. The administration must deploy a team of experts to scrutinise the protocol. If flaws are reported in the treatment protocol, then it must be immediately rectified. Also, the experts should guide the doctors in the hospitals regularly through online medium.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/36-deaths-493-covid-cases-across-kolhapur-district/articleshow/78221856.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Surat||Online faculty development programme at SVNIT||Surat: The mechanical department of Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) and Manmade Textile Research Association (MANTRA) have jointly organised a five-day online faculty development programme from September 21 to 25. The topic is ‘Green and Sustainability in Textile Industry’ and is sponsored by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). Chairman of AICTE, professor Anil Shasrabudhe, will be chief guest of the event. Other dignitaries from AICTE, professor M P Poonia, vice-chairman and professor Rajive Kumar, member secretary, will also remain present during the inaugural session. The programme is organised under the AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy initiative. Over 100 participants from different institutes of the country are likely to attend the programme. Various green technologies in the textile industry will be discussed, with a target of making the industry energy efficient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/online-faculty-development-programme-at-svnit/articleshow/78222661.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||PI shoots self on secretariat campus||Ahmedabad: A police inspector deployed at the secretariat complex committed suicide by shooting himself in the head, in his car on the complex late on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Pritesh Patel, 41. Deputy superintendent of police M K Rana said that Patel had attended his duty on Saturday but did not return home. At night, his family began searching for him. His family members tried to contact him on his cellphone, but the calls were unanswered. Later, the family approached police and a team of cops from Sector-7 police and Patel’s family members went to the secretariat to search for him. “We found his car parked in the secretariat lot. He was lying dead in a pool of blood in the car,” said inspector J H Sindhav of Sector-7 police. Sindhav said that entry and exit wounds of the bullet showed that he had shot himself. Police have found empty cartridges from his car. Sindhav said that cops on the ground did not find a suicide note or any clue which could establish the reason for the suicide. “A postmortem examination has been conducted at Gandhinagar Civil hospital. The report is awaited,” said Sindhav.Rana said that Patel is survived by his wife and two children. Their daughter is in Class 12 and son in Class 9. The family is inconsolable. Sector-7 police have registered a case of accidental death and have begun an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pi-shoots-self-on-secretariat-campus/articleshow/78223937.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC starts swab tests at 2 hospitals||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur municipal corporation (KMC) has started swab collection of pregnant women at two centres — Panchaganga hospital and Savitribai Phule hospital. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had recently ordered that pregnant women be tested for Covid-19 irrespective of the symptoms.A senior health official from the municipal corporation, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Along with ten urban health centres, the swab collection facility has been started in these two hospitals where most pregnant women are admitted. In case a woman tests positive, additional care will be taken during the delivery and post delivery. The swab collection and testing of pregnant women will be done free of cost.”Over 20 to 40 women are delivered in both these hospitals every day, the official adding that nasopharyngeal swabs are taken once a pregnant woman is admitted and sent for testing. If the test turns out positive, the family of the said patient will be informed and treatment would be initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-starts-swab-tests-at-2-hospitals/articleshow/78221881.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur water tax waiver claim deadline extended||Kolhapur: Though it has been more than a year since the decision to waive water tax of flood-hit citizens was taken, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is yet to finalise the list of beneficiaries. After the floods in August 2019, the corporators had insisted on waiving the water tax for that month as the supply to flood-affected localities was cut off then. Corporator Sharangdhar Deshmukh said, “We had insisted on waiving both water and property taxes. The concession in the property tax has been provided to the affected citizens. However, we are unable to understand why the water tax department is delaying the waiver.” The corporators have claimed that waiving of the water tax for a month will not cause a major loss to the municipal corporation. Earlier, the corporators had threatened to forcefully shut down the office of the water tax department if the waiver was not provided. Then the officials had sought an extension of the deadline till August 31. Now, the officials claim that since every day one or two new applications are received and since the local corporators insisted that the deadline to claim for waiver be extended, it has been pushed to September-end. “We have appealed the flood-affected citizens to approach us for the waiver. We have got poor response which is why we are planning special registration camps. However, the pandemic halted our plan. We have asked local water supply staff to visit the customers and get the applications received manually,” a senior official of water tax department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-water-tax-waiver-claim-deadline-extended/articleshow/78221873.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vadodara||160 outsiders’ last rites done in Vadodara||Vadodara: Over 160 persons from outside Vadodara who died during coronavirus treatment at various hospitals of the city were cremated or buried in the last 19 days. All the deceased were from neighbouring districts of Vadodara and a few from Madhya Pradesh. Their last rites were performed as per Covid-19 protocol. Senior IAS officer Dr Vinod Rao, who has been appointed as officer on special duty for Covid-19 at Vadodara, confirmed this on Sunday. Rao said that the deceased include Covid-19 positive patients, Covid-19 suspects and even those who had recovered. “All of them were cremated or buried in Vadodara itself following Covid protocol for precaution,” said Rao, adding that these patients were mainly from Bharuch, Anand, Kheda, Panchmahals, Dahod, Narmada and Mahisagar districts. He said that in some cases, patients recover from Covid-19 but they are not discharged from hospitals because of symptoms like respiratory illness or low levels of oxygen. “If subsequently, the patient passes away, he or she is cremated or buried as per Covid protocol,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/160-outsiders-last-rites-done-in-vadodara/articleshow/78222224.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Fire guts building, locals save paralysed man in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 65-year-old partially paralysed patient, who was locked in a room, had a miraculous escape on Sunday when a fire gutted the first floor of his five-storey building on Sovabazar Street in north Kolkata. The man, Gouranga Mukherjee, was saved by his neighbours, who broke open the door of his room. His wife Bela was away from home and on being alerted about the fire, she rushed back and raised an alarm. The building, where the fire took place, houses a popular restaurant of the area. “The distress call was made around 1.20 pm. Five fire tenders took nearly an hour to douse the flames. Prima facie, it seems that a leakage from the pipe of a cooking LPG gas cylinder might have caused the fire. We are investigating the case further,” said an officer from Jorabagan police station. Bela said her husband became paralysed after he suffered a stroke about a year ago. “When I have to go out, I lock the main door. I did the same on Sunday. Like others, my husband was unaware of the fire. When the room was filled with smoke on the first floor, people started rushing out. They knew he was alone at home. So, they saved him with the help of cops and fire brigade,”she added. Hiralal Mukherjee, a neighbour, said, “We could not have just let someone die. The incident shows that humanity is still alive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-guts-bldg-locals-save-paralysed-man/articleshow/78223906.cms||Amit Moulick
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Students from all over the world pay tribute to Presidency statistics legendary||KOLKATA: Students of Atindra Mohan Gun, the legendary teacher of statistics of the erstwhile Presidency College (now University), joined from across the world on the virtual platform to pay their tributes. Gun passed away on September 4. Best known for his textbooks on statistics that are read at the undergraduate level not only in India but also abroad, Gun was the head of the statistics department at the erstwhile Presidency College from 1976 to 1996. Among those, who joined from the US, were Moloy Ghosh from the University of Florida and Bhramar Mukherjee from the University of Michigan. Mukherjee, a bio statistician, who is one of the most acclaimed names in Covid data research today, said that she owed her success entirely to what she had been taught by Gun. Participants recollected popular stories about how “Sir” had taken classes at home for six months when the college had been shut during the Naxal period. Among those, who joined from across India and the city, were Prasanta Ray, former head of sociology department of the college and then emeritus professor of the university, Bimal Roy, former director of ISI and chairman of the National Statistical Commission, Saibal Chattopadhyay, former director of IIM Calcutta and Sukanta Chaudhuri, emeritus professor of English at JU, who also taught at the erstwhile Presidency College. “He fought for academic excellence during the 80s,” said Chaudhuri. The programme was organised jointly by the University’s department of statistics and the Presidency Alumni Association. “Any student of statistics swears by textbooks written by Gun Gupta Dasgupta. Atindra Mohan Gun was one of the three pillars,” said Bivas Chaudhuri, vice president of the Association. Hundreds of students joined the virtual platform and also the live streaming on You Tube to pay tributes to the legend of the statistics department at Presidency College (now University). Gun believed that the college would do better if it got autonomy and was at the forefront of the movement. “We remember him in the forefront of the autonomy movement of the erstwhile college,” said Saibal Chattopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-from-all-over-the-world-pay-tribute-to-presi-stats-legend/articleshow/78223852.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Janata curfew Day 2: Wary of losses, many shops remain open||Nagpur: In spite of being a Sunday, the second day of janata curfew saw activity on the roads and marketplaces. Despite Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) supporting mayor Sandip Joshi’s janata curfew call, many shopkeepers did business and a quarter of shops in the main commercial areas remained open. Shops selling garments, auto spares, eatables, etc were open in Dharampeth, Central Avenue, Sadar, Sitabuldi, etc. Shopkeepers said that they had suffered huge losses during the summer lockdown and could not afford any more no business days. Government offices, private offices, banks, etc were closed on account of Sunday. Therefore, the traffic on roads was less as compared to Saturday. Vishal Jain, a garments store owner from Dharampeth, said that he had to keep his shop closed for three months during the lockdown. “I had to take loan from my relatives to meet my household expenses. Now, I have to work doubly hard to repay that loan. Even after keeping the shop open daily, I am not earning much so I can’t afford to close my shop even for a day,” he said. Rajesh Bhatia, a cake shop owner from Sadar, said for him business is maximum on Sunday. “Many people buy sweets on Sunday as they visit their relatives and friends or when some guest comes to their house. If I keep my shop closed on Sunday, I will lose a lot of business. Even otherwise this two day voluntary curfew is of no use,” he said. All the industries around the city functioned normally. The industrial associations had made it clear right from the beginning that they would not participate in the janata curfew. “If industries don’t function how will the government get revenue,” Pradip Khandelwal, president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA), had told TOI. Joshi had appealed for a voluntary curfew as the number of Covid cases in the city continue to spiral. As only 39 private hospitals out of 637 in city treat Covid patients, there is an acute shortage of beds for serious patients. Guardian minister Nitin Raut had also planned a voluntary lockdown on weekends but dropped the idea after some days. He feels that livelihood of poor is adversely hit during lockdowns. The civic and police administration did not extend any support to Joshi in enforcing the voluntary lockdown. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B made it clear through a tweet that it was completely voluntary while police officials told shopkeepers to lodge a complaint if somebody forcibly tried to close down their establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/janata-curfew-day-2-wary-of-losses-many-shops-remain-open/articleshow/78225209.cms||Ashish Roy
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Buzz back at New Market as civic body relaxes corona restrictions||KOLKATA: New Market traders are hopeful of doing good business ahead of Durga Puja after the Kolkata Municipal Corporation market department allowed relaxations to the shopowners of the century-old heritage market. These measures included extension of business hours and no closing of shops even on Sundays. According to a source in New Market, volume of business, which has now risen to nearly 50% of the pre-Covid times sales from a mere 5%-7% when the market was reopened on June 1, could get another boost ahead of the Puja. “On Sunday, the relaxations were implemented for the first time and traders reaped the benefits,” said SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association president Ashok Gupta. According to Gupta, as the majority of traders started seeing an improvement in daily business over the past few weeks, they approached the KMC brass to extend the business hours and revoke an order that necessitated them to keep the shops closed on Sundays. However, he said all precautions — such as include sanitization of the market, using thermal gun and offering hand sanitizers to shoppers and making it mandatory for traders and shoppers to wear masks — were being enforced strictly. A senior market department official said the business hours at New Market had also been extended from 7pm to 9pm. Mohammed Ayub, a ready-made garments trader, said there was an increase in footfall on Sunday. “The trend was encouraging. Number of customers rose and the volume of business now indicates that more will follow in the coming days,” he said. According to an office-bearer of the traders’ association, the volume of business increased in particular segments, such as bakery, ready-made garments, cosmetics and gift items. “We are witnessing encouraging trends so far as volume of business is concerned in these segments. If we can maintain a healthy growth, the business could rise close to 80% in the next one and half months,” he said. Paromita Saha, a Bowbazar resident who had gone shopping at New Market on Sunday, was happy that the market would remain open on Sundays till 9pm. “I have been a regular at New Market for years. It feels good that the market will remain open seven days a week,” she said. Ajay Gupta, a trader in women’s wear, said his volume of business had increased after regular shoppers started visiting his shop more often over the past three weeks. “We hope to do better in days to come when the state streamlines the public transport system,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buzz-back-at-new-market-as-civic-body-relaxes-corona-restrictions/articleshow/78223885.cms||Saikat Ray
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s heavy reliance on rapid testing leaves RT-PCR facility underutilised||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s increased reliance on rapid antigen testing, which is a quicker testing method but less accurate, has led to under utilisation of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing capacity. The conventional RT-PCR test is considered a gold standard in the diagnosis of Covid‐19 and its results are processed in 24 hours, while rapid antigen tests give results in 15 minutes with an accuracy of about 70%. After toiling hard, the state managed to enhance the testing capacity of its laboratories to 18,000 tests a day, which remains underutilised. As per a data of the state health department, from September 1 to 18, against the overall collective capacity of 3,24,000 tests, just 242,187 were conducted. So far, full testing capacity has been utilised only on two occasions in September. During this period, the health department teams conducted 2,24,566 rapid tests across the state. Against the daily testing capacity of 18,000, only 9,079 people were tested using RT-PCR, lowest this month, on September 14, and 9,554 on September 1. As many as 11,002 people were tested using these kits on September 7. The daily usage of rapid testing methods has gone up from 18 tests on August 1 to as high as 18,772 in the current month. Taking a corrective step, the health department has directed civil surgeons to give more emphasis on collecting RT-PCR tests to ensure that full laboratory capacity is utilised. To cut down on the possibility of false negatives, the teams have also been instructed to take two samples of symptomatic patients, one each for RT-PCR and rapid antigen. Besides accuracy, the cost factor involved in both the tests has also made the health department stress on full utilisation of the lab capacity. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal said one RT-PCR kit is for Rs 150, while the cost of a single rapid antigen testing kit is around Rs 460. “As we have managed to enhance the capacity of our labs, the focus is now on full utilisation of the testing capacity as RT-PCR is accurate and its kits cost less than rapid testing kits,” said Hussan Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-heavy-reliance-on-rapid-testing-leaves-rt-pcr-facility-underutilised/articleshow/78224848.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Students in fix as exam dates clash||HYDERABAD: Students desirous of availing admissions in University of Hyderabad (UoH) are faced with a tough choice as dates and timing of University Grants Commission’s (UGC) national eligibility test (NET) and University of Hyderabad’s entrance examination to be conducted on September 24 are clashing. This has led to anxiety among students as they maybe forced to choose between the two exams. Not just this, many students from Telangana also have their final year degree exams scheduled on September 24. The move has not gone down well among the UoH students union who has decided to hold a protest on Monday seeking postponement of the UoH entrance exam. “About 42 per cent of the total students in University of Hyderabad belong to Telangana and it is evidently unfair to them as they will not be able to appear for the entrance examination under these conditions. We condemn the decision of the vice-chancellor and university administration to conduct the entrance exam from September 24-26,” read a statement from the UoH students union. Many aspirants and political leaders have highlighted the matter to the UoH authorities. “The university’s decision to conduct the entrance exam on September 24 will drastically impact many PhD scholars like me who intend to appear for the UGC NET as well. How can we be put under such pressure to appear for two important examinations on the same day,” said an aspirant. Earlier, the UGC NET was scheduled to be conducted from September 16 to September 25. The exam date was revised as it was clashing with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research exams. “Now that all the arrangements are made, we cannot change the entrance exam dates. Students desirous of taking the UGC NET can appear for the second attempt in December. We have also reached out to state universities requesting them to ensure that final year degree exams don’t clash with our dates,” said Prof Vinod Pavarala, the spokesperson of UoH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-in-fix-as-exam-dates-clash/articleshow/78222896.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Head of community medicine at Ner Chowk medical college dies of corona||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh has reported the first death of a corona warrior with Dr Pradeep Bansal, head of the community medicine department at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College Ner Chowk in Mandi district succumbing to coronavirus at Chandigarh. According to sources, Dr Bansal was on ventilator support in a hospital in Chandigarh and was infected after his daughter became positive for Covid-19. Apart from one deaths, Himachal Pradesh on Sunday reported 129 positive cases while 36 positive patients have also recovered. State has now 12,037 positive cases of which 4,400 cases are active, 7,503 patients have recovered, 114 have died while 17 have migrated out of the state. Also, so far, 2,65,878 samples have been tested, of which 2,51,597 samples have been tested negative while results of 2,244 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include nine from Chamba district, one from Hamirpur district, six from Kangra district, 14 from Kullu district, 13 from Lahaul-Spiti district, 59 from Mandi district, 10 from Shimla district, five from Sirmaur district and 12 from Una district. Those recovered include nine from Bilaspur district, 14 from Chamba district, five from Kangra district, six from Kullu district and two Sirmaur district. Bilaspur district has 628 positive cases, of which 218 are active, 409 have recovered while one has died; Chamba district has 700 cases, of which 75 are active, 614 have recovered, seven have died while three have migrated out of state; Hamirpur district has 779 cases, of which 98 are active, 676 have recovered while five have died; Kangra district has 1,817 cases, of which 672 are active, 1,120 have recovered while 25 have died. Kinnaur district has 139 positive cases, of which 39 are active while 100 have recovered; Kullu district has 457 cases, of which 118 are active, 335 have recovered while 3 have died; Lahaul-Spiti district has 109 cases of which 89 cases are active while 20 have recovered; Mandi district has 1,311 cases, of which 829 are active, 469 have recovered while 13 have died. Shimla district has 869 positive cases, of which 465 are active, 375 have recovered, 22 have died while six have migrated out of the state; Sirmaur district has 1,516 cases of which 398 active, 1,111 have recovered while seven have died; Solan district has 2,624 cases, of which 939 cases are active, 1,656 have recovered, 21 have died while 18 have migrated out of state; Una district has 1,088 positive cases of which 460 are active, 618 have recovered while 10 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/head-of-community-medicine-at-ner-chowk-medical-college-dies-of-corona/articleshow/78224850.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Two locals attacked by leopards in Kumaon||Dehradun: In separate incidents on Sunday, a woman from Baldiyakhan forest range in Nainital’s Bel Gaon and a man from Dhikuli village in Ramnagar (close to Corbett Tiger Reserve) were attacked by leopards. In the first incident in Bel Gaon, the 34-year-old woman had gone to bring fodder for livestock in the morning when she was attacked by the big cat. After hearing her screams, she was somehow saved by those who were accompanying her. The woman sustained serious injuries in the attack and was rushed to the nearest health facility for treatment. The woman will be given compensation by the forest department. In the second attack, a 37-year-old man living close to Corbett Tiger Reserve in Ramnagar area was also attacked by the leopard. The onlookers claimed that the man even fought with the leopard for a couple of minutes in his defence. “He fought with the leopard and got himself out from the clutches of the wild cat. Later, he was admitted to a hospital in a critical state. However, his condition is told to be stable now,” said a forest official from Ramnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-locals-attacked-by-leopards-in-kumaon/articleshow/78221901.cms||Shivani Azad
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: It’ll be a ‘no exam year’ for students of classes 1 to 8||HYDERABAD: It will be a ‘no exam year’ for class 1-8 students as many schools in the city are adopting continuous assessment and doing away with formative assessment for the 2020-21 academic year. Exams for class 9-12 students are conducted online despite the government giving a go-ahead to allow students in schools from September 21. However, schools are assessing the understanding level of primary class students based on orals. “Online exams for class 9-12 students are set to commence from Monday. However, for primary section students, we decided not to conduct any formal exams and instead assess them through some oral exams,” said Skand Bali, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Begumpet. In many other schools, worksheets with objective type questions are being distributed to students to assess their learning outcomes. “We are giving out worksheets to students, which have multiple choice questions, short answer questions such as fill in the blanks, match the following, etc. We intend to conduct formal exams only for classes 9-12 students as they have to be ready for board exams,” said Vasireddy Amarnath, chairman, The Slate School. While there is demand for zero academic year, some schools have adopted a latent academic year wherein exams are being made enjoyable. “We hold tests through Google forms wherein students have to answer objective questions. We make it comprehensible for students,” said Narasimha Reddy, principal, HPS, Ramanthapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/itll-be-a-no-exam-year-for-students-of-classes-1-to-8/articleshow/78246561.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rampant fishing in Sabarmati river beyond Vasna barrage||AHMEDABAD: The release of water from the Vasna barrage into downstream areas of the Sabarmati river has led to widespread fishing activity beyond the Vasna barrage. Widespread rainfall in North Gujarat earlier this month led to release of water in the Sabarmati river from the Dharoi dam. After 9,000 cusecs of water was released from the Vasna barrage into downstream areas of the river, a large number of fish also got released into the river. For the past one week or so, dozens of people have been catching a large number of fish every day with nets and hooks. A few varieties of fresh water fish – some over a foot long – have been swept down the Sabarmati river, which received about 13,000 cusecs of water from the Dharoi dam earlier this week. Although release of water from the Vasna barrage has now been discontinued, a large amount of fish have been released into the Sabarmati river, downstream of the barrage. “People have been catching fish every day for the past week. I have attempted to prevent them from doing so, but they do not pay heed,” said Nanubhai Rabari, caretaker of the Vasna barrage compound, which is under the state irrigation department. He added that the police ought to step in and prevent people from fishing in the river. Nanubhai said that the fish which are caught in the river are being sold in areas adjoining the Sabarmati river. “For the past few days, fish caught in the Sabarmati river are being sold at several spots around the Vasna barrage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rampant-fishing-in-sabarmati-river-beyond-vasna-barrage/articleshow/78223983.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Geo-tagging, fencing used to address city’s parking woes||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad municipal corporation (AMC) has resorted to using geo-tagging and geo-fencing to address the decade-old issue of lack of parking space in and around commercial markets as well as hawkers’ zone in the city. The civic body has formed 25 teams comprising five members each for the purpose. The teams completed the geo-tagging and geo-fencing process of 15,000 hawkers in a record span of 14 days. All the process remained paperless and currently the process of superimposing images and specifications of each of the commercial, hospital, educational, government offices is under way. Despite Aurangabad having population of about 18 lakh, the civic body owns just two legally functional parking lots situated at Paithan Gate and Gulmandi. As per the new plan, all important commercial areas will have their own parking spaces. Civic administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said that he is confident of coming out with a feasible solution. He told TOI, “Survey of 15, 000 hawkers from the city has been completed and they have been geo-tagged. We have also recorded longitude, latitude and length-width of all roads and commercial areas. We are working on identifying and implementing parking zones on various kinds of DP roads with the help of collected data.” The officer said that by the fag-end of the year, the civic body will publish a list of parking zones, no-parking zones, hawkers’ zones and no-hawkers’ zone, thus addressing the long pending traffic woes of citizens. Each of these hawkers has not only been geo-tagged but also been geo-fenced so that they do not shift or move around at will. HOD (estate department) Aparna Thite said, “We are designing it in a manner that if the hawker steps out of the hawker’s zone, the civic body will learn about it and on cross checking the same at the ground level, appropriate action would be initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/geo-tagging-fencing-used-to-address-citys-parking-woes/articleshow/78221903.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 21, 2020||Meerut||2019 courtroom shootout led to UP’s 10k-strong spl force that can arrest sans warrant||New Delhi: It was a courtroom shooting in UP’s Bijnor in 2019 which spurred a series of events that culminated in UP government’s new special security force which has created controversy for the powers it has been granted — to arrest, interrogate and act upon suspects without a warrant.On December 17 last year, an undertrial murder accused was shot dead inside a court in Bijnor, one more addition to a series of courtroom shootings in UP that would have been forgotten after the initial shock but for the Allahabad high court which took cognisance of the incident.A group of three assailants — with a minor boy leading the charge — had fired indiscriminately at an undertrial brought from Delhi for hearing, killing him on the spot as the chief judicial magistrate looked on in shock. The man was on trial for allegedly killing the minor’s father.While police were quick to dismiss it as a standalone “revenge killing”, the incident shook the corridors of power. The Allahabad HC took note and slammed the UP government over inadequate security in local court premises citing similar violence in courts of Agra and Muzaffarnagar.On June 13, 2019, chairperson of the UP Bar Council Darvesh Kumari Yadav (36) was shot dead by a colleague in her chamber on the court premises in Agra while in 2015 armed men had entered Muzaffarnagar court and shot dead gangster Vicky Tyagi.The HC observed that the most “incompetent” police personnel were being deployed in local courts. Terming the shootings “serious and shocking”, a division bench comprising justices Sudhir Agarwal and Suneet Kumar had told the UP government on December 20 last year to come up with a plan to ensure adequate security arrangements on court premises in the state. It also suggested the constitution of a specialised force to protect courts.Months later, the Yogi Adityanath government has come up with the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPPSF) which it said is meant to secure key establishments like courts, metro rail, airports, banks. The force, however, will also provide security to VIPs.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi has called it a “dream project” of the UP chief minister. Awasthi said, “The basis of this force is an order of the high court, which had directed that there should be a specialised force for civil courts. In all, there will be 9,919 personnel in the force.”Senior police officers that TOI spoke to said the controversy over the force was unwarranted as it was being formed along the lines of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to protect key installations in the state. “The provisions of the force draw heavily from the CISF Act. Even the CISF Act has a similar provision of arrest without warrant,” said a police officer.ADG, law & order, Prashant Kumar added, “We already are short-staffed and a large portion of state police personnel are deployed to protect these key installations. Formation of UPSSF will address this problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2019-courtroom-shootout-led-to-ups-10k-strong-spl-force-that-can-arrest-sans-warrant/articleshow/78215317.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 2,160 new cases, 56 more deaths||Chandigarh: Punjab inched closer to attaining undesirable mark of one lakh cases as it detected 2,160 more Covid-19 patients on Sunday. In addition, the virus claimed 56 more lives on the same day. By adding 1,625 cases to the state’s tally, nine districts — Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar, Mohali, Gurdaspur, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Ferozepur — accounted for 75.23% of total cases reported in the last 24 hours. The virus has infected 97,689 people so far and claimed the lives of 2,813 people in the state. The state’s fatality rate dropped a few notches to reach 2.87%. The high death rate is expected to continue in coming days as 67 people in critical condition and on ventilator support, of which 21 are new patients; while 490 patients are on oxygen support. Of 56 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the virus claimed the lives of eight people in Jalandhar, six each in Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, five in Ludhiana, four each in Hoshiarpur, Patiala and Ropar, three each in Tarn Taran and Mansa and two each in Kapurthala and Pathankot. One death each was reported in Barnala, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Nawanshahr and Sangrur. Ferozepur posted the highest number of cases. The district reported 256 cases, while 225 people were found infected in Mohali and 212 in Ludhiana. As many as 197 new cases were reported in Jalandhar, 183 in Patiala, 174 in Pathankot, 148 in Bathinda, 126 in Amritsar and 104 in Gurdaspur. Test reports of 94 people came positive in Hoshiarpur, 56 in Sangrur, 55 in Fazilka, 48 each in Kapurthala and Fatehgarh Sahib, 46 in Mansa, 39 in Nawanshahr, 37 in Muktsar, 36 in Barnala, 35 in Tarn Taran, 20 in Faridkot, 11 in Moga and 10 in Ropar. As many as 2,225 people were discharged, pushing the state’s recovery rate to 74.31%. So far 72,598 patients have recovered from the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-reports-2160-new-cases-56-more-deaths/articleshow/78224853.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Teachers enthral audience at online singing contest in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Teachers of 32-odd schools had a gala time participating in ‘Sing-a-Song’, The Times of India-NIE’s online singing competition, on September 8. Held on the occasion of Teacher’s Day, this unique event celebrated the teaching fraternity’s contribution to society, apart from providing them over four hours of non-stop entertainment. The judges for the online contest were renowned music director and composer Anupam Dutta and popular singer from Bengali rock band, Cactus, Sidhu. Music teachers from 32 schools participated in the first round of the contest. The eight participants, who made it to the second and final round, were Jasbir Kaur from Sunrise English Medium School Belur, Pallabi Ghatak from Shri Shikshayatan School, Subhasree Sarkhel from Calcutta International School, Shaonli Mukherjee from Future Campus School, Dolon Mazumder from Mahadevi Birla World Academy, Munmun Das from Techno Garia, Anjana Baidya from Indira Gandhi Memorial Senior Secondary School Sreebhumi and Priyanka Chatterjee from St Augustine's Day School Shyamnagar. The even more invigorating final round saw Munmun Das coming first with Shaonli Mukherjee and Pallabi Ghatak in second and third places respectively. The two consolation prize winners were Dolon Mazumder and Jasbir Kaur. The winners have bagged some exciting prizes.  Sidhu pointed out that school is an integral part of childhood. He performed his iconic Se ki phirbe na much to the delight of his audience. An equally pleased Anupam Dutta said, “So much talent was unearthed today. I had no idea that teachers could sing so well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teachers-enthral-audience-at-online-singing-contest/articleshow/78223940.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram frontrunner in Haryana again||CHANDIGARH: Gurugram retained its top position in new and active cases, even as 2,305 new cases and 29 deaths took Haryana’s Covid-19 count to 1,11,257 and 1,149 deaths on Sunday. With 2,547 recoveries, Haryana’s recovery rate went up a little to 79.72%. The overall recoveries have gone up 88,698. With the Covid-19 positivity rate rising to 6.64%, there are 21,411 active patients in the state out of whom 378 are critical. Of those dead, 798 are male and 351 are female. While number of transgender getting infected has gone to 13. The testing in the state too has gone up to 66,320 per million per day — so far, 16.81 lakh persons have been tested through RT PCR and antigen test kits. With 405 new cases and one death, Gurugram has not only the highest cases at 17,842, but it has also highest active cases (2,792). The death toll in Gurugram has gone to 160. Hisar reported 257 new cases and two deaths followed by 234 cases and two deaths in Sonipat district and 203 cases and two deaths in Faridabad district. Faridabad is at second position with 17,763 cases but continue to top the chart of highest deaths (205). Ambala cases on Sunday reached 7,090 by breaching 7,000 mark as 180 new cases and three deaths were reported. Panipat reported 141 cases followed by 133 cases and two deaths in Panchkula district. Sirsa reported 110 cases with three deaths. Karnal reported 88 cases with three deaths followed by 82 cases and two deaths in Yamunanangar, 77 cases and one death in Fatehabad, 76 cases and one death in Rohtak district. Mahendergarh reported 56 cases and one death followed by 51 cases and three deaths in Kurukshetra, 50 cases in Palwal , 43 cases and one death in Kaithal and 41 cases in Rewari district. Bhiwani reported 35 cases and one death followed by 24 cases in Jhajjar, 14 in Charkhidi Dadri and four cases and one death in Nuh district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gurgaon-is-still-frontrunner-of-hry-in-covid-postive-cases/articleshow/78224852.cms||Manvir Saini
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Protesters try to gherao ministers||HYDERABAD: Demanding the government to provide accommodation and transport to students appearing for degree exams, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) members on Sunday made a vain bid to gherao ministers. They said that despite the UGC directive to conduct either offline/online or open-book exams, the varsities in the state are paying little heed to this direction. “In Telangana, the varsities are going ahead and conducting exams just like every year. It is disheartening to see that there is no option of online or open-book examinations,” said P Srihari, in charge, OU, ABVP adding that few of them have been picked up by the police while staging the protest. The protesters also highlighted that about 2.5 lakh students are residing in their hometowns and questioned how these students are going to return to their colleges in Hyderabad and appear for the exams. “Where are students going to stay? How will they travel as trains and buses are not fully functional,” questioned Praveen Reddy, one of the protesters, adding that students should instead be given an option to appear for the exam at a college in their hometown. They said that all the state varsities should conduct exams together so that students can appear for exams at the nearest exam centre. Students said that it would be ideal if the colleges can grade students on their performance on objective paper, project work, or assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protesters-try-to-gherao-ministers/articleshow/78222911.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi varsity announces guidelines for final exams||Patiala: Announcing guidelines for the final examinations starting from September 25, the Punjabi University, Patiala has declared that every department or college will conduct examination on their own. The department heads will be the controllers of the examination centres and they will appoint coordinators or nodal officers and assistant nodal officers for the examination. The candidates will be given two hours to solve the paper and two hours extra to download the question paper, scan the answer sheets and send the PDF files via email. The examination session for students of undergraduate classes will be from 10am to 2pm whereas the exam session of all the other classes will be from 9am to 1pm. The visually impaired or differently-abled students will be given 40 minutes extra to solve the paper, but these candidates will themselves have to arrange the writers for writing their papers. For BEd or any other course, if the time limit of a paper is less than two hours, the students will solve their paper in the earlier prescribed time only. On the day of examination, the question papers will be made available to the students through email or WhatsApp or on the website of department or college. Students can download their admit cards soon and Date sheet will also be released soon on the website of the examination branch. “Each student will be required to attempt 50% of the total questions of the question paper. If for instance, the total number of questions in the question paper is 9, then 4 questions should be answered, if it is 7, 3 should be answered. The marks of all the questions will be equal. The re-evaluation or re-checking of papers will not be allowed for the examinations of this session. Any student, who has submitted the exam fee and form for the final semester, but somehow is unable to appear, should inform the university, department or the college concerned before the commencement of the examination in writing. Such student can sit in the next exams,” added Khattar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabi-varsity-announces-guidelines-for-final-exams/articleshow/78224857.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||PhD, MPhil students struggle to pursue research work||HYDERABAD: The six-month extension to PhD and MPhil scholars is making little difference as closure of hostels, staggered return to universities and lack of access to resources and materials continues to affect their research work. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the University Grants Commission (UGC) in April this year had granted six months extension to all PhD and MPhil scholars and had asked universities to conduct viva-voce through video conferences. Following this, all universities had granted six-month extension to all research scholars. However, with the staggered return of research scholars yet to commence in universities, students say that the extension is barely making any difference. “Of the six months, three months have passed. Remaining three months will pass in data entry, completion of thesis and other clerical work. Many students need six months for experimental research which has been halted,” said Sree Charan, vice-president of University of Hyderabad (UoH) students union, which has represented the matter to VC Appa Rao Podile. Many universities have allowed final year research scholars to submit their thesis by December-end. However, students said that they are finding it difficult to pursue their research work remotely. “With no access to reference material, international journals, how do I pursue my research work? While the UGC has extended our tenure, we don’t have any clarity on whether we would receive fellowship for the extended period or not,” said Tunga Ramesh, an MPhil scholar. The UoH task force is now planning to set up a quarantine facility on campus to enable return of research scholars from other states. “We are trying to enable students’ return latest by October first week,” said Vinod Pavarala, chairperson, UoH task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/phd-mphil-students-struggle-to-pursue-research-work/articleshow/78222917.cms||Preeti Biswas
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab allows students of Classes IX to XII to visit schools||Chandigarh: Following the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), the Punjab government on Sunday allowed the students of Classes IX to XII to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones on voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers from Monday. However, this permission would be subject to the written consent of their parents/guardians as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the MHA. According to an official spokesperson, the state home department issued detailed instructions to permit skill or entrepreneurship training in national skill training institutes, industrial training institutes (ITIs), short-term training centres registered with the National Skill Development Corporation or state skill development missions or other ministries of Government of India or state governments. Similarly, the activities of the National Institute for Entrepreneurship and Small Business Developments (NIESBUD), Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) and their training providers had also been allowed from Monday subject to strict adherence of the laid down norms. The orders of MHA issued on August 29, 2020, and the subsequent guidelines issued by the state government on September 9, imposing additional restrictions in urban areas, including curfew on Sundays, would continue to be in operation, added the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-allows-students-of-classes-ix-to-xii-to-visit-schools/articleshow/78224855.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Metro Railway tweaks e-pass system again to bring in more passengers||KOLKATA: From Monday, Metro Railway will tweak the e-pass booking system further to accommodate more commuters. The cap for downloading passes will increase from 20% to 30% for busy stations and, in the near future, more trains may be added in the north-south section and peak-hour frequency will increase to 8-minute intervals from the existing 10 minutes. Metro Railway on Thursday raised the cap for booking e-passes on https://patadisha.com/metro for the busiest of the 24 north-south corridor stations so more people could generate passes. Since services resumed last Monday, duplicate bookings had jammed slots at stations like Dum Dum and Kalighat several times. Many generated passes, filled up slots, but didn’t ride, depriving genuine travellers. This was by far the only issue for the Metro’s smooth run last week. Metro Railway’s general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI on Sunday, “Commuters cooperated with us at every step, but we can’t stop multiple bookings. The e-pass is only valid for an hour. One can’t be sure of travelling during a particular slot and would always book extra slots. So we are raising the downloading cap further, from the existing 20% to 30%, for busy stations. More people can ride if more slots are available.” Sanjoy Chatterjee, whom the state appointed to develop the “pathadisha Metro e-pass”, explained, “We are increasing the limit dynamically, based on last week’s data of actual riders versus bookings. The idea is to reduce this gap while maintaining the 400 per train capacity.” “Suppose 550 bookings are available at a busy station. It will translate to 400 riders instead of 250. There’s no harm in allowing more downloads, because only 400 can travel at a time,” said Joshi. Metro can now ferry 1 lakh commuters daily against its pre-pandemic 6.5 lakh. Last week, the highest rider count was only around 40,000. On the cards is increasing the peak-hour frequency from 10 minutes to eight, the GM said. From Monday, frequency of East-West Metro will, however, be reduced from 20 minutes to 30 minutes since not many are using this truncated section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-rly-tweaks-e-pass-system-again-to-bring-in-more-passengers/articleshow/78223952.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 21, 2020||Erode||Erode gets new Covid care centre||Erode: President of Indian Medical Association (IMA) – Tamil Nadu chapter DR C N Raja inaugurated a Covid-19 care centre in Erode on Sunday. After the inauguration, he said that the state government should bury or cremate doctors who died of Covid-19 with state honours. He also said that the number of doctors getting infected with Covid-19 has been increasing in the state every day. “IMA has been requesting the state government to issue the compensation to the families of doctors who died of Covid at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-gets-new-covid-care-centre/articleshow/78224226.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: 40 oxygen-bed Covid centre in Dehu Road cantonment waits for six doctors, nurses||PUNE: A 40-bed facility with oxygen supply at the Dehu Road cantonment board’s Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital has been lying unutilized. It is a dedicated Covid-19 healthcare centre, but has no medical staff. The hospital needs four MBBS and two MD doctors, besides at least 15 nursing staff. In the absence of an operational facility, Covid-19 patients from Dehu Road cantonment are being sent to either the centre in Hinjewadi or the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital or the Talegaon Dabhade hospital. R Harital, chief executive officer of the Dehu Road Cantonment, told TOI on Sunday, “We send at least 2-3 critical patients to other hospitals every day. They either need oxygen support or a ventilator. Making beds available to these patients has become a big concern for us as many hospitals, on most occasions, are fully occupied. We have a facility and it should be started.” The cantonment has placed ads for the recruitment of doctors and nursing staff, said Harital, “However, we did not get any response. We will place the advertisements again,” he added. In the last month, they would find 30-35 Covid positive patients every day. Now, it has reduced to 8-10. “As a result, the number of active cases has been come down to 114 from 190 in the last two weeks,” Harital added. Intensive testing and contact tracing has helped contain the spread. Volunteers and elected board members helped them, he added. The cantonment board’s vice president Raghuvir Shelar said, “Earlier, we used to report mainly cases from the slum and bazaar areas here. Now, we are getting cases from the six villages that fall under the cantonment limit. Most cases are asymptomatic ones so these patients are home isolated. The board will start a house survey under Aapla Kutumbh Apli Jababdari drive. We will carry out antigen testing during the drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40-oxygen-bed-covid-centre-in-dehu-rd-cantonment-waits-for-six-doctors-nurses/articleshow/78223971.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC services in Greater Hyderabad likely to resume by September-end||HYDERABAD: The much-awaited bus services of the TSRTC in Greater Hyderabad are likely to resume by month-end or in the first week of October. With even Metro Rail services having resumed its operations two weeks ago, the government is likely to take a decision on resumption of RTC city bus services in the city. The review meeting on RTC will be held in a day or two. The TSRTC has submitted a report to the government on its preparedness to resume the bus services in the city. Less than 50% city bus services are already being operated in cities such as Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai. Even Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has resumed city services in Vijayawada, although partially. Before Covid-19, the TSRTC used to operate over 3,000 buses on 1,400 routes making 43,000 trips to transport over 30 lakh passengers daily in Greater Hyderabad. However, the city bus services were suspended when the lockdown orders were issued on March 22 and since then, the services have not resumed. Though TSRTC had resumed district bus services from June onwards, the state government did not give permission to the city region of the TSRTC to resume its bus operations, keeping in view the alarming levels of Covid-19 cases in the state capital. There is a mixed response from the people on resumption of city bus services, with a section of them saying it is safe not to resume the city bus services while several others are demanding immediate resumption by following Covid-19 guidelines. A senior official of the TSRTC said that they are prepared to operate even 100% of the city bus services. However, it is up to the government to take a call on how many services to be operated, on how many routes, what should be the occupancy ratio and from which date, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-services-in-greater-hyd-likely-to-resume-by-sept-end/articleshow/78223961.cms||Roushan Ali
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four-lane elevated corridor project at Jubilee Hills ready for launch||HYDERABAD: Construction of the four-lane elevated corridor from Jubilee Hills Road No. 45 to Durgam Cheruvu has been completed and is ready for inauguration. The project has been built under the Strategic Road Development Programme (SRDP). The flyover is expected to facilitate smooth traffic flow on Road No. 36, Jubilee Hills and Madhapur Road and from Jubilee Hills Road No. 45 to Mindspace Junction via Durgam Cheruvu. As the corridor integrates with Durgam Cheruvu cable stay bridge, it will reduce the commute time from Mindspace to Jubilee Hills by around 2 km. The 1,740 metres long and 16.60 metres wide flyover, built at a cost of Rs 150 crore, facilitates four-lane traffic flow. Though the construction of the flyover began in April 2018, the project was delayed as it got stuck in issues of land acquisition. While owners of commercial establishments lauded the flyover, residents of Jubilee Hills Road No. 45 and nearby areas anticipate increase in public movement and vehicular traffic. “Our establishments were closed due to the construction of the bridge, once the bridge is thrown open to the public, our businesses will bounce back,” said the owner of a cafe located on Jubilee Hills Road No. 45. However, residents of the area anticipate that the increased public movement will lead to sound pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-lane-elevated-corridor-project-at-jubilee-hills-ready-for-launch/articleshow/78222923.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Teen trips, dies at waterfall||HYDERABAD: A 16-year-old student died when he accidentally slipped on boulders while playing at a waterfall in Manchal area of Rangareddy district on Sunday. The victim was identified as Easwar Singh, 16, a class 10 student from Attapur. On Sunday, 11 people from Attapur, including the teenager, went to Bodakonda falls in Manchal, Rangareddy district to have fun during the weekend. “The boy accidentally slipped on the boulders and suffered a head injury. We have rushed him to a hospital in Ibrahimpatnam, where he was declared brought dead,” Manchal inspector B Venkatesham said. A suspicious death case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-trips-dies-at-waterfall/articleshow/78222927.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 'No quarantine if coming for less than 7 days'||DEHRADUN: The state government late on Saturday announced fresh guidelines under Unlock-4 that further eased the restrictions on inbound movement of people and tourists coming to Uttarakhand. The guidelines will be effective from Monday. According to the guidelines issued by chief secretary Om Prakash, tourists coming to Uttarakhand now need to book a minimum stay of only two nights in a hotel or homestay instead of a week as had been mandated earlier. However, they will still have to upload their RT-PCR/antigen negative report on the Smart City web portal. The report should have been done not more than 96 hours of their arrival in the state. Besides, hotels have to ensure that Covid test of their guests has been done. As per the advisory, the hotels can tie up with private labs to provide testing facilities at their hotel premises on payment basis. The inbound travellers can also get their antigen tests done at border check posts, airport and railways station on payment basis, the guidelines say. Further, the guidelines stipulate that all inbound asymptomatic persons need not undergo a quarantine period if coming for a specific purpose for a duration of less than seven days. If coming for a period more than seven days, then they have to self-quarantine for 10 days. Those who have a Covid-negative report issued not more than 96 hours of arrival have been exempted from home quarantine. “The district administration shall make arrangements for thermal screening of all inbound persons at border check posts, airports, railway stations and bus stands on district borders. If the person is found symptomatic, then an antigen test shall be conducted by the district administration,” the guidelines state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-can-come-to-ukhand-if-they-have-minimum-booking-of-2-days-instead-of-a-week/articleshow/78221165.cms||Gaurav Talwar
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Covid positive woman gives birth at hospital emergency in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 35-year-old woman from Sundargarh in Odisha, who went into labour on the way to hospital, gave birth at the emergency ward of AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake on Saturday afternoon. Wife of a BSF man, the woman tested positive for Covid soon after delivering a boy. She remains stable and the newborn has been shifted to Calcutta Medical College Hospital since AMRI’s Salt Lake unit has no neo-natal facility. The baby’s Covid-test report is awaited. Around 3.15pm, AMRI’s emergency team was alerted about the patient who was in a precarious state. Even as the team — which included a gynaecologist and a consultant paediatric — swung into action, a part of the emergency room was cordoned off to facilitate the delivery since doctors deemed it too late to shift her to the labour room. After about an hour, the woman delivered a healthy boy. “We were ready to help. She was dilated and could have delivered any moment. So instead of moving her to the delivery chamber, we decided to do it at the emergency. Unfortunately, she has tested positive for Covid,” said consultant paediatrician Soumyabrata Acharya.  “It was a tricky situation since the woman was on the verge of delivering. Usually, we do a Covid test first, but in this case it was out of the question,” said gynaecologist Renu Singh, a part the medical team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-ve-woman-gives-birth-at-hosp-emergency/articleshow/78223994.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Give Rs 1 crore relief to kin of girl who drowned: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress members on Sunday visited the residence of 12-year-old Sumedha, who drowned in a nala two days ago. While extending their condolences to the bereaved parents, the party leaders demanded Rs 1 crore ex gratia for the family members. They said that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was responsible for the girl’s death. “Is it not the duty of the GHMC to cover nalas or erect a fence around open nalas,” said AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan. A member of the delegation said that Hyderabad roads and several low-lying areas resemble swimming pools after the recent heavy downpour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-rs-1cr-relief-to-kin-of-girl-who-drowned-cong/articleshow/78222937.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB vice-prez quits TRS||Secunderabad: Upset over being replaced by Jakkula Maheshwar Reddy as the vice-president of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), J Rama Krishna resigned from the primary membership of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). Reddy will take over as the vice-president in a day or two as TRS working president KT Rama Rao has proposed his name for the post. Rama Krishna, who represents ward No. 5 of the Cantonment, had joined TRS in 2015. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-vice-prez-quits-trs/articleshow/78222932.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Conditions go south in city’s West||Ahmedabad: Cloudy weather on Sunday evening in several parts of western Ahmedabad precipitated moderate to heavy rainfall accompanied by strong winds. According to the State Emergency Operations Service (SEOC), the city received an average of 17 mm rainfall between 4 pm and 6 pm.Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) data showed that the South-West zone of the city – which includes areas such as Bopal-Ghuma, Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Sarkhej among others – recorded 87 mm rainfall. The heavy downpour resulted in water-logging at several spots in these areas. Amdavadis who were out on a Sunday evening enjoyed the drive in rainy weather that returned to the city after a short break. The city has already received 100% of its seasonal rainfall this year. In the city periphery, Sanand received 45 mm rainfall between 6 pm and 8 pm, whereas Viramgam received 26 mm in the same period.India Meteorology Department (IMD) in its forecast on Sunday mentioned that the city can expect light rain or thunder showers on Monday. Despite the rainy weather in the evening, the city’s maximum temperature was 36.3 degrees Celsius, which was 2.1 degrees higher than the normal.While there are no major systems active, the IMD has mentioned that almost all the districts in Gujarat can expect light showers for the next two days. The IMD has given warning of heavy rainfall in Surat, Dangs, Navsari and Tapi districts for Monday and Tuesday. The warning also mentioned the possibility of heavy rainfall in Chhota Udepur, Panchmahal and Dahod on Thursday and Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/conditions-go-south-in-citys-west/articleshow/78224110.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Superstition drives demand for sand boas||AHMEDABAD: About a year ago, as many as 10 vehicles stormed Napa village near Anand to meet a farmer. These visitors had come unannounced to seal a deal for a prized possession the farmer had. While some members were engaged in masonry work, what caught the interest of the buyers were the two snakes – the red sand boas that the farmer family possessed. The deal did not fall through as the farmer sought a higher price than what was being offered. This irked the buyers who beat him up along with one other family member and they fled with the sand boas. Shah Rukh Khan, a native of the village said the incident had shocked the villagers for there were hardly any such incidents of violence here in the past. Khan, 28, who works as a data analyst with a UK-based firm, said that the outsiders seemed to have come pre-planned to rob the farmer of his serpents. Considered to be one of the most harmless snakes, sand boas are captured due to the superstition that they possess supernatural power. This is mainly attributed to its ‘double-headed’ appearance for which it is called ‘do muha’ in Hindi. Their appearance has made them a soft target for poaching and illegal trading like owls. In local Gujarati it is called ‘andhani chakan’ as the serpent’s eyes are hard to spot from a distance. They are used in black magic, and even in the name of esoteric science. They are illegally traded for exorbitant prices that may range from Rs 50,000 to even Rs 50 lakh, said sources. A non-venomous snake, the red sand boa is protected under Schedule IV of the Wild Life Protection Act 1972. A senior forest department official said that the snake had no proven medicinal value and that people were cheated in the name of black magic by tantriks, some of who even promised showers of money. On September 13, the forest department held three persons near Dediyapada with 15 sand boas which they were trying to trade for about Rs 50 lakh, said sources. In the last one year more than five such incidents have come to light. The state forest department is investigating an interstate nexus in the Dediyapada incident and has also sought the help of central agencies, said sources. Sometime in mid-July, the forest department had caught five persons on Vadodara-Surat highway involved in illegal trading of a sand boa. The deal was reportedly fixed for Rs 42 lakh, said sources. “It is all superstition. Some believe that the spinal cord of sand boas is useful for Vashikaran (control someone by a spell). The illegal trade has been going on for the last few years now,” said Pranav Vaghasia, a snake enthusiast based in Junagadh. About three years ago, 22 sand boas were rescued from a temple at Bandhan village near Junagadh by the forest department, he said. Vaghasia said the snakes were used by tantriks to create an atmosphere of awe and instil fear in visitors making it easy to rob them of their money and belongings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/superstition-drives-demand-for-sand-boas/articleshow/78224082.cms||Maulik Pathak
September 21, 2020||Pune||Residents upset over increased maintenance fee by housing societies in Pune||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Several housing societies in the city have decided to hike the maintenance fee and residents are clearly unhappy with the move. “We have suffered pay cuts and we’re trying to make ends meet in a limited budget. Though the income had reduced, bills have not. From this month, the management committee of our housing society has also increased the maintenance fee by 10%,” says Rupali Naik, resident of NIBM road. Wanowrie resident Rahul Agarwal said, “I thought that the society is overcharging me but I found out that these are additional costs for sanitation that will be added to the maintenance charge. We don’t know whether it will be for the next few months or more. They have said that it is a temporary increase. In addition, we also have to pay for regular check ups for domestic help and security staff.” Sumit Patel, a resident of Salunkhe Vihar, said, “Living in a housing society is getting very expensive. This year, the rent has been increased because the flat owner has to pay the extra maintenance charges.” A member of managing committee of a single-building housing society in Kondhwa said, “We have had a couple of Covid-19 cases in our building. We have to keep up the sanitization standards to ensure residents’ safety. For this, the expenses have risen over the last few months we have been using our funds. Now, since sanitization costs have become a regular expense we have to add it to the maintenance charge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-upset-over-increased-maintenance-fee-by-hsg-societies/articleshow/78224063.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Alternative road construction at AOC may be delayed||SECUNDERABAD: The deadlock between the local military authority (LMA) and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) over the acquisition of 40-acre land is set to delay the construction of alternative roads at the AOC Centre in the Secunderabad cantonment. Commuters of these areas, who are eagerly looking forward to these alternative roads to tide over the repeated road-closure crisis, are set to be disappointed with this new development. It is learnt that minister for municipal administration and urban development (MA & UD) KT Rama Rao had reviewed the status of the allotment of the defence land with the civic authorities on the sidelines of the recently concluded assembly sessions.“We have informed the minister about the issue of acquisition of defence lands and also the two major demands of LMA,” a GHMC source told TOI. “For giving this land to the government, LMA is demanding allotment of the equivalent value of land or equivalent value of infrastructure as defence properties will be affected by this acquisition,” the source added. It may be mentioned here that the civic body had already completed fixing the boundaries to lay these new alternative roads from Safilguda level crossing to Entrenchment Road (1.52 km), Safilguda level crossing to RK Puram RoB (1.93 km) and the elevated connection between Wellington Road and Entrenchment Road (2.17 km). “We can assess the price for state government’s land, but we do not know about the price fixed by the LMA for defence land. The market price in the Secunderabad cantonment area is Rs 20,000 per square yard. In this case, the 40-acre defence land would cost us around Rs 400 crore. At this juncture, GHMC is not in a position to shell out such a huge price. The present financial status of GHMC is not healthy,” said a senior GHMC official. Incidentally, this 40-acre land is linked to the 120-acre defence land required for the two skyways in the cantonment area. “If the ministry of defence allots this land to the state government we will begin the process of floating tenders for the skyways,” another civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/alternative-road-construction-at-aoc-may-be-delayed/articleshow/78222948.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||2,100 new Covid cases, 8 deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 2,137 new Covid-19 positive cases and eight deaths, raising the total positive caseload in the state to 1,71,306. While the death toll rose to 1,033, 1,39,700 patients have recovered from coronavirus so far, while 30,573 patients remain as active cases in the state. The case fatality rate in the state has now dropped to 0.6% as compared to 3% at the beginning of the pandemic. Authorities said the average case fatality rate in the country is currently 1.6%. The recovery rate has improved in the state, going from 76% a fortnight back to 81.5%. The recovery rate in the state is higher than the average recovery rate of the country at 79.6%. A total of 53,811 samples were tested in the state on Saturday, taking the total number tested so far to 24,88,000. GHMC limits recorded 322 cases – the highest among districts. This was followed by Rangareddy, Medchal Malkajgiri, Karimnagar and Nalgonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2100-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-in-t/articleshow/78224037.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Heavy patient load from outside civic limits overwhelm jumbo, pvt hospitals in PCMC||Pune: The jumbo Covid-19 unit in Pimpri and private hospitals in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits are getting heavy patient load owing to lack of availability of beds at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) coronavirus care unit.The PCMC health department officials stated that out of 6,415 hospitalised patients on September 16, around 1,287 (20%) were from outside the municipal limits. The authorities fear a shortage of beds in Pimpri Chinchwad if the flow of patients from outside was not regulated.“For the past few months, we have been planning our bed management according to the growth in the number of patients in the twin towns. But as the number of patients from Sangli, Satara, Sangamner, and other adjoining areas is increasing, we cannot do much in such a situation,” said a civic official.The official said that out of around 500 occupied beds at the Pimpri jumbo unit, almost half were not residents of Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. “We cannot sustain in such a situation. There should be an alternative facility for patients from other districts,” said the official.PCMC commissioner, Shravan Hardikar, told TOI that so far around 900 patients had been treated at the jumbo facility, of which at least 250 were from the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, while around 50% of the current bed capacity at the jumbo facility in Pimpri catered to patients from Sangli and Satara districts.An official from the Sassoon General Hospital said though new admissions had been closed till September 23, around 30 to 40 patients arrived daily, especially from rural areas. Pune divisional commissioner, Saurabh Rao, had told TOI earlier this week that the administration was in a “tight spot” considering the current bed availability. “The work of oxygen network augmentation is necessary, and we have to wait till it is finished. It will give us a breather,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-patient-load-from-outside-civic-limits-overwhelm-jumbo-pvt-hospitals-in-pcmc/articleshow/78224026.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders computer edu in women’s shelter||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered that young girls placed in the women’s shelter home in Palanpur should be admitted to school, if those girls are supposed to stay under protection for a long duration under court orders. The high court also said that computer training is a basic requirement nowadays and each of the shelter home inmates be provided the training, if it’s possible. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria said, “The computer classes, if can be arranged, such training be imparted to the girls as the technical know how will be sine-qua-non for every individual in the present time as well as in the future.” The high court issued a slew of instructions to additional district judge of Banaskantha, Robin Mogera, and asked him to implement them with consultation of the principal district judge. The directions were issued after the HC ordered to place a teenage girl in the shelter home after she refused to return to her parents after an alleged elopement. The girl is studying in Class 10. After a brief stay in shelter home, the judges inquired with her and found out that she enjoyed her education. This led the HC to direct the district judicial authorities, “Let there be proper arrangement for the corpus to carry on formal education. For the said purpose, if there is a requirement of seeking admission in the school, for those girls who are likely to be there for a longer duration i.e. for at least one year, the same be arranged.” The HC also ordered for necessary arrangements of video conferencing for their classes through distant learning or for vocational training. It further said, “The coaching and teaching at the institute, if is feasible, the same be arranged along with such teaching to be imparted through video conferencing.” The high court has also asked the judges to rope in the district legal services authority and to take services of district collector and the district superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-computer-edu-in-womens-shelter/articleshow/78224100.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Naroda sub-inspector, 57, succumbs to Covid||Ahmedabad: Police sub-inspector A N Bhatt, 57, of Naroda police station succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday morning. DGP Aashish Bhatia has expressed his grief over the incident and promised to extend all help to his family members. According to police sources, Bhatt was posted in control room, West Kutch and was transferred to Naroda recently. “He had gone on sick leave of seven days on September 12. He tested positive for Covid -19 on September 13. When his condition worsened he was shifted to a private hospital on September 15. He was then shifted to Civil Hospital on September 19 where he breathed his last on Sunday morning,” said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/naroda-sub-inspector-57-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/78224107.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Veggie prices spike as arrivals drop by 50%; tomatoes, chilli get dearer in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Vegetable prices in the city have seen a sharp rise as traders and farmers are finding it hard to transport them because of the incessant rain in the past few days. As per agricultural marketing records, another reason for less quantity of vegetable arrival could be that farmers chose to grow paddy and cotton over vegetables. The continuous rain is said to have affected vegetable transport to city from past four days. Non-availability of workers is also being cited as a reason. As per Agriculture Marketing Department (AMD) records, 22,000 quintals of vegetables arrive every day on an average in the city. Since four days, only around 12,000 quintals vegetables are arriving in the city. The average arrival of tomatoes, which is 200 quintals per day, dipped to 120 to 150 quintals per day since four days. Similarly, average arrival of green chillies, which is 50 quintals per day, dipped to 29 quintals since four days. All vegetables are unloaded at two major city vegetable markets — Gudimalkapur vegetable market and Bowenpally vegetable market. From these markets, they are sent to 12 Rythu Bazars in the city. As the transport — inter-district and within the city was adversely affected due to rains, prices have increased across the city. Several supermarkets procure vegetables directly from farmers through contract farming. “Though the selling price of vegetables is as per the contract which is unaffected irrespective of rain or demand, vegetable prices in supermarkets have also increased due to inter-state transport being adversely affected due to rains,” said an AMD official. “I purchased bitter gourd for Rs 100 per kg and beans for Rs 110 per kg on Sunday. All the prices have increased three-to-four folds since rains started,” said a resident, V Prashant, at Balaji Nagar market, Kukatpally. According to officials, the prices are monitored and controlled. “We constantly monitor the prices and chalk out strategies to control vegetable prices. The focus is primarily on onions and vegetables which are consumed by many people on regular basis,” said G Lakshmi Bai, director of AMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/veggie-prices-spike-as-arrivals-drop-by-50-tomatoes-chilli-get-dearer-in-city/articleshow/78224089.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata may get moderate rain today, says Met||KOLKATA: Even as a low-pressure area formed over northeast Bay of Bengal on Sunday and threatened to sail towards south Bengal triggering widespread rain, Kolkata remained cloudy in the morning. The city could receive moderate rain under the impact of the system on Monday, said weathermen. With the sun blocked out, there was some relief from the sweltering heat with the maximum temperature plunging to 32.2°C on Sunday. Later in the afternoon, though, the cloud cover receded. But the city and its neighbouring districts are set to be lashed by heavy showers on Monday, it was warned. ‘Enhanced rainfall activity’ was predicted by the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) till Tuesday. “We expect moderate rain in Kolkata between Monday and Tuesday. The rain will continue and could be heavy in the western districts and in north Bengal till September 24,” said RMC director G K Das. According to an RMC bulletin, “Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at one or two places in West Midnapore, Jhargram and Bankura on Monday”. Heavy rain was predicted in Birbhum, East and West Burdwan and Murshidabad as well. The city, though, could be spared heavy showers. “As of now, Kolkata seems to be headed for moderate showers on Monday. It will remain cloudy and pleasant, though, with maximum temperature hovering around 30°C. The cloud cover could persist on Tuesday with intermittent light showers,” said Das. While the RMC had earlier predicted gusty winds and possibility of heavy rain in Kolkata, the prediction was revised on Sunday. “The low-pressure has altered its course a little and will now move along the south of Kolkata at some distance. This has reduced the impact and heavy showers seem unlikely. But there could still be gusty winds blowing at 20-30kmph,” said Das. The low pressure will sail past Kolkata and move westward towards Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia. It will eventually move into Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, the CESC sent messages to consumers in Kolkata on Sunday asking them to “avoid proximity to electric poles and pillar boxes” for safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-may-get-moderate-rain-today-says-met/articleshow/78224049.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||3,667 fresh Covid-19 positives in Pune Metropolitan Region limits; death toll nearly 5,700||PUNE: The progressive Covid-19 caseload (overall tally) of the Pune Metropolitan Region crossed the 2.5 lakh-mark on Sunday with the addition of 3,667 new patients. Sixty-nine people succumbed to the contagion on Sunday, pushing the region’s death toll to 5,698, as per a district health office report. Over 3,000 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in the region to 2,03,507. Of the 69 fatalities, PMC accounted for 38. PCMC (8), rural areas (18) and municipal council areas (5) made up the rest of the numbers. A PMC report stated that 3,597 people were being treated on O2 beds. The condition of 961 was critical, with 494 on ventilator support. Meanwhile, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI that there was a silver lining to the situation. “[Pimpri Chinchwad’s] positivity rate has come down to 20-22%, which is a good sign. The case fatality rate too has dropped to 1.6%, which is among lowest in the state, while the doubling rate of the contagion has increased to 47 days,” he said. Experts have attributed the exponential increase in the number of cases in PCMC limits, which stood at over 70,000, to the easing of restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3667-people-test-ve-in-pmr-69-patients-succumb/articleshow/78224085.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana on high alert after rainfall warning||HYDERABAD: The government has put on alert all district administration and police units, especially Adilabad, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Warangal and Khammam, as the meteorological department has issued a warning of “heavy to very heavy rainfall” over isolated parts of the state, especially in the five districts. Orders have been issued directing all collectors and superintendents of police to stay put in their respective district headquarters and be available round the clock. Heavy rains have been lashing the state for the last few days and now “heavy to very heavy rainfall” warning has prompted the government to put on alert the administration in all the districts, with focus on the five districts Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has reviewed the situation with chief secretary Somesh Kumar and directed him to make all arrangements to ensure there was no loss of life. “Massive flooding and waterlogging are likely to occur in low-lying areas. Tree fall and electric poles uprooting incidents can happen leading to disruption of normal life. Reservoirs, tanks and streams may overflow causing inundation of low-lying areas. Even causeways, low-level bridges may be inundated with water posing threat to vehicular traffic and people,” Somesh Kumar said. The chief secretary directed the district collectors to put the entire district administration on alert and strictly follow the flood protocol communicated earlier. The CS has directed all the SPs and district collectors to be alert and watch the situation. “All the officers are directed to be available in their respective headquarters and take all measures to prevent loss of life and properties,” he saaid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-on-high-alert-after-rainfall-warning/articleshow/78224087.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||MSP to be higher, come early as govt allays fears||NEW DELHI: With PM Modi leading the government’s counter-offensive from the front and dismissing the opposition’s charge that the soon-to-be enacted farm sector laws will lead to dismantling of the MSP regime, the Centre will announce a higher MSP for rabi (winter sown) crops next week. The announcement will come nearly a month ahead of when it is normally made and fits in with the government’s plan not to give any quarter to the opposition on the issue. The aggression was once again on display with Modi celebrating passage of the two bills in Rajya Sabha as a “watershed moment” and reassuring farmers on continuation of the minimum support price procurement mechanism. The two farm Bills – one on Agri market and the other on contract farming – were passed by the Lok Sabha on last Thursday. The another Bill on farm sector reforms - Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - was passed by the lower house on last Tuesday. It’ll come up for consideration in Rajya Sabha this week. In a series of tweets, Modi emphasised that the new legislations would free farmers from the bullying by middlemen and ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector. “For decades, the Indian farmer was bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen. The bills passed by Parliament liberate farmers from such adversities. These bills will add impetus to the efforts to double income of farmers and ensure greater prosperity for them,” Modi tweeted. Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with th… https://t.co/VGK1o0pPQb— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1600595705000For decades, the Indian farmer was bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen. The bills passed by Parli… https://t.co/GfF1nhaFeZ— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1600595492000“Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of latest technology that assists industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step,” he added. Refuting the opposition’s allegations, the PM reiterated that MSP will be continued in future too. “I said it earlier and I say it once again: system of MSP will remain. Government procurement will continue,” the PM said and added, “We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming.” I said it earlier and I say it once again:System of MSP will remain.Government procurement will continue. We… https://t.co/bqFgH4Z9hW— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1600595981000The agriculture ministry generally announces new MSP for Rabi crops such as wheat, mustard and pulses at the beginning of the sowing season after mid-October, but an early announcement this year may be an attempt to blunt the Opposition’s attack and show the government's sincerity over the issue. It was announced on October 23 last year. The announcement may also give a signal to farmers in advance on choice of crops which they can opt for sowing during the winter. The procurement on new MSPs will be made during rabi marketing season, beginning April 1 next year. “The increase in MSP for Rabi Crops will be in line with the principle of fixing it at a level of minimum 1.5 times of the all India weighted average cost of production, which was announced in the Union Budget 2018-19,” said an official. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the government’s stand to continue with the MSP-based procurement. Underlining his government’s record of procurement of Rabi crops at MSP this year, Tomar shared that the payment of Rs 1.13 lakh crore for procuring wheat, oilseeds and pulses was made to farmers in 2020 which is 31% higher compared to last year - a point showing the Centre’s emphasis on procurement through MSP. The ministry also issued a detailed note, seeking to clarify on several doubts raised on the Bills by the members during debate in the Parliament and by protesting farmers outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/msp-to-be-higher-come-early-as-govt-allays-fears/articleshow/78225313.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 21, 2020||Pune||Pune: All clinics and OPDs to keep illness data||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has decided to create a database of patients displaying flu-like symptoms or signs of a cold. All private hospitals in the city will be asked to maintain this information, which officials said, will have to be shared with the civic administration daily. Authorities said the data will be used to improve detection of Covid-19 cases and subsequent contact tracing. Details such as name, age, address, oxygen levels at the time of care will be collected from patients. Manisha Naik, a senior official with the PMC, said, “The civic administration will collect the data online from these clinics. Doctors will have to send the information to the PMC's designated email. Directives have been issued." The PMC areas has around 3,500 clinics registered under its jurisdiction - across 15 wards in the city area. All the clinics, dispensaries and outpatient departments of large hospitals will have to send details of anyone coming with a cold or fever. The move is expected to improve the city's disease surveillance system. In August, the National Institute of Virology had issued an advisory that stated every patient with flu-like symptoms should consult doctors without delay and each case of pneumonia should be quickly screened for the SARS-CoV-2 virus. And ever since private clinics resumed operations in late July, doctors have been reporting a steady stream of visitors with flu-like symptoms. The PMC hopes to tap into this network to improve its assessment of potential Covid cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-clinics-hosps-to-help-keep-data-of-patients-with-flu-like-signs/articleshow/78224098.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
September 21, 2020||Pune||Inflated bills: Notices to 21 private hospitals in PCMC limits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A committee appointed by the divisional commissioner has issued notices to 21 private hospitals in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits for charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients. The committee has strict action against two of these hospitals and sent a letter to civic chief Shravan Hardikar and divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Committee chairman N Ashok Babu said they have managed over Rs36 lakh to patients. The total quantum of hospital bills under scrutiny is over Rs1.2 crore. Babu said some of the private hospitals in question did not take the inspections very seriously and took a casual approach in replying to the show cause notices. Babu urged citizens to lodge a complaint if any hospital is charging an exorbitant fee. Complaints can be submitted via e-mail to ‘medicalbillaudit@pcmc.india.gov.in’ or ‘medical@pcmcindia.gov.in’. As on September 20, as many as 5,375 patients are under hospitalization in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inflated-bills-notices-to-21-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/78224092.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Low-lying areas in Nellore flooded as Penna overflows||NELLORE: As many as 5,000 people from various low-lying areas under Nellore Municipal Corporation (NMC) had to face severe inconvenience on Sunday when flood water from Penna river entered residential areas. The flooding was a result of floodgates at Somasila reservoir being lifted in the wake of heavy downpour over the last few days. Eadga Metta, Ranganayakulapeta, Santapeta, Porlukatta, Bhagat Singh Colony and Janardhana Colony were among the areas where roads and houses were submerged in knee-deep flood water. Jana Sena Nellore district in-charge (youth wing) Gunukula Kishore, who along with his team visited Eadga Metta under the NMC’s 49th ward, said that water levels were up to three feet in the locality. “They (locals) were helpless and many are afraid of snakes as well. There is a government hospital nearby for rehabilitation if the government wants to shift them as an immediate relief action,” Kishore told TOI. According to the Jana Sena functionary, it was the first time in 15 years the Penna river had overflown. Elsewhere, Nellore collector KVN Chakradharbabu visited Veerlagudipadu in a boat to check rehabilitation services in the village which was submerged in Penna flood water. Even areas in Rayalaseema and south coastal regions received heavy rainfall over the last days which has resulted in streams and canals overflowing, many of them for the first time in decades. The state received 641mm rainfall between June 1 and September 20 as against an average of 498mm, an excess of nearly 29%. Anantapur district received 511mm rainfall in the period compared to the average of 290mm, an excess of 76% and the highest in the state. Meanwhile, Kadapa received excess rainfall of 74% followed by Kurnool (69% excess); Chittoor (63%) while Nellore received 53% excess rain — 436mm as against an average of 285mm. Speaking to TOI, Dowleswaram project senior engineer R Mohana Rao said, “ Water level in Godavari on Sunday was 2.8 lakh cusecs. It may reach 4 lakh cusecs soon. We are studying weather conditions and the low pressure that has formed over Bay of Bengal and in its influence in terms of rain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-lying-areas-in-nellore-flooded-as-penna-overflows/articleshow/78222572.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 21, 2020||Hubballi||Delay in renovating Indira Glass House irks visitors||Hubballi: The snail’s pace of development works at Mahatma Gandhi Park (Indira Glass House), the main lung space in the city, has left the visitors and morning/ evening walkers upset. Under the Smart City Project, works on musical fountain, landscaping and toy trains have been taken up at a cost of Rs 22 crore. Much to the chagrin of the visitors, there has been a delay in the works apparently due to lockdown. P S Dharaneppanavar, president of Mahatma Gandhi Udhyana Kriya Samiti, regretted the slow pace of development works. “The elected representatives and the authorities had promised completion of the works at the earliest. But it’s not happening on the ground. The walking tracks are almost removed, and the pavers are not fitted properly. The MG Park is the only lung space in the heart of the city which senior citizens and others visit for morning/ evening walks daily. But the absence of the required facilities is inconvencing them,” he rued. Urban development minister BA Basavaraj has directed the officials to ensure quality in the works. “No walkers should be troubled because of the works. Walking tracks should be made free for strollers by ridding the track of construction materials/ debris. There is a need for proper lighting and drinking water facilities. The landscaping should be done in order,” he had said. S H Naregal, special officer of Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Project Ltd, said that some development works are hit due to lockdown and the subsequent migration of labourers. “For landscape work, there is requirement of skilled labours. During lockdown, over 500 workers involved in Smart City works went to their hometowns outside the state. Also, the toy train work has hampered because of transportation issues. The parts of the train need to come from Pune (Maharashtra). But the works on the musical fountain are over,” he explained. The office said after Unlock, three months’ extension has been given to contractors to complete the works. “Landscaping, toy train and others will be in place by December. Frequently checks are happening to ensure quality works,” he added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/delay-in-renovating-indira-glass-house-irks-visitors/articleshow/78225016.cms||J Abbas Mulla
September 21, 2020||Mysuru||Heavy rain causes infrastructural damage in Malnad||Chikkamagaluru/Shivamogga: It rained heavily in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga on Sunday. Kalasa, Mudigere, Koppa, Sringeri and Tarikere taluks in Chikkamagaluru were affected by heavy rain, and trees as well as electrical poles got uprooted there. A total seven tourists got injured after the vehicle they were travelling in toppled at Javali village in Mudigere taluk. Kalattagiri Falls has regained its beauty, following heavy rain in Kemmannugundi and Kuduremukh. A lot of tourists who visited shrines around Chikkamagaluru town got stranded due to the heavy rain. Many tourist vehicles that were coming to Chikkamagaluru from Bengaluru, had to return to Bengaluru, after most of the roads to and in Chikkamagaluru got blocked. It rained incessantly in Sringeri town. Kurubageri, Gandhi Maidan, Bharati Theertha and Nemmar roads got damaged due to heavy rain. Banana and coffee plantations got submerged at Ardikoppa village in Koppa Taluk. Paddy crops were damaged in Kottigehara, Baluru and Niduvale. The walls of a grocery shop in Jayapura town in Koppa taluk collapsed. Hebbale, the connecting bridge between Kalasa and Horanadu, across the Bhadra River has been submerged. A total 50,000 cusecs water was released from the Bhadra reservoir on the Shivamogga-Chikkamagaluru border into the river. The police have restricted the movement of people and vehicles on the new bridge in Bhadravathi town, as the Bhadra river is flowing above the danger mark. It rained heavily in Hosanagara, Sagar and Thirthahalli taluks in Shivamogga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/heavy-rain-causes-infrastructural-damage-in-malnad/articleshow/78224941.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||50 fly to Kol from London, all with Cov-negative certs||Kolkata: The week’s second Air India flight carrying passengers from London reached Kolkata with 50 passengers early on Sunday after a stop-over at Mumbai. It flew out for Heathrow airport, again via Mumbai, an hour later with 82 passengers. Last Thursday, the flight from London had come directly to Kolkata, igniting hopes of a direct connection between the two cities after 11 years. But the hopes were dashed after the airline ran the return flight via Delhi, claiming “unavailability of slots” at Heathrow airport. It announced it will henceforth fly to Kolkata, as well as back to London, via Mumbai till the “slots” were reinstated. Authorities at London Heathrow Airport and UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) have, however, claimed there are no issues with the slots. On Wednesday, only 14 people had boarded the inaugural flight to Kolkata from London; 12 others were left behind at the airport as they didn’t have RT-PCR Covid-negative certificates, a must-have for all passengers coming to Bengal from abroad. But on Saturday, the flight left London with 51 passengers and while one of them got off at Mumbai airport, 50 flyers, including an infant, came to Kolkata carrying Covid-negative certificates. The flight landed at 6.12am and, by 7.15am, all were on the way to home quarantine for the next two weeks. “It shows the flight is getting popular. We started with only 14 passengers and this time there were 50. The uncertainty and lack of proper information about RT-PCR and quarantine guidelines were discouraging air travel. But now we are trying to answer every query ourselves and just a sneak peak into our Twitter handle can enlighten the passengers about the updated guidelines,” said a senior official at the Kolkata airport. The flight left Kolkata at 7.30am with 82 passengers, including 14 in business class. It flew out of Mumbai at 11.22am and reached London around 4pm, local time. Last Thursday, 64 flyers were on board the flight to London from Kolkata. Tour operators in the city said the gradual increase in number of passengers was inspiring. “The flight was announced over two weeks ago and Visa takes around two weeks too. Many who had urgent travel requirements have already travelled. That justifies the fewer passengers on the first flight. But in a month, the numbers are likely to go up and by then it will be time for the flight to wind up unless it is extended. It’s a catch-22 situation. But once testing starts at Kolkata airport, it will simplify things further,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman (east), Travel Agents Federation of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-fly-to-kol-from-london-all-with-cov-negative-certs/articleshow/78224102.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 45-year-old washed away in Saroornagar lake||HYDERABAD: Three days after a 12-year-old girl who was cycling near her house drowned in a swollen nala in Neredmet, a 45-year-old electrician, who was trying to help a two-wheeler cross a stream of gushing rain water flowing across the street in Saroornagar, was washed away into Saroornagar lake on Sunday night. The incident happened at Tapovan Colony in Saroornagar. At around 7.15pm, due to continuous rain, water started gushing into Saroornagar lake from all neighbouring colonies. The victim, Naveen Kumar, 45, an electrician from Tapovan Colony, who was out on the street for personal work, saw the gushing stream of rain water flowing across the street. “Naveen saw some motorists crossing the gushing stream of rain water on their vehicles. One scooter got stuck in the water and Naveen pushed it across with his hands,” Saroornagar inspector K Seetharam said. “However, in the process, he lost his balance due to high current of the water. He fell and was washed away in the lake. Other people who were at the spot tried to save him but failed,” the inspector added. Police and GHMC disaster response force officials rushed to the spot to locate the victim who was washed away. The search operation still continues in Saroornagar lake as of Sunday night. On Thursday, a 12-year-old girl, who went out of her house on a ride in her bicycle, was caught in the sudden blinding rain and drowned in an open nala in Neredmet. Her body was fished out of a nearby lake in Neredmet on Friday by the civic authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/45-yr-old-washed-away-in-saroornagar-lake/articleshow/78224101.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University to revamp distance education model, go completely digital||VISAKHAPATNAM: To better adapt to evolving trends in education, Andhra University (AU) is planning to revamp its School of Distance Education (SDE) in a bid to make it fully digital from the next academic year. The varsity intends to stop publishing study material and instead supply course work in the digital format. As part of its proposal, the varsity will construct a digital studio to record lessons and provide links of such lectures to students along with the study material. Speaking to TOI, AU vice-chancellor Professor PVGD Prasad Reddy said the will go for complete automation of its digital education wing. “Several issues are involved in printing and supply of study material, including the financial component. The varsity would only supply digital material to students from next academic year. Recorded lectures will also be provided to students with an option of downloading or online viewing at their convenience. Several other measures will be taken up to facilitate various services to students online,” Prof Reddy said. The SDE was launched in 1972 with only three courses for 265 students and now has over 50,000 students and offers 44 courses. Over the years, the varsity has introduced various non-conventional courses including a post-graduate diploma in disaster management, a degree in customer service management and BSc in pharmaceutical sciences in collaboration with industries. Students enrolled in SDE courses are awarded the same degree as regular students. However, the fee reimbursement scheme introduced nearly a decade back dented prospects of the SDE with students instead preferring the regular mode. Until 1998, SC/ST/BC students enrolled in the SDE would get scholarships but have are not receiving them any more. The varsity’s distance education wing had tied up with an IT giant few years ago, however, the initiative has not seen much progress besides digitisation of a few components. AU had requested the Distance Education Bureau of the University Grants Commission (UGC) for more time to implement the semester system for professional courses. The DBT had earlier directed institutions offering professional courses to switch over to the semester pattern from year-end exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-to-revamp-distance-edu-model-go-completely-digital/articleshow/78222603.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad trader cheated of Rs 56.6 lakh by online scamsters||AURANGABAD: Unidentified suspects, claiming to be a representative of a state-owned petroleum company, duped a city-based businessman of Rs 56.62 lakh on the pretext of offering him an LPG dealership for Pandharpur, Waluj. The suspects have been slapped with the charges of criminal breach of trust, cheating and forgery. They have also been slapped with various sections of Information and Technology Act. Cyber police are investigating the source of data that the suspects used for targeting the businessman. The complainant, Changdev Tandle (49), supplies materials to industrial houses. In August 2019, one of the state-owned petroleum company had floated an advertisement in local newspapers inviting applications for LPG cylinder dealership. He reached out to the company’s office in Aurangabad and filled up a form, following which he was summoned to Jalgaon office for an interview. However, he was in the waiting list. In May, this year, Tandle received a call from one of the suspect who introduced himself as Sandeep Pande and claimed to be a representative of the LPG company with whom Tandle had applied for. The suspect shared a forged identity card by claiming it to be issued by the petroleum company Tandale fell prey to the trap and shared all the information asked by the suspect. The victim shared his documents including his identity proofs, photos and financial statements at an email address enquiry@lpggasdealer.in and on a Whatsapp number.  The suspect asked him to deposit Rs 56.62 lakh in four different bank accounts under the pretext of permission fees, deposit for cylinders, for godown and miscellaneous expenses. The entire transaction was carried out between May 6 and August this year. In order to win Tandhle trust, the suspects issued forged dealership certificates However, Tandle grew suspicious, following which he reached out to the petroleum company’s territory manager at Jalgaon, only to find that the company does not have any employee with the said name. Realising that he has been duped, he approached the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-trader-cheated-of-rs-56-6l-by-online-scamsters/articleshow/78221968.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 effect: Demand for suburban trains grows in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Commuters in Bengaluru are demanding South Western Railway (SWR) run suburban services since most long-distance trains have been suspended and tracks are free. Rail activists say this is a chance to operate trains for suburban commuters, especially during peak hours. Regular interstate and suburban services for passengers remain suspended since March 21 due to Covid-19 and SWR is only operating skeletal services now. SWR had earlier cited congestion at major railway stations and tracks as an excuse not to operate adequate suburban services. Now, many people want railways to operate suburban services since they are cheaper and faster. Unlike Metro’s AC coaches, the risk of the virus spreading is far lower in non-AC train coaches. Thousands, particularly daily-wage employees from the city’s outskirts and neighbouring districts, are affected because of the suspension of services. Many are now paying high bus fares to reach Bengaluru. Rajkumar Dugar, convener, Citizens for Citizens (C4C), said: “The Halt station near the airport is nearing completion so railways should introduce more trains to and from Devanahalli. SWR should operate trains from places like Tumakuru, Ramanagara, Cantonment, Hosur and Bangarapet towards Devanahalli so the entire city will be covered. This will also connect Namma Metro stations at Byappanahalli, Yeshwantpur and City railway station.” However, Bengaluru divisional railway manager (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma said: “We’re now operating 20 pairs of trains. We’re ready to operate trains, but a decision to resume suburban services has to be taken by the ministry of railways.” The Centre allowed Metro services to operate from September 7, but no decision has been taken on suburban train services. “Many daily-wage workers from Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur, Marikuppam, Doddaballapur, Ramanagara, Bidadi and Hosur were dependent on trains to reach Bengaluru, but are now forced to rely on buses,” Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a rail activist, said. However, some commuters pointed out social distancing in suburban trains and railway stations is difficult since they lack access control systems like Namma Metro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-effect-demand-for-suburban-trains-grows-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78222973.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bars to open today in Andhra Pradesh, liquor prices expected to remain stable despite six-month hiatus||VISAKHAPATNAM: Liquor prices are expected to remain stable at bar-cum-restaurants at 38 star hotels in the state, scheduled to open from Monday after being shut for almost six months. The reason, hoteliers stated, is on account of the state government increasing the licence fee by only 10% over last year. “As per the earlier order of the government, hoteliers had to pay Rs 1.4 crore as bar licence fee. But now the government has revised its earlier order and announced a hike of only 10%. There are two outcomes of this decision. First, all hoteliers will now renew their bar licences. Second, there won’t be much effect on liquor price at bar-cum-restaurants in star hotels,” Prasanth Singu, president of Hotels and Restaurants Associations of Andhra Pradesh (HRAAP) told TOI. In 2019-20, hoteliers paid Rs 36,30,000 as licence fee and registration fees. This year, with a 10% hike, tax and registration fees amount to Rs 39,93,000 and with an additional Covid charge of 20% upon this amount, the net payable amount stands at Rs 47,91,600. However, the state government has deducted the licence fee for 179 days (101 days in 2019-20 and 78 days in 2020-21) on a pro-rata basis. Hoteliers now have to pay only Rs 18,57,763 for the current financial year; Rs 17,72,237 less than the previous year. Since October 1, 2019, when the government took over liquor stores in the state, the supply of popular and luxury liquor brands has fluctuated in off shops and roadside bars. At present, high-end liquor brands are available in bar-cum-restaurants in star hotels. “We are also hopeful that supply of high-end liquor at the star hotels will be steady to avoid a demand-supply gap and any effect on the pricing,” Singu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bars-to-open-today-liquor-prices-expected-to-remain-stable-despite-six-month-hiatus/articleshow/78222650.cms||Arpit Basu
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Bid to fraudulently withdraw Rs 117 crore from CMRF foiled||VIJAYAWADA: An attempt to withdraw Rs 117 crore from Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF) with forged cheques was foiled the by staff at State Bank of India. The fraudsters presented fake cheques at SBI branches in New Delhi, Kolkata and Mangalore. The bank managers contacted the issuing bank manager at Velagapudi for verification. SBI Velagapudi branch manager contacted CMRF staff and asked to stop the payment. The CMRF officials said the cheque numbers presented to draw huge amounts were given by them to other beneficiaries. The cheque number 694499 was issued for Rs 16,000 to one Kolli Rataiah, cheque number 79,2896 was issued for Rs 45,000 to one K Hymavati and the cheque number 792893 was issued for Rs 45000 to one P Ramaiah. A cheque (694499) was presented in Mangalore for Rs 52.65 lakh in the name of VK Hollow Blocks. Another cheque (792896) was presented in New Delhi for Rs 39.85 lakh in the name of Sharma Forcing (Delhi) and cheque number 79283 was presented in Kolkata for Rs 24.65 lakh against Mallabpur People Rural Development Society. The fake cheques had the stamp and signature of secretary for CMRF in revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bid-to-fraudulently-withdraw-rs-117cr-from-cmrf-foiled/articleshow/78222676.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||IMD extends thunderstorm warning; heavy rain in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Dispelling any hope for respite from the wet weather conditions in the state, the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad has extended thunderstorm warning to September 23 even as the city received heavy rainfall — up to 83mm till 11pm — for the fourth consecutive day resulting in waterlogging in many areas. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) as of 11pm on Sunday, Bandlaguda received the highest rainfall of 83mm, followed by 81.8mm at Bavani Nagar, 79.5 mm at Nagole and 74.3 mm at Lingogiguda. Heavy rains that lashed the city over the last three days resulted in waterlogging, fallen electric poles/trees and damaged roads. From September 16 till date, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) disaster response force teams cleared 203 complaints of water stagnation, rescue calls and citizen assistance. Of the 203 complaints, 138 were related to water stagnation, apart from 63 tree falls and two rescue calls. Meteorologists forecast that the rainfall activity will continue across the city for the next three days. “A low-pressure area has formed over the northeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood on Sunday associated with a cyclonic circulation tilting south-westward,” read the weather report issued by the IMD, Hyderabad. “It is likely to become more marked over the north-west Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood by Monday and move north-westwards during the next two to three days,” the report further read. Districts such as Sangareddy, Vikarabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Yadadri Bhongir are expected to witness heavy rainfall till September 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imd-extends-thunderstorm-warning-heavy-rain-in-city/articleshow/78224123.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Low pressure develops over Bay of Bengal||VISAKHAPATNAM: A low pressure area formed on Sunday over the north-eastern Bay of Bengal and surrounding areas with associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above mean sea level, with a south-westward tilt. The low pressure is likely to move west-northwestwards during the next two to three days and become more marked over the northwest Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood in the next 24 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Under the influence of this system, rain or thundershowers are very likely to occur along several places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam over the next 48 hours. Strong winds with speeds reaching 45 to 55 km per hour are likely over south and adjoining central Bay of Bengal, along and off the West Bengal-Odisha coast in the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-pressure-develops-over-bay-of-bengal/articleshow/78222581.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||PPs demand abolishment of contractual prosecutor system||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh cadre public prosecutors are set to make an official request to chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, asking him to abolish the system of appointing public prosecutors on contractual basis on the lines of his Telangana counterpart K Chandrashekar Rao. “In a recent government order, the Telangana government has abolished the system of appointment of public prosecutors on contractual basis. We would be meeting our chief minister next week and would request him to implement the same order in Andhra Pradesh,” joint director of prosecution (AP), Ajay Kumar Lam told TOI. In AP, there are two types of public prosecutors. There are public prosecutors who get recruited from this prosecution cadre, and are under the state government payroll. The government also appoints public prosecutors on a contractual basis for a period of three years for a monthly ad hoc salary of around Rs 60,000. In order to get appointed as a public prosecutor, a lawyer has to practice for at least seven years. A public prosecutor on contract can practice in private, but cannot file a case or fight a case where the state government is a party. “But there had been instances where a section of public prosecutors have accepted to fight criminal cases on behalf of an accused and officially fielded the junior advocates. Although legally you cannot challenge such practices, morally it is not right that a lawyer is asking for police or judicial custody and his junior is fighting for bail of the accused. There are several other problems like this in this contractual system,” a senior public prosecutor told TOI. At present, AP has around 300 prosecutors under cadre recruitment and around 150 on a contractual basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pps-demand-abolishment-of-contractual-prosecutor-system/articleshow/78222624.cms||Arpit Basu
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rain leaves roads slushy; week to start on wet note, says Met dept||BENGALURU: Intermittent rain, intensifying in bursts, left several roads muddy and water-logged across Bengaluru on Sunday. With civic works being carried out on several stretches, the showers only aggravated Bengalureans’ woes. Though the weatherman described the rainfall as light to moderate, it did dampen the mood. The city received 11.4mm rain until 5:30pm on Sunday, while KIAL and HAL received 2.4mm and 6.2mm rain, respectively. The city is expected to see a generally cloudy sky, with fairly widespread light to moderate rain for the next two days, IMD officials said. Chokkasandra, Sampangiramanagar, Jnanabharathi ward, Kottegepalya, Chamarajpet, Shettihalli, Vishweshwarapuram, Maruthi Mandir ward, Nagapura, Galianjaneya Temple ward, HMT ward, Dayanandanagar and Rajmahal Guttahalli were some of the areas that received 10mm or more rain. Swarna Venkataraman, who stays in Indiranagar I Stage, said: “Rains cause huge inconvenience to walkers as the footpaths are completely encroached and we are left with no choice but to tread on the roads, which were slushy.” “Infrastructural work shouldn’t be taken up during monsoon,” she added. Avenue Road saw three to four inches of water for most parts of Saturday and Sunday. Sajjan Raj Mehta, trade activist, said, “On Saturday evening, I noticed a lot of people near Chickpet Metro station, their feet submerged in water. Civic authorities need to understand that given the pandemic we are facing, such situations could could lead to common cold or flu, which have symptoms similar to Covid-19.” Srinivas Alavilli from Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy said, “The rainfall pattern has more or less been the same for the past ten years. It’s about time civic authorities scheduled their infrastructure-related works from December to April.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rain-leaves-roads-slushy-week-to-start-on-wet-note-says-met-dept/articleshow/78223599.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||English professor in Bengaluru innovates straw from coconut leaf, exports to 25 countries||BENGALURU: He is an English professor in Bengaluru, but his sustainable innovation has won him laurels globally. Prof Saji Varghese from Christ University crafted a product out of coconut leaves, which is not just eco-friendly, but has also offered a new lease of life to rural women in coastal regions. Varghese’s innovation could be a game changer, especially at a time when plastic menace has acquired pandemic proportions. On the afternoon of October 3, 2017, the professor, who holds a PhD in English, was walking home after class when he spotted a coconut frond on the campus. “I picked it up and noticed that the dry leaf had folded, giving it the shape of a straw,” recalled the 51-year-old. The professor took the leaf to a lab and steamed it under high pressure to discover it developed a natural shiny layer under heat. He decided to replace the common plastic straw with an organic alternative. “I experimented with it for a few months and created a single-layered straw by binding it with food grade glue. But it wasn’t very sturdy,” said the innovator, who then began improvising. Finally, in early 2018, Varghese successfully developed a multi-layered straw out of coconut leaf. His organic creation was not only anti-fungal, but could also withstand water for more than six hours, with a shelf life of over 12 months. “Initially, we began producing the straws using basic machinery. We set up three units in villages in Madurai, Tuticorin and Kasargod districts and employed rural womenfolk to produce the straws,” he added. The professor’s biodegradable alternative paid off instantly as food businesses lapped up the straws he marketed under the brand name, SunBird. Within a year, he was flooded with orders from overseas too. The straws are now being exported to 25 countries, including the US, Australia and EU nations. “I received a patent for the product in May and have now started producing it on a large scale. The idea is to provide livelihood to the urban poor and rural women, mainly in coastal regions of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Work is under way to set up 20 more units,” he said. The innovation has won him Swadeshi Startup award 2018 from IIT Delhi, Swiss Re Shine Entrepreneur award and Climate Launchpad Award 2018 for social impact from Scotland. The straws are priced at Rs 5 per piece and can soon be bought online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/english-prof-innovates-straw-from-coconut-leaf-exports-to-25-countries/articleshow/78223719.cms||Petlee Peter
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Covid-19, Sankranti hols could impact turnout and outcome||HYDERABAD: The timing of holding Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections assumes significance as a majority of people from Andhra and Rayalaseema, who have made Greater Hyderabad their home, go back to their native villages for Sankranti in mid-January. Seemandhra voters could tilt elections in favour of a party in nearly 50 of the 150 divisions in GHMC. The present elected body’s term ends on February 10. After formation of Telangana in 2014, the first GHMC elections in the new state were held on February 2, 2016. Though State Election Commission (SEC) has started the ground work to complete pre-election exercise to hold polls before or after Sankranti, it is likely to go by the ruling party’s direction on the polling date. The timing of the poll is all the more crucial for TRS as the Seemandhra people, a majority of whom were loyal to TDP, shifted their loyalty to TRS in 2018. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathy said their target is to complete the election process, including polling before January-end. “The present elected body’s term ends on February 10. We want to complete the election process even earlier than January-end, if possible,” he said. People from Seemandhra said this time the situation is different compared to earlier years. “It all depends on the intensity of Covid, based on which they will decide to stay back or go to their villages for Sankranti,” said Pradeep Gadicherla, an IT professional from Kondapur. Many employees of IT sector have already gone back to their villages and were working from home. “The election authority should come out with a fool-proof plan for virtual voting,” said Bipin Pendyala, managing committee member of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA). Though Talasani Srinivas Yadav, a state minister, said the GHMC poll date has not been discussed in the party, some ruling party MLAs from Greater Hyderabad said elections might be only after Sankranti. “In 2016 also, campaigning dates clashed with Sankranti festival, but polling date was 16 days after the festival. This time too, we would urge our party leadership to ensure a gap ,” a TRS member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-covid-19-sankranti-hols-could-impact-turnout-and-outcome/articleshow/78224157.cms||Roushan Ali
September 21, 2020||Agra||144 new Covid positive cases in Agra, 113 in Bareilly||AGRA/BAREILLY: At least 144 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 4,850. A 50-year-old man also died during treatment at SN Medical College in Agra. The patient belonged to Chatta locality. He was suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome [SARS], pneumonia, septicemia and acute renal failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 118 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 125 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 4,850 cases reported in the district, 3,852 [79.4%] have been declared as "cured and discharged". There are 880 active Covid-19 cases in the district. In Bareilly district, 113 positive cases were reported on Sunday while 30 Covid cases were found in Shahjahanpur with one death in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/144-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-113-in-bareilly/articleshow/78221975.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Aurangabad||MKTM’s bid to protest thwarted||Aurangabad: City police on Sunday thwarted the attempt made by the members of Maratha Kranti Thok Morcha (MKTM) to stage an agitation at Kranti Chowk square. Police said the agitators were assembling without prior permission and so they were taken into preventive detention. They were released sometime later. There were similar protests in different parts of Marathwada demanding the state government to file a fresh affidavit before the Supreme Court and submit a plea to vacate the stay. Police authorities said all the protests held in the eight districts were peaceful. The agitation in Aurangabad was organised under MKTM’s coordinator Ramesh Kere Patil, who said the agitation will only be aggravated to press the state to fulfil the Maratha community’s demand for reservation. The state government’s grant for social and educational reservation for the Maratha community has been stayed by the Apex court and it has been referred to a larger bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mktms-bid-to-protest-thwarted/articleshow/78221987.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||TSEC set to use face recognition app in civic polls despite concerns over privacy||HYDERABAD: Notwithstanding growing concerns over privacy and surveillance, the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) has decided to introduce face recognition application on a pilot basis in the upcoming municipal elections. In order to reduce cases of impersonation, a phone-based app will be used by polling officers to verify the identity proof of the voter, take a photograph and upload it to the server. However, experts told TOI that using this app without a data protection law may lead to legal wrangles. “It is simply illegal for one reason as there is no legal framework or law. For example, they were not allowed to use EVMs in elections until they amended the Representation of People Act. The government needs to pass new laws to allow these digital platforms. However, there are no such laws in Telangana,” said Srinivas Kodali, a data security researcher. “If data or photographs from these facial recognition apps get leaked, one can get access to real-time data on who is voting and who is not. This in turn can be used by political parties to create problems,” he added. While stating that the facial recognition technology proposed to be used by the TSEC is the first of its kind in India and could help in dealing with election fraud and countering impersonation by voters, K Vivek Reddy, advocate, Telangana high court said, “There are also serious privacy concerns in deploying such a technology. As per SC ruling in the Puttaswamy case, any measure adopted by the state which intrudes into the privacy of a citizen must be backed by law, must be necessary and proportional. Here, the state election commission is proceeding with the deployment of facial recognition without considering the issues of privacy, oblivious to the constitutional concerns and without the backing of a valid law.” Meanwhile, Kemburu Sateesh Kumar, MD of Digital Eyecon Pvt Ltd, which has developed many applications for government and private sectors said, “This face recognition technology is a super weapon to discourage bogus voting, double voting, rigging etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsec-set-to-use-face-recognition-app-in-civic-polls-despite-concerns-over-privacy/articleshow/78224182.cms||Moulika.KV
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 1,700 bikers booked during night raids||KOLKATA: Complaints about errant bikers from the added areas, reports of rash driving at night and the general tendency to flout basic rules after 9pm prompted Kolkata Police to carry out a massive block-chain raid — on roads, at hotels, bars and nightclubs — across the city between 9pm on Saturday and 1am on Sunday. According to cops, over 1,700 errant bikers were pulled up during checks. There were 2,992 prosecutions and a total of 830 arrests. Cops said bikers formed the highest number of violators, contributing to more than 50% of challans. At least 1,074 were not wearing helmets and 638 were pulled up for carrying three persons on one bike. Several motorists were found driving drunk or driving dangerously. “We focused on two-wheelers. Ever since social distancing became the new normal, there has been an explosion of two-wheelers on the roads, making policing a challenge. There were reports that several new riders were not conversant with the laws and, in some pockets of Beliaghata-Narkeldanga and the Mukundapur blocks, rogue bikers raced on the deserted roads. This raid was carried out to surprise the rule breakers. We nabbed more than 1,700 rogue riders,”said an officer. The “block raids” were conducted simultaneously at 50-odd points across the city. Sources said that besides all police stations and traffic guards, the detective department, too, pitched in to help. Lalbazar confirmed that even during normal times, they had failed to match the success of this particular raid. “We generally get around 2,700-2,800 prosecutions. This time it is touching 3,000,” said an officer. “It is a sustained, but impromptu, drive which will be taken up often. Nabbing some of the known criminals as preventive arrest is also part of it,” said an officer. The cops also raided some hotels, nightclubs and illegal liquor dens, completed 74 non-bailable warrants and seized around 511 litres of illegal liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-7k-bikers-booked-during-night-raids/articleshow/78224205.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Army jawan held in Aurangabad for firing air pistol||AURANGABAD: A 25-year-old army jawan has been arrested by Cidco police for firing multiple rounds of bullets from an air pistol. According to police, the suspect — Pravin alias Sonu Navtare, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar area of the city — has claimed that he is posted in Punjab and had come home on leave. Cidco police inspector Ashok Giri said on Friday evening his team received a tip off that several rounds of bullets had been fired in the open space behind Sunny City Centre. “Police teams rushed to the area and after hours of combing exercise, the suspect was found with the air pistol. Based on the complaint lodged by constable Suresh Bhise, an offence under section 336 (for committing an act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code was registered in the wee hours of Saturday. We have also seized the air pistol,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/army-jawan-held-for-firing-air-pistol/articleshow/78222025.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cargo carriers under excise lens for ganja consignments||HYDERABAD: Excise officials have stepped up vigil on cargo carriers after they çaught over 300 kg ganja being transpoted as ‘household articles’ to avoid coming under the scanner of enforcement agencies. They are planning to hold a meeting with cargo operators to sensitise them about the need to verify consignments. In the past too, local police or Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had caught huge quantities of ganja, transported either in commercial vehicles by stashing it in hidden slots or hiding the contraband under vegetables, fruits and other essentials. A few days ago, Bowenpally excise officials, based on a specific tip-off, had raided a cargo carrier and seized 326 kilograms of ganja, which was being transported from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh to Haryana via Hyderabad. However, while declaring the consignment, it was declared as household articles. “We found that one Ajith Sharma and his brother Ajay Sharma were key players. Ajith, a native of Haryana, was staying and carrying out business in Hyderabad, while Ajay was in Haryana,’’ prohibition and excise officials told TOI. Interestingly, instead of Ajay’s name Ajith had named his worker as the consignment receiver. “The 326 kg ganja, worth around Rs 50 lakhs, was being transported for just Rs 2,500 from Hyderabad to Haryana,’’ the officials said. Officials said they were probing seven similar consignments booked by the accused in the past to Haryana, Mumbai and Bengaluru. Medchal excise superintendent Ganesh told TOI that a large number of cargo operators, who function out of Kompally and its surrounding areas, were sensitised and soon operators functioning in other police station limits would be contacted. “We have told them clearly to take all particulars of the sender and receiver, including collecting their ID proof. They should know what is being sent and they should not blindly accept what is declared by the sender,’’ Ganesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cargo-carriers-under-excise-lens-for-ganja-consignments/articleshow/78224230.cms||Srinath Vudali
September 21, 2020||Agra||Doctor gives 15 of his own samples to meet Covid testing targets||AGRA: A video which purportedly shows a doctor in a community health centre in Mathura giving several of his nose and throat swab samples to a health worker to meet the daily target of testing Covid-19 patients went viral on Sunday, prompting the authorities to launch a probe into the matter. In the video, a doctor at Baldeo community health centre (CHC) can be heard admitting that the “sample size was too low to be sent to the chief medical superintendent office” even as someone, likely a colleague, is heard dissuading him from giving “too many of his own samples”. At least 15 samples of the doctor were later sent to the CMO under fake names so that they appear to be from various patients, a source told TOI. Additional CMO Dr Rajiv Gupta, who is also the nodal officer of district level infection prevention committee for Covid-19, said that the matter was being investigated. “Action will be taken against the doctor if he is found guilty,” he said. The Mathura district administration has set a target of 1,500 Covid-19 tests per day. According to Dr Amit (who only uses his first name) from the same CHC, all contractual doctors were being forced by the CHC in charge to adopt unethical practices to show sufficient samples being tested in case patients don’t turn up. “We were told our contracts would be terminated if testing targets weren’t met,” said Dr Amit who has filed a complaint with the CMO in this regard. CHC in charge Dr Yogendra Singh Rana dismissed the allegations as baseless. Rana said he had not received anything in writing from his seniors about any complaint against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-doc-gives-15-of-his-own-samples-to-meet-covid-testing-targets-probe-on/articleshow/78222034.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 21, 2020||Meerut||UP: Two groups clash, resort to stone pelting & firing in Saharanpur||MEERUT: A minor dispute over consumption of liquor in public took a violent turn in UP’s Saharanpur district on Sunday morning. People from both the sides sustained minor injuries. Already infamous for the caste strife, situation became tense in Sakhan Kalan locality in Deoband town of Saharanpur when people from the two groups resorted to stone pelting and firing. A heavy police force was rushed to the spot to contain the situation. According to sources, it all began on Saturday night when a shopkeeper objected to some youths consuming liquor in open. The argument swelled into a brawl but the dispute was temporarily resolved. On Sunday morning, two groups came at loggerheads with each other resulting in stone pelting and firing. Meanwhile, police claimed it all began after a drunk youth trespassed into a house. “A youth, in an inebriated state, entered into a house. The rival group objected to it. And it led to stone pelting from both the sides,” Ashok Kumar Meena, superintendent of police (rural areas) said. The local police have received complaints from both the sides and are yet to register FIR, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-groups-clash-resort-to-stone-pelting-firing-in-saharanpur/articleshow/78222049.cms||Piyush Rai
September 21, 2020||Goa||To reduce mortalities, don’t ignore symptoms, get tested: health officers||PANAJI: Last week, a 34-year-old youth from Baga-Calangute lost his life to Covid. He stayed home almost for ten days after he started feeling unwell. It was only on the insistence of a doctor that he sought medical assistance. By then it was too late. He died on the fourth day of his admission. In the last couple of days many such cases have come to light where patients have reached the hospital after their condition deteriorated. Some have been brought dead to the hospital and have tested positive during autopsy. Is it the fear of the virus, ignorance or the belief that they might not get the right treatment that makes some choose to stay at home till their condition deteriorates? There are no clear answers, but health officers believe people are yet to grasp how dangerous the virus is. In a few cases, it is the system itself that is responsible. People have complained of being turned away at testing centres. Even contacts of positive persons are refused testing. “It is a fact. People are sent back, saying you don’t need to be tested,” said a government officer adding that it could be the reason why they are not getting tested. Denying the charge, state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said whoever comes with symptoms and contacts are tested. “These are priority patients for us. But if somebody approaches us because his boss has asked to get a Covid negative certificate, he may be sent away. People approaching for a test for certification purposes can’t be entertained when we have opened everything. Even travellers, only the symptomatic ones are tested,” he said. Betodkar said there are chances that people have been sent without testing in such cases but those matching the protocol are certainly tested. Health officials said some may have stayed away from getting tested due to various misleading messages and videos on social media. “People believe the videos that spread rumours such as patients’ organs are removed in the hospital, or people are simply labelled as positive,” the health officer at a primary health centre in North Goa said. He said that people have to be informed that if they have any doubt about the virus and its treatment, they must get it cleared from the health officers in their area or a panchayat member. “The numbers of relevant people are shared on WhatsApp,” he said. Some health officers, however, said the problem is people have stopped taking home isolation seriously. “People want to stay in home isolation even if they do not fit into the criteria. They do not cooperate, don’t answer when called to find out about their condition. They get irritated when they should be happy that they are being looked after,” health officer at Mapusa urban health centre Dr Cheryl D’Souza said. She said that doctors are taking every case seriously till cured, but some people are in denial and hide their infection. ‘Persons having comorbid conditions and above 60 years who run the risk of developing complications, refuse to go to the hospital or a Covid care centre,” D’Souza said. Health officer Dr Smita Parsekar said, “The family members also refuse to send their elderly to a Covid care centre.” If a complication develops, and a patient needs to be shifted in the middle of the night, it is not easy as it involves arranging an ambulance as well as finding a bed in the hospital, she said. “With cases rising, most of the time ambulances are occupied. We try our best to shift people with co-morbid conditions to a Covid care facility or a hospital where they will be better monitored,” the health officer said. People are yet to take the virus seriously — symptoms such as fever and cough, they take it as common flu — and at times unavailability of an ambulance to shift can worsen a patient’s condition, said another officer. He claimed that a few days ago, a 60 plus patient with co-morbid conditions was refused admission in the GMC on the grounds that they only admit serious patients. “Any 60 plus Covid patient with an underlying health condition can turn serious in no time and need to be treated with equal importance. Luckily, we managed to find a bed in another hospital,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-reduce-mortalities-dont-ignore-symptoms-get-tested-health-officers/articleshow/78224425.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Flood alert following heavy rain in catchment areas||Coimbatore: With incessant rain in the catchment areas of the Western Ghats, reservoirs are filling up fast, particularly the Pillur Dam.The district administration has issued a flood warning to people living along the banks of river Bhavani in Mettupalayam as the dam is reaching the full reservoir level.As against its total height of 100ft, water touched 97ft on Sunday, thanks to copious rain throughout the previous night. The inflow into the dam stood at 10,000 cusecs and there are signs of the inflow increasing, given the fact that weathermen have forecast more rain in Western Ghats. Officials released about 13,000 cusecs from the dam, leaving river Bhavani brimming.Collector K Rajamani warned people not to venture close to the banks of Bhavani or get into the river for fishing or bathing. He has asked people to ensure that livestock doesn’t get near the river.This is the second time the dam is reaching its full reservoir level in two months. In the first week of August, it neared the full level and officials hurriedly released surplus water into Bhavani.Since water release is about to increase, revenue officials in Mettupalayam spread word to residents in villages by deploying men carrying thandora (drum). “We are fully prepared to meet any emergency. Departments like Tangedco, police and fire and rescue personnel have been kept on alert,” said a senior district administration official. “For now, public will not be evacuated from their houses as water flow would not be that high so as to enter residential areas.” Meanwhile, Parambikulam reservoir near Pollachi reached full reservoir level of 72ft on Saturday. Public works department officials said that the level was 71ft on Saturday morning and the inflow stood at 2,700 cusecs. By evening, the dam reached its full level and the officials released 1,600 cusecs of water through three sluice gates. Water release might be increased depending upon the inflow. The Amaravathy Dam, near Udumalpet, also received copious water. PWD officials said that they expect heavy inflow into the reservoirs in Coimbatore as catchments areas of Nilgiris and Coimbatore are likely to get more rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flood-alert-following-heavy-rain-in-catchment-areas/articleshow/78223049.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru records 481 fresh cases, 12 deaths||Mysuru: The district on Sunday recorded 481 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 fatalities. As many as 1,050 discharges were also recorded in the district, according to the health bulletin. Shivamogga recorded 295 new cases, six deaths and 347 discharges in the day, while Mandya recorded 165 new cases, 53 discharges and one death. As per the health bulletin, Hassan recorded 277 new cases, 544 discharges and six deaths, followed by Chikkamagalur with 129 new cases and 130 discharges. Chamarajanagar recorded 69 new cases and 38 discharges, while Kodagu reported 35 new cases and 40 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-records-481-fresh-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/78223098.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||krish_b smart card recharge||Kolkata: The 30,000 existing transport smartcard users and new users, who use smartcards daily across different modes of transport like bus, tram and ferry services, can now recharge the cards from the comfort of home. Till now, the users needed to approach any of the 14-odd point of sale (POS) counters to recharge against cash or card payments. This hassle of visiting POS for every recharge prevented many to have the card for paying fare, especially during Covid-19. WBTC has now launched an online recharge scheme. Commuters can recharge cards online through a website or mobile apps. “Besides circulating some e-posters, we will put up posters showing simplified steps for smartcard recharge,” said an official. For seamless recharge, WBTC has tied up with an online payment aggregator. “A commuter can sit at home and recharge his smartcard using the debit or credit card of any bank, for which no charges will be levied,” he added. The cards can be recharged through www.onlinerecharge.wbtc.co.in. The portal asks for the mobile number/card number and gives an option for the amount. The amount can be Rs 100 to Rs 1,500 and should be multiples of 100 only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/krish_b-smart-card-recharge/articleshow/78224238.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Day 1: Only 5% of Manglahaat shops open on Saturday night||HOWRAH: Only 5% of the shops managed to open when the 130-year-old Manglahaat reopened in its new avatar at 10pm on Saturday. It stayed open till 6am on Sunday. Of the 12,483 shops/stalls — permanent and temporary — only 621 opened. Most traders said the administration’s decision to allow the market to open only at night created problems and a meeting has been scheduled on Tuesday to look into the re-opening issues. The district administration had expected at least 1,550 shops to open, based on the initial response of the traders. Also, the buyers’ turnout was poor — only 1,585 customers despite it being the peak pre-puja sales period. The worst-hit were Nabin Mangla Haat — where only 190 out of 2,285 shops opened — and Samabayeeka Haat — where 180 of 2,180 shops welcomed customers. “We require re-planning of the re-opening. I will urge the administration to look into the timings. Unless a network of transport is created to specifically address the night haat, we cannot expect better footfall,” said Subhas Dutta, an activist. “We will discuss the issues on Tuesday. The district magistrate, commissioner of Howrah Corporation and Howrah city police commissioner will be part of the meeting,” said commissioner Kunal Agarwal. The district administration will ascertain if additional transport is needed and if the market can be opened from 4am to 10am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/day-1-only-5-of-manglahaat-shops-open-on-saturday-night/articleshow/78224256.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK slams delay in issuing building certificates||Coimbatore: The DMK on Sunday said there was an inordinate delay on the part of city corporation and other local bodies in issuing building completion certificates, without which residents could not apply for new permanent electricity connection and threatened to protest if authorities didn’t address the issue at the earliest.Pointing out that the state government had made building completion certificate a must for all the newly constructed buildings for permanent electricity connection in the state, N Karthik, DMK MLA from Singanallur, said, “The city corporation officials are delaying issuance of the certificate.”He said officials were ought to inspect the building before issuing certificate to see if the same was built as per the norms of the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) norms.The MLA said the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) had announced that people constructing new houses and commercial complexes should get building completion certificate from DTCP, local planning authority and town planning of corporation and local body authorities for electricity connection.“Small houses and shops with tin sheet roofs can get electricity connection without the building completion certificate. However, Tangedco is refusing to provide them connection. People who are applying for new electricity connection are suffering a lot. District collector K Rajamani should intervene in the issue immediately and take necessary action,” he said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-slams-delay-in-issuing-building-certificates/articleshow/78223050.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Temple thief held after locals identify him on CCTV||HYDERABAD: Locals caught a temple thief and handed him over to Jawaharnagar police on Sunday. The offender broke into a temple at Jawaharnagar a week ago and stole cash and silver ornaments. The accused was identified as V Narasimha, a labourer from Lakshminarasimha Colony in Jawaharnagar. On September 12 night, unknown offenders broke the lock of Laxminarasimha Swamy temple in the colony and stole valuables. “The offenders stole Rs 30,000 cash by breaking the hundi lock. They stole eight tola silver ornaments decorated on the deity,” Jawaharnagar police said. After the theft, temple staff verified CCTV camera footage at the temple and recently identified the accused as V Narasimha, a resident of the same colony. Locals immediately caught Narasimha and, after confronting him, handed him over to Jawaharnagar police for further investigation. Police registered a burglary case under Sections 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused is being interrogated to find out if he has committed more such offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temple-thief-held-after-locals-identify-him-on-cctv/articleshow/78224244.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||SUV mows down three of family, shop owner||Coimbatore: Three members of a family and a grocery shop owner were mowed down by a sports utility vehicle (SUV) at Rangapalayam on the Kangeyam Road in Tirupur on Sunday morning. The deceased were identified as R Mithun,17, a Class XII student and a resident of Senthil Nagar at Neelikadu near Mudhalipalayam Pirivu in Tirupur, his mother R Jeeva, 43 and his sister R Mirchile, 15, a Class X student, and P Lingasamy, 47, who was running a grocery shop at Rangapalayam.Mithun, his mother and his younger sister were returning to their home from a relative’s house at Rangapalayam on a scooter. Mithun was riding the vehicle. Lingasamy was on the way to his shop from his home on a moped.N Madan Kumar, 25, of Pothipalayam near Kangeyam, who drove the SUV, fell asleep at the wheel, causing the accident, police sources said. “He was on the way to his home after dropping some relatives in Tirupur. After hitting the two-wheelers, the SUV crashed into a tree. Lingasamy and Mithun died on the spot. The Avinashipalayam police sent Jeeva and Mirchile to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). But they died on the way to the hospital,” a police officer said.The bodies were sent to the Palladam Government Hospital for postmortem and were later handed over to the families. The Avinashipalayam police registered a case and arrested Madan Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/suv-mows-down-three-of-family-shop-owner/articleshow/78223081.cms||A Subburaj
September 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Bridges, roads washed away,submerged in M’wada rain havoc||Aurangabad: Incessant rains lashing the Marathwada region have wreaked havoc in several places with “kutcha” roads and bridges getting submerged or washed away, disconnecting remote areas and villages. Already, crops over thousands of hectares of land have suffered damage in the past couple of weeks due to the rains.The authorities have put disaster management teams on standby. People living in low-lying areas as well as on the banks of rivers and tributaries have been asked to move to safe locations.In Jalna district, a “kutcha” bridge on the Ambad-Ghansawngi road was washed away, cutting off about 50 villages from other parts of the district. The construction of a regular bridge is under way at the place. Ambad sub-divisional magistrate Shashikant Hadgal said, “The kutcha bridge on the Narula river got washed away due to the heavy rains. Excavators have been deployed at the spot.”In Parbhani district, several villages were cut off from other parts of the district. Parbhani district collector DM Muglikar told TOI, “The heavy water discharge from the Yeldari dam resulted in a bridge getting submerged, cutting off four villages from other parts of the district. The water level has now reduced and the situation is limping towards normalcy.”Authorities at the revenue divisional commissienorate said that on Saturday and up to Sunday morning, Aurangabad-Paithan-Bidkin circle received 75.5mm rainfall, Aurangabad-Soyegaon-Savalbara circle 70mm, Jalna-Bhokardan-Rajur circle 72.25mm rainfall, Jalna-rural circle 71.75mm, Jalna-Partur-Watur circle 80.75mm, Jalna-Mantha-Talani circle 75.25mm, Parbhani-Pathri circle 77.25mm, Parbhani-Jintur-Sangawi 72.75m, and Hingoli-Aundha-Jawla circle 73.5mm.A 28-year-old man Vilas Sahane from Soyegaon Devi in Bhokardan tehsil and his seven-year-old daughter Kalyani were washed away in a tributary passing from the village. Their bodies were later recovered. Another youth from Gharegaon-Pimpri drowned in the Sukhna river. A couple of similar incidents has been reported from Nanded and other districts of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bridges-roads-washed-awaysubmerged-in-mwada-rain-havoc/articleshow/78222097.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Consumer forum slaps fine on hospital for exorbitant bill in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum in the city has directed Disha Children’s Hospital to pay little over Rs 40, 000 to a complainant for charging him more than the amount mentioned on the invoice for his daughter’s tonsils procedure. T Goutham Anand, the complainant, submitted that he got his daughter admitted to Disha Children’s Hospital for treatment of tonsils and adenoids on May 11, 2017, and that she was discharged a couple of days later after undergoing surgical treatment. He said that though he got his daughter admitted for cashless treatment, the hospital made him pay Rs 39, 000 as advance. The total bill for the treatment was about Rs 36,500, he added. “However, in order to collect the extra amount, the hospital had intentionally raised the bill amount to Rs 66,258 and collected over Rs 23,000 from the insurance company as well,” claimed Anand. After noticing the discrepancy, he said that he even got a legal notice issued, seeking a refund of the extra amount collected, but received no response. Left with no option, he filed the complaint. The hospital, in its written version, denied allegations levied against them and submitted that they specifically stated and informed the complainant that their hospital is not concerned for his insurance scheme and benefits. They claimed that while the total bill was Rs 66,258, the insurance company paid Rs 23,596 and the complainant paid Rs 39,000. The difference was adjusted as a discount and the bill was settled. During the trial, the bench said that from the documentary evidence, it has been clearly established that the total bill for the said operation was Rs 36,458, and not Rs 66,258 as claimed by the hospital. The bench further said that the hospital had raised two bills with two different amounts which itself is sufficient to say that it is indulging in unfair trade practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/consumer-forum-slaps-fine-on-hosp-for-exorbitant-bill/articleshow/78224268.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||‘Bundelkhand e-way will be ticket to economic progress of parched land’||LUCKNOW: The under-construction Bundelkhand expressway will be the ticket to economic progress of the region infamous for its backwardness, unemployment and parched land. It’s a dream project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath who has pledged to turnaround the fate of Bundelkhand. Steering this 296km-long expressway project is Awanish Awasthi, the chief executive officer of Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority. As UPEIDA CEO, Awasthi is also at the helm of other big projects — Purvanchal expressway, Gorakhpur link expressway, and Ganga expressway. Awasthi, who also heads the state’s home and information departments, is clocking 16-18 hours every day to ensure the timely completion of the expressways. Speaking exclusively to Subhash Mishra, he shared how Bundelkhand expressway will trigger an economic revolution in the region. Q: You are paying close attention to the construction expressways, especially the one in Bundelkhand? A: As UPEIDA CEO, it is my task and primary responsibility to ensure speedy completion of the key projects. As for the Bundelkhand expressway, it’s a dream project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who has pledged to make it as the Ganga river flowing through a desert. Bundelkhand expressway will steer the all round development of the parched and long-neglected region. Q: Isn’t it far-stretched to say this expressway will be like the Ganga flowing through the drought-prone region? A: Not at all. The Chitrakoot-Delhi-Bundelkhand expressway will trigger a series of economic activities such as increase in tourist footfall, exports of mining and minerals from this region to Delhi, besides a key role in the defence corridor. This Rs 15,000-crore expressway is the biggest gift by the CM to Bundelkhand, which once epitomised backwardness, neglect and starvation. It will soon become a paradise of growth. Q: Will this sole project bring an economic revolution in the region? A: Let me explain it. Bundekhand expressway is the foundation of the series of development and economic activities associated with it. In fact, it forms the core of CM Yogi Adityanath’s development plan for Bundelkhand. He has already inaugurated a slew of projects for Bundelkhand such as the piped drinking water, riverfront development along the Mandakini river, ropeway, solar panels and linking the defence corridor to the region. Taking all these major projects into account, all of which are on the track, there is no doubt that Bundelkhand will soon witness “achche din” which will lead to creation of jobs, revival of agriculture and connect it with the progressive world. Q: When it is likely to be completed and dedicated to the public? A: We have set 2021 end deadline for its completion. The project kicked off on February 29 this year and so far 16% of work has been completed despite the Covid pandemic. The foundation laying ceremony was performed by PM Narendra Modi. In the past six months, we have acquired over 3,100 hectares of land from farmers who were paid a compensation of over Rs 2,000 crore. There has been not a single voice of protest against land acquisition. We are running against time but we will dedicate it to the public on time. Bundelkhand expressway construction began in the leap year and since then UPIEDA has been taking big leaps for its completion: work continued even during the peak monsoon and non-stop work is on to build big bridges over the mighty Yamuna, Ken and Betwa rivers under the guidance of chief engineer Manoj Gupta. Q :What is the progress of other expressways? A: Purvanchal expressway work is nearly 60% complete and will be inaugurated next year. The work on the Gorakhpur link expressway is in full swing and will be dedicated to the public soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bundelkhand-e-way-will-be-ticket-to-economic-progress-of-parched-land/articleshow/78225179.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Demand for sanitisers, liquid handwash dips||Chennai: The easing of most of the lockdown restrictions seems to have led to people becoming less cautious. Six months after the outbreak of Covid-19, pharmacies operating in the city and its suburbs are reporting a significant drop in demand for hand sanitisers and liquid handwash. Sales of the two products have dropped by more than 70% between April and September, they say. The figure dropped from daily sales of 1.5 lakh to two lakh hand sanitiser bottles, each of 100ml, in May to 30,000-35,000 bottles in September. The number of liquid handwash bottles (100ml-120ml) sold daily also fell, from 70,000 bottles five months ago to around 15,000 bottles now. Around 4,800 medical shops currently operate in the Chennai Metropolitan Area. According to pharmacists, several companies began manufacturing hand sanitisers thanks to the unprecedented demand that started rising since March. Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association (Chennai) president S A Ramesh said people are not as scared now as they were when the pandemic struck. “People then used to wash their hands frequently, immediately after touching something. Now, it has changed as people are economical with hand sanitisers or liquid handwash using them only whenever required,” he said. Others said one of the reasons for the drop in demand was the preference for soap because it costs less and also because it was as effective if not more. Sasi Kuniyil, who runs a medical shop at Avadi, said, “One can buy two soaps for Rs 50 instead of purchasing 100 ml of hand sanitiser.” The man who used to sell 50 bottles of hand sanitisers and liquid handwash in April everyday says he has been selling just three bottles in September. “At the same time, the sale of number of soaps is on the rise,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demand-for-sanitisers-liquid-handwash-dips/articleshow/78223089.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Counterterrorunit need of the hour: HM||Coimbatore: The state government should form a special unit led by a superintendent of police to monitor terrorists hiding in Coimbatore and Tirupur districts, Hindu Munnani state president Kadeswara C Subramaniam said here on Sunday.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had recently arrested Al-Qaida terrorists from Kerala and West Bengal, he told reporters. “There are several Bangladeshi nationals in Coimbatore and Tirupur, who have obtained Aadhaar cards and ration cards. If the intelligence wing of the Tamil Nadu police fails to monitor them, the state will face problems in future,” he said. “Terrorists may target Coimbatore and Tirupur as there are several export-oriented industries here.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/counterterrorunit-need-of-the-hour-hm/articleshow/78223054.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Lab overcharges for Covid testing, director blames staff for cheating||NAGPUR: A new Covid scam has surfaced at CX Clinicare specialty Lab, running from the premises of Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, Sitabuldi. The lab has been caught charging Rs2,800 to Rs3,500 for RT-PCR test from patients in violation of state government norms and that too without issuing receipts. As the controversy snowballed, the lab was shut down on Sunday. Lab director Dr Rajkumar Rathi denied any wrongdoing on his part and blamed his staff for fleecing gullible citizens. “I have sacked them. Soon after it came to our notice that our technicians were overcharging patients, we introduced new billing method and therefore lab was closed for a day. Now, receipts will be issued before sample is collected,” he said. Dr Rathi also claimed his technicians “offered (him) a cut from negotiated amounts” and cheated people in his name. Asked if he intends to file a police complaint, Dr Rathi said he would think about it. On Saturday and Sunday, TOI spoke to some of the staff members, aggrieved citizens and also visited the lab. It appeared that the scam was carried out carefully so as to not to leave any trace. The lab had been dealing in cash only for the last three months and used it’s staff’s payment applications like PhonePe and GPay in case alert patients or their relatives sought refund of excess amounts. Though Dr Rathi claimed that he “streamlined billing process”, his staff asked to come on Monday and bring Rs2000 cash when TOI called up to fix an appointment on Sunday afternoon. Asked if card payment would be accepted, the staff reiterated “only cash” and it may cost even more. On September 7, the state had revised RT-PCR charges to Rs1,200-Rs2,000 from Rs1,900 -Rs2,500. The variation in charges depends on collection of swab sample from home, hospital, or Covid care centre. The maximum charges are for home collection. Reading about revised charges, a city lawyer was baffled when Clinicare charged him Rs2,800 without issuing any receipt. When the lawyer warned of lodging a complaint with NMC, the lab director sent his technician with a receipt of only Rs1,600. Since he had paid more, the lawyer sought refund of Rs1,200. The technician, who was present at the lawyer’s home, was asked to pay from his payments app. “The technician told me that they had been doing it at the behest of Dr Rathi,” the lawyer said. In a WhatsApp conversation with patients, screenshots of which are with TOI, technicians agreed they are instructed to collect a particular amount. “The boss decides how much would be charged. We only follow instructions,” a staffer told TOI. Similarly, two more alert patients red-flagged the lab’s overcharging and non-issue of receipts going on at the lab booth inside the hospital. The two patients were linked with Shiv Sena whose local office bearers led by MLC Dushyant Chaturvedi confronted Dr Rathi. Shiv Sena MLC Dushyant Chaturvedi said he held a meeting with Dr Rathi and CP. “We do not seek any coercive action as doctors are also Covid warriors but all patients must be refunded.” Sena city coordinator Nitin Tiwari said that Chaturvedi has written to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar. The civic chief said Chaturvedi has spoke to him and he will look into the complaint. Sena’s Tiwari said Dr Rathi and Lata Mangeshkar Hospital’s medical superintendent were summoned by the CP. “Both have been warned in case they fail to refund excess amount. Those not given receipts may not be on record too. The civic body must investigate this,” Tiwari said. He said it is one of the first private labs of city. “They must have looted a lot of people. An audit must be done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lab-overcharges-for-covid-testing-director-blames-staff-for-cheating/articleshow/78224272.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Sale of hand sanitisers has plunged, say pharmacists||Coimbatore: Sales of hand sanitisers and liquid soaps have come down compared to the initial phases of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak in March, pharmacists in the city said. They attributed it to ack of awareness and lethargic attitude in maintaining personal hygiene, even as the district is recording an average of 500 Covid-19 cases a day.Compared to March, sales of hand sanitiser and hand wash soaps have dropped by 30%, a representative of Azhagu Pharmacy said. “This is because people are taking the pandemic lightly. But we have maintained stock of sanitisers and hand wash, as they are essential in this situation,” he said.During March, when the pandemic was a fresh affair, people were very keen on buying sanitisers and soaps, said S Balakumar, a pharmacist. “Back then, I used to sell more than 50 bottles each of sanitisers and hand wash liquids. But it started dropping from April, when it came down almost by half,” he said.With lockdown relaxations allowing people to visit public places and temples, and also with offices open, sales of hand sanitisers to be mandatorily placed at the places have started to see a rise, he said. “However, sales still remain lukewarm.”With more manufacturers jumping into the business and as the hygiene products are available almost everywhere, the share of sales in pharmacies might have come down, some of them said.President of the Coimbatore Chemists and Druggists Association A Karuppaiah said initially, there were just a handful of sanitiser and hand wash brands, and they were mostly available only in pharmacies. “Now, there is a profusion of products that are sold in almost every shop. This might have caused a fall in sales in pharmacies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sale-of-hand-sanitisers-has-plunged-say-pharmacists/articleshow/78223096.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Outfit protests new agriculture bill||Erode: Members of the Tamilaga Vivasayigal Pathukappu Sangam (TVPS) protested the Union government’s agriculture bill at Mayilambadi village at Bhavani taluk on Sunday and urged the Centre to cancel the bill at the earliest.Talking to reporters, P Jayamma, district women’s wing secretary of TVPS, said the new agriculture bill would only destroy the farmers in the country. “More than 20 lakh farmers and 15 lakh farm labourers will be affected.”Pointing out that Punjab accounted for nearly 50% of the country’s overall food grain production, she said that state was opposing the new legislation vehemently. “Farmers there are afraid, despite their contribution to the country. Just imagine the plight of Tamil Nadu because of the bill as the state doesn’t have that much of productivity.”TVPS members gathered on an agricultural field and raised slogans against the Centre for passing the bill that would destroy the entire farming community in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/outfit-protests-new-agriculture-bill/articleshow/78223115.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Green Corps to get coordinators soon||Coimbatore: The directorate of school education in the state has asked the school education department officials to nominate coordinators for the National Green Corps (NGC) scheme in each educational district.In a recent communication, the director of school education has asked the chief education officers of all districts to nominate a science teacher with botany background and knowledge of computer as the NGC coordinator.The coordinators would be given a consolidated pay of Rs5,000 per year. The teachers, who are serving as eco club coordinators, cannot be nominated as NGC coordinators.The district school education officials have been asked to select a willing teacher from each education district and send their details to the director of environment and member secretary of the environment management agency of Tamil Nadu. Presently, there are 8,000 NGCs and eco clubs in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/green-corps-to-get-coordinators-soon/articleshow/78223095.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC chief’s office gets nano antimicrobial surface coat||Aurangabad: In an attempt to put a check on the spread of Covid-19 through surface, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has coated a couple of key chambers with nano antimicrobial surface coating, making it the first government office in Marathwada region to do so.The technology, which is said to be approved by the Institute of Toxicology, India, once applied, remains effective for a period of three to six months. It has been implemented in the chambers of civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey and health officer Neeta Padalkar.Civic body authorities said that this implementation is being done on a pilot basis under the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDL). Pandey has termed it to be an important and effective move in ensuring a check on further spread of contagion at public offices.Depending on the results, Pandey has kept the option open to get all civic body offices coated with this anti-microbial nano coating in a near future.Smart city’s deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam said that this nano coating is one of the best way to keep a surface contamination free and it uses physical method of killing microorganism by pentatonic the membrane layer. “Its a non-mutating way and probably the only solution to provide 24x7 surface protection,” said Shivam. Those privy to the implementation said that it applicable on all surface and can provide long term protection at home, making it more cost effective then current methods while also providing much better sustainable protection against viruses, bacteria and fungus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-chiefs-office-gets-nano-antimicrobial-surface-coat/articleshow/78221925.cms||Mohammed Akhef
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Constable arrested for murder conspiracy of ex-brother-in-law||HYDERABAD: Upset with his former brother-in-law for deserting his sister, a police constable decided to eliminate him by hatching a plan along with contract killers. However, before he could execute his plan, police officials arrested the constable when they found out about the conspiracy. The accused, Shaukat (40) is a resident of Suleman Nagar in Rajendra Nagar. Shaukat had been working as a constable at Raidurgan police station under Cyberabad commissionerate. He his sister had gotten married to Zaker, a bank employee from Mahbubnagar, 15 years ago. However, Zaker had deserted Shaukat’s sister around a year ago over personal differences and married another woman. A domestic harassment case had been filed against Zaker in 2019 at Rajendra Nagar police station in this regard. Shaukat was angry with Zaker for leaving his siter and marrying another woman. He decided to kill Zaker, conspired for it and hired constract killers to finish the job. “Shaukat struck a deal with Sajid (37) of Hasan Nagar for Rs 5 lakh to kill Zaker. Sajid, along with his associates, Aslam Khan (22), Shafi (45) and few others, planned to kill Zaker,” Rajendra Nagar superintendent of police S Vittal Reddy said. However, as the special operations team (SOT) sleuths were investigating a recent murder of private employee Javed, they apprehended a few suspects. One of them told the police officials about Shaukat’s murder conspiracy. Police then arrested Shaukat, along with Sajid, Aslam Khan and Shafi, on Saturday. After their arrest, Cyberabad commissioner of police VC Sajjanar suspended Shaukat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-arrested-for-murder-conspiracy-of-ex-brother-in-law/articleshow/78224280.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Heavy rain, strong winds pound Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Heavy rain drenched the Nilgiri hills on Sunday. Strong winds uprooted trees in Ooty and Gudalur. Rain triggered landslides in several areas. Power supply was disrupted across Ooty for six hours.While Avalanche recorded the maximum rainfall of 205mm, Devala and Cherangodu registered 110 and 114mm respectively for 24 hours ending 7am on Sunday. Ooty received 6.6mm rainfall while Coonoor registered 13mm. Upper Bhavani and Pandalur recorded 128 and 137mm rain respectively.Revenue department officials were more worried about gusty winds. The maximum temperature recorded in Ooty was 13 Celsius.Except for a private revetment wall collapse at Red Hills area, no major damage was reported, Ooty tahsildar Kuppuraj said. “I have alerted disaster management teams at vulnerable spots about landslides and falling trees,” he said.Power was disrupted at places including Missionary Hill and Kandal for six hours after tree branches fell on live wires. Trees were uprooted in Fernhill, Upper Gudalur and O’Valley. They were removed immediately to ensure smooth traffic on the Ooty-Gudalur road. Meanwhile, the district administration requested public to contact control room at 1077 to inform about trees and houses at vulnerable spots. The flood control room will function round-the-clock. The administration has identified as many as 283 places in the six taluks as vulnerable to heavy rain. Zonal teams have been formed and instructed to monitor the areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heavy-rain-strong-winds-pound-nilgiris/articleshow/78223124.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Over 50k recover; dist rate better than nation, state||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 recovered patients in the district crossed 50,000 on Sunday. The recovery rate of the district was better than average of Vidarbha, state and country on Sunday. As per civil surgeon data, 1,610 Covid-19 positive patients recovered on Sunday taking the total to 51,556 in the district. The number of positive cases was 63,757 on Sunday thus giving a recovery rate of 80.86%. Recovery rate of Vidarbha was 74%, that of state 71% and national 79.28%. This recovery rate is probably best ever in the district so far. The recovery rate had gone down to even below 50% when cases began to surge in August. The number of recovered patients in 20 days of September is double the total of August. By end of July, there were 3,477 recoveries. In August, 15,767 patients recovered for cumulative of 19,244. In 20 days of September, it is 15,767 making a total of 51,556. Of these, 29,257 (56.74%) have recovered at home. The district had registered first case on March 11 and home isolation was allowed from July 28. In all, 48,079 recovered in August and in September so far. Recovery at home will be 60.85% if considered from the date home isolation was permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-50k-recover-dist-rate-better-than-nation-state/articleshow/78224299.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Crook dupes man with house allure||Hyderabad: A case was registered against a person who allegedly duped a man by promising to provide a piece of land under Indiramma Housing scheme in the KPHB police station limits. The accused K Laxman gave some documents to the victim by forging the signatures of district officials. The state had constructed Indiramma housing complex under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) scheme. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crook-dupes-man-with-house-allure/articleshow/78224287.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Mhadei: Goa to file contempt plea against Karnataka in SC||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that the state government has decided to file a contempt petition against Karnataka in the Supreme Court “in the next 15 days” for diverting the Kalasa nulla waters of the Mhadei into the Malaprabha basin at Kankumbi. Sawant told TOI that the water resources department team inspected the site where the diversion had been carried out and have also taken photographs. “We have collected proof, based on which we will file the contempt petition,” the chief minister said. Sawant said the petition has already been drafted and has been sent to the legal team for vetting. During the lockdown, Karnataka tampered with the Kalasa river bed gradient to reverse the flow of the water in the direction of interconnecting canals that join the Malaprabha basin. The diversion came to light when a team from Goa visited Kankumbi on September 1, after border restrictions were lifted. TOI was the first to report that Karnataka has diverted the Kalasa waters. In 2015, after Goa brought to the notice of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal that Karnataka was diverting water of the Kalasa nulla into the Malaprabha basin, the tribunal had asked Karnataka to construct a masonry embankment to stop the flow of the Kalasa waters into the Malaprabha. But two years ago, Karnataka violated the tribunal order and diverted the natural flow of the Kalasa water. Due to the Kalasa diversion project work, not only has the natural course of the river degraded from its origin at Rameshwar temple, but also the origin and the course of the Malaprabha has degraded for around 2km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mhadei-goa-to-file-contempt-plea-against-ktaka-in-sc/articleshow/78224288.cms||Murari Shetye
September 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Social worker helps those who lost jobs due to Covid||Mangaluru: Sowraj Mangalore, a social worker who had adopted ‘Gandhigiri’ to spread the swachhata’ message in the past, has been successful in connecting several job seekers with employers. A driver and owner of goods transport vehicles, he said that people, especially bus drivers, were reaching out to him with job requests. “People are badly affected due to the pandemic. Since I had taken up several social issues on Facebook, last week, I went live addressing job seekers and those willing to provide jobs. I requested people to provide details including phone number, place, jobs they are looking for and expected salary in the comments section. Similarly, employers were requested to comment on the jobs they are offering along with phone number and location. I requested women not to post their personal number because I did not want it to be misused,” said Sowraj. He launched this campaign with a hope that at least 10 people would secure jobs. “To my surprise, the video turned out to be a hit. It received 1,500 comments and an equal number of shares. Amid the crisis, I have realised that jobs are definitely there, but job seekers and employers are not finding the right people,” Sowraj said. “With the public transport sector severely hit, at least 80% of the drivers who reached out have got jobs. Most of them have been placed in security agencies. Local security agencies have been looking out for people as they had mostly employed north Indians during the pre-Covid days, who left for their hometowns. Similarly, many cooks found jobs in hotels in Belagavi. A few people have posted their resumes in the comments section. Even engineers have reached out. Many Gulf returnees who have lost their jobs and used to draw around Rs 50,000 salary per month are finding it difficult to work for Rs 10,000-Rs15,000 now,” Sowraj explained. The success of this campaign has encouraged several organisations and individuals to take up similar initiatives. According to an estimate, about 41 lakh youth in the country lost jobs due to the pandemic. Construction and farm sector workers account for a majority of job losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/social-worker-helps-those-who-lost-jobs-due-to-covid/articleshow/78224976.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Ram temple triggers realty boom in Ayodhya, rates double after bhoomipujan||AYODHYA: The upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya has triggered a realty boom with property prices skyrocketing by 30-40% after the Supreme Court’s Ayodhya verdict in November last year. And nine months later, the rates have virtually doubled after the ‘bhoomipujan’ ceremony by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August first week. The demand for land rose manifold after announcement of largescale infrastructural projects, 3-star hotels and an international airport by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who promised to turn the pilgrimage town into India’s Vatican. Though Ayodhya occupied the political centrestage for decades, the temple town wallowed in apathy with the nearest hotel situated 6km away in Faizabad city. And land rates in the town’s outskirts hovered around a meagre Rs 300-450 per square feet. “Now, property rates even in Ayodhya’s hinterland have shot up to Rs 1000-1500 per square feet. And in heart of the town, it currently ranges anything between Rs 2000-3000 per square feet. Before the Supreme Court verdict, one could easily buy land in Ayodhya town for less than Rs 900 square feet,” said Rishi Tandon, a property consultant. Currently, land sale is yet to pick up pace because of state government’s plans to acquire land for mammoth infrastructural projects. Buyers are wary their investment may get frozen if they buy land for a premium and it’s later acquired by the state. “This is the flipside of the boom. New land owners would be paid as per current circle rate, which hasn’t increased and they would be at a loss,” said Tandon. “Top bureaucrats, police officers and politicians are in the race to buy land and ‘benaami’ properties have further jacked up prices,” said Om Prakash Singh, executive counsellor, Awadh University. Talking to TOI, Imran Rasool, Delhi-based real estate consultant, said, “There’s a massive spike in property rates in Ayodhya and people across India and from all income groups are vying for a piece of land in the temple town. The rates are market driven and after the Ayodhya verdict, there is realty boom, unheard in other parts of the country in pandemic time.” Saurabh Singh, an Ayodhya-based property liasioning agent, said, “The local administration has already placed sanctions on land registry as large swathes would be acquired for infrastructure projects. Also, many properties have disputed ownership and majority plots tagged for sale are wetlands near the Saryu, which come under the jurisdiction of National Green Tribunal. While some want to buy land for purely religious purpose like setting up dharmshalas or community kitchens, others find it a lucrative investment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-triggers-realty-boom-in-ayodhya-rates-double-after-bhoomipujan/articleshow/78225187.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
September 21, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal for Maratha reservation||Nashik: Members of the Maratha Kranti Morcha on Sunday met Nashik district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal who, in turn, expressed his support for the reservation of Maratha community across the state. Today’s meeting between the Maratha group members and Bhujbal comes after two days of heated exchange between the two with the former claiming Bhujbal was not in support of Maratha reservation, while the latter stuck to his commitment that the community must get reservation for which he and his party would do everything possible. On Friday, the community members had gone to Bhujbal’s house at 11 am when the Minister left his residence for pre-decided programme in Trimbakeshwar taluka. Due to this, the members got upset and raised slogans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-for-maratha-reservation/articleshow/78222159.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man hacks brother to death in drunken brawl||HYDERABAD: A 42-year-old man was allegedly hacked to death by his brother during a drunken brawl at Malkajgiri on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Anjaneyulu, a resident of Indira Nehru Nagar in Malkajgiri. Anjaneyulu’s wife Laxmibhai has been living with her parents in Bandlaguda due to personal problems with her husband. “Anjaneyulu and his brother Narsing used to consume liquor regularly and used to quarrel with each other over petty issues. During a similar argument on Saturday, Narsing attacked Anjaneyulu with a sickle. Narsing sustained severe head injuries and collapsed. Noticing the brawl, neighbours arrived at the spot and informed his nephew Mahender Singh,” said Malkajgiri inspector B Jagadeeshwar Rao. Mahender Singh informed Anjaneyulu’s wife Laxmibhai about the incident. Narsing fled from the spot while Anjaneyulu was rushed to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) for treatment. Anjaneyulu succumbed to injuries at the OGH on Saturday night. Based on the complaint lodged by Laxmibhai, Malkajgiri police of Rachakonda commissionerate have registered a murder case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A manhunt was launched to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-hacks-brother-to-death-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/78224302.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Car turtles on PVNR expressway, 4 hurt||HYDERABAD: Four persons who were travelling in a car on PVNR expressway suffered injuries after their vehicle overturned on Sunday. Police said that they were heading to airport when the incident took place. All the injured were shifted to a local hospital by Rajendra Nagar police. Over speeding might be the causing of mishap, officials suspect, as the hit a street light pole erected on the mid of the expressway. Investigation is still underway. Flow of traffic was affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-turtles-on-pvnr-expressway-4-hurt/articleshow/78224329.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||75-year-old dies after falling in parking lot||HYDERABAD: A 75-year-old man died after he accidentally fell down in parking lot of a gated community at KPHB. The watchman of the apartment informed his family members of the incident after he spotted the senior citizen lying unconsciously on the floor of the parking lot. He had suffered head injury. Police registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/75-yr-old-dies-after-falling-in-parking-lot/articleshow/78224352.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Salem||Burglary attempt at ATM near Salem Steel Plant||Salem: A burglary attempt took place at the ATM on Salem-Tharamangalam state highways near Salem Steel Plant premises on early Sunday morning. Two unidentified miscreants entered the ATM centre and cut the cables connected to CCTV cameras. When they tried to open the locker, the burglary alarm went off. Shocked, the burglars managed to escape from the centre. Meanwhile, one of the employees of the bank got an SMS on his mobile phone about the burglary attempt.  He immediately alerted the Steel Plant police, who came to the spot and conducted investigation. Meanwhile, bank officials confirmed that cash in the machine was intact. Police have registered a case and are on the lookout for the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/burglary-attempt-at-atm-near-salem-steel-plant/articleshow/78224351.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Panel positive on saving Gandhi ashram road trees near Sevagram||NAGPUR: The state-level committee headed by state PWD secretary Ulhas Debadwar on Sunday indicated it was positive on saving the remaining 130 big trees on Wardha-Sevagram road near Bapu Kuti. Debadwar said, “We will see how the trees can be saved. The suggestion by Wardha Vruksha Bachao Samiti to save our heritage is welcome. They have handed over a list of demands that the committee will consider positively. I agree with the Samiti view that when people visit Sevagram, they should get a feel they are visiting Gandhi’s Sevagram.” Responding to protests from green activists and people, the state government on September 9, had stayed the felling of over 130 trees and formed a committee under Debadwar to find a way out. The committee members including Wardha district collector Vivek Bhimanwar, PWD engineers Sushma Sakharwade, and Gajanan Takey met the Samiti activists and held discussions for two hours. The Samiti members focused on legal inconsistencies in the project, heritage conservation, people’s participation, and environment protection. Sushama Sharma, principal, Nai Taleem Samiti, called for preservation of Sevagram ashram and other historical buildings in Wardha, along with all roads and trees, as a heritage site. “We have evidence that some of these trees were planted by Gandhiji’s disciples in the 1940s. They are an integral part of the heritage of Wardha and care must be taken to protect them,” she said. Dr Vibha Gupta, director, Magan Sangrahalay Samiti, told the PWD officials to develop the road from Gandhi Chowk to Sewagram Ashram as ‘Shanti Path’ and keep the same approach for Pavnar-Sevagram road. This road should be developed according to Gandhian values of sustainability and simplicity. Environmentalist Alok Bang rebutted officials’ claim there was international pressure to stop felling. He said, “it was local movement that led to global pressure. Though the meeting was about a controversial 2km stretch, but we raised concerns about all roads in Wardha, including roads between Sewagram and Pavnar.” Green activist Vitthal Salve revealed information under RTI has exposed many inconsistencies and loopholes in the road project. Sunil Farsole demanded not even a single tree should be cut. “Widen and develop the road only as much as the current tree-line allows. If cutting of certain trees is unavoidable, there should be the reasoning for unavoidability in case of each tree,” Farsole said. “The trees are a living testimony of the glorious past of Wardha, which also serve as saviours against environment-related global challenges of the future. We urge PWD to stop the scarring of natural resources,” said Sanjay Ingle Tigaonkar. To these suggestions from the Samiti members, Debadwar said, “We gave patient hearing to the suggestions and will work on a common agenda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-positive-on-saving-gandhi-ashram-road-trees-near-sevagram/articleshow/78224442.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Online education boosts digital literacy among rural women, elderly||Mangaluru: Saramma, resident of Kupetti and mother of two had never used a smartphone, but now she owns one and is learning to use it. Thanks to online classes in the wake of the pandemic — women like Saramma and scores of elderly in undivided Dakshina Kannada who never used smartphones or internet before, are now inching towards digital literacy. Online education in government schools is not just keeping children engaged in academic activities, but is also helping their parents. Another parent 44-year-old Naveena Naika, resident of Mantrady, a remote village in Moodbidri used a basic mobile phone for last 14 years. He switched to a smartphone two days ago. The smartphone is not only used by his two children, but also three others who stay in the same locality. “I was never interested in using a smartphone, but had to buy it since my children’s education was at stake. They study in Class 7 and 2 at Mantrady government school,” he shared. Now, Naveena has learnt to receive and make calls. “Not very keen to learn more on smartphone usage as it’s nowhere beneficial to me,” he answered when asked if he would learn more about smartphones. Vinodha, resident of Belthangady taluk is a much relieved mother, who got her first smartphone a few months ago. “It has come very much handy at this pandemic, where my children studying in Class 8 and 10 have uninterrupted education,” she shares. Vinodha, who earns her living by rolling beedis said she is able to browse internet and use social media. “The use of smartphone has come as saviour many times. It has done many of my jobs much easier,” she said giving example of how she once sent her Aadhaar and other documents through WhatsApp to an office, which otherwise would have to be hand delivered. Many have purchased their first smartphones from hard earned savings. There are many who did it by pledging their valuables; one among them is Shobha Poojary, resident of Penchar in Moodbidri. With the sacrifice, her two daughters — Tejasvini and Yashasvini are able to continue their education. “It was difficult for my children to learn and I felt sorry for them. There was no other alternative but pledge my earrings and buy a smartphone. I paid Rs 12,500,” says Shobha, who rolls beedi. Her husband is daily wage labourer. “My daughters are teaching me to operate it. I make sure that they never use for any other purpose other than study,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/online-education-boosts-digital-literacy-among-rural-women-elderly/articleshow/78223030.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||NMC office bearer tests +ve second time in 44 days||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 reinfection cases is on the rise in the city. One of the office bearers in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has tested positive for novel coronavirus again within 44 days. Virendra Kukreja, chairman of NMC health consultative committee (who wanted to be named), tested positive for the second time on Sunday. After one of his family members tested positive, he along with other family members got tested and had tested positive on August 8. He was asymptomatic and recovered under in isolation. Kukreja got a re-test done, and tested negative on August 20. Then, one of Kukreja’s two sons tested positive on September 17 followed by his wife and another son on September 18. He too started feeling some symptoms so he also got tested again. His reports came positive on Sunday. Just like the case of a policeman and NMC officer getting reinfected, which was reported by TOI, Kukreja has symptoms including infection in lungs this time, though he had been asymptomatic during the first infection. Doctors have now advised him hospitalization. Kukreja is the fifth case of reinfection in the city. After recovering from first infection, Kukreja had visited almost all private Covid-19 hospitals to check availability of beds, and held regular meetings with doctors and officials of the civic body. Experts from medical field had repeatedly said reinfection is possible whenever the patient’s immunity goes down or if the body does not develop adequate antibodies during first infection, besides other reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-office-bearer-tests-ve-second-time-in-44-days/articleshow/78224338.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 21, 2020||Erode||Class VIII girl dies by suicide after father scolds her for skipping online classes||Erode: A 13-year-old girl committed suicide by setting her ablaze at Nanjai Puliyampatty near Gobichettipalayam on Sunday after her parents scolded her for watching movies, songs on the mobile phone instead of attending online classes. The deceased, V Hemamalini, daughter of K Velumani, was studying in Class VIII in a government school at Bungalowpudur. Around 6am on Sunday, Velumani went outside with his wife for work. Around 8.30 am, their neighbours contacted Velumani on his mobile phone informing that smoke had been billowing out from his house. Velumani returned to his house and attempted to break open the door. “But, it was locked from inside,” Velumani said. Meanwhile, Bungalowpudur police reached the spot based on an alert from Gobichettipalayam fire station. Police personnel entered the house by breaking open the main door and found Hemamalini dead with burn injuries inside the kitchen. The body was sent to the Gobichettipalayam government hospital for post-mortem.Preliminary investigation revealed that Velumani scolded Hemamalini for watching movies and songs on mobile phone. “Sometimes, she did not attend online classes too,” police said, adding that she was looking upset since Saturday after Velumani scolded her. A case was registered, and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/class-viii-girl-dies-by-suicide-after-father-scolds-her-for-skipping-online-classes/articleshow/78224337.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: With shortage of mobiles, children at Santa Cruz orphanage struggle||PANAJI: For the last 18 years, the orphanage Care and Compassion-Goa has been struggling to meet the needs of its children through donations. But the pandemic has thrown up more unexpected challenges. The home, presently catering only to girls, has 10 inmates who are students of Classes IV to XII. With classes taking place online, the institute has only two smartphones available for the children to use, and at least six more are required to ensure that their learning continues unhindered. The orphanage is already housed in a rented premises in Santa Cruz and, according to the administration, with all the overheads to meet, it does not have enough funds to invest in as many as six smartphones. “We have been affected since the lockdown. Before the pandemic, people would come in with rations and also offer to pay the children’s school fees. But these people themselves have had financial problems since the pandemic. We have a house donated to us in Sarzora, but the repair work had to stop during the lockdown, so we have to continue to pay rent,” said director and founder trustee, Prince Aaron Golden. The students are enrolled in two schools –– one based in Panaji and the other in Santa Cruz – and online classes are in progress for each of the 10 girls. Of the two phones available with the home, one has to be made available almost full-time to a student who will be facing the crucial Class XII board exams in March-April 2021. “Presently, the students in Classes IV and V are attending online classes in a group. But there are students in Classes VIII to XII who need individual phones. We are desperately looking for phones because the school has said we need to give dedicated smartphones to each child with individual sim cards. The girl in Class XII is in the science stream and has many assignments etc, so we have to give her one phone almost full-time,” the home’s director said, adding that a good internet connection has already been provided at the home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-shortage-of-mobiles-children-at-santa-cruz-orphanage-struggle/articleshow/78224340.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||319 more deaths as CS, NMC, ZP data differs||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district is 2,363 if one considers the daily data from the district civil surgeon (CS), Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP). This means there are 319 more deaths than official figure of fatalities. As per state government directives, CS is nodal officer for the pandemic. The data finalized by CS is considered as the official one. CS reports data of positive cases and deaths to the government on daily basis. As per CS’ report, number of deaths in the city was 1,523 on Sunday and district’s total was 2,044. NMC is local authority which facilitates cremation of Covid-19 deceased. As per the civic body, number of deaths was 1,820 as on Sunday, a difference of 297. For Nagpur Rural, ZP is local authority and facilitates cremation of Covid-19 dead. As per ZP, fatalities were 359 whereas data of CS shows it 337 for a difference of 22. The same is the case with number of positive cases. As per CS, cases in the city were 50,675 as on Sunday whereas NMC data stated 52,458 for a difference of 1,783.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/319-more-deaths-as-cs-nmc-zp-data-differs/articleshow/78224354.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 21, 2020||Goa||At 20%, vacancies in government schools in Goa higher than national average||PANAJI: Teacher vacancies in government schools in Goa stand at 19.9%, almost three points higher than the national average. As per a reply by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal in Parliament on Saturday, at a national level, 17.1% of teaching posts in government schools were lying vacant. In Goa, for many years now, vacant positions have been “filled” by teachers on lecture basis. The situation is especially acute in government higher secondary schools, where in most institutions, the number of lecture-basis teachers outnumber permanent teachers. “Some of these lecture-basis teachers are working for over 15 years without their services being regularised,” said the head of a government higher secondary school. “I know one teacher who has been working for 21 years now on lecture-basis.” These qualified lecture-basis teachers have been able to bring in the results. The number of government institutions attaining cent percent results at the state board Class X and XII exams is on the rise. This, despite the fact that government schools cannot pick and choose students like in the case of aided and private schools. “In June this year, after a cabinet meeting, the chief minister said that the payment to lecture-basis teachers would be hiked from Rs 250 per lecture to Rs 25,000 monthly,” said a teacher. “This is very low, considering that many of the teachers have decades of experiences and are qualified with master’s degrees in their subject of specialisation, as well as a BEd degree.” But the teachers are yet to be paid even the promised Rs 25,000 a month. If heads of government schools are to be believed, they have been informed that teachers will have to continue to draw Rs 250 per lecture till December 2020. “The process to appoint new grade-I teachers in government schools is on,” said a government official. However, some of the lecture-basis teachers run the danger of not qualifying for these permanent posts. “As per the new education policy 2020, the teacher is expected to almost be an all-rounder,” said a school head. “If these teachers are subjected to tests to gauge them on this new parameter, more than half of them may not qualify for a permanent post. Besides, after years of waiting, some have crossed the minimum age for employment as government servants. They waited all this while in the hope of being regularised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-almost-20-vacancies-in-govt-schools-in-goa-higher-than-natl-avg/articleshow/78224356.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mumbai||First desi gene-based Covid test gets nod||New Delhi/Mumbai: An indigenously developed test that uses the cutting-edge CRISPR gene-editing technology to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been approved for commercial launch by the Drugs Controller General of India. It was briefly reported in the late edition of the paper on Sunday.Developed by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s IGIB (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology) in Delhi, along with the Tata Group, the test—named Feluda—will diagnose the virus in two hours. “The Tata CRISPR test is the world’s first diagnostic test to deploy a specially adapted Cas9 protein to successfully detect the virus causing Covid-19,” the government said. CSIR officials told TOI it is similar to a pregnancy test, containing a strip of paper that changes colour on detection of the virus in the sample. The cost of the test once commercialised is estimated to be under Rs 600, sources said, but this could not be verified. When the pandemic began, the IGIB team of Debojyoti Chakraborty and Souvik Maiti was working on developing a genome-based diagnostic tool for sickle cell. They took less than 100 days to “harness’’ their work to develop Feluda, said IGIB director Dr Anurag Agrawal.A press release issued by the ministry of science and technology said the test has 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity for detecting the novel coronavirus.“This marks a significant achievement for the Indian scientific community, moving from R&D to a high-accuracy, scalable and reliable test in less than 100 days,’’ said the statement. The test, which meets guidelines set by the Indian Council for Medical Research, can at a later date be reconfigured to detect other pathogens as well. Official sources told TOI, “The test is a great innovation as it would take a short while for the results, and has been approved after thorough validation and testing.” It has a quicker turnaround time and uses less expensive equipment so should be cheaper than existing tests. Accuracy is better than antigen-based kits, but has to be checked in a clinical setting.Globally, the US drug regulator in May had granted emergency-use approval for a new Coronavirus test to take advantage of gene-editing technology CRISPR. Dr Ajay Phadke, head at SRL Dr Avinash Phadke Labs, said, “CRISPR-based diagnostics kits can combine the sensitivity and specificity of PCR along with the ease of use of lateral flow assay systems similar to card tests (antibody tests). This works very well under lab conditions and needs to be validated in a clinical setting. If successful, this allows faster, cheaper and a very accurate infectious disease diagnosis for a wide range of diseases including Covid-19.”The ministry’s statement said the Tata Group worked closely with CSIR-IGIB and ICMR “to develop a ‘Made in India’ product that is safe, reliable, affordable, and accessible.”Girish Krishnamurthy, CEO, Tata Medical and Diagnostics Ltd, said, “Approval for the Tata CRISPR test for COVID-19 will give a boost to the country’s efforts in fighting the global pandemic. The commercialization of the Tata CRISPR test reflects the tremendous R&D talent in the country, which can collaborate to transform India’s contributions to the global healthcare and scientific research world.” Dr Shekhar C Mande, DG-CSIR, also complimented the CSIR-IGIB team of scientists and students, Tata Group and DCGI for their work and collaboration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-desi-gene-based-covid-test-gets-nod/articleshow/78224892.cms||Vishwa Mohan
September 21, 2020||Goa||Chaudi’s weekly market to be shut for 1 more month||POINGUINIM: Keeping in mind the health concerns as coronavirus cases are on a rise, the Canacona Municipal Council (CMC) has decided to keep the weekly Saturday bazaar at Chaudi shut for another month. The decision was taken at an emergency meeting convened after requests from local vendors that the market be made operational. CMC chairperson Nitu Sameer Desai said the decision was taken in consultation with the deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes. The market is usually packed with vegetable and fruit vendors from Hubli and other parts of Karnataka. The weekly Saturday bazaar has been shut since the last week of March and the local vendors have been selling their produce at a few spots in and around Canacona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chaudis-weekly-market-to-be-shut-for-1-more-month/articleshow/78224375.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Farm bills a direct assault on Constitution: K Keshava Rao||HYDERABAD: TRS, which is at daggers drawn with Congress and leaves no opportunity to weaken it in the state, joined hands with the grand old party on Sunday to move a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, while opposing the farm bills 2020. TRS was among the 12 opposition parties, including Congress, which moved the no-confidence motion and blamed the deputy chairman for not keeping up the parliamentary tradition. “We have sought the removal of the deputy chairman. They did not allow division nor allowed to move the statutory motion. I have never seen such a demolition of the parliamentary system in my life. They did not conduct voting and passed the bills with a voice vote, which is against Constitutional norms,” TRS parliamentary party leader K Keshava Rao told TOI over phone from Delhi. “It is a direct assault on the state rights, violates the spirit of the Constitution and cooperative federalism,” he said earlier during a discussion on the bills.“You are pitting poor farmers against corporates. The central government is out to kill the golden goose.” “Did you consult us (TRS)? Did you consult the people? Telangana is giving free power to 69 lakh farmers. You (Centre) don't fund us. Even our rightful share of GST is not being released and you tell us how to manage the farmers and agriculture,” Keshav Rao said. The MP said presently there were 191 agriculture produce marketing committees, 6,166 traders, 4,613 commission agents each of whom have 100 assistants and 2,099 millers. “What will happen to all of them? There are 340 ginning mills with over 4,000 employees who would now stand the risk of losing jobs with these bills,” he said. TRS floor leader in the Lok Sabha, Nama Nageswara Rao, termed it as a black day for farmers. “The new bills will turn the farmers into beggars. The slogan of Jai Jawan jai Kisan will go for a toss. The Centre is suppressing the voice of the farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farm-bills-a-direct-assault-on-constitution-keshava/articleshow/78224367.cms||Roushan Ali
September 21, 2020||Pune||College begins at home with virtual lectures, downloaded books & notes||PUNE: The new academic session for senior colleges has begun, but the charm of meeting new classmates, the first day orientation session amidst a packed hall, and the face-to-face interaction is missing. Colleges organised online orientation sessions for students to kickstart the academic year for various undergraduate courses even as many of them started without new books or meeting new friends. A first-year Bachelor of Arts student, Rozmin Bhagat, said the first day is always special to students as well as teachers. “We are excited and nervous about new beginnings in life. But virtual studies were new as well, so I felt nervous and we still met our friends through the screen but it wasn't the same,” he added. Bhagat said the virtual learning was not easy and it was difficult to concentrate through the screen and then there were connectivity issues as well. “But, on the brighter side at least our academic year is not spent in vain and we are moving forward with this new situation and getting used to it,” he said. Classes started on September 1. Another student, Riya Jahir Samnani, from St Mira’s College who has taken admission to the bachelor in business administration degree, said, “I miss my classroom, my friends and my teachers a lot. Attending the class physically and attending it online has a huge difference. Online attending is like just sitting with our phones or laptop and it's so difficult to sit for hours and hours. When we used to attend lectures by going to our colleges it was so amazing, we had teachers to interact with our friends talking between lectures. We used to have great fun during our college time.” Now, the students do not have any physical activities as they had earlier like competitions, events in colleges. “After college, we all friends used to chill out, and now it's just spending hours and hours on the phone. We had seven days of induction programme in which we got to know about different courses, internships, club programmes and other stuff. On the first day, I logged in and I saw so many students joining and everything was new for me then and even now,” she added. Srihari Sathe, a student of Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce, said, “The first day charm of sitting in classrooms knowing new mates, getting introduced to the teachers and strolling inside the new college has vanished this year as a result of Covid. Even the orientation that took place was not as exciting.” Principal of St Mira’s College, Gulshan Gidwani, said lectures for the first year of degree college have commenced from September 1. There is no doubt that online teaching is a challenge and no substitute for face-to-face teaching. Teaching learning is also a facial activity and as such there are limitations to online teaching no doubt. But we have had a six day induction programme for our fresh students and from the feedback received from faculty and students it has been highly encouraging.” At the St Mira’s College, the management has been able to conduct all activities online right from teaching to extra curricular activities, competitions, cultural events and even a virtual newsletter with three volumes so far. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar said they started online teaching from August 1. “At the PG level, we have 100% attendance. We had a live interaction with students using our YouTube channel. For first-year students, we had a three-day online induction,” he added. The institute is also doing co-curricular activities in the online mode. “Our library is well-automated and we have an institutional repository. All the e-content developed is easily available to students at home through this IR facility. We have also created a principal's virtual office where visitors who come to college for interaction can do so via Google Meet,” he said. The college also has a technical team that helps in cyber security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/college-begins-at-home-with-virtual-lectures-downloaded-books-notes/articleshow/78223273.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist has fourth highest Covid tally, toll in state||Coimbatore: The district recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in the past 10 days on Sunday, when it logged 568 new cases, even as 488 patients were discharged from treatment facilities. Now, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district stands at 2,5914, of which 4,364 are active cases. The toll shot up to 382 on the day with the state including six more Covid-19 deaths that occurred in the district in the bulletin. It was the highest number of Covid deaths that the district recorded in a day in the past one week. Among the deceased were a 55-year-old man who died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital after nearly 20 days of and a 40-year-old woman who died within 24 hours of admission. The district, which had fewer Covid-19 deaths in the state, now has the fourth highest toll after Chennai, Chengalpet and Thiruvallur. In terms of total cases too, the district is in the fourth position and has been adding new cases at an alarming pace, compared to other districts. The new cases were spread across the district. At least 14 cases people were tested positive for the virus from Annur in rural Coimbatore and 11 from Singanallur in the city, indicating they were still Covid-19 hotspots. A health department official said, “We have intensified fever camps in the hotspots to detect Covid-19 cases at early stages and prevent the spread.” He said high movement of people was posing a challenge to containment efforts. Health officials, meanwhile, said they were hopeful of brining the outbreak under control and minimising the spread in the coming days. Health minister C VIjayabaskar had recently said the positivity rate in the district was brought below 10 %, which was a good sign. Pointing out that they were testing around 6,000 to 7,000 samples a day, another official said hence there was a high chance of detecting and isolating Covid-19 infected people and arresting the spread. Neighbouring Tirupur too continued to see a spike, as it recorded 169 new cases of Covid-19 on the day, taking the count to 6,059. The textile hub also reported two deaths. With this, the toll has touched 95. The day also saw 124 patients getting discharged from treatment centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-has-fourth-highest-covid-tally-toll-in-state/articleshow/78224372.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Salem||130 wild elephants enter TN forests from K’taka||Krishnagiri: Following two herds of 130 wild elephants entering Tamil Nadu forests from Karnataka, the forest department has warned people residing on the bordering villages in Krishnagiri district to avoid man-animal conflict. Ranger of Jawalagiri forest range in Hosur forest division M Nagarajan held meetings with Thally and Jawalagiri villagers for the past three days since Friday. “A total of 130 elephants, which entered into the Tamil Nadu forests from Karnataka, split into two herds,” the ranger said, adding that, one of the herds which has 70 jumbos, have been camping at Thally forest range while the rest in Jawalagiri range. According to forest officials, this is a usual one for elephants. “They usually migrate from Bannerghatta forest division in Karnataka during monsoon seasons to Tamil Nadu,” the ranger said. The ranger said this is the first herd arriving from Karnataka. They will be camping in Tamil Nadu forests for the next four months as this would be the season for ragi and horse gram crop cultivation in Tamil Nadu. “These two crops will be tasted by elephants regularly,” the ranger added. The forest officials meanwhile alerted villagers in both Thally and Jawalagiri forest ranges not to venture into the forest boundaries especially during night hours. “We also have advised them not to go to their agriculture fields for security activities as there would be a chance for man-animal conflict,” the ranger said. The forest officials have also advised the villagers to come out from their house only after sun rise and return to their house before dusk. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/130-wild-elephants-enter-tn-forests-from-ktaka/articleshow/78224360.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||District crosses 2,000 Covid deaths; 1st 1,000 in 173 days, 2nd in 21 days||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district crossed 2,000 on Sunday. It took 173 days for the district to register the first 1,000 deaths whereas the next 1,000 came in 21 days. Data from the district civil surgeon said 52 deaths were registered in the district on Sunday, taking total fatalities to 2,044. First 100 deaths were recorded in 141 days, which means 1,944 fatalities came in last the 53 days for a daily average of 36.67. There were 126 deaths at the end of July, after the district registered first positive case on March 11. There were 919 deaths in August. In 20 days of September, 999 deaths were registered, higher than all of August. The district has registered over 50 deaths per day on 11 of the last 15 days. Highest number of deaths in a single day was 64 on September 17. The district is first among 11 districts in Vidarbha to cross 2,000 deaths. The fatalities in the district are more than the total of the remaining 10 districts of the region. Among 35 districts in the state, the district is 4th to cross 2,000 deaths after Mumbai (8,469), Pune (5,264) and Thane (4,529). The district was on 12th position at the end of July. As far as population is considered, the district stands at 5th position. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the district was 3.20% on Sunday, which was higher than the state average (2.71%), India (1.61%) and world (3.14%). Of total deaths, city accounts for 74.51% deaths while Nagpur Rural had 16.49% and other districts 9%. The analysis of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had revealed 82-85% of deceased had comorbidities. Deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH Dr Sagar Pandey told TOI, “Late reporting of symptomatic cases, especially comorbid, to Covid hospitals is one of the major reasons behind rise in deaths. Still, the district’s case fatality rate is not high.” He said maximum deaths were observed between 8 to 12 days after onset of symptoms, so this period can be considered dangerous for patients. “Therefore, symptomatic patients especially, comorbid, senior citizens etc should get tested immediately after onset of symptoms and start taking treatment,” he said. Dr Pandey added, “CRP, LDH blood investigation followed by CAT scan of chest should be done first. Steroids and anticoagulants should be started soon. Paracetamol and levocetrizine should also begin early as these are anti-inflammatory drugs and reduce inflammation in body. Checking oxygen saturation level after walking for six minutes should be considered as gold standard as it can detect hypoxia early.” He also said collector and municipal commissioner had given permission for large number of private hospitals, and staff in IGGMCH is also increasing, which will help reduce number of deaths. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar said, “The increasing death rate is tragic. I reiterate the need for self discipline. The administration cannot be held responsible for carelessness of people, who can easily stop this disease by three simple sanitation guidelines. Lockdown by oneself is only option as health infrastructure will not be able to handle the onslaught of cases. Chronic underfunding of health care and no forward planning during lockdown has unfortunately brought this day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-crosses-2000-covid-deaths-1st-1000-in-173-days-2nd-in-21-days/articleshow/78224370.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Days before Uttarakhand assembly session, Speaker tests Covid-positive||DEHRADUN: With barely two days left for the assembly session, Uttarakhand assembly Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday. In his absence, deputy speaker Raghunath Singh Chauhan will discharge duties in the assembly session scheduled for Wednesday. This will be the first time that the speaker and leader of the opposition will be absent in the House. Congress deputy leader Karan Mahra will fill in for Indira Hridayesh who tested positive on Friday. Further, the assembly session will be held for a single day. This was confirmed by government spokesperson and cabinet minister Madan Kaushik. “During the session, the government will bring ordinances and bills and pass them on the same day. There will be no Question Hour. Questions will be answered in the Zero Hour and proposals for adjournment will be accepted,” Kaushik told TOI. He added that the government has already made arrangements for MLAs to attend the assembly virtually. MLAs, especially above 65 years of age, have been asked to participate in the assembly virtually. The state has 12 such MLAs.To recall, over a dozen MLAs from both ruling BJP and opposition Congress have already tested positive for Covid-19 in the last three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/days-before-ukhand-assembly-session-speaker-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/78222233.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 21, 2020||India||In a first in 4 months, weekly Covid-19 cases register a fall||NEW DELHI: For the first time in at least four months of the pandemic, weekly Covid-19 cases in India have registered a fall. The drop in fresh infections, as compared with the previous week’s tally, was marginal but significant as weekly cases had till now been rising without exception since at least the first week of May. India recorded 6,40,019 new Covid-19 cases last week (September 14-20), nearly 5,000 less than the 6,45,014 cases reported in the previous week (September 7-13), as per daily data collated by TOI from state governments. While this still translates to a daily average of more than 91,000 cases, records available since May reveal that this is the first week when cases have actually fallen. Deaths from the virus, however, continued to rise. In the week gone by, 8,175 fatalities were recorded, as compared with 8,069 in the previous seven days. Significantly, active cases in the country too decreased for the fourth straight day. From a high of 10,26,000 on Thursday, active cases had dropped to below 10.1 lakh on Sunday. Daily cases dropped to 88,490 on Sunday, the first time in six days that the count had fallen below 90,000. With this, India’s total caseload rose to 54,83,038, as per TOI’s data. The total death toll climbed to 87,844 with 1,132 fatalities reported on Sunday. Maharashtra recorded 20,598 new infections, taking the state’s case count to above 12 lakh. It also reported 455 deaths, 44 of which were from Mumbai. The city reported 2,209 cases on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-in-4-months-weekly-covid-19-cases-register-a-fall/articleshow/78225427.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Pandemic leaves fishing industry in doldrums||KARWAR: Unlock 4.0 hasn't brought much cheer to fishermen of Uttara Kannada. The catch, many fishermen rue, isn't good quality fish. Fishing in Karwar port had come to halt for over 20 days in January owing to the agitation against expansion of the port under Sagaramala project. Fishing activity resumed in February after the high court stayed the project. However, between February and March the catch was poor with most fishing boats returning empty. "And then came the lockdown which made matters," said Vinayak Harikantra, president of Youth Fishermen organisation in Karwar. Most of the workers who work on boats are from Jharkhand, Orissa and West Bengal. They went home during the lockdown as there was no work. "None of them have returned and boats are lying idle with no workers to go fishing," adds Vinayak. August and September witnessed volatile weather not conducive for fishing. “At least four purse-seine boats have sunk in the sea in the last 15 days between Karwar and Bhatkal. Though the fishermen were rescued, owners of the boats suffered heavy losses,” says Suresh Harikant a fisherman from Karwar. Neighbouring Goa had banned the entry of vehicles due to the pandemic with fishermen losing business. “For last few days our catch has been like of jelly fish which is useless. We have to pay to for labours even though there is no catch. The fish famine has affected us badly. The government should think of helping us at this difficult juncture,” said Ganesh Surangekar, a traditional fisherman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-leaves-fishing-industry-in-doldrums/articleshow/78224957.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Woman car driver runs over five labourers on the roadside, one dies||LUCKNOW: A labourer was crushed to death while four others were critically injured after being run over by a speeding car on Chandrika Devi Temple road in Bakshi-ka-Talab area on Sunday. Pooja Singh of Gomtinagar, who was driving the car, was arrested late Sunday night. Station house officer, Bakshi-ka-Talab, Yogender Kumar said the incident took place around 12.30pm where the labourers were engaged in road widening work. “In their statements, the injured labourers said Pooja was going in a car with her husband and two-year-old daughter when she lost control over the wheels and ran over five labourers working on the roadside,” he said. One of the injured labourers informed cops that they were cleaning potholes on the road when a woman driving a black car ran over them. “Buddha Yadav (55) of Khanpur in Itaunja died in the incident while Krishna Kumar, Lalla, Savinar and Ram Khelawan, all of the same village, sustained grievous injuries,” the SHO added. The injured were rushed to the community health centre from where Ram Khelawan was referred to Trauma Centre of King George’s Medical University (KGMU). Police said the body of the deceased labourer had been sent for autopsy. On the basis of the complaint lodged by Buddha’s son, an FIR has been filed against the accused under charges of negligent and rash driving causing death. The SHO said the vehicle, bearing registration number of Varanasi district, had been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-car-driver-runs-over-five-labourers-on-the-roadside-1-dies/articleshow/78224902.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mangaluru||District to honour women for exemplary service during Covid-19||Mangaluru: Women in Dakshina Kannada who continued to be engaged in social service during the pandemic, will be facilitated by the district administration. The Dakshina Kannada district department of women and child development (DWCD) has planned to identify women, who prevented child marriage, distributed free food kits and masks, and helped women during the pandemic. Identified achievers will be honoured with Covid-19 Champion Award by the department. Exemplary services of Anganwadi workers and Asha workers also will be considered for the award, department officials said. “Local women champions will be identified under the ‘Save and Educate Girls’ programme of the government. Women or girls, who have made remarkable contributions by serving voluntarily during the Covid-19 pandemic period will be selected as local champions. Major focus of selection process includes prevention of child marriage through registering FIRs in respective police stations, distribution of free food to poor and masks. Similarly, all other social activities to protect and save women during the pandemic also will be considered for the award. Anganwadi workers, members of the Self-Help Groups and all other women who were engaged in such activities during pandemic may submit applications before September 25,” officials said. Interested may contact the deputy director of DWCD (0824-2451254) for more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/district-to-honour-women-for-exemplary-service-during-covid-19/articleshow/78224990.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t oppose farm bills: Bandi Sanjay Kumar to Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday wrote a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asking him not to oppose the new farm bills passed by the Rajya Sabha. Sanjay said that the bills aims to bring more opportunities for farmers and deregulate agriculture markets. “Please do not spread unnecessary fear and panic among the farmers in the state by opposing it. Your criticism on the bill is meaningless,” he said. In his letter, Sanjay said the farm bill enables the farmers to sell or buy their produce anywhere in the country with agriculture markets losing control over selling. “This will also help farmers not to become tools in the hands of middlemen,” he said in the letter. The bill also helps in competitiveness in the market, improving opportunities for the farmers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-oppose-farm-bills-bandi-to-cm/articleshow/78224380.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Over 48k more students register for CET scheduled in October||Pune: Over 48,000 more students registered for the common entrance test (CET) for professional courses including engineering, pharmacy, hotel management among others, after the state CET cell gave an extension to register for the same on September 7 and 8. The exam is scheduled in October.After taking into consideration that some students were unable to register and fill the application forms or were unable to make the online payment in the given time frame between January to March this year, the state CET cell had given two extra days — September 7 and 8 — to complete the formalities. Using this opportunity, around 48,634 more students registered themselves for the CET.As many as 16,715 students, which was the maximum number of pupils, applied for B.Ed CET during the extended time frame. A total of 12,010 new students applied for LLB (3-year course), followed by 9,228 engineering and pharmacy students applied for MH CET, during the extended time frame. However, all the students were eagerly waiting for the state CET to be over without further delay. “The JEE is over and many private universities have already started their classes. I have got a 96 percentile in the JEE, but I may not be able to get the NIT and branch of my choice with that score. I have already secured a place in a private university, but I am waiting for the state CET. As I have grown up in Pune, College of Engineering Pune is my first choice now and they take students only on the basis of CET. So, I want the government to conduct the CET without further delay,” said a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-48k-more-students-register-for-cet-scheduled-in-october/articleshow/78223278.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Jain bodies push Covid insurance cover in community||NAGPUR: Perturbed by the plight of Covid-19 patients in the community, Jain organizations have come forward to get them insurance cover. After creating awareness to get rid of coronavirus and bailing out community members out of trauma by providing them all help like Jain food, medical aid, free counseling and help in getting hospitalbeds, two major Jain organizations have tied up with companies to bring families under the Covid-19 insurance cover. A proposal has been mooted by Manindra Jain, national president of Digamber Jain Mahasamiti, the parent body of Digamber Jains, in the country having presence in 15 states. Another proposal is being worked out by the Jain International Trade Organization (JITO) to cover at least 700 members. Sachin Kothari, project director of insurance scheme, said, “JITO has launched ‘corona insurance week’ from September 20-26. We have earmarked Rs 3.5 lakh to help the beneficiaries. It will cover at least 700 members in the age group of 18-65 for 6.5 months with a cover of Rs 1.5 lakh offering 33% discount. Those in 18-25 age group will have to pay a premium of Rs 650; 26-50 age group will have to pay Rs 850, and for 51-65 years group, it will be Rs 1,500. For details, community members can contact Phones 6399959995 & 8208892038.” Richa Jain, national vice-president, Mahasamiti, said, “The motive is purely social welfare considering the plight of people. We observed that getting beds and other healthcare in government hospitals is difficult. Besides, treatment in private hospitals is beyond reach of many. Hence, we are convincing members to come forward to get at least a cover of Rs5 lakh under which cashless treatment will be given.” “We have a target of 1,000 policies in the country. Of these, 600 have already applied with more number of Jains from Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi coming forward. In Maharashtra, it is picking up now. The last date for registering with Mahasamiti is September 25. The company is charging Rs24,000 annually for a cover of Rs5 lakh but it may vary depending on the age,” said Sunil Jain, state president. “The best part is that apart from Covid-19, other diseases are also covered and dependent parents up to 85 years can also avail the benefit without any medical check-up,” said Mahendra Pendhari, in-charge of the project in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jain-bodies-push-covid-insurance-cover-in-community/articleshow/78224428.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana farmers may not benefit from farm bills: Experts||HYDERABAD: Experts have raised concerns, especially for states like Telangana, about the new farm bills. A large number of small farmers, shift to paddy, poor literacy levels among the farming community to understand nitty-gritty of contract farming and getting minimum support price (MSP) for turmeric and maize may hit farmers in the state. The experts say the state has to be watchful about the new farm bills. While Telangana is becoming the rice bowl of India with one of the highest paddy production yields in the country, the liberal norms for more imports in the new bill is cause for concern. “Against World Trade Organisation (WTO) norms, developed nations like the US give more subsidies to farmers than India. Their produce will be available at cheaper rate. Over , a period, if there is no monitoring on imports, local farmers and produce will be under stress, but the bill has some path-breaking reforms too,” University of Hyderabad assistant professor Dr Ch Krishna Reddy said. Citing the example of turmeric farmers, who have been demanding MSP for years, Telangana Kisan cell vice-president K Anvesh Reddy said the new farm bills would not help in any way even if farmers were allowed to sell their produce anywhere. “Turmeric farmers from Nizamabad travel 500 kms to Sangli in Maharashtra to sell their produce, hoping for better price, but they don’t get it. Middlemen decide the price there too. The bills will only help the middlemen,” he said. Another concern for Telangana is that out of 3.49 lakh farmers, roughly 96%, own land less than seven acres. “This is a typical scenario in states like Telangana, where the percentage of small farmers is very high. The bills do not provide any involvement of state in contract farming agreements to be entered by companies with farmers, whose literacy levels are poor and who are not in a position to understand the legalities of the contract,” Ravi Kanneganti, state committee member of Rythu Swarja Vedika, said. Another major concern is maize crop as the farmers have not been getting MSP for the past few years. The farm bills might help parties to use the loopholes to buy produce at much cheaper price from the farmers. Though the state government had planned zero acres as part of the crop plan for rainy season, farmers went ahead and this season over two lakh acres went under this crop and approximately 6,000 quintals might be available in the market. The cost of cultivation is approximately Rs 2,251, but the central government has fixed Rs 1,512 per quintal, which is much lesser. Similar is the case with soyabean, sorghum and green gram produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-farmers-may-not-benefit-from-farm-bills-experts/articleshow/78224422.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 21, 2020||Pune||Home minister defends Amitabh Gupta appointment as Pune top cop||PUNE: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday strongly defended the government’s move to appoint senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta the new Pune commissioner of police, despite a row over the accusation that Gupta, the then principal secretary (special) in the home department, allowed the tainted Wadhawan brothers to travel during the lockdown in April. Gupta was then sent on compulsory leave pending an inquiry. In May, the probe panel exonerated him, following which he was back on duty. He took charge as the Pune police chief from K Venkatesham on Sunday. “[Issuing the travel pass] was a big mistake on the part of [Gupta], who accepted it before the inquiry panel and faced action. Gupta is a good officer with a good track record. We had to give him the posting based on these factors,” Deshmukh told reporters at a press conference on Sunday. Deshmukh said the government has kept aside 13% of the posts, which are to be filled, and was examining the legal aspects of the quota can be given to the Maratha community. He said that the government has planned a mega drive to recruit 12,500 police personnel. “We will complete the scrutiny of the applications and the written and physical examination of the candidates so that fresh and young personnel can soon join the force,” Deshmukh said. On the Covid-19 front, Deshmukh said the state government was extending financial help of Rs65 lakh each to the kin of the deceased personnel. “We have also decided that the families can stay in police quarters till the date of the deceased person’s retirement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-minister-defends-gupta-appointment-as-pune-top-cop/articleshow/78223307.cms||Mihir Tanksale
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Restrictions on age, number of visitors to hit footfall in parks||NAGPUR: Even as wildlife tourism starts from October 1 after a gap of over six months, stakeholders apprehend lower footfalls owing to stringent conditions by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). In June first week, after Unlock 1, while allowing tourism in tiger reserves and wildlife sanctuaries, NTCA issued an advisory with dos and dont’s, and restricted number of tourists to four, excluding driver and guide. Secondly, children below 10 years and those above 65 years have been barred entry. These two conditions have led to several accommodation bookings with resort owners being cancelled. The owners claim at least 40% tourists who booked rooms for a safari in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in October and even during Diwali vacation have cancelled their bookings as children are not allowed. “Tourists from Hyderabad had booked 15 rooms at Taru Van at Kolara from October 8-11, but as children are not allowed, the party cancelled the booking. Similarly, tourism consultant Himanshu Bagde had booked 15 rooms from October 14 to 16, but the visitors cancelled bookings as grandparents were not allowed,” said resort owner Nikhil Abhyankar. Other resort owners, whose bookings were cancelled, echoed the same problem. “By restricting children below 10 years, the basic purpose of nature and wildlife education will be defeated. They are the ones who need to be sensitized the most. Secondly, if a couple has two children — one 12 years and another below 10 years, where will one child go?” asked Bagde. NTCA member-secretary SP Yadav said, “The advisory has not been issued by us. The restrictions have been imposed on the basis of Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines issued after Unlock-1 from June 1. We are not saying it.” Contrary to this, tiger reserves in Madhya Pradesh are allowing online booking for six persons in one safari vehicle. “How can two states have different yardsticks? Restriction in Maharashtra is diverting visitors to MP Pench,” said one of the resort owners from MP Pench Sandeep Singh. “Why is Maharashtra penalizing guests by limiting only 4 people in one vehicle. Many guests are booking permits on their own and if the visitors are a family of six travelling together and visiting the park, why should they not be allowed to enter? Taking a separate vehicle for two additional members would not be affordable,” said Singh. “In the advent of Covid-19 spread in Vidarbha, we agree to the restriction on visitors above 65 years, but children below 10 years should be allowed inside the park,” said Singh. MP APCCF (wildlife) JS Chauhan said, “In June, when NTCA guidelines were issued, we had released a separate advisory for parks allowing six persons in one safari vehicle only if they are from one family. The same advisory is being followed now. Restriction of 4 persons will be applicable to others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restrictions-on-age-number-of-visitors-to-hit-footfall-in-parks/articleshow/78225214.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Vid recovery rate close to 75%, but 93 deaths in a day||Nagpur: Vidarbha recorded a rare feat of having more patients recovered and discharged than new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday. The region reported 3,036 new cases on Sunday while 3,578 patients recovered and discharged. The caseload increased to 1,21,241 while recoveries crossed the 90,000-mark to reach at 90,527. The recovery rate is now close to 75%. Nagpur and three other districts out of 11 in the region reported more recoveries than new cases on Sunday. Even the number of active cases reduced to 27,523, means only 23% of the total patients are under treatment. But the high number of Covid-19 deaths remain a major concern. On Sunday, Vidarbha reported total 93 deaths from 10 districts, taking the toll to 3,191. This is the sixth time in September when the region has reported over 90 Covid-19 deaths. The death rate is 2.6% which is higher than national average of 1.6%. On Sunday, fatalities were reported from Nagpur (52), Yavatmal (9), Gondia (6), Washim (6), Chandrapur (5), Bhandara (4), Buldhana (4), Wardha (3), Amravati (3), Akola (1). Highest cases came from Nagpur district (1,253), followed by Amravati (370), Chandrapur (292), Yavatmal (224), Gondia (214), Washim (151), Buldhana (137), Bhandara (136), Wardha (115), Akola (111), and Gadchiroli (33). Nagpur also recorded highest 1610 recoveries during the day, followed by Yavatmal (830), Amravati (293), Chandrapur (203), Buldhana (147), Gondia (137), Washim (98), Bhandara (90), Gadchiroli (77), Wardha (53), and Akola (40). AMRAVATI: Three deaths due to Covid-19 and a spike of 370 cases took the district’s toll to 231 and the caseload to 10,960 on Sunday. A civil surgeon office report said that two men (75 and 45) from Achalpur and Purnagar in Bhatkuli tehsil and a 65-year-old woman from Warud died during treatment. The report further added that 293 patients went home recovered, taking the number of recoveries to 8,389. The district has 2,340 patients under treatment, including 10 taking treatment in Nagpur and 678 in home isolation. CHANDRAPUR: Covid count of district took a jump of 292 cases, taking the caseload to 7,816 on Sunday. Five deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 114. The day also saw 203 patients getting discharge, pushing the recoveries up to 4,484. The district has 3,218 patients under treatment, including 790 in home isolation. The deceased included a 59-year-old woman and a 50-year-old man from Tukum, a 47-year-old person from Wadgaon and a 66-year-old person from Panchsheel Chowk in Chandrapur city, and a 70-year-old man from Warora. They all had comorbidities. Four of them died in Chandrapur GMCH, while one died at Christ Hospital. Highest 102 cases came from Chandrapur city and suburbs, Ballarpur (18), Chimur (2), Korpana (13), Bramhapuri (31), Pombhurna (2), Mul (20), Gondipipri (8), Nagbhid (24), Warora (20), Bhadrawati (17), Saoli (11), Sindewahi (9) and Rajura (13) and one each from Hinganghat in Wardha and Chamorshi in Gadchiroli. YAVATMAL: With nine more deaths, Yavatmal’s Covid toll surpassed the 200-mark on Sunday and reached 206. A record 830 patients were discharge in a day taking number of recovered patients to 5,835. Yavatmal’s recovery rate surpassed 80% on Sunday. With 224 new cases detected in a day, the Covid count reached 7,158. Four deaths were recorded in city. They included a 70-year-old woman and three men (63, 72 and 81). Two men (53 and 70) from Wani, one man each from Pusad, Ralegaon and Kalamb respectively were among the deceased. On Sunday, 224 new cases were detected with Yavatmal city alone contributing record 76 patients. Yavatmal’s sample positivity rate is still above 10%. According to sources, there are 1,117 patients under treatment in Yavatmal. Of them, 639 are admitted to hospitals while 478 in home isolation. WARDHA: Three Covid deaths and 155 new cases were recorded in the district on Sunday, taking the toll to 89 and caseload to 3,390. The day also saw 53 patients getting discharged. A 72-year-old man from Wardha, a 72-year-old man from Samudrapur and 70-year-old woman from Pulgaon died during treatment. Highest 54 cases came from Wardha, Hinganghat (21), Deoli (13), Arvi (9), Selu (7), Karanja (6), Ashti (4) and Samudrapur (1). The district has recorded 1,633 recoveries so far and now 1,668 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: The district reported six fatalities and spike of 215 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. With 137 patients recovered and discharged on Sunday, the recoveries reached 2,832. Of the total 4,562 recorded patients, 1,664 are under treatment. Recovery rate of district is just above 60%. BULDHANA: Four Covid-19 deaths were reported in the district on Sunday, taking the toll to 74. The deceased included two men (56 and 50) and two women (70 and 60). Total 137 new cases and 147 recoveries took caseload to 5,848 and recoveries to 4,645. Now, the recovery rate is nearing 80%. Total 1,129 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: After not reporting any Covid-19 fatalities for three consecutive days, Washim reported six deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 64. The deceased included four women (45, 55, 65 and 85) and two men (67 and 69). The district also reported 150 new cases and 98 recoveries. Now, there are 3,555 cases in Washim, 2,619 of them recovered which means recovery rate is around 74%. There are 872 patients under treatment. AKOLA: A 53-yr-old woman from Murtizapur died during treatment, taking the toll to 209. With rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR tests done together, total 111 new cases were added to the tally which reached 6,532. Total 40 patients recovered taking their number to 4,732. Akola’s recovery rate is more than 72% now. Total 1,591 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: While 33 new patients were detected in a day, 77 recovered and were discharged from Gadchiroli on Sunday. The Covid-19 count of district has reached 1,957 and recoveries to 1,454. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is nearly 74% and it has lowest number of patients under treatment in Vidarbha. Total 493 patients are under treatment. Out of them, 220 are from Gadchiroli tehsil alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-recovery-rate-close-to-75-but-93-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/78224400.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 21, 2020||Pune||SPPU identifies 50 centres in Pune, Nashik & Ahmednagar||Pune: As many as 50 centres have been identified for the 50,000 students who will take the final semester offline examination conducted by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) in October. The students will get OMR answer sheets for the exam and arrangements are being made following all prescribed safety norms and physical distancing. “The SPPU will soon float an option form for students to choose their nearest exam centre. The university has affiliated colleges in Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik and 50,000 students from these three districts have opted for offline examination,” Mahesh Kakade, controller of examination at SPPU, said. The university had earlier conducted a survey among the students on the preferred mode of examination. The survey had revealed that nearly 1.8 lakh students chose to give the exam online, while 50,000 students opted for offline papers. From Pune district, 22,000 students have chosen offline mode, while the remaining students are from Ahmednagar and Nashik. “The centres are being carefully identified. Some hostels, which are located inside the college campus, are being used up as Covid care centres by the district administration and so, such colleges will not be used as exam centres.” The SPPU has declared the time-table for online exams. The schedule for offline exams is yet to be declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-identifies-50-centres-in-pune-nashik-ahmednagar/articleshow/78223286.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bhopal||Empower women to make MP strong, says Chouhan||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday that only “empowered women” will make a strong Madhya Pradesh. “Setting up of industries alone does not make any state prosperous. House- to- house self-reliance develops self-respect and trust”, he said.. “In the corona period, women’s self-help groups (SHGs) have set a new example in the country. So far, 33 lakh women have linked with SHGs. We have to move forward on the path of self-reliance in the next three years”,Chouhan said. Chouhan was addressing a state-level programme of bank loan disbursement to SHGs at Minto Hall. Chouhan launched a self-help portal, developed for the activities and marketing of SHGs. A revolving fund of Rs70 crore and community investment fund was given with a single click by the CM to the SHGs. The CM also provided cheques of sanctioned loans to SHGs. He also held talks with the beneficiaries of various SHGs. Chouhan said that the Madhya Pradesh government is working on every aspect to provide equal status to girls and women in the society. “Whether it is the launching of ‘the Ladli Laxmi Yojana’ or the facilities provided for school education, the goal is to provide equal status to them. Women have been linked with SHGs to make them financially strong and self-reliant; this initiative is based on the principle of strength in unity”, he said. Chouhan said that respect to sisters and daughters is paramount in our tradition. “Even in religious beliefs, women were considered as all-powerful. The women of the state have proved that they are competent in protecting the family and society at large from every disaster. during the ongoing Covid crisis. “Masks and PPE kits, made by women SHGs greatly helped the common people and the government. The items prepared by the groups were purchased by the health department, medical stores and hospitals”, he added.  Chouhan interacted with the SHG heads of Damoh, Dewas and Shivpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/empower-women-to-make-mp-strong-says-chouhan/articleshow/78224937.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Gecko species found in Palakkad adds to reptile diversity of Western Ghats||Pune: Wildlife researchers have found a new species of gecko in the Anakkal reserve forest of Palakkad in Kerala. The small-sized species, with a snout-vent length less than 35mm, has been named cnemaspis palakkadensis, Palakkad dwarf gecko.The team included Amit Sayyed, Vivek Philip Cyriac, Raveendran Dileep Kumar, Abhijeet Nale, Vivek Vaidyanathan and members of Wildlife Protection and Research Society, India.Widespread exploration in the higher reaches of the Western Ghats has led to the discovery of more reptile and amphibian species in India.However, recent surveys in the low-lying regions of the ghats, and several isolated hillocks in peninsular India are revealing many undocumented lizard diversity, especially in the genus cnemaspis, day geckos found in Asia and Africa.The researchers conducted extensive field work in May 2019 across Palakkad, targeting the locality from where the species was first spotted in 2018.Scientific data and analysis confirmed that the species is a new one. It had distinct morphological and genetic characters though it superficially resembles the species cnemaspis littoralis. The study was published in Amphibian & Reptile Conservation on September 8. The species is found in low-land moist deciduous to semi-evergreen forest habitat of the Anakkal reserve forest. They are arboreal and diurnal and were found on the trunks and exposed roots around small streams. Only 42 species of this genus have been reported from the Indian mainland. Cnemaspis palakkadensis is the 43rd , and unique to the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gecko-species-found-in-palakkad-adds-to-reptile-diversity-of-western-ghats/articleshow/78223322.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||New police commissioner takes charge||Pune: Senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta took charge as the new Pune police commissioner on Sunday morning. After taking over the reins, Gupta held discussions with joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve and the deputy commissioners of police. He took stock of the situation while interacting with the senior police officers, a statement said. Gupta then visited senior police officers in the police commissioner’s office. He also inspected the premises of the police commissioner’s office. Gupta will hold a meeting of senior police officers on Monday. A senior police officer told TOI that Gupta also gathered information about the police stations and headquarters in the Pune police jurisdiction, their functioning and the nature of the crimes committed in the city. K Venkatesham, who served as Pune police chief for over two years, has been appointed the additional director-general of police (special operations) in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-police-commissioner-takes-charge/articleshow/78223324.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||New Covid hospital has starting trouble, ‘will stabilise soon’||MARGAO: The new South Goa district hospital that began functioning as a Covid hospital since Saturday evening has been facing teething problems, sources in the health department said. Though the hospital has started admitting “step down” patients from ESI hospital, sources said it will take some time for all the administrative and medical processes to be streamlined. “It’s a new construction, and so all the facilities need to be tried and tested. We have geared up to face the challenges that a newly-constructed structure is likely to throw up. There are issues concerning the plumbing system, the toilets, etc but they will be addressed as and when they are noticed,” a senior medical officer said. The generator system is also on a test mode, and so are most other amenities, it was informed. Dr Sunanda Amonkar and Dr Rajesh Patil of the Goa Medical College and hospital (GMC) are the nodal officers for hospital management. The hospital currently has 150 beds equally divided between male and female wards, and the capacity will be enhanced in the course of time. Meanwhile, the health department has closed down Covid care centres functioning at Colva and Fatorda. While the Fatorda centre has been shut since August 31, the one at Colva was closed down on September 11, sources said. The Covid care centre at Margao Residency is exclusively for healthcare workers and government employees. Sources said that the government is now encouraging asymptomatic patients to opt for home isolation while ensuring that their health parameters are monitored by the local primary health centres. Health monitoring tools like oximeters and thermometers besides immunity-boosting medicines will be provided to home isolation patients, as announced by health minister Vishwajit Rane on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-covid-hosp-has-starting-trouble-will-stabilise-soon/articleshow/78224419.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu sees 5,516 new Covid cases, 60 deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 numbers dipped marginally on Sunday with 60 deaths and 5,516 fresh cases recorded over 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state stands at 46,703 after 5,206 people were discharged on Sunday. The state’s case tally stands at 5,41,993 and death toll at 8,811. As far as Chennai was concerned, though the number of samples tested within city limits has reduced compared to last month, its growing positivity rate seems to the major concern. Corporation commissioner K Prakash had earlier promised to reduce positivity rate to 6%, but it continues to be around 7-10%. Chennai (996 new cases) and its three neighbouring districts – Chengalpet (283), Kancheepuram (156) and Tiruvallur (207) – together had 1,642 fresh cases and 26 deaths. Youngest victim of the virus in the state on Sunday was from Tiruvallur – a 37-year-old woman with hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism. Following Chennai region, western Tamil Nadu reported 1,685 new cases and 20 deaths on Sunday. While Coimbatore (568) continued to report maximum fresh cases here, Dharmapuri's condition seems to get worse in the last 10 days. Increase in infection rate has nearly doubled the number of active cases from 549 on September 10 to 1,033 on Sunday). On the positive side, the number of samples tested by the state continued to increase. Including the 86,073 samples on Sunday, the state has so far tested 64.74 lakh samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-sees-5-5k-new-cases-60-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/78223354.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Retail prices of pulses and edible oil go up||Pune: Retail prices of most grocery items, such as pulses and edible oil, have gone up in the city in the past few days. The retailers attributed the rise to factors such as increase in public demand, despite the restaurants remaining shut since March, and supply shortage in the wake of heavy rain in parts of Maharashtra, including Latur, Jalgaon and Akola. Retailers said heavy rain had destroyed the crops in some parts of the state and country. For instance, chana dal, which was being sold for around Rs70 per kg last week, now costs around Rs80 per kg. Similarly, the edible oil prices have gone up to Rs120/litre from last week’s Rs110/litre. The retail price of tur dal also witnessed a marginal rise, with the pulse now being sold at Rs100/kg from earlier Rs95/kg. The price rise, the retailers said, came at a time when all restaurants were shut, except for takeaway and home delivery. “Chana dal has been going off the shelves pretty fast in last few months, especially due to the increased household demand. Another reason could be widespread use of this pulse in the food kits donated during the Covid-19 outbreak. Given that it is one of the cheapest pulses available, people are buying chana dal more. Our firm alone had sent out almost 3 lakh such foodgrain kits across India in the past few months,” Dhaval Shah, director of Jairaj Group in Gultekdi wholesale market, Pune, said. “The heavy rain had destroyed crops, which triggered the shortage of good quality chana dal in the market,” he said. Kaushal Sankla, a distributor of grocery staples and edible oils to wholesalers in Market Yard and other locations, said, “Retail price of one of the most sold edible oils in Pune rose from Rs110 per litre to Rs120 per litre within barely a week. Maximum oil supplies come from Ukraine and Russia in crude form. Oil is refined in India after imported. Almost 25% sunflower crop in two countries were damaged due to inclement weather and rain, causing surge in price of oil.” Hanuman Unecha, a wholesaler in Market Yard, said, “A 15-litre can of edible oil is now sold at Rs1,730 in wholesale market as against Rs1,560 in recent past,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retail-prices-of-pulses-and-edible-oil-go-up/articleshow/78223361.cms||Neha Madaan
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Five arrested for group clash by Panpaoli police||NAGPUR: The Pachpaoli police have arrested five persons for their alleged involvement in a group clash at Lalgunj Baraipura on Saturday. One person was injured and a two-wheeler damaged during the clash. The arrested persons have been identified as Shaikh Anees, Shaikh Parvez, Ajay Uikey, Shaikh Afzal and Abdul Lateef. It’s learnt, Anees and others were collecting rice as donation from Lalgunj. A woman who presumed the group was selling the rice asked for its price. The group quoted Rs13 per kg. A serious altercation took place after the woman refused to buy the rice. Alerted by the noise, one Shubham Sawarkar and his family stepped out of house to intervene. It is learnt, they roughed up Anees who left the place after threatening to return with his group. Anees and his group later returned with swords, sticks and rods. They allegedly attacked Shubham, causing injuries to him, and damaged a two-wheeler parked outside the residence of Sawarkars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-arrested-for-group-clash/articleshow/78225216.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mumbai||Covid sees demand for Maharashtra ration grains surge||MUMBAI: As incomes plummeted during the lockdown, the demand for subsidised ration grains shot up. At the peak of the lockdown in April, the state added 15.5 lakh ration cards, accounting for the addition of over 66 lakh beneficiaries to its regular ration scheme. A comparison between the pre-lockdown month of February and April shows that the number of ration cards in this category rose from over 1.41 crore to nearly 1.57 crore. The beneficiaries linked to the ration cards rose from a little over 6 crore to close to 6.7 crore over this period. Under the state’s regular ration scheme, wheat and rice are available at Rs 2 and Rs 3 per kg to beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and to farmers from suicide-prone districts in the state. The grain rations distributed under this scheme rose by 1.5 lakh quintals, from 35 lakh quintals to 36.5 lakh quintals. By July, despite the economy opening and several other ration schemes being made available, the demand for grains at NFSA rates in the state remained high. In July, the number of ration cards was 14.4 lakh more than in February. The number of beneficiaries was higher by almost 62 lakh and foodgrains disbursed rose by 2.3 lakh quintals. The state’s quota under the NFSA is limited to 1.6 crore ration cards, accounting for a maximum of 7 crore people. The grains for the scheme are supplied by the Centre. The state has also been supplying grains at the NFSA rate of Rs 2 and Rs 3 per kg to farmers who are above the poverty line in suicide-prone districts. Since April, the Centre and state have also provided rations under several other schemes to cushion the impact of the lockdown, but figures from the state’s public distribution system under NFSA rates provide the most detailed data for a comparison before and after the lockdown. Since April, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana has provided 5kg of free grain per person and 1kg of free dal per household to NFSA beneficiaries once they exhaust their entitlement. The Atma Nirbhar Bharat Yojana provided 5kg of free grains per person and 1kg of pulses to migrant families without ration cards in May and June. The state also had a scheme to provide subsidised grains at Rs 8 and Rs 12 per kg for those above the poverty line since May. As many as 71 lakh ration cards were registered under this scheme. “There has been a large rise in demand for ration grains under our regular public distribution system for two reasons. As incomes fell during the lockdown, people could not afford to buy grains from the market and had to buy foodgrains at subsidised rates. Also, during most of the lockdown, we did away with the requirement of taking the fingerprint of the beneficiary in order to avoid the risk of the disease. So, accessing the ration system became easier,” an official from the food and civil supplies department. Critics say the demand for ration remains much higher than the state’s supply. “We had many complaints through the lockdown of ration not provided to card holders for multiple reasons. In some cases, those who had returned to their villages could not access ration there, or their Aadhar card linkages could not be found. In some cases, the ration shop had not received supplies, or people did not receive the entire quota that was due to them,” Taruna Kumbhar of the Ration Kruti Samiti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-sees-demand-for-state-ration-grains-surge/articleshow/78224969.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
September 21, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts moderate rain in Pune for next two days||PUNE: The met department has predicted moderate rainfall over the city for the next two days, while the ghat areas of the district will likely get heavy rainfall during this period. From September 23 onwards, the district will get light rainfall till September 26, met officials said. After a few days break, the district started receiving rainfall from Saturday. So far, the district has recorded about 47% surplus rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that a fresh low-pressure system was formed in the north-east Bay of Bengal on Sunday, which will, in turn, strengthen the westerly winds and bring ‘heavy to very heavy rain’ along the west coast over the next two to three days. “The westerly winds would not be very strong over the district. But there is prevailing moisture in the atmosphere. The increased day time temperature will result in the formation of local convective activities over the district and the city. This will result in moderate rainfall over the next two days,” a met department official said. The day temperature in the coming days will hover between 29-31 degrees celsius, while the minimum temperatures would be in the range of 21-22 degrees celsius, official said. Meanwhile, on Sunday, several parts of the city received moderate rainfall between 5.30pm to 8.30pm. The Shivajinagar observatory recorded 10.9 mm rainfall during the same period. The figure from Pashan and Lohegaon observatories were not available. The regional meteorological centre in Mumbai has issued an ‘orange’ alert for Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and Kolhapur. The centre has also issued a red alert for Sindhudurga for Monday and Tuesday. A similar warning has been issued for Ratnagiri for Tuesday. “Since the IMD has predicted rainfall in the evening hours for next two days, we have 14 teams on standby across the city to handle any emergency,” city’s chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-moderate-rain-for-next-two-days/articleshow/78223384.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Two more bodies fished out of Kolar river||Nagpur: The state disaster response force (SDRF) team recovered the bodies of Nayan Belkar (20) and Harshal Yedvan (20) from the Kolar river on Sunday. The two, along with Akash Raut, had drowned a day ago while immersing the ashes of a senior citizen from their neighbourhood in Parvati Nagar, Babulkheda. Raut’s body was already fished out on Sunday shortly after the accident, following which SDRF had to suspend the search. Belkar, Yedvan and Raut had gone to the Dahegaon Rangari crematorium to perform the last rites of a relative of one Sumit Shakhre. It was while immersing the ashes that Belkar had gone into the deeper zone of the river from where he had started to struggle to return safely. Seeing Belkar’s predicament, Yedvan rushed but he too started struggling in water. Raut followed to save the two but all three were swept away. Khaparkheda police station has registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-more-bodies-fished-out-of-kolar-river/articleshow/78225218.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Wanted Maoist gives police the slip||HYDERABAD: A day after Asifabad cops gunned down two members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), Telangana state committee member Bhaskar gave the slip to the Telangana police once again. Ramagundam police commissioner Satyanarayana, who is the in-charge of Asifabad district, supervised the encounter in which two Maoists _ Chukkalu and Bajarao (20) _ died on Saturday. Police made a vain bid to nab Bhaskar. In the last two days before the encounter, cops spotted Bhaskar and four others on three occasions but the Maoists managed to escape. Late on Saturday, two Maoists were killed near the Pranahita river in the Kadamba forest, close to the Telangana-Maharashtra border. The police continued their combing operations, but failed to locate Bhaskar and two others. Police believe that Maoists managed to escape in the dark through the agricultural fields. Heavy rain also helped the Maoists. “During one such occasion, we missed the Maoists as they were surrounded by the villagers. On learning about our arrival, they fled the spot,” Asifabad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wanted-maoist-gives-police-the-slip/articleshow/78224435.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||7-yr-old mauled to death by leopard in Almora forests||DEHRADUN: In yet another instance of human-wildlife conflict in the hills, a 7-year-old girl playing in the courtyard of her house was dragged out from her home, attacked and killed by a leopard on Saturday evening. After an intensive search operation, her disfigured body was found inside the forests of Bhikiyasen, where the incident took place. The villagers are both afraid and seething after seeing a young life lost to wildlife attack. Now, the forest department has decided to install CCTV cameras in that zone along with some cages. A forest team has also been deployed to monitor the situation. Speaking to TOI, Almora DFO Mahatim Yadav said, “Our entire focus now is on trying to trap the leopard, and, if needed, it will be terminated after procuring permission from the chief wildlife warden.” According to forest officials, in the hills, most of the leopards are attracted towards stray livestock for food and that’s when the most vulnerable — children, specially-abled or very elderly — are being attacked by the big cats. “This reflects that leopards are looking for easy prey rather than hunting for food in the wilds,” added Yadav. In Almora forest division, prior to this incident, a one-year-old toddler and a 60-year-old woman were killed by a man-eater leopard on July 6 and July 8 respectively at two different spots, which were in close proximity. The animal was subsequently declared a man-eater and shot dead. According to sources, Uttarakhand has already lost a dozen lives to leopard attacks in various forest divisions this year. A significant number of leopards, too, have also died this year. Sources say that 17 big cats succumbed to natural reasons like ageing and disease while 14 died due to territorial fights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-yr-old-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-in-almora-forests/articleshow/78220701.cms||Shivani Azad
September 21, 2020||Pune||Ornaments worth Rs 9.7 lakh burgled||Pune: Gold and silver ornaments collectively worth Rs9.7 lakh were stolen from two jewellery shops in Pimpri Chinchwad early on Sunday. A police officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said the police suspect the involvement of the same suspects in both burglaries. “We have collected CCTV footage from neighbouring shops to identify the suspects,” he said. Senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad of the Nigdi police said suspects broke the locks on the shutter of Shri Navakar Jewellers, near Vittahal temple in Akurdi, and stole silver worth Rs8 lakh. In Wakad, the suspects broke into P R Jewellers and stole gold, silver ornaments and the DVR of the CCTV camera, collectively worth Rs1.66 lakh. Jayantilal Vaishnav (44) one of the owners of P R Jewellers in Wakad stated in his complaint around 2.30am on Sunday, burglars broke the safety door of the shop as well as the central lock on the shutter. “They first blackened the CCTV camera lens by spraying it and stole cash, gold and silver ornaments from the counter. While leaving the shop, they took the DVR of the CCTV camera along with them,” an officer from the Wakad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ornaments-worth-rs-9-7-lakh-burgled/articleshow/78223387.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Duo snatch woman’s gold chain||Pune: A man with his face covered with a handkerchief snatched a gold chain worth Rs60,000 of a 35-year-old woman on Saturday evening in Kothrud. The incident occurred near Mhatobanagar bus stop in Kothrud around 5pm. The woman’s husband told TOI that the snatching took place while his wife and her two friends were taking a walk near the house. The husband said that his wife had noticed two men had parked their motorcycle at a chowk near the bus stop. “While she was returning home, one of the men came from the opposite side and snatched my wife’s gold chain. He then ran towards his accomplice, who was waiting on a motorcycle, and the duo drove away. A regular walker managed to note down the last four digits of the registration number of the motorcycle,” he said. “We are checking CCTV footage from the establishments along the road to ascertain the identities of the duo,” an officer from the Kothrud police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-womans-gold-chain/articleshow/78223398.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||No Madras high court bar on SSLC exams for disabled||Chennai: The Madras high court on Sunday refused to restrain the Tamil Nadu government from conducting SSLC exams for private disabled students. As the state government informed the court that all necessary safety precautions have been taken to protect the interest of such disabled students in the pandemic, a division bench of Justice MM Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha refused to interfere in the state’s decision. The issue pertains to a plea moved by Balakrishnan Subramaniyan, a resident of Trichy, seeking to declare all private candidates with disabilities passed in Class X by devising a mechanism to calculate the marks of private candidates with disabilities through means other than writing the board exams. He argued that students with cerebral palsy/multiple disabilities may not be in a position to wear masks or to have any access to the scribe in view of the pandemic situation. However, refusing to stall the exams, the bench on September 3, directed the authorities to see to it that both the scribes and the private students with disabilities are put to Covid-19 test a few days before exams. “Further, steps will have to be taken to maintain social distancing. In such cases where wearing masks is not advisable, alternative measures will have to be taken such as speaking over phone or by sitting at a distance which can be audible and understood by the candidates,” the court said. Now, claiming that the government has failed to implement the directions of the court to ensure safety of such students, the petitioner had moved the present review application. “The order passed did not take into consideration specific risks faced by children with disabilities and the fact that the authorities have not taken any action to protect the rights of these children,” the petitioner said. “The court has also failed to take into account the fact that boards like CBSE, NIOS have specifically exempted children with disabilities from writing examinations as they are at high risk and cannot write exams safely during the pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-hc-bar-on-sslc-exams-for-disabled/articleshow/78223401.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||Employers go all out to lure back migrants||Chandauli: Naubatpur check post on UP-Bihar border is nowadays seeing an unusual rise in the movement of buses from Gujarat and Maharashtra. While most of them are coming from Bihar, Bengal and Jharkhand, carrying passengers to their workplaces in the two western states, some originate from nearby districts as well. Sipping tea at a roadside dhaba, Mehar, from Burdwan in West Bengal recalls his journey back home five months ago when Covid enforced a total clamp down. It was a treacherous trek after being cold-shouldered by his employer, a diamond merchant in Surat. Now, the same employer has facilitated his return with advance salary, paid travel and sponsored Covid test. Names change but it's a similar story. In March and April, they all were forced to leave what was their abodes for years. Some walked a thousand kilometre, some cycled and more fortunate ones, like Mehar, managed to board a train. Now they are being lured back by their employers, who are now in unlockdown mode and need their trained artisans back. The Chandauli border plays stopover for the buses — and sometimes trucks —coming from eastern states. On Sunday, scores of workers had stopped their bus for a small refreshment at Naubatpur check post. They are mostly jewellery artisans from West Bengal districts, on the way to Rajkot in Gujarat. Cleaner of the bus, Ismail, told TOI that his owner had sent 'sleeper coaches' to Kolkata paying for the to-and-fro journey to bring the workers. They were not charged a penny. “After the lockdown, jewellery units of Rajkot and adjoining cities were closed. I and many members of my group became jobless and decided to return. But, my elder brother did not return home. When the jewellery units restarted he asked me to return,” Mehar said. A senior member of the group, Mustaqifur, said, “It was a difficult time for us being at home without a job. Hence when the call for coming came, we decided to grab it with both hands.” Javed, another member of the group, said he had worked in Gulf and Mumbai before reaching Rajkot to join a jewellery unit when lockdown started. “It compelled me to go back home. Now, when other labourers started going to Gujarat after reopening of industrial units I also decided to join them,” he added. Sitting at a dhaba along national highway-II, members of Mehars group said they all had returned home by a special train in May and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/employers-go-all-out-to-lure-back-migrants/articleshow/78224951.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Duo who robbed couple at Injambakkam held||Chennai: Nearly 20 days after two people on a bike, the number plate hidden by neem leaves, snatched a gold chain from a woman in Injambakkam, police on Saturday caught hold of the prime accused. While G Navamani alias Natraj of Gummidipoondi was secured from a hideout in Tiruporur and sent to jail, his juvenile associate, nabbed earlier, is now at an observation home.On August 29, Krishnamoorthy, 64, and his wife Geetha, 58, of Cholamandal Artists Village, Injambakkam, were walking at 9.30pm when two men on a bike stopped some distance away. One of them snatched Geetha’s five-sovereign gold chain worth more than Rs 2 lakh, pushed the woman down and ran to the bike where his accomplice was waiting. They sped off. Based on Krishnamoorthy’s complaint, the Neelankarai police checked footage of CCTV cameras between Semmencherry and Injambakkam. They found two men resembling those who snatched the chain on a scooter.“Since hiding a number plate using a sticker would raise the suspicion of police, they decided to use neem leaves,” said an investigating officer.Since the scooter appeared new, police investigated and found that 60 scooters had been sold recently on ECR. The scooter used by the accused duo, investigators found, belonged to a man from Semmenchery. He told police his brother, a juvenile, had used his scooter to snatch chains along with Navamani. Police caught the juvenile and launched a hunt for Navamani.Navamani kept shifting his hideouts in Sithalapakkam, Pallaikaranai and Karapakkam before his luck ran out. Police found he was an accused in a triple murder case, three cases of peddling ganja, two of assault and 10 robbery cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/duo-who-robbed-couple-at-injambakkam-held/articleshow/78222292.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Thief steals elderly man’s chequebook||Pune: A 39-year-old man from Kasba Peth was arrested on September 19 after he stole a chequebook from an 82-year-old man’s residence in Sadashiv Peth and withdrew Rs44,500 from the latter’s account in a cooperative bank, last week. Police said the victim lives alone, while his family lives in the same building on an upper floor. The senior citizen would keep the front door of his house ajar to let his family members enter his house in case of an emergency. Senior inspector Bharat Jadhav from the Khadak police said, “The suspect, Vinayak Ashok Darwatkar (39), who worked with a courier company before leaving the job a few months ago, went to the victim’s house around 3am on September 14. While searching for valuables, he found the chequebook, which had a few blank signed cheques. He collected the same and the following day went to the cooperative bank to withdraw the money. In the process, he gave his own ID’s photocopy to the bank officials. This helped the police arrest the suspect.” Jadhav said the theft came to light when the victim received an alert about the cash withdrawal from the bank. His grandson later lodged a complaint with the police. “The police approached the bank as part of their probe and got a photocopy of the ID card. We found Darwatkar at his home and recovered unused blank signed cheques and Rs33,000 from his possession.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thief-steals-elderly-mans-chequebook/articleshow/78223403.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Petition for intervention in Yavatmal doc's death||Yavatmal: Ghatanji social worker Shailesh Thakur has filed a petition before the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) with a plea for its intervention, followed by legal action against the doctors responsible for the untimely death of a city Ayurvedic doctor who died for want of timely medical treatment. The news of his demise has evoked sharp reactions from citizens. Thakur said he was committed to take the matter to the Supreme Court. He requested people to write to the chief minister and other senior officials, seeking a thorough investigation into the death. An FIR should be filed against the private doctors who denied treatment to Sheikh, Thakur added. On September 10 early morning, Ayurvedic doctor Mustaque Khalil Sheikh had severe chest pain. He went to a nearby hospital, where he was denied admission on the grounds of being a non-Covid patient. After waiting for 45 minutes, an attendant took Sheikh to another private hospital. Sheikh and his kin were told that the hospital was a Covid-19 care centre, and no other patient was admitted there. By then, Sheikh had collapsed. He was then rushed to the Government Medical College, but it was too late as the doctors who attended him declared that he was brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/petition-for-intervention-in-yavatmal-docs-death/articleshow/78225219.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Corporation City of Panaji to refund pay-parking contractor Rs 6 lakh||PANAJI: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) will refund the pay parking contractor for the lockdown period. “We will return the payment for 45 days during the official lockdown. It works out to around Rs 6 lakh. The decision was taken by the standing committee,” mayor Uday Madkaikar said, adding that the contractor requested for a rebate. The contractor had given the corporation 36 post dated cheques of Rs 4.5 lakh (per month) and deposited Rs 96 lakh bank guarantee, he added. The Rs 1.6 crore pay-parking contract was signed in February for both two and four-wheelers, 24x7, on nine stretches in the state capital. However, the lockdown forced all vehicles off the streets, with things still far from being restored to normalcy. “We have suffered massive losses. We requested the corporation for some relief. When the government calls for a lockdown, how can you expect revenue from us?” said pay-parking contractor, Sohan Juwarker. Even months after the lockdown, the contractor’s revenues continue to be down by 60%. “Things have not improved. Panaji is dead at 6 pm. It’s like an automatic curfew. Shops are being shut early as no business is happening. There are no tourists and no nightlife. Everything has virtually come to a standstill. We are only living on hope,” Juwarker said. In addition to this government employees who travel by their own vehicles are refusing to pay the parking fees. “Government vehicles are exempt from paying parking fees but government staff are also occupying parking spaces and not paying. The corporation told us to get their vehicles clamped but we don’t want to be harsh during the pandemic,” he said. People, he said, don’t realise that the money is going to them. “The government is earning revenue from this. We pay a monthly instalment plus GST on every pay parking ticket goes to the government,” he adds. Meanwhile the North Goa collector has notified additional stretches of roads at Patto Plaza, M G Road, D B Road and others for the second phase of pay-parking. Madkaikar said the tender process will start soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-to-refund-pay-parking-contractor-rs-6-lakh/articleshow/78224443.cms||Lisa Monteiro
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Minor girl gangraped in Bharatpur||ALWAR: A 14-year-old girl was gangraped allegedly by two youths in Bharatpur’s Kama police station area on Saturday evening when she had gone to collect wood for cooking from the fields. The girl’s family registered a case on Sunday following which police started the investigation. According to the complainant, when the girl went to the fields, two youths from the same village forcibly took her to an isolated spot where they took turns to rape her. When she started shouting for help, some people reached there. One of the accused managed to escape but villagers nabbed the second accused and handed him over to cops. Ravi Katara, SHO, Kama police station, said, “we have registered a case of gangrape against two persons who allegedly raped the minor girl and are looking for the other accused who fled away”. The girl’s medical examination was conducted. Her statement will be recorded soon, claimed the officials. “We will question the accused who was caught by the villagers to get further details about his accomplice and catch him at the earliest. We will investigate the matter swiftly and ensure that the accused does not get away. At present, we do not know if it was premediated or a crime of opportunity,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-girl-gangraped-in-bharatpur/articleshow/78224436.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP readies self for MLC battle||HYDERABAD: After Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president Kodandaram announced that he will contest the upcoming graduation fort MLC elections from Khammam, Warangal and Nalgonda, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to shift focus on the same shift. While Kodandaram is likely to be the common candidate for Congress and TJS, the saffron party is hopeful of giving a tough fight to them as in the 2015 elections. The party high command has given instructions to the cadre to focus on membership drives, especially in the rural area. In 2015, out of the 1,53,547 votes, TRS had received 66,000 while BJP got 58,000. Other parties had bagged 29,547 votes. BJP is hoping that with a strong support among graduates, they will be able to win the elections. “As this is the second term of TRS, there is ought to be anti-establishment sentiment too,” said a BJP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-readies-self-for-mlc-battle/articleshow/78224441.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Pune||Quack booked in Pune for practising sans degree||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police are investigating an FIR lodged on Saturday by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health officer, Deepak Pakhale, accusing a Katraj resident of falsely representing himself as a doctor and running a naturopathy clinic without having the requisite qualification, registration and approvals from the authorities. Police said the suspect, a repeat offender considering that the PMC had initiated a similar case against him in 2019, was absconding. Police said that after securing bail in 2019 case, the suspect again resumed his ‘bogus activity’. A fresh investigation by the PMC health officials revealed that he was selling an ‘immunity booster’ tonic to people to cash in on the Covid-19 scare and would also solicit buyers through various social media platforms. Police cited preliminary investigation as well as the PMC inquiry and said the man did not have any valid medical degree from any government approved institute. He was also not registered with the appropriate authorities for practising naturopathy, police said. Assistant inspector SR Chiwadshetti from the Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI, “The PMC officials found that the suspect was selling immunity booster tonics to the people without any valid licence or permission from the concerned health departments of the government. We again filed a case against him after PMC officers raided his naturopathy clinic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/quack-booked-for-practising-sans-degree/articleshow/78223406.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Kids wearing masks while playing outdoors risk suffocation: Doctors||Chennai: A lot of lockdown restrictions have eased and children are playing on roads and in playgrounds, with masks on, but doctors say wearing them while engaged in physical activities will lead to re-breathing carbon dioxide and to suffocation that can sometimes be fatal. Unlike adults, children don’t often realise when they find it difficult to breathe. They tend to take out the mask and touch the face without washing, defeating the purpose. Dr Karthik Narayanan, senior consultant-paediatric intensivist, Rainbow Children's Hospital, said children going for a run or cycling don’t have to wear a mask, because they will be on open ground and at least a metre from another person and not in continuous contact with others. “But once they start to mingle with others, they must wear the mask.” Parents should supervise children, particularly those below five years of age and identify if he/she is having difficulty breathing. “They must tell children when to take off masks. Everytime they face inconveniences they must go to a place where they are at least six feet from another, remove their masks, take a deep breath and then wear it again and go back to playing. They must also teach them hygiene etiquette involved,” he said. Children with asthma, cardiac disease, tendency to wheeze, and those recovering from a recent lung infection experience suffocation early, say doctors. “They are also at a higher risk of contracting viral infections. It’s a double-edged sword. In this case, parents must ensure the child only plays in selected groups, where the children are healthy and they know their families and also maintain social distancing.” Dr Prema Shanker, a paediatrician, said children must wear cotton masks instead of synthetic ones. “Also I see people often making their children wear masks at home or while they are driving cars. There is no need to wear them at home,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kids-wearing-masks-while-playing-outdoors-risk-suffocation-doctors/articleshow/78223415.cms||Aditi R
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||18-year-old stabbed to death in Sodala area||Jaipur: A teenager was murdered in Sodala police station area on Sunday evening when he was stabbed with a knife following which he died while undergoing treatment at the hospital. The deceased was identified as 18-year-old Adnan. Chaman Lal, sub-inspector, Sodala police station, said, “the victim and the accused had an old rivalry and on Sunday evening while they were standing near a tea stall there was an altercation following which the accused stabbed the victim. He was taken to the hospital but he succumbed to the wounds”. According to officials, the accused are currently absconding and police are yet to find them. “Names of 3-4 persons have come up in the matter and we are looking for them.” The incident happened around 8 pm and cops claimed that at present they do not know the reason of the rivalry between the victim and the accused and elaborating further the official said,”we are still getting details in the case and while the victim was a teenager, the accused are likely to be couple of years older than him. We will find them at the earliest”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/18-year-old-stabbed-to-death-in-sodala-area/articleshow/78224522.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||‘Parikrama’ by Degrai Temple trust in Jaisalmer to protect pasture land||Jaisalmer: To protect wildlife that could get extinct because of solar power projects and industrialisation in nearby areas of Degrai pasture land in Jaisalmer, the Degrai Temple Trust organised a two-day parikrama that concluded on Sunday evening. A large number of environmentalists, organisations and villagers took part in the parikrama which was 55km long. They demanded that the government should register 36,000 bigha pasture land record preventing any industrialisation or solar power projects on it. If there is any kind of tampering with the 610-year-old pasture land, then villagers and the general public will launch an intensified protest. Sumer Singh said out of total 60,000 bighas, 24,000 bighas were registered as pasture land in the name of Degrai Temple Trust in 2004 after a long struggle. He said different varieties of plants and trees are found here which are rare now. Villagers are dependent on this pasture land for fodder for their cattle. He said companies were laying a network of electric wires for which the forest was being recklessly cut. Former Pradhan Sunita Bhati said the pasture land was spread over 55sq-km area and was home to large number of wildlife and birds. It boasts of a wide variety of plants, trees and sevan grass. Three days ago, a Great Indian Bustard (godawan) died after hitting the live electric wire. To save the pasture land and wildlife, this parikrama is being taken out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parikrama-by-degrai-temple-trust-in-jaisalmer-to-protect-pasture-land/articleshow/78224519.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Man beaten to death by nephew over water dispute||Kota: A 50-year-old man was beaten to death by his nephew over sharing of water for irrigation in Motipura village under Dei police station of Bundi district on Saturday night. The mother of the accused sustained injuries in the scuffle as she was attacked with the stone by the deceased before he collapsed. Police lodged a case of murder against the nephew and detained him. The body was handed over to family members after postmortem on Sunday morning. The deceased who was identified as Sukhlal Meena, 50, was a resident of Motipura village. A scuffle over sharing of water from the well for irrigation erupted between Sukhlal and his nephew Hansraj on Saturday night, following which the latter lashed multiple attacks with a stick on the former, Dei SHO Narayanram said. The accused admitted to have attacked in a fit of rage, he said. Sukhlal was declared brought dead in the hospital, he added. Kamla Devi, 48, who intervened between the two to pacify the situation, sustained injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-beaten-to-death-by-nephew-over-water-dispute/articleshow/78224528.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: ISO certification for Bhadrakali temple||WARANGAL: The historical Bhadrakali temple on Sunday became the second shrine in Telangana to get certification from International Standards Organization (ISO). The first to get the certification was the Lord Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in Yadagirigutta in 2018. The ISO certification is based on a temple’s environment, hygiene, security, management and other aspects. The HYM International Certifications Private Limited, accredited by Accredited Services Certifying Bodies (United Kingdom) London, is the partner of the ISO standards. The HYM which assessed the Quality Management System of Sri Bhadrakali Devasthanam issued ISO 9001:2015. HYM managing director, Alapati Shivaiah, handed over the certificate to government chief whip D Vinay Bhaskar, chief priest Bhadrakali Seshu and executive officer Ramala Sunitha. Speaking on the occasion, Vinay Bhaskar said that ISO certificate has increased the responsibility of the temple authorities as they have to maintain the high standards besides improving the amenities in the temple. “Since Telangana state came into existence, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has given a lot of importance to develop historical and spiritual places,” he said. Bhaskar said that the upcoming Bhadrakali bund promenade would be a highlight for the city of Warangal. Alapati Shivaiah told the authorities to set up a pollution data display board at the temple. He also advised to set up more queues for the devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iso-certification-for-bhadrakali-temple/articleshow/78224451.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
September 21, 2020||Hubballi||Survey of water sources in Dharwad to start on September 23||DHARWAD: The administration, jointly with several departments, has decided to conduct a survey of water bodies in Dharwad district in a bid to rejuvenate and protect the water sources in the district. A decision to this effect was taken at a co-ordination committee meeting held at the deputy commissioner’s office in Dharwad on Friday. Chairing the meeting, deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said it is one of the important projects jointly launched by the Union and state water resources ministries. This will be a comprehensive survey of minor irrigation projects, water sources and water bodies both in rural and urban areas. For the survey work, the officials from various departments have been appointed and they will undergo training for three days. The survey work will be launched from September 23 soon after the training is completed. The team of officials who have undergone training will visit each water source and submit detailed report to the district administration before October 25. They survey water bodies, including streams, ponds, tanks, rivers and the catchment areas. Nitesh further said officials from minor irrigation, revenue, rural development and Panchayat Raj will be part of the survey work. The deputy commissioner directed the tahsildars to appoint taluk-level officials for each taluk. They will be guided by the higher officials of the statistics department. The training programme will be held at Hubballi-Dharwad on September 23, at Navalgund-Annigeri on September 24, and at Kalghatgi on September 25. The report submitted by the teams will be scrutinised and forwarded to the state and Union government for further measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/survey-of-water-sources-in-dharwad-to-start-on-sept-23/articleshow/78225019.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jalore cops seize doda post worth Rs 1.5 crore||Jaisalmer: There has been a constant spike in cases of doda post smuggling across the state. On Sunday, Jalore district’s Chitalwana police seized a truck carrying 2,165kg doda post worth Rs 1.5 crore from Dhorimanna area of Barmer district. Last week, Nachna police had recovered 1,100kg doda post worth Rs 80 lakh. According to police, involvement of three smugglers has come to light in the consignment recovered on Sunday. A teacher of Dhorimanna is also likely involved in the crime, they added. Jalore SP Shyam Singh said a team was formed under Chitalwana SHO Urjaram and it stopped a truck on NH 68. While searching the vehicle, they found 102 sacks of doda post weighing 2,165kg which were hidden behind 180 sacks of wheat. Police arrested Prabhu Ram, 30, of Barmer district and lodged a case under Section 8/15 of NDPS Act. According to sources, the doda post was purchased from Mewar area and was being taken to Dhorimanna via Gujarat border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jalore-cops-seize-doda-post-worth-rs-1-5-crore/articleshow/78224483.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Supply shortage may make onions dearer||Chennai: Shortage in supply of onions from other states is likely to push up prices during the coming week. While one kilogram of onion is now Rs30 in the temporary wholesale market in Thirumazhisai, the prices may go up by Rs5. The city's wholesale market receives 500 tonnes of onion from Karnataka and Maharashtra on a daily basis. However, the rates of vegetables in neighbourhood markets will be higher by Rs10 to Rs20 per kg than the wholesale market depending on its location.S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said onion arrivals to the market has dropped this year when compared with 2019, as the area under onion cultivation was high which kept prices under control. “The scenario is different this year. We expect the price of onions to stabilise only by the year-end when arrivals from Andhra Pradesh commence,” he said.Similarly, the rates of vegetables such as beans, carrot and potato are expected to rise by anywhere between Rs1 and Rs5 due to rain in the Nilgiris district. Potato prices now are hovering at Rs30 per kg at the wholesale market, and are likely to increase by at least Rs3. The prices of other vegetables are expected to remain the same, market sources said. “However, there is no possibility of rates of any vegetable decreasing this week. Moreover, if it rains in districts such as Krishnagiri, bordering Karnataka, that supply vegetables to Chennai ,hike in prices is likely,” Chandran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/supply-shortage-may-make-onions-dearer/articleshow/78222300.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Patients ‘brought dead’ testing positive hint at Covid community spread||NAGPUR: Data gathered from Government Medical College (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMCH), shows that a high number of patients brought dead at the two major hospital have tested Covid positive. The patients were rushed to the hospital for different reasons, including police cases like accident or violent crimes, and declared dead when they reached the hospital. Tests done as part of hospital protocol later found they were Covid positive. TOI collected data for September from both hospitals, and it was found that 137 brought dead cases turned out to be Covid positive. The number is high, and expected to increase by the end of the month, said sources. The data for August showed that in IGGMCH alone over 100 brought dead cases had Covid. This indicates that the trend may have begun last month or even earlier. Such patients, irrespective of the reason of death, are counted in the list of total Covid fatalities, even if they are found positive after death. A quick study of the data shows that trend of brought dead positive cases picked up from June. On an average, in one of the hospitals, out of total Covid deaths since May, around 20% were brought dead. There was a major spike in July-August, said sources citing the data on condition of anonymity. Doctors involved in Covid treatment say this can be yet another indicator of community spread of the virus. Brought dead patients testing positive means the deceased were living with Covid, and unknowingly infecting others, and were only detected when they were tested after death. A number of such cases may also be deaths due to late reporting of Covid symptoms at hospitals. Their kin may have rushed them to a hospital after their condition worsened but the patient died. After tests they were found Covid positive. Patients with mild symptoms are asked to stay in home isolation. However, a strict protocol, which includes periodic check of vital parameters like oxygen level, has to be carried out. There is a likelihood that lack of proper management in home isolation may be leading to patients being rushed to the hospital only when the situation worsens, said a doctor in one of the government hospitals requesting anonymity. The doctor also said that this bolsters the theory that community spread of Covid has begun. Dr Indrajeet Khandekar, a professor of forensic department at Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, says that it may not be right to include all the brought dead positive cases in the total Covid death tally. These persons were living with Covid but may not have died due to it, he said. “They need to be tested for other viruses too, which give similar symptoms,” he said, though he also agreed that community spread has started. Data of antibody tests in Pune, Mumbai and Delhi shows that as many as 30% of the tested population had already got Covid and were cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-brought-dead-testing-ve-hint-at-covid-community-spread/articleshow/78224444.cms||Shishir Arya
September 21, 2020||India||Congress to meet parties today to chalk out plan||NEW DELHI: The Rajya Sabha chaos is likely to cast a spell over the remainder of the Parliament session, with sources saying the opposition on Monday will demand that deputy chairman Harivansh should not preside over proceedings till the no-confidence motion against him is decided. Congress and like-minded parties, which have moved the no-confidence motion, will meet on Monday to decide their future course of action. Sources said the opposition will protest against the government and the farm bills in the Parliament complex. However, there may be disturbance in the House if the government moves for suspension or termination of membership of any of the opposition MPs. Sources said the protests will continue for the next four days before Parliament adjourns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-to-meet-parties-today-to-chalk-out-plan/articleshow/78225448.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Apologise for backing agri bills: Opposition to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday asked chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to tender an apology to Tamil Nadu farmers for extending support to the farm bills in Parliament. Citing the criticism of the bills in Rajya Sabha by senior AIADMK member S R Balasubramaniam, Stalin said the ruling party has been undertaking differing stands in the two houses. “Instead of enacting drama of supporting a bill in Lok Sabha and criticising it in Rajya Sabha, it will be better if the chief minister openly says that he had no choice but to support the Centre to safeguard his government, himself and his cabinet – from the corrupt deeds indulged in the past and for next six months,” ,” Stalin said in his statement. “Palaniswami should seek forgiveness by kneeling down before the farmers of Tamil Nadu,” he said. Several states, including Punjab, and other political parties, not just BJP allies, are opposing the anti-farmer bills by the Centre. While 13 political parties are opposing it, only four parties, including the AIADMK, are supporting it. “Instead of issuing a lengthy statement to say that the bills are farmer friendly, I wish the chief minister had at least gone through those bills to understand the real intent behind them and how they will end up jeopardizing the lives of the farmers,” Stalin said. Earlier on Saturday, chief minister Palaniswami had in a statement said the leader of opposition (Stalin) who is opposing the ‘Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 for political mileage, did not oppose the Contract Farming Act brought by Amma’s government in 2019. The interests of both the farmer and the buyer are protected. In the case of The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, “it does not mandate PAN for farmers as stated by leader of opposition. While the accusation that the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance will facilitate hoarding by corporates is baseless, the paddy procurement under MSP prevailing now will not be affected in any way, Palaniswami said. “As a farmer, I have understood that the Acts will benefit the farmers of Tamil Nadu by ensuring better price and insulating them against price fall, so I have not objected to them. The Punjab scenario is not comparable with Tamil Nadu,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/apologise-for-backing-agri-bills-oppn-to-cm/articleshow/78223457.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Gram pradhan shot dead by local in Pithoragarh district||PITHORAGARH: The 52-year-old gram pradhan of Banadi village in Berinag block of Pithoragarh district was shot dead by a 23-year-old local of the village on Saturday night. The accused, identified as Neeraj Singh, was arrested on Sunday by the revenue police. It has been learnt that that victim Puskar Singh Dangi had entered into a verbal spat with Neeraj, who had come to the village from Rudrapur (Udham Singh Nagar) in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and was working as MGNREGA daily wager. Subsequently, the accused stole a double barrel gun and cartridges from the house of Rajendra Singh, the elder brother of Puskar Singh Dangi. Later, when the victim came out of his house, the accused ambushed him and opened fire at him. Neeraj was hiding in a temple after executing the crime but the police traced him and nabbed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gram-pradhan-shot-dead-by-local-held/articleshow/78222316.cms||Prem Punetha
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Covishield human trials to start at 2 centres in Vidarbha this week||NAGPUR: The much-awaited phase-II/III human trials of Covishield, a Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by the University of Oxford and being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, is expected to start as per ICMR guidelines at two leading medical colleges in Vidarbha this week. Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur, and the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sevagram, will be hosting the human trials. TOI was the first to report it on August 19 that these two institutes will conduct human trials for the vaccine. Dr Sushant Meshram from GMCH, Nagpur, who is the principal investigator for the trials, told TOI that about 100 healthy participants between 18 and 60 years of age will be enrolled for the trials. Nagpur already houses human trial centres for two vaccines, and this will be the third. “Known as Covishield in India, it is arguably the most promising vaccine on Covid-19 in the world so far. First phase has shown excellent results. GMCH, Nagpur, will test for immunogenicity and safety of this vaccine in phase II and III,” said Dr Meshram. Immunogenicity is the ability of vaccine to provoke an immune response in an individual. “After selection of healthy volunteers, we will administer them first dose of 0.5mg on Day Zero, will monitor their response for the next seven days and second dose will be administered on Day 28,” said Dr Meshram. The institutes will take follow-up of the volunteers for next 180 days. This means, it will take at least six months to complete the trial. In Sevagram’s MGIMS, Dr Bishan Garg, who is leading the trials, also confirmed that the enrolment for volunteers and trial process will start this week. Covishield trials were about to start early, as reported in August. But the Oxford Institute had put it on hold for sometime after one of the patients in UK developed some complications. “Such things are routine during a vaccine trial. We have to investigate the reasons behind the health complications. Now, it has been cleared that the participant faced health issues due to some other reason and not due to vaccine. So, we have been allowed to start the trials,” said Dr Meshram. According to the Clinical Trails Registry India (CTRI), there are 17 sites for human trials of Covishield in India. The vaccine will be studied for safety and immunogenicity standards. A total of 1,600 eligible participants of more than or equal to 18 years of age will be enrolled for the study. Covid-19 vaccine trials in Vidarbha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covishield-human-trials-to-start-at-2-centres-in-vidarbha-this-week/articleshow/78225230.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Labour court asks MTC to pay Rs 27 lakh back wages to driver||Chennai: The additional labour court in Chennai has directed the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) to pay back wages of Rs 27 lakh to one of its driver who was terminated from service in 2012 over alleged unauthorised absence from work. The driver moved the labour commission and other authorities against his termination. Following this, he was reinstated in 2019. According to the petition moved by N Ravi (56) of Triplicane, he joined as a driver with the transport corporation in April 1993 and was terminated from service in October 2012. In response, the transport corporation submitted that Ravi was unauthorizedly absent from May 2011 onwards and based on the report of the assistant branch msanager, a charge memo was sent to his house. A domestic enquiry was initiated and the petitioner failed to participate in it, after which the enquiry officer filed a report. “Since Ravi was absent for 498 days from May 2011 till September 2012, he was terminated from service by an order, dated October 11, 2012,” the transport corporation submitted. After the case moved to the high court, the transport corporation was willing to give reinstatement order instead of back wages.  Perusing the submitted documents, the labour court judge noted that the special deputy commissioner of labour had dismissed the approval of the termination in 2017 and that while there existed a contention over the eyesight of the driver, the labour court noted that MTC had passed orders for reinstatement in November 2019. The labour court held that the petitioner is eligible for back wages for the years from 2012 till 2018, but held that the claims of bonus, leave encashment and incentives for holidays are not sustainable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/labour-court-asks-mtc-to-pay-rs-27-lakh-back-wages-to-driver/articleshow/78223452.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Confusion persists at border checkposts over Covid-19 testing||Dehradun: Amidst confusion over new rules to enter Uttarakhand, several people coming to the state are facing inconvenience at the Asharodi checkpost, the main border checkpost for entering Dehradun. It’s been almost a week since the government announced the provision of conducting tests at the border for those coming from outside but to conduct the RT-PCR test at the checkpost, the teams from government and private labs are only available during the day, observers said. A businessman from Saharanpur who came to the city in the evening, said, “It has become confusing as every state has a different set of rules for inbound people. I was prepared to get myself tested at the border but found that the testing facility had closed. If guidelines issued by the government are not being followed strictly, it is not surprising that cases are rising.” Amrish Singh, another traveller from Lucknow, said, “Initially, I thought the travel restriction had been removed by the central government. However, when I had to go to Uttarakhand for an important business meeting, I realised registration was mandatory. I would request the Uttarakhand government to allow the cops to check the registration documents near the barricades only. Getting down from the car and standing in a queue makes one vulnerable to infection.” When contacted, additional district magistrate Dehardun Arvind Pandey said, “The health department team is conducting rapid tests at the checkpost during the day as majority of the people enter the state during day time. However, the team on duty at night is also recording details of the travellers and sending them for a test if they show any symptoms.” Meanwhile, according to the officials at the airport, testing is being done round the clock and the teams at the railway stations are also put on duty in advance before the arrival of a train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/confusion-persists-at-border-checkposts-over-covid-19-testing/articleshow/78222309.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Don’t act like mindless Oppn on farm bill: BJP to Congress||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia on Sunday asked Congress to slam the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 on its merit rather than acting like mindless opposition. In a presser, Poonia highlighted the benefits of the bill and called it one of the most transformational steps taken for farmers in the post-Independence India. He reminded Congress of talking about changes in the Mandi system in their manifesto of 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “Congress is busy misleading the farmers about the bill. But, first they should read their manifesto. Even Niti Aayog in its report in 2015 had advocated all the changes made by the Modi government,” said Poonia. While responding to the allegations by Congress on the bill, Poonia said that the bill doesn’t stress on going away of the existing Mandi system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dont-act-like-mindless-oppn-on-farm-bill-bjp-to-cong/articleshow/78224476.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||After winning solar projects, focus is on cell, module mfg||Jaipur: Rajasthan has been a leading destination for solar power developers in the country. It has the second largest installed capacity of about 5,000 megawatt compared to 7,000 MW in Karnataka, which is at the top of the list. Manufacturing was never a focus, but with a policy on solar equipment manufacturing now the state is expecting to turn the table. The solar industry says the economic spin offs will be miniscule if India or for that matter Rajasthan only focuses on generation without giving priority to manufacturing which has immense potential for job creation and generating economic activities. As such, the operation of solar power generating plants does not require many hands compared to other industries. In a bid to promote manufacturing of solar cells and modules, the Centre recently extended the safeguard duty by another year starting July 30. Import of solar cells and modules from China, Thailand and Vietnam will attract a duty of 14.90% up to January 29, 2021, and 14.50% from January 30, 2021, to July 29, 2021. As relations with China are deteriorating with the border clash, the Centre has taken a number of initiatives to curb imports from China and it would not be surprising if the government levies another 10-15% basic customs duty on the solar cell and module imports on top of the safeguard duty to make imports costlier and domestic manufacturing competitive. According to Rajasthan Solar Association, there are about 18 companies in India which manufacture solar cells with a cumulative capacity of 2,000 MW. However, RSA said the module manufacturing capacity is a little higher at 8,000 MW even though these capacities are much smaller compared to the solar targets of 100 GW that the Centre has set. The manufacturing capacity in Rajasthan is almost non-existent and the current government has realised that it’s time to change the focus to manufacturing. Given the fact that a lot of companies are looking to set up projects in Rajasthan where large tracts of barren and semi-barren land is available coupled with the high solar irradiation that brings in 10-15% more efficiency in generation. “In our solar policy announced last year, the state government has given a lot of incentives for manufacturing of solar cells and modules. Currently, we are thinking of creating new dedicated clusters or zones for solar cell and module manufacturing, which will be the key to building the entire-ecosystem. Manufacturing creates diverse economic opportunities, not only for the industry and the government, but also for unemployed youth,” said Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, energy department and chairman of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd. Sharma said the government is already in talks with three-four companies who have evinced interest in setting up manufacturing plants in Rajasthan. “The emerging international trade and commerce and the country’s focus on self-reliance have opened up new possibilities for solar cell and module manufacturing. The fact that Rajasthan is a leading destination for generation of solar power, it is uniquely positioned to drive equipment manufacturing and harness synergy,” Sharma added. The solar industry knows why it is difficult to ignore Chinese modules which are cheaper by about 20% compared to Indian manufacturers and also there is a quality issue pertaining to the panels made in India. “A lot depends on the government incentives if the country wants to be self-reliant on solar cells and modules, majority of which are now imported from China. Incentives on interest rates, cheaper land, lower tax and assured demand will be the key to making the cells and panels competitive. Cell manufacturing requires higher level of technology and R&D and investments are huge. So policy stability will be an important factor if India wants to compete in this field globally,” said Sunil Bansal, general secretary of Rajasthan Solar Association. Currently, about 100 MW in solar module manufacturing is done in Rajasthan, led by government PSU REIL. This is very less compared to the 8,000 MW capacity that exists in the country. Besides the availability of land, it is also the leading location where solar projects are being set up. Bansal said that’s why, Rajasthan can also lead the country in solar manufacturing if priority is given to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-winning-solar-projects-focus-is-on-cell-module-mfg/articleshow/78224475.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
September 21, 2020||Delhi||This too shall under-pass; till then, here’s how to avoid Ashram mess||NEW DELHI: With the construction of the underpass at Ashram Chowk, the 2.8 lakh vehicles that cross the intersection every day — 11,600 per hour — have had a harrowing time for some time now. Traffic congestion has worsened and the only way the traffic police thinks movement could be eased somewhat is through the use of alternative routes. The underpass being constructed by PWD, expected to be ready by April-May next year, will speed up traffic movement past the busy chowk by allowing vehicles from Jangpura to proceed towards Badarpur without stopping and vice-versa. S D Mishra, additional CP (Traffic), said, “In order to ease the congestion and reduce stoppage time at Ashram Chowk, we are advising some diversions and alternative routes.” Commercial vehicles approaching the point from Sarai Kale Khan and Noida have accordingly been advised to take the Ashram flyover and then take a left to access Captain Gaur Marg, on which they can drive towards Modi Mill flyover to descend to Mathura Road near Sukhdev Vihar. Cars and two-wheelers on the same route can take a left turn to CV Raman Marg and bypass the chowk. These vehicles can then take the Mata Mandir Marg or Johar Marg to return to Mathura Road for the journey towards Badarpur. All categories of vehicles on Ring Road wishing to go towards Badarpur and approaching Ashram Chowk from Moolchand are also advised take a right turn onto Captain Gaur Marg from under the Lajpat Nagar flyover. They can then drive on Modi Mill flyover and down to Mathura Road going towards Sarita Vihar and Faridabad. In the reverse direction, goods vehicles approaching Ashram from the direction of Badarpur on Mathura Road should take the Modi Mill flyover, then a U-turn under the Kalkaji Mandir flyover to access Captain Gaur Marg. They can then drive on Ring Road over the Ashram flyover towards Sarai Kale Khan. However, for two weeks the drive in this direction is likely to be bothersome with PWD carrying out repairs on the Sarai Kale Khan flyover. Only one carriageway of the flyover that goes towards Rajghat of the flyover is available for traffic use. To deal with this, the traffic police has some diversions worked out. All vehicles coming from Ashram or from Barapullah flyover have to keep to the left and go straight ahead on the at-grade road. Traffic bound for NH-24, east Delhi, Ghaziabad and descending the Barapullah flyover towards Sarai Kale Khan can opt to take the DND Flyway, take a left turn to Mayur Vihar Pushta Road and access NH-24 or Vikas Marg. All traffic on Ring Road coming from Ashram and bound for the north and northwest regions of the city, Sonipat and Karnal should take the DND Flyway, then take a left turn towards Mayur Vihar Pushta Road and re-emerge on Ring Road via Nizamuddin Bridge/Nizamuddin Khatta, Yamuna bridge on Vikas Marg or Sarita Vihar bridge. Additional CP Mishra assured, “In order to help the commuters, diversion signage and direction boards have been put up at select locations on the routes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-too-shall-under-pass-till-then-heres-how-to-avoid-ashram-mess/articleshow/78244290.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Criminal flees from lock-up in Neemrana, held 6 hrs later||ALWAR: A criminal, who was in the lock-up at Neemrana police station, fled early on Sunday. He was caught six hours later in Behror. Mahendra Raisingh, a native of Haryana, was arrested on Saturday evening for stealing a pick-up vehicle. “Around 3am on Sunday, the accused told the sentry that he was having stomach ache and wanted to use the washroom. When the sentry opened the lock-up, Mahendra pushed the police personnel and ran away. We formed a team and immediately started a search operation and caught him after six-hour search in a village in Behror,” Neemrana DSP Lokesh Meena told TOI. Mahendra was initially arrested when he was trying to steal a vehicle but was caught by the villagers who handed him over to the police. He has a history of crime and has 34 cases registered against him in various police stations. This is not the first time that a criminal has escaped from the lock-up. On September 6, 2019, a gangster had pulled off Bollywood-style escape from the lock-up when his accomplices broke into the police station. Since then, Papla has managed to outsmart cops though at least 23 of his gang members have been arrested. Papla, who is wanted in Haryana for five murders, was taken into custody by Behror police after he was found in possession of approximately Rs 31 lakh. When he was in the lock-up, at least 15 of his gang members barged into the police station and fired indiscriminately with AK-47s and freed the gangster. Although teams have been working to track Papla, they are yet to trace the elusive gangster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/criminal-flees-from-lock-up-in-neemrana-held-6-hrs-later/articleshow/78224507.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Safe socializing is new normal, but some taking their chances||NAGPUR: Months of lockdown and initial mass paranoia kept majority of people indoors, but now many have adapted to the new normal. While there are those who throw complete caution to the wind while moving and socializing, others strike a fine balance. Businessman Gaurav Choukasey says his socializing is more for fitness purpose. “I meet my friends every morning and it’s all for either walking or cycling. But all of us maintain Covid distancing and wear masks,” he said. While meeting family members is mostly online, Choukasey cannot avoid certain events. “Recently, a client of mine sent an invitation for his son’s wedding. I had to attend, else it would have been very awkward,” said Choukasey. Ad guru Sanjay Arora too has cut down on his active social life. “All the large get-togethers with family and friends are gone. On some rare occasion, a friend would drop by in office and we would catch up. Though I have closed down my office for now, socializing continues with morning or evening walks. But there too, all the hugging and hand shakes are gone,” said Arora. Arora is avoiding meeting with anyone at home. “Since office is closed, somebody wanted to come and meet at home. I politely told them that all interactions can happen online,” said Arora. Pratik Saraf, an entrepreneur from Wardha, says his visits in Nagpur are now very purpose oriented, with socializing completely gone out of the window. “I visit the factory in Butibori but do not visit my second residence in Nagpur. I avoid meeting friends and family in Nagpur even though I am here almost daily for a few hours. Everyone now understands this. It’s an accepted social norm to maintain distance,” said Saraf. Architect Rajesh Chawla (name changed) says his close group of friends have again started socializing. “I know everybody will frown and think we are negligent but that’s not the case. We are five family friends and every 15 days we have either lunch or dinner together. We know each other well and everybody is honest when it comes to health status. Plus, there is nothing illegal about gathering at home,” said Chawla. On use of masks and Covid distancing, he said, “No masks indoors because none of us is infected. Even if one person came in contact with a positive patient, then we would inform in our group,” said Chawla. Businessman Shailendra Dahiya (name changed) used to describe himself as a ‘party animal’ on his WhatsApp status earlier, but now has tamed down. “That status was more for fun, but I definitely attended a couple of parties every week. Now, my office is the hangout place on Saturday evenings. Just two of my classmates join me for drinks with snacks coming through delivery apps. I feel people are overly scared of Covid-19 and if you socialize with known people then it is not a problem,” said Dahiya. Businessman Tejinder Singh Renu said his socializing is limited to ‘social’ causes. “Recently, an acquaintance called up my father because of some family issues at his end. He insisted on meeting my father in person. After an hour of sharing his thoughts, the acquaintance felt very relieved. So, I feel such kind of socializing must not be avoided because we all are part of a common ecosystem,” said Renu. Housewife Prerna Thouthang had unexpected guests at home recently which put her in a social dilemma. “My friend and her husband called saying they are at the gate but it’s locked. I had no inkling they would be visiting nor was there any emergency. I felt it would be terribly rude to refuse and let them in. It was a purely social visit and neither of them were wearing masks,” said Thouthang. For Dr Sushrut Babhulkar, however, it will be a very long time before his social life comes back to normal. “Since August, I have been living at my hospital. Both my parents are senior citizens and I can’t risk their health. Even my staff stays on a dedicated floor at the hospital in 15-days shift cycles,” said Dr Babhulkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/safe-socializing-is-new-normal-but-some-taking-their-chances/articleshow/78224534.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath launches integrated portal to combat coronavirus pandemic||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday launched an integrated Covid-19 portal and application to set up a digital mechanism that can help the state government combat the pandemic while controlling community transmission of the virus. The facility will also save people from multiple visits to testing labs as their reports will be available online which can be downloaded with the help of a one-time password (OTP). The portal comes at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases have touched 3.5 lakh with more than 5,000 deaths. “The portal will help people in getting information about the result of their Covid-19 tests. To reach the integrated portal & application, one will have to log on to any of the two websites dgmhup.gov.in or www.labreports.upcovid19tracks.in,” additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. “The user will get an OTP on his registered mobile number which can be used to download test report from the website,” he added. The portal will be assisted by various platforms like Covid-19 helpline, surveillance, labs and facility. It will also be supported through integration with central government application, a mobile application to track cases, domestic travel platform and state Covid dashboard. While Covid helpline call centre offers automated answers to queries related to coronavirus, surveillance platform will track new cases and help in capturing data, besides helping in physical verification by regional level employees and rapid response teams (RRTs). The portal will also assist in preparing the check list of patients who are under home isolation. Under lab platform, the portal will help in monitoring of samples at testing labs and their routing. The website will also aggregate the number of positive cases and accordingly route the cases to various hospitals while keeping track of cases under home isolation. It will also analyse documents of death audit committee. The portal will integrate the results of laboratories with the website of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The website will also be linked to an Android-based mobile application which has been developed to track cases for RRTs. The mobile application has also been developed for patients who are in home isolation. It will also help in sero-epidemiological surveys in 11 selected districts. The portal will also be assisted by domestic travel platform which will help in capturing domestic travel data from all airports of the state. The state Covid dashboard which has been developed to keep track of new cases will also be integrated with the website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-launches-integrated-portal-to-combat-coronavirus-pandemic/articleshow/78224977.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Salem||Villagers forced to cross Mettur dam’s east bank canal on foot as officials look other way||Salem: Villagers of Manakkadu, near Kolathur panchayat union in Salem district, are forced to cross the Mettur dam’s east bank canal, which is brimming with water, on foot for work and other purposes as authorities haven’t yet looked into their long-pending demand for a bridge across the waterbody.M Kannammal, a villager, said they had to cross the canal daily to reach the other side villages for work and other purposes. “Whenever the canal is in full flow, we have to travel at least 5km to reach the other side, where we can access Mettur-Edappady state highway.”The village, which lacks proper road connectivity, houses 124 families and has a population of more than 600. Most of the villagers are daily labourers and have to cross the canal to reach their workplaces on the other side of the canal.Another villager said it would be easy for them to cross the canal when there is no water in it. “Currently, Public Works Department (PWD) is releasing 700 cubic feet per second (cusecs) in the east and west bank canals of the Mettur dam for irrigation purposes. “P Santhosh, another villager, said there was no coracle facility to cross the canal. “So, we are forced to cross the canal by walk. We take at least two sets of dress with us as we will get completely wet.”The distance between the both the ends of canal bank is just 100 meters. “But, crossing the canal is not an easy because of the strong water current. We have to walk carefully,” said T Krishnamurthy, another resident of the village.The villagers said a few had in the past drowned to death while crossing the canal.They said they had petitioned MLAs, MPs and district collectors several times demanding a bridge across the canal, but in vain. When contacted, Mettur MLA S Semmalai said he had visited the place a few months ago. “We had prepared a detailed proposal for constructing bridges across the east and west bank canals at a cost of Rs25 lakh each. The proposal is pending before the government. We hope to start the construction work before December 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/villagers-forced-to-cross-mettur-dams-east-bank-canal-on-foot-as-officials-look-other-way/articleshow/78224523.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Covid care yet to start at 3 of 5 renovated NMC hospitals||NAGPUR: After a long delay, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started two out of its five renovated hospitals but another three are still gathering dust despite having all facilities. The KT Nagar Urban Primary Health Centre, which was converted into Covid hospital, is being used as testing centre. Sadar’s Ayush hospital and Imambada’s Isolation Hospital too are lying unused. On Saturday, TOI visited the KT Nagar hospital but it was locked. The hospital’s renovation work was stalled after West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre opposed it saying locals were against it. The other two hospitals too are locked. This has peeved private hospitals who feel harassed by NMC’s order compelling them to start Covid treatment but its own hospitals are lying unused even when cases have peaked. Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said that the KT Nagar and Sadar Ayush hospitals and Isolation Hospital at Imambada are set to open soon. “Railway doctors would be deputed at KT Nagar and Sadar hospitals while a private hospital has proposed to run our Isolation Hospital. We have complete infrastructure ready with oxygen supply to each bed,” he said. Sharma said the KT Nagar and Sadar hospitals are likely to add 150 more beds in total available for Covid treatment in city. The NMC had renovated Indira Gandhi Rughnalaya (IGR), Pachpaoli Maternity Home and the above three hospitals at a cost of Rs1.79crore. Total 450 beds have been readied at these state-of-the-art hospitals since June following facility upgrade. However, NMC’s inability to find enough staff to manage large number of patients left these hospitals unused. Following intense pressure from medical colleges, the NMC ordered IGR to start admitting patients but people complained it is functioning like a Covid care centre and not a dedicated Covid hospital. Though IGR has 130 oxygen beds, till date it has catered to 119 patients since August while currently another 46 are under treatment. On September 17, the NMC finally started its Pachpaoli Maternity Home for deliveries of Covid positive women. In this case too, the 80-bed hospital can accept only 25 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-care-yet-to-start-at-3-of-5-renovated-nmc-hospitals/articleshow/78224517.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mandatory Covid duty for medical students||Ahmedabad: The state government has recently issued a circular for deploying all students of government-run medical and paramedical colleges and medical colleges associated with Gujarat Medical Education Research (GMERS) for Covid-19 duty. Students of second year and above are to be deployed for Covid-19 duties including field surveillance and supervision, infection prevention and control, psycho-social care, nursing assistance and care taking of patients under home isolation. The notification does not include medical and paramedical students in their first year of undergraduate courses. The state government had earlier on July 17 issued a Government Resolution (GR) where it took an all-hands-on-deck approach by deploying students of all medical, dental and paramedical courses for effective management of the coronavirus pandemic. The state is facing acute shortage of frontline medical teams to battle the pandemic and the circular aims to create an additional frontline task force of undergraduate students pursuing medical and paramedical studies, said Jaiprakash Shivhare, health commissioner. The ministry of health and family welfare, Gujarat government had in July issued a notification where students of various faculties including MBBS, BDS, physiotherapy, BSc nursing, BHMS, BAMS and various other medical and paramedical courses will have to undergo a training programme before they can be deployed in the field. The July 17 GR was contested in the Gujarat high court by 132 students from NHL Municipal Medical College and AMC-MET Medical College at Ahmedabad, both run by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The MBBS students also contested circulars from their college deans to join Covid-19 duty or face dire consequences. The court however rejected their petition. It asked the students to join the duty and said it was a historic opportunity for them. The state had submitted before the court that it had become very difficult to procure necessary help in the form of medical services. As a result, the government was left with no option to but to turn to medical and paramedical students to render their services. The state government’s recent circular is expected to add an additional frontline task force of 1 lakh undergraduate students, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mandatory-covid-duty-for-medical-students/articleshow/78223473.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 cases in Nilgiris set to peak: Officials||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 130 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally to 2,968, of which 666 are active cases. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 20, with the two patients succumbing to Covid-19 in the district. While a 53-year-old man from Sundatti village in Kotagiri taluk died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), another man aged 67 years from Denadu village succumbed to the virus at the government hospital in Ooty. At least 60 patients were discharged from treatment facilities on the day. With this, the total number of recovered patients in the district stands at 2,282, at a recovery rate of 76.8%. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said the district was on the verge of witnessing a peak in Covid-19 cases and cited the recent travel relaxations as a reason. He, however, said there weren’t any Covid-19 clusters in the district as of now. “The cases are scattered across the district. Almost 80% of the active cases are from rural areas.” He said the new cases were spread across the district and 60% of them had travel history to Tirupur, Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem, among other districts. The official said 16 Covid-19 patients were being treated in the ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore and 12 others in private hospitals in that district. At least 132 patients are in home quarantine in the hill retreat. The remaining active cases are undergoing treatment in government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and the four Covid care centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-cases-in-nilgiris-set-to-peak-officials/articleshow/78224496.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||This month, North Goa sees more cases than South Goa||PANAJI: This month, Covid caseload of North Goa surpassed that of South Goa with Sakhali reporting the highest number of infections. The total active cases reported from the health centres in North Goa on Saturday were 3,424 as against 2,496 in South Goa. Till mid-August, Salcete and Mormugao talukas reported the highest number of infections. While the cases reported from Margao are still on a higher side, Sakhali has breached the 400-mark. Bardez taluka with a population of about 2.37 lakh, as per Saturday’s count had 1,157 active cases, while Bicholim had 1,523. “The centres show higher volume of cases when more tests are done as compared to other centres,” said a health official.  The health officer said that in Sakhali alone more than 10,000 people have been tested so far, and until last month, the daily average was over 200 tests a day. “We now do about 100 tests a day. More tests we do, there is a better chance of early detection of the virus and segregating people who have tested positive,” a health officer said. Panaji and Porvorim have over 300 active cases each and are doing more tests. He said that the higher number of tests also reflects how effective contacting tracing is done by a health centre. The regular testing exercise is also getting disturbed as the number of people — employees of various companies — is increasing. They want to get tested for work purposes. “There are chances that we may miss genuine patients as those seeking tests for work purpose stand in a line by faking. We see many such cases. Also, the number of people who come for repeat tests is also on rise. It is difficult to keep a track of such cases when we are dealing with so many people every day,” said another health officer. Testing conducted by centres, he said, is affected when staff members test positive. “It also reduces the number of tests done by a centre, albeit temporarily, when there is less staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-month-north-goa-sees-more-cases-than-south/articleshow/78224530.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Smart vending zones to get nod today||DEHRADUN: The proposal to make smart vending zones in the city will get the formal approval by the working committee of municipal corporation on Monday. The proposal was introduced last year by this committee. The smart vending zones will not only give uniformity to the street vends but will also reduce the traffic problems of the city by removing road encroachment, said civic officials. The working committee meeting, on Monday, will also give approval to projects that have been remaining pending due to the Covid-19 outbreak in the state, the officials added. The municipal corporation has also identified 19 spots — including Nehru Colony, Gandhi Park, and Mohakampur — for setting up smart vending zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smart-vending-zones-to-get-nod-today/articleshow/78222332.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Jaipur||Burglars decamp with valuables worth Rs 25L from house in Kota||Kota: Around 10 unidentified miscreants broke into the house of a businessman in Karwad village under Itawa police station of Kota on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday and made away with cash and jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh. While fleeing, the accused on four motorbikes opened fire at a police team; however, no one was injured. The accused are yet to be nabbed, however, police detained some suspects for interrogation to trace them. On spotting the miscreants, police tried to stop them at a check-post on Gaita Circle in Itawa, but they fled towards Ayana town, CO Shubhkaran said. A police team chased the miscreants for about 4-5km and informed of their movement to Ayana police following which a police team from Ayana swung into action. Noticing the Ayana police team, the miscreants opened fire at them and managed to vanish into the jungles, however, they left two of their four motorbikes on the road which were later seized, he added. No one from the police team was injured in the firing, he added. Meanwhile, at the same time it was disclosed that some unidentified miscreants had broken into the house of Girish Kumar Nama, a catering businessman in Itawa, and made away cash and jewellery, the DSP said. The accused bolted the doors of two rooms where the family members were asleep and took away the cash and jewellery from the third room in the house, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/burglars-decamp-with-valuables-worth-rs-25l-from-house-in-kota/articleshow/78224529.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Patna||Decision on reopening of schools, colleges in Bihar on Tuesday||PATNA: The educational institutions in the state will not reopen on Monday. The state government would take the decision on this issue on Tuesday after preparing the SOP in order to follow Covid-19 protocols, said Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of education department, on Sunday. He said an internal meeting has been scheduled for September 22 to decide in what phases and manner the schools and colleges would be reopened in the state. “The directors of primary, secondary and higher education and other officials would attend the meeting. The stakeholders will discuss whether to reopen the schools for Classes IX to XII only or other classes as well,” he said.  “We will analyse the pandemic situation and consult the health department before taking the final decision about the reopening of schools and colleges,” Sanjay told this newspaper. Under Unlock 4.0, the Centre has allowed schools and colleges to reopen from September 21 with caution. The Centre has also released the SOP. As per the guidelines, students from Class IX onwards are permitted to visit the schools to seek guidance from teachers, only with the written consent of their parents. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said the state government would release the guidelines for reopening of schools. “No guideline has been issued so far. So, the schools are not allowed to reopen from Monday,” he said. Schools and colleges, however, have made their preparations of safety as per the Centre’s guidelines. Baldwin Academy principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said several schools followed the safety protocols like sanitisation, social distancing and screening during competitive exams like JEE and NEET. “When the schools reopen, we have to follow the same procedure. Besides, we have to sanitise every classroom after classes. The number of desks in each class has also been reduced by half to maintain social distancing,” he said. Fr Christu Savarirajan SJ, principal of St Xavier’s High School, said preparations had been made and parents were already instructed about taking the safety measures. “The routine has also been prepared for the classes. Face mask for students and school staff is a must,” he said, adding once the state government issued the guidelines, they would proceed accordingly. Principal of Carmel High School, Sr M Serena AC, said they are waiting for the instruction from the district administration as all the preparations had been made to reopen the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decision-on-reopening-of-schools-colleges-in-bihar-on-tuesday/articleshow/78226977.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Parking slots fetch corporation Rs 4 lakh||CHENNAI: The corporation has earned Rs 4 lakh in revenue from its on-street parking service, which resumed on a trial basis from September 1 after a six-month break due to Covid-19. The project’s trial had begun in December last year, but the parking scheme is yet to be officially inaugurated. There are presently 4,500 parking slots available at Besant Nagar, Purasaiwakkam, Wallajah Road, Pondy Bazaar, Panagal Park, Anna Nagar and Khader Nawaz Khan Road in Nungambakkam. These are equivalent car spaces that can be booked using the corporation’s smart parking application. The consultant, M Vairamudi, managing partner partner of SS tech, told TOI that they have made available another 2,000 parking slots in Marina and Besant Nagar beaches, apart from 700 slots near the Madras High court. “Once we reach 12,000 parking slots across the city, the scheme will be officially inaugurated,” Vairamudi said. Commuters can book parking slots for Rs 20 per hour per car. “We will employ about 700 people totally. In the initial phase about 500 attenders will be available to guide people. We are hopeful that everyone will begin using the application soon ,” said Vairamudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parking-slots-fetch-corporation-rs-4l/articleshow/78223477.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||NIEPVD develops software to assist visually impaired students||DEHRADUN: The National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Visual Disabilities (NIEPVD) has developed a software to assist the visually impaired students in giving their exams in online mode. The software, institute officials said, is estimated to benefit more than 6,000 students and 200 teachers across the country. The software will be used by all those institutes where diploma courses and others are offered for visually impaired students. The software has been developed by the in-house staffers and software engineers of the institute. Also, in order to ensure the continuation of the academic studies of the students, the NIEPVD has now started delivering braille script academic books to student’s homes. Previously, the online education was ongoing but many students were struggling due to the non-availability of school books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/niepvd-develops-software-to-assist-visually-impaired-students/articleshow/78222340.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Kin to get benefits under Mukhyamantri Yuva Swavlamban Yojana||AHMEDABAD: The state government has decided to extend the Mukhyamantri Yuva Swavlamban Yojana (MYSY) to the kin of government officials who have lost their lives while serving as Covid warriors. Such candidates can avail the benefits of the yojana irrespective of their income group or their academic performance, as per a government directive. The MYSY is for candidates whose family income is less than Rs 6 lakh per annum. However, in this case, the family income of eligible candidates will be overlooked, said sources. For students pursuing engineering, pharmacy, ayurvedic and homeopathic studies, financial assistance of Rs 50,000 will be given every year towards tuition fees. “In the case of medical students, the assistance towards tuition fees will Rs 2 lakh per annum per candidate,” said sources. But in case of a female student, the financial assistance can go up to Rs 6 lakh as the candidate can avail an additional assistance of Rs 4 lakh under the Kanya Kelavani Yojana, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kin-to-get-benefits-under-mysy/articleshow/78223481.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||India wants to be part of global vaccine accelerator||BENGALURU: The Centre has conveyed its intent to be part of the ‘Vaccine Pillar of Access to Covid-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator’, created by WHO, even while about 30 domestic vaccine programmes are ongoing and at least six are in various stages of trials. The decision, the Centre said, is to ensure India does not miss out on a vaccine that could be available from overseas programmes. Public health experts and doctors TOI spoke with said it is the right decision. This, the government told the Lok Sabha, may be beneficial in providing access to global vaccine candidates in advanced stages, for their further utilisation in India. Launched in April 2020, the ACT-Accelerator, WHO states, brings together governments, scientists, businesses, civil society, and philanthropists and global health organizations — the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), FIND, Gavi, The Global Fund, Unitaid, Wellcome and the World Bank. Gavi is a global vaccine alliance, while FIND is a not-forprofit organization working on making diagnostics available to people. “The ACT-Accelerator is organized into four pillars of work: Diagnostics, treatment, vaccines and health system strengthening. Each pillar is vital to the overall effort and involves innovation and collaboration,” WHO said. Cross-cutting all of the work, and fundamental to the goals of the ACT-Accelerator, is the Access and Allocation workstream that is led by WHO and is developing the principles, framework and mechanisms needed to ensure fair and equitable allocation of these tools. “Under this, COVAX facility has been created which is led by GAVI and WHO, for fair and equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccine across the world,” the Indian health ministry has said. India effort & fundingWhether India does join the global accelerator will be known only later this year. However, as on date, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has granted test licence permission for manufacture of Covid-19 vaccine for preclinical test, examination and analysis to Serum Institute of India and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals in Pune, Cadila Healthcare in Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech International, Biological E Ltd and Aurobindo Pharma in Hyderabad, and Reliance Life Sciences in Mumbai. Including these, there are around 30 domestic vaccine programmes in the works. So far, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), the department of science and technology (DST), the department of biotechnology (DBT) and the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) together have earmarked Rs 103 crore on vaccine development. While ICMR has so far spent Rs 25 crore from its intramural budget for undertaking work related to development of vaccine candidates and pre-clinical studies, the SERB has supported three projects under Intensified Research in High Priority Areas (IRHPA). While this programme has a committed expenditure of Rs 3.2 crore, the sanctioned expenditure as of September is only Rs 22.3 lakh. The DBT is supporting eight proposals by Industry and academia for candidate vaccine development and associated research resources at a total cost of Rs 75 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/india-wants-to-be-part-of-whos-global-vaccine-accelerator/articleshow/78222916.cms||Chethan Kumar
September 21, 2020||Delhi||30 vehicle scrapping units sealed||New Delhi: A team of Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has sealed 30 illegal vehicle scrapping units. On a tip-off, DPCC conducted extensive survey in Nangli Sakrawati and identified 18 illegal units. The team shut operations of these units and imposed penalties on the operators. DPCC also conducted surveys in outline areas, including Nilothi, Mundka, Mangolpuri, Mukundpur, Ghevra and Tikri Kalan, and found 12 additional illegal units. “All the 30 units were sealed and their equipment like gas cutters, grinders and welding machines seized. We have imposed a penalty varying from Rs 3 lakh-20 lakh, depending on their size. We have also launched prosecution to dissuade illegal operators to conduct such activity,” said a senior official, adding that the process of dismantling and scrapping of End of Life Vehicles (ELVs) in an unscientific manner generate toxic fumes and chemicals, which affect the air quality. The official added that some of the licensed agencies with adequate area, equipment and waste processing facilities had started operations in NCR, including Greater Noida and Sonipat. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/30-vehicle-scrapping-units-sealed/articleshow/78244300.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||CM tells officers to increase ICU beds, spread awareness||Lucknow: Amid the spiralling graph of coronavirus cases, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to increase the number of ICU beds in Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, and Gorakhpur where caseload is high. He also stressed on expediting contract tracing and strengthening the control and command centres. The directions were issued by Yogi during the meeting of Team-11 at his official residence here. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said the CM has asked the chief secretary and senior officials to frame strategies to reinforce the Covid command and control centre. The CM also pressed on the need to strengthen the public address system so that more people can be made aware of the existing situation vis-à-vis the pandemic. Yogi said public address systems should be installed at key places and crossing in various cities. Awasthi said that the instructions have been issued to officials of the district administration and various departments, including transport, to implement this plan. Yogi directed the officials to work for the smooth procurement of paddy from October 1. Agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha has been asked to hold meetings with farmers and rice millers before the start of the procurement process. Meanwhile, Awasthi said that in the last 24 hours, about 11 lakh people travelled by more than 7,200 buses across the state. At the same time, 651 passengers travelled by flights, while 72,333 people arrived in the state by 178 trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-tells-officers-to-increase-icu-beds-spread-awareness/articleshow/78224983.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital to run Pauri district hospital on PPP mode||DEHRADUN: City-based Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital (SMIH) in Dehradun will run the district hospital of Pauri Garhwal under Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. The authorities of SMIH will take over the government district hospital in Pauri and the community health centres (CHC) in Pabo and Ghandiyal areas of the district, said the authorities. This will start in a month’s time. “For four years, the district hospital of Pauri cluster will function under PPP mode. This will give a positive direction to the health facilities in Pauri Garhwal,” said Dr Vinay Rai, medical superintendent of SMIH. Under the PPP mode, the Pauri district hospital will get CT Scan, digital ultrasound, X-Ray along with an expert team of doctors, nursing staff and paramedics. The funding for this will come from the World Bank project. In the first phase of the World Bank project, three Chief Medical Officers (CMOs), four physicians, ortho-specialist, surgeon, child, and newborn specialist, dentist, eye specialist, gynecologist, and skin specialist along with 20 nursing staff, 25 ward attendants, 15 security personnel,15 housekeeping and as many technicians will begin providing healthcare services at the government district hospital of Pauri. “If need arises, the team of super specialist doctors of SMIH will also be sent to Pauri,” added Dr Rai. He also informed that applications have been invited for filling up various vacancies at the district hospital. “We will prefer local residents in the recruitment drive. Hence, the project will not just better healthcare facilities but also generate employment opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shri-mahant-indiresh-hosp-to-run-pauri-dist-hosp-on-ppp-mode/articleshow/78222357.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,407 fresh cases, 17 deaths in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday added 1,407 positive cases, taking the total to 1.23 lakh. It was the third consecutive day for the state to record 1,400-plus daily cases. The cases included 283 from Surat, 183 from Ahmedabad, 164 from Rajkot, 140 from Vadodara, and 129 from Jamnagar. The five districts accounted for 64% of the daily cases. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad crossed 35,000 whereas Surat crossed 26,000 cases. Jamnagar became the fifth district in Gujarat to cross 5,000 cases. The last 1,000 cases in Jamnagar were recorded in the past eight days. The state also recorded deaths of 17 Covid patients, taking the total to 3,322. The deaths include five from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, three each from Gandhinagar and Bhavnagar, and one each from Junagadh and Rajkot. The cumulative deaths in Ahmedabad reached 1,782, while those in Surat reached 725, Vadodara 162 and Rajkot 124. A total of 1,204 patients got discharged in Gujarat, taking the total to 1.03 lakh. The discharged persons include 286 from Surat, 145 from Ahmedabad, 138 from Rajkot, 122 from Jamnagar, and 70 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active cases in Gujarat reached 16,240, which is 13.2% of the total positive cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients in the state reached 84.1% and 2.7% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 60,687 tests, taking the total to 38 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1407-fresh-cases-17-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78223485.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kochi||NIA: Have evidence of arrested WB natives’ anti-national links||Kochi: The National Investigation Agency, which arrested three West Bengal natives from Ernakulam on Saturday for their alleged association with an al-Qaida module, told a court that it has evidence, in the form of incriminating messages, photos and videos, that links the men to anti-national activities. This came to light in an order passed by the judicial first class magistrate, here, granting transit custody of the three men —Mosaraf Hossen, Iyakub Biswas and Murshid Hasan— to the NIA. “[NIA’s] remand application [states] that analysis of the documents and materials seized show that the accused appeared to be highly radicalised and motivated to commit terrorists acts to further their jihadi ideology and activities and several incriminating chats, photos and videos show that they have hatched a conspiracy for anti-national activities,” the order said. The application also suggested the involvement of more than 10 persons in the racket, it said. “The facts of the case were that a group of iihadi terrorists, inspired by the globally proscribed terrorist organisation al-Qaida, consisting of more than 10 members mostly of Bengali origin and operating from different parts of the country, was planning anti-national/terrorist activities at several locations in India. The group was headed by first accused (Murshid Hasan), who has travelled to several places in the south and east of India.” The agency was acting on a reliable input that some suspects are involved in the larger criminal conspiracy for raising and collecting funds for committing terrorist acts and furthering their jihadi ideology in order to recruit and radicalize youths. The arrested and some unknown others are members of the said group and are involved in the aforementioned conspiracy, the court said. It noted that allegations against the accused are of a serious nature and they have been booked for cognizable and non-bailable offences. The judge also granted the request for a three-day-transit remand to produce the accused before the Patiala House Courts in New Delhi. It placed the accused in the custody of chief investigating officer, SP Shankar Brata Raimedhi, from Saturday 5pm till 11am on September 22. NIA had arrested Hossen and Biswas from their quarters in Perumbavoor and Hasan from Pathalam, Eloor early on Saturday. The action was part of simultaneous raids conducted in Kerala and West Bengal leading to the arrest of nine suspected terrorists. The other six were picked up from Murshidabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-have-evidence-of-arrested-wb-natives-anti-national-links/articleshow/78223489.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Trichy||ICDS plans nutri-gardens at homes to fight malnutrition among children||Trichy: Aimed at making severely acute malnourished (SAM) children healthy and ensure that anaemic patients are eating iron-rich vegetables, the integrated child development services (ICDS) scheme in Trichy has embarked on a move to create nutri-gardens in households and in public places in Trichy district.A total of 2,917 SAM children were identified out of 13,1026 children in the 0-5 years age group in the 16 blocks. In the 12 day-period between September 7 and September 19, the ICDS workers identified 385 SAM children. SAM children are defined as low weight for their height.With an objective of driving away malnutrition in children and anaemic related issues in adolescents and pregnant women, ICDS has been creating nutri-gardens in all the Angwardi centres of ICDS.Taking it forward to the doorsteps of people, ICDS has roped in women in urban and rural areas to make their own nutri-gardens in the available space near their houses and the common places in their area in the past one month.“Each Anganwadi centre in our district has around 200 beneficiary mothers of children enrolled in the Anganwadi. Our mission is to make them create their own nutri-gardens to raise vegetables rich in vitamins and iron and make use of it for their own health, for which we extend our support,” said T Bhuvaneswari.The efforts of the ICDS workers yielded results as they created 1,137 nutri-gardens in the households and 92 in the community-level in a short span of time. Vegetables, papaya, spinach and other vitamin-rich vegetables have been grown in the gardens.Child development project officer (CDPO), Musiri block, P Rani said that the weaning food provided by ICDS in the Anganwadi centres will take care of the nutrition need of the children up to the age of one year after which the children will require vitamin-rich food regularly.“Iron-deficiency leads to anaemia in everyone. The availability of the vegetables at their houses can cure the malnutrition of children and anaemia in adults,” said Rani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/icds-plans-nutri-gardens-at-homes-to-fight-malnutrition-among-children/articleshow/78224541.cms||Gokul Rajendran
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Call of the wild is finally heard: Helpline a huge hit in first week||NEW DELHI: A juvenile golden jackal that had seemingly been hit by a car was lying lifeless on a road, with passersby frantically searching for a wildlife helpline to call to. The phone number that popped up immediately was the wildlife helpline under Delhi government’s forest department, which became functional on September 10 and since then has been taking in calls for tree-related complaints and wildlife in distress. Within an hour, the injured animal was rescued and taken to a nearby veterinary hospital for treatment. Since the newly revamped helpline — 1800118600 — became operational, the forest and wildlife department in the first eleven days has received over 300 calls, including 13 calls for animals that were in distress and 173 calls enquiring about pruning of trees. Another 13 calls were received regarding trees that had been illegally cut down. The forest department said data for each day is being maintained under five heads — tree related queries, tree related complaints, wildlife offences, wildlife in distress and others, allowing the department to maintain a comprehensive data on Delhi’s wildlife and tree-related offences. Before the helpline became operational, the forest department only had a tree-helpline, which the department claimed was not maintaining long-term data either. “It was not operational 24x7 and did not cover wildlife offences. The new helpline is comprehensive and will cover all sorts of complaints and queries related to trees and wildlife and allow us to gather data in the long-run,” a senior forest official said. The department said while the juvenile golden jackal was not lucky, other animals that are found injured can be reported to the helpline to provide immediate aid. “The golden jackal required amputation but after a successful surgery, it could not survive. The animal was rescued on September 17 and died on September 20,” the official added. So far, a majority of the calls have been about enquiries related to tree pruning, while 13 complaints were made over illegal cutting down of trees and concretisation. “Based on the complaint, a GPS location is provided to the DCF under whose jurisdiction the complaint falls and the case is investigated. Complaints that are not related to trees but are about land-issues like encroachment on forest land, are classified in the others category,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/call-of-the-wild-is-finally-heard-helpline-a-huge-hit-in-first-week/articleshow/78244335.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 21, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK MP criticizes Centre over hurry, but votes to pass bills in RS||Chennai: The AIADMK’s senior Rajya Sabha member S R Balasubramaniam on Sunday criticized the Centre over its urgency in pushing through the agriculture bills and stressed the need to have MSP (minimum support price) for farm produce. But, in the end, he toed the party’s line and supported the bills when they were put for voice vote in the Upper house. “We were told to vote in favour of the bill and we did. That is true. Of course, prior to that, whatever I wanted to say, I said in the house,” Balasubramaniam told TOI. “I criticized the Centre on what is the urgency for pushing these bills. I emphasized the need to have MSP,” he said. “They (AIADMK leadership) didn’t like me questioning the urgency and speaking in support of MSP. What can I do? Without even mentioning about these, how can I speak on the subject. I don’t believe in speaking like that. Let us see what will happen,” Balasubramaniam said. “The deputy CM spoke to me yesterday and today after I came out of the house. He expressed satisfaction when I explained it to him,” he added. “Since (P) Raveendranath Kumar has already welcomed the bills, they asked me to leave it at that and not say anything. We need to vote in favour of the bill, they told me, and I said okay. Only the deputy CM spoke to me. The CM conveyed it through the party office – that we should support the bill,” Balasubramaniam said. According to him, the whole thing could have been handled better in the Rajya Sabha. “The house could have been adjourned and reconvened tomorrow morning and they could have still passed the bills in half an hour,” he said, while adding that fellow party MP in Rajya Sabha N Chandrasekaran was asked to return from the airport (Delhi) after he had taken his boarding pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-mp-criticizes-centre-over-hurry-but-votes-to-pass-bills-in-rs/articleshow/78223487.cms||D Govardan
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||Textile park in Bareilly to create jobs: CM||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said a textile park would be set up in Bareilly soon. The CM made the announcement while reviewing the development work in Bareilly division comprising Bareilly, Budaun, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur districts. Yogi said textile is the second most important sector in job creation after agriculture. “The textile park would generate significant number of jobs in the region,” he said in the meeting attended by MPs, MLAs, divisional commissioner and district magistrates. The CM directed officials to expedite the smart city project in Bareilly. The state government is committed to provide drinking water supply to every household under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, Yogi said. For this, the work of rejuvenating the dead rivers should be done through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). The CM also emphasised on speedy construction of 300-bed hospital which can have a Covid facility. “Tourism is another area which has immense potential to generate employment. Chuka in Pilibhit has immense potential to be developed as a tourist hot spot,” he said. The CM also directed officials to speed up payment of cane dues to farmers. He said the review of cane arrears in Bareilly division should be done at the district level. “Timely payment of dues can encourage farmers,” he said. Yogi expressed his displeasure over slow construction of gram secretariat at gram panchayats and said work should be expedited after identifying land. The spots for construction of community toilets should also be identified and all the infrastructure should be geo-tagged. Yogi also pitched for speeding up road repair in the division and said there was urgent need to closely monitor the work to ensure timely completion. The nodal officers should do physical verification of projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/textile-park-in-bareilly-to-create-jobs-cm/articleshow/78224988.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Day before session, 5 MLAs test positive||GANDHINAGAR: A day before the five-day long monsoon session of the Gujarat assembly, five MLAs tested positive for Covid-19. These include four MLAs of the Congress and one of the BJP. The MLAs were found Covid positive during compulsory testing of all MLAs for coronavirus. Punabhai Gamit, Nathabhai Patel, Virji Thumar and Jasubhai Patel – all Congress MLAs were found to be Covid-19 positive while BJP MLA Kanubhai Patel also tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. Assembly sources said that over 140 of the total 174 MLAs have been tested so far, while 30 are yet to be tested for Covid-19. They will have to undergo the test before entering the assembly on Monday. The assembly secretariat has made arrangements for MLAs to sit in the public viewing gallery of the assembly. About 25 bills are likely to be tabled by the government during the monsoon session of the assembly, which ends on September 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/day-before-session-5-mlas-test-ve/articleshow/78223491.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kochi||Squall leaves trail of destruction||Kochi: A squall that lashed at ward no.3 and 17 of Edathala panchayat on Sunday morning left trails of destruction. The sudden turnaround in weather condition took residents by surprise as there was no signs of wind in the area. According to residents, squall lasted for 10 minutes. While three houses were completely damaged, four suffered partial destruction. Many trees got uprooted and electric poles suffered damages. Vehicles parked on roadsides turned turtle and roofs of houses were blown away . Revenue officials took stock of the damage and submitted a report to the district administration .“It lashed in two-km radius in high-altitude area destroying houses and vehicles. Power supply got disrupted and no casualty was reported,” said K K Shafeek, a ward member in the panchayat. Indian meteorological department (IMD) had warned of gusty wind with a speed ranging from 45 to 55km per hour on the coastal areas of Kerala, Karnataka and Lakshadweep. “The wind gains sudden speed during its course in the monsoon. This results in damage to properties,” said IMD director K Santhosh. While Piravom reported 7.8cm rainfall, Aluva, Naval airport and Cial received 6cm rainfall each on Sunday. Ernakulam south reported 6.4cm rains and Perumbavoor and North Paravoor received 5.8cm and 5.5 cm rainfall, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/squall-leaves-trail-of-destruction/articleshow/78222369.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kochi||Study finds hypertension slightly higher in women||KOCHI: A study conducted in Ernakulam has found that prevalence of hypertension (HT) was slightly higher in women (43.7%) than men (41.4%). The family cohort study titled ‘Prevalence, awareness, treatment, and control of hypertension and its associated risk factors’ also revealed that prevalence of HT was lower among people who did regular vigorous exercises than those who did moderate exercises. The study carried out as part of Swades (social wellbeing and determinants of health study) was conducted by Dr M D Saju of Rajagiri College of Social Sciences along with four others from Kochi, London and Geneva and had published in Hindawi International Journal of Hypertension a few months ago. It was conducted among 997 people in 573 families at Keezhmadu village and all the participants were 30 years and above. Blood pressure and plasma glucose of each participant were assessed for the study and results found that 43% of its participants suffered from hypertension. More than 9% of them were diagnosed during the study. But, according to doctors, the interesting part was that though 78% of the total hypertension patients were aware of the disease status, only 60.6% were taking treatment. Dr Saju said people in the behavioural risk group have 2.42 times more chance of getting hypertension compared to others. Behavioural risk includes physical inactivity, high fat diet, smoking and alcoholism. “Occurrence of hypertension is also more in people in the social risk group, who are illiterate with lower social cohesion and high stress. It has been found that people who are financially sound got better treatment adherence than those in the lowest income category,” he added. The study, which would evaluate all the participants every year for the next 10 years, also found that participants with no education have a higher prevalence of hypertension than the educated ones. Raising concern, it has been found that prevalence of undiagnosed hypertension was more among men (15%) than women (6%). Meanwhile, the study also found that prevalence of HT was higher among people with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/study-finds-hypertension-slightly-higher-in-women/articleshow/78222385.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Several dams opened, heavy rains till Tuesday||KOCHI/THRISSUR/PALAKKAD: Several dams in the central and northern districts were opened as rains continued to lash the state on Sunday. Scores of houses, standing crops and properties were damaged in Malabar. The rains are expected to continue for two more days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. An alert for heavy rainfall has been issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on Monday. Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha are also expected to receive isolated heavy rainfall. “Heavy rain will continue for two days in central and north Kerala,” said K Santhosh, director-IMD, Thiruvananthapuram. Several parts of the state recorded extreme to very heavy rains with Vadakara receiving a rainfall of 21cm, followed by Taliparamba (17cm) and Munnar (14cm). In Idukki, shutters of six dams were opened. The water level in Idukki dam and Mullaperiyar dam touched 2,381ft and 125.8ft, respectively. “At present, there is no need for opening the shutters of Idukki Dam,” said KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP) Supriya S. Two shutters of Kerala Sholayar dam were opened on Sunday. Six shutters and a sluice gate of Peringalkoothu dam and the shutters of Asurankundu, Pothundi and Mangalam dams were also opened. The water level in Peechi and Chimony dams are also nearing danger marks, official sources said. Members of environmental and river protection groups hit out at the government over delay in opening Peringalkoothu and Kerala Sholayar dams which has led to rise in water level in Chalakkudy river. In Palakkad, the shutters of Malampuzha and Pothundy dams were also opened on Sunday. The shutters of the Banasura Sagar dam in Wayanad were opened after the water levels touched the upper rule level of 775m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/several-dams-opened-heavy-rains-till-tuesday/articleshow/78223574.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Daily Covid cases dip below 4,000 after about a week||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded less than 4,000 cases on Sunday after almost a week and only the second time in the past 12 days. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday was 3,812, while the death toll mounted to 4,982. Thirty-seven fresh fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, according to Delhi government’s health bulletin. In September, more than 4,000 new novel coronavirus cases were reported on 10 days, from September 9 to 19, with the exception of September 14, when 3,229 cases were reported. The month also saw the highest single-day spike of 4,473 cases on September 16. According to the bulletin, 52,405 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, including 11,322 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and with a positivity rate of 7.2%. The total number of cases stands at 2,46,711, of which 2,09,632 patients have either recovered, migrated or been discharged while there are 32,097 active cases. The number of containment zones, meanwhile, has gone up to 1,872, with the addition of 52 new red zones in the past 24 hours. According to the health bulletin, the death rate due to Covid-19 currently stands at 0.7%. More than 60% of ICU beds, with and without ventilator support, in both public and private hospitals designated for Covid-19 are occupied. On Sunday, 7,040 of 15,621 Covid beds in hospitals were occupied. Of the total 8,137 beds in dedicated Covid Care Centres, 1,937 were occupied, apart from 1,966 beds occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who flew in by Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flights. The majority of the beds in dedicated Covid health centres — 398 of the total 601 — were occupied on Sunday. Watch Delhi: Fresh Covid-19 cases dip below 4k after about a week||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daily-cases-dip-below-4k-after-about-a-week/articleshow/78223524.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Several dams opened, heavy rains till Tuesday||KOCHI/THRISSUR/PALAKKAD: Several dams in the central and northern districts were opened as rains continued to lash the state on Sunday. Scores of houses, standing crops and properties were damaged in Malabar. The rains are expected to continue for two more days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. An alert for heavy rainfall has been issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on Monday. Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha are also expected to receive isolated heavy rainfall. “Heavy rain will continue for two days in central and north Kerala,” said K Santhosh, director-IMD, Thiruvananthapuram. Several parts of the state recorded extreme to very heavy rains with Vadakara receiving a rainfall of 21cm, followed by Taliparamba (17cm) and Munnar (14cm). In Idukki, shutters of six dams were opened. The water level in Idukki dam and Mullaperiyar dam touched 2,381ft and 125.8ft, respectively. “At present, there is no need for opening the shutters of Idukki Dam,” said KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP) Supriya S. Two shutters of Kerala Sholayar dam were opened on Sunday. Six shutters and a sluice gate of Peringalkoothu dam and the shutters of Asurankundu, Pothundi and Mangalam dams were also opened. The water level in Peechi and Chimony dams are also nearing danger marks, official sources said. Members of environmental and river protection groups hit out at the government over delay in opening Peringalkoothu and Kerala Sholayar dams which has led to rise in water level in Chalakkudy river. In Palakkad, the shutters of Malampuzha and Pothundy dams were also opened on Sunday. The shutters of the Banasura Sagar dam in Wayanad were opened after the water levels touched the upper rule level of 775m.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/several-dams-opened-heavy-rains-till-tuesday/articleshow/78226553.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Active cases drop as 537 recover and 407 test positive in Goa||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 death toll mounted to 352 as nine more reported to have succumbed to the virus on Sunday. The tally of active cases dropped to 5,781 with recoveries exceeding the total number of new cases. The day saw 407 new cases and 537 recoveries. A 58-year-old woman from Chandor and a 62-year-old man from Agasaim died within a few hours of admission. Both did not have any comorbid conditions. “They were brought late to the hospital. Both had florid pneumonia when hospitalised. One patient died within an hour of admission,” said Dr S M Bandekar, dean of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, who is also the in-charge of Covid hospitals. Another person died at ESI-Covid hospital in Margao whereas eight casualties were reported at GMC. All were in the age group of 49 and 86. Except for the two, all had more than one comorbid condition. An 86-year-old woman from Khareband, who died of Covid-19, had Parkinson’s disease besides other underlying health conditions such as hypertension, diabetes and chronic kidney disease. The latest among legislators to test positive is St Andre MLA Francis Silveira. Two of his family members have also been tested positive. Silveira said he was doing fine and has opted for home isolation. Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes, who was hospitalised after testing positive more than a week ago, was discharged on Saturday. Panaji reported 35 new cases on Sunday which were mostly from centrally located residential complexes in the city. Five members of a Mumbai-based film production company were among those found positive. Some people in Ribandar and Altinho have also been tested positive. Since earlier this month, Panaji had reported 30 to 35 new infections every day, its tally of active cases stood at 343, while that of Porvorim increased to 362 and Sankhali to 440. Two health officers attached to the community health centre, Sankhali have also been tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-cases-drop-as-537-recover-and-407-test-positive/articleshow/78224611.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand leader of opposition charged Rs 45,000 by private hospital||DEHRADUN: Leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh was shifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Sunday after she claimed that she failed to get a private room in any of the hospitals in Dehradun. Hriyadesh’s secretary claimed that Max hospital in Dehradun has given her a bill of Rs 45,000 for the four hours of treatment done on Saturday. Hriyadesh’s secretary Abhinav Mishra confirmed to TOI that she was brought to Max hospital from Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani on Saturday. “She was kept in the hospital for around 4.30 or 5 hours and we were handed over Rs 45,000 bill. When the state government has a cap on Covid-19 treatment, how can they charge such a hefty amount and that too just for 5 hours,” Mishra asked. Sandeep Tanwar, VP operations and unit head at Max hospital Dehradun, told TOI that Hriyadesh wasn’t admitted into the hospital as she wanted a private room which wasn’t available at that time. “The bill of Rs 45,000 was charged for some diagnostic tests that she underwent,” he added. It’s important to mention here that the Uttarakhand government had fixed a cap of Rs 10,000-Rs 18,000 per day for Covid-19 treatment. This includes various kinds of packages involving ventilator and non-ventilator services which can be charged as per the condition of the patient. Meanwhile, the state government helped Hriyadesh to get shifted to Gurugram. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat himself instructed the authorities of Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA) to airlift her to the hospital. Hriyadesh tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. She was initially admitted at Susheela Tiwari Medical College with fever and pneumonia-like symptoms earlier this week. Her son, Sumit Hriyadesh, also tested positive for the virus last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-leader-of-opposition-charged-rs-45k-by-private-hospital/articleshow/78222429.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP to bring policy for FPOs, provide working capital: CM||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced that the state government would soon come up with a policy to promote Farmers Produce Organisations (FPOs). Yogi said that under the policy, the FPOs would be benefitted through convergence of policies of the state and the Central government. At the same time, a dedicated cell comprising senior officers and experts would be constituted in the agriculture department, to solve the problems faced by the FPOs. An FPO, formed by a group of farm producers, is a registered body with producers as shareholders in the organisation. It deals with business activities related to the farm produce and it works for the benefit of the member producers. The CM said that the FPOs would be provided working capital at a subsidised interest. The state government would bear the burden of the subsidy, Yogi said. The constitution of FPOs would help the farmers get the benefits of marketing their produce, raising their quality and bringing down the cost of production. Also, the state government, he said, was in the process of constructing 37 godowns of 5,000 metric tonnes capacity. They are being constructed by Mandi Parishad and State Warehousing Corporation. The farmers would be able to keep their produce in these go downs without any tax for 30 days after which the farmers would get the facility of paying normal rent with 30% rebate. The CM said that the farmers would also be able to get loans as per produce, which would help them in meeting the expenses on agriculture and other works. Yogi said that the state government had decided to set up a 'Mango house' in Varanasi and Amroha to boost the sale of the fruit in the national and international markets. The CM also pointed out how the UP assembly passed an amendment in Mandi Act to promote farmer consumer markets and warehousing and cold storages. Also, 27 major mandis are being modernised. He said that the state government has already done away with the compulsion of farmers selling their produce in Mandis. The farmers can now sell their produce in store centres, cold storages and food processing units. The farmers would be able to market their crops at the farm gate itself, which in turn would help them save money. The emphasis on contract farming, Yogi said, would allow the farmers to get into an agreement with the exporters and food processing units in an organised way. The exemption from Mandi tax on agricultural produce brought into UP from other states would not only help the consumers but also food processing units which would get the raw material in an uninterrupted way. “This would further lend a boost to ease of doing business,” Yogi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-bring-policy-for-fpos-provide-working-capital-cm/articleshow/78224994.cms||Pankaj Shah
September 21, 2020||Trichy||Cops clueless 2 days after gangrape of mentally ill woman||Trichy: The All women police station (AWPS), Srirangam has registered a case against four unknown people for gangraping a 28-year-old mentally ill woman repeatedly in the wee hours of Saturday. The unmarried woman, who was abandoned by her family, was found roaming around Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). Police said that around midnight on September 18, an unknown person came on a bike, took the woman with him and raped her at a place near Kuzhumayi Amman temple. Two of his friends soon arrived and one of them brought her to Othakadai near Mutharayar statue where they raped her. Subsequently, yet another person came to the spot and raped the woman there. Despite registering the case, the police were clueless about the identity of the accused. AWPS, Srirangam said that the woman confirmed she was raped though she was not able to communicate clearly. The brutal rape of the wandering woman had come to light in the late hours on Friday after the founder of an online magazine reported it to Trichy city police control room. Preliminary investigation brought to light that the accused were sexually assaulting the woman for the past five days after taking her to unidentified locations in an autorickshaw. The police, on Sunday, said they were looking for CCTV footage in the areas where she was taken to. The woman who was still undergoing treatment at MGMGH said she could identify the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-clueless-2-days-after-gangrape-of-mentally-ill-woman/articleshow/78224561.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Palaniswami curtails south tour||Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who had planned to undertake a two-day tour of four southern districts to review development work, has curtailed his visit to just Ramanathapuram district. The change in programme was necessitated to enable the CM to participate in the video interaction that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has scheduled with chief ministers on Wednesday afternoon. Palaniswami was scheduled to conduct review meetings in Ramanathapuram and Tuticorin districts on Tuesday, followed by visits to Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar districts on Wednesday. He has so far visited 24 districts for conducting review meetings, a state government release said. As per the changed programme, the CM will now leave Chennai for Madurai on Monday evening and stay at Madurai overnight. On Tuesday morning, he will leave for Ramanathapuram by road to participate in the review meeting. After that, he will return to Madurai and return to Chennai the same evening by flight. The proposed review meetings of Tuticorin, Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar districts have been postponed, the state government release said. Palaniswami utilizes the visits to districts to also interact with MSME units, besides meeting representatives of farmers’ organizations and women self-help groups (SHGs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/palaniswami-curtails-south-tour/articleshow/78223497.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||5 SPs, one DSP and two PIs positive||Ahmedabad: Five SP rank officers, one DSP rank officer and two inspectors of state intelligence bureau have tested positive for Covid-19. While the rest have been home quarantined, one SP rank officer has been admitted to a private hospital. Sources said four SP rank officers who have offices in Police Bhavan in Gandhinagar- Himanshu Solanki, Yuvrajsinh Jadeja, Bhagirath Gadhvi, SP of IB unit of Bhuj, Bhagirathsinh Jadeja, SP of Surat IB unit, Humesh Patel have all tested positive, while the DSP of Rajkot unit of IB and two police inspectors have also tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, state IB chief Anupamsinh Gehlot had held a meeting of senior state IB officers last week . “Four days after the meeting, six IB officers have tested positive for Covid -19,” said a source from state IB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-sps-one-dsp-and-two-pis-positive/articleshow/78223523.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Fines collected for safety norm violations plummet||BENGALURU: Fines collected from those violating social distancing norms and wearing of masks has drastically reduced in Bengaluru not because there is wider compliance — in fact it’s the contrary — but because marshals empowered to enforce the rules and collect penalties are busy with other work, BBMP officials have admitted. While fines from social distancing violators have fallen from Rs 4 lakh in August to Rs 1.7 lakh in the first 17 days of September, fines from those not wearing masks is down from Rs 6 lakh to Rs 3 lakh during the same period. Keen on arresting the drift in solid waste management goals, BBMP has deployed marshals to crack down on waste management violations rather than those flouting pandemic safety rules. However, SWM enforcement is marshals’ raison d’etre. In 2017, the Palike had roped in ex-servicemen as marshals to prevent people from throwing garbage in public areas. They were tasked with preventing haphazard disposal of garbage and were also empowered to penalise habitual offenders. But following the Covid-19 outbreak, the 204 marshals were shifted from solid waste management department to Covid management. “Marshals are authorised to penalise anyone violating social distancing norms or those not wearing masks,” a senior official in charge of Covid-19 Task Force said. “While marshals ran into huge resistance from the people and confrontations often turned into unseemly fights, BBMP cleared the air and said it has granted them the permission to do so.” Naveen Singh, special officer in charge of Covid-19 Task Force, said “Since we have limited resources and marshals are working for both systems, it is hard to catch and penalise everyone. Marshals were redeployed to penalise garbage disposal violators which is why the numbers have fallen.” Singh admitted the disregard for Covid-19 safety measures is widespread especially after restrictions were lifted but he said the Palike hands are tied because of a lack of enforcers. He said he has requested for resources to be augmented such that both systems can be easily monitored. Incidentally, the Karnataka high court recently too took a serious of view of the failure to act against people not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. “We find that prompt action has not been taken against people not following the elementary rule of wearing masks, especially in public places,” a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed last week. “It is almost six months since the pandemic outbreak. Judicial notice will have to be taken of the fact that the rules relating to compulsory use of masks are being observed only in breach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/penalties-for-social-distancing-mask-violations-plummet-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78222935.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: PWD wants MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan back for winter session||NAGPUR: Even though there is no sign of a let up in Covid cases in the city, the state Public Works Department (PWD) has asked the district collector to return its properties being used as Covid Care, testing or quarantine centres, by October 1. This includes the MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan premises. The winter session of legislature, expected to start from December 7, has prompted PWD’s knee jerk reaction, though the Nagpur office is yet to receive any official communication from Vidhan Bhavan. PWD executive engineer Janardhan Bhanuse told TOI that since the date for winter session has been announced, and traditionally it is held in Nagpur, the PWD has to start making all arrangements for hosting VIPs from October itself. “We expect to get MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan and 160 Tenements vacated by October 1, but it can be extended up to October 15. The facilities were requisitioned by the collector for NMC’s use,” he said. The MLA Hostel, which was made the city’s first quarantine centre in March, is running as a Covid Care Centre (CCC) since July 5. It is catering to asymptomatic patients who don’t have home isolation facility, and has hosted over 2,200 patients in three months. As on date, 175 patients are admitted at MLA CCC, whose total capacity is around 400. Ravi Bhavan is functioning as Covid testing centre and quarantine facility for health workers. It has over 80 beds and 15 health workers are quarantined there. Vanamati, which is managed by the district administration, was converted into CCC but has been kept on stand by. The 160 Tenements, behind Ladies Club, has over 500 Class IV workers and their family members. NMC officials said they are yet to receive any letter to vacate MLA Hostel. A top health official said alternative arrangements can be made at VNIT in case PWD insist on its demand. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre said he has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding the winter session be held in Mumbai. “The administration must give priority to common people. They can’t be asked to vacate facilities for VIPs. It will send a wrong message that VIPs are more important. Also, the funds must be used for upgrading health care facilities in city,” he said. Thakre added that Mumbai’s Covid graph is flattening while Nagpur is peaking. “Heavy movement of people will again spread the infection to various parts of the state, especially Mumbai,” he said. Thakre, a former mayor, said he has spoken to several MLAs, who don’t wish to stay at MLA Hostel now. “Public representatives and officials are fearful of using the facilities. No one wishes to come to Nagpur considering our cases are rising by 2,000 every day,” he said. Thakre added he would be meeting the collector and PWD executive engineer, and requesting them to drop the plan to shift patients out of MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-wants-mla-hostel-ravi-bhavan-back-for-winter-session/articleshow/78224594.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As masks, PPE kits head to landfills, you can’t shrug off share of blame||NEW DELHI: Before the pandemic, sanitation workers had been advised to carefully sift through municipal solid waste and avoid items like sanitary napkins, diapers and electronic waste that had been dumped alongside regular household garbage. These days, the focus has shifted to avoiding masks, gloves, face shields and PPE kits. While Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines mandate that biomedical waste must be segregated, shredded and left for disposal after 72 hours, there seems to be no improvement in segregation of waste at the household level. The rising quantum of biomedical waste is not only leading to their accumulation at landfill sites, but also putting sanitation workers at risk, experts say. Data provided by NCR states to EPCA recently showed an increase in Covid-19 waste by 14 times in July compared with what was generated in Delhi in April. While the capital generated 25 tonnes of such waste in April, it increased to 372 tonnes in June and 349 tonnes in July, a report submitted by EPCA to Supreme Court stated. The amount of household waste being generated, segregated and incinerated was still a mystery. To bring clarity, SC had asked all corporations to use an app where data from each day would have to be logged. Sunita Narain, EPCA member, said the CPCB app should provide transparency in terms of household waste and allow action to be initiated on the ground. “EPCA will compile the data. We are waiting for CPCB to provide us information on household Covid-19 waste. Earlier, we were unsure of how much waste was being generated from households and quarantine facilities,” she added. Chitra Mukherjee, head of advocacy and policy at Chintan, a Delhi-based waste management NGO, said the risk to sanitation workers had gone up manifold during the pandemic and no progress had been made over the past couple of months to ensure CPCB’s guidelines were enforced. “On the ground, not only are CPCB’s directions not being enforced, but basic segregation is also missing. Sanitation and Safai Sena workers are sifting through the waste manually. This means hundreds of masks, gloves and face shields are reaching landfill sites instead of being incinerated,” said Mukherjee, who suggested that imposing fines could be a solution. Municipal officials, however, argued that they were adhering to the norms and had issued several advisories over the past couple of months to create awareness. A corporation official said the advisories urged people to hand over masks and hazardous waste in separate bags after cutting them in pieces. “We also provide separate collection bins with each auto-tipper where used masks can be deposited in closed bags. However, fines are not being imposed,” he added. The official said hundreds of notices had been issued to RWAs for failure to segregate household waste and model wards had been selected to enforce segregation in a phased manner. “We face resistance with people arguing that they are unaware of the rules. The bylaws have been notified and should be taken seriously. People do not argue after breaking traffic rules by saying they didn’t know such rules existed. We cannot achieve waste segregation if people refuse to cooperate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-masks-ppe-kits-head-to-landfills-you-cant-shrug-off-share-of-blame/articleshow/78223555.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid ward for those above 70 years||Ahmedabad: Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad on Saturday opened a special ward for Covid-19 patients who are aged 70 years or above. The hospital claimed that it could be one of the first such initiatives in the country. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that analysis of the patients reveals that about 20% of the patients needing hospitalization fall in this category. “Out of 375 patients under treatment, 48 have been shifted to this ward. Their issues are different compared to general population – they are not only in high-risk group due to age, but also have a high prevalence of co-morbidity. Thus, death rate in this category is high,” he said, adding that their attempt is to reduce the mortality rate by also treating co-morbidities and offering psychological assistance. Officials said that patient attendants have been appointed to look after their daily needs. Walkers and wheelchairs have also been kept, they added. Current capacity of the ward is 60 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-ward-for-those-above-70-years/articleshow/78223586.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||Courier co ‘delivers’ 1.11 lakh trees to green Kanha-Pench wildlife corridor||Nagpur: Blue Dart Express Ltd (BDEL), a logistics service provider, is planting 1.11 trees in collaboration with Grow-Trees in the Kanha-Pench wildlife corridor. The project will be completed by this year-end. The trees being planted include indigenous species like tamarind, shisham, siras, teak, karanj, custard apple, ber, kateswari, and other species. These trees are likely to offset 22.22 lakh kg of carbon annually on maturity. “Preserving ecosystem around the reserves, rebuilding wildlife habitats, and supporting tribal communities are some of the objectives of the drive. Permission has been taken from the gram panchayats to plant trees in the periphery of Pench on panchayat land. Forest officials were consulted for selecting tree species,” said officials of the company, which is part of the Deutsche Post DHL Group (DPDHL). “We’ve been planting trees in the same region for the past three years to boost forest cover for conserving wildlife habitat. The project also focuses to provide non-timber forest products upon maturity of trees to help rural communities meet their requirements and stop them from entering the forest, reducing man-animal conflict cases,” they said. Balfour Manuel, MD, Blue Dart, said, “Sustainability has been an integral part of our parent company DPDHL. Our main objective is to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and protect the environment. Planting these 1.11 lakh trees is another step in this direction.” Blue Dart has earlier planted 2.22 lakh trees in the Kanha-Pench corridor. The unique project has helped revive the biodiversity of the region, reducing man-animal conflict while providing direct employment to over 70 families every year, creating around 5,600 workdays during pit digging and plantation activities alone. Even during tough times of the pandemic, immense support was provided to the villagers by the distribution of dry ration and generation of employment opportunities. Bikrant Tiwary, CEO, Grow-Trees, says, “The region’s economy is majorly dependent on agricultural activities, which tend to get hampered by animal invasion. The trees planted in the region will provide resources required to sustain the tiger population in the forests and also benefit rural locals.” Since 2017, BDEL has planted 4.52 lakh trees across 5 Indian states of Odisha, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, and Sikkim, which is expected to offset about 9 million kg of its carbon footprint. “The region marked as Pench Tiger Reserve is home to a significant population of India’s tigers and ranked among the world’s most important tiger habitats. The purpose of choosing the wildlife corridor between Pench and Kanha for this year’s drive was to allow the tiger population residing in the region more mobility, which in turn improves their chances of survival and growth,” says Tiwary. GOING GREEN * 1.11 trees are likely to offset 22.22 lakh kg of carbon per year on maturity * Since 2017, Blue Dart has planted around 4.52 lakh trees in 5 states * Part of company’s Go Green initiative, plantation drive aims to reduce global warming, reduce human-wildlife conflict * Upon maturity, communities will benefit from non-timber forest produce like fruits, flowers, honey etc||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/courier-co-delivers-1-11-lakh-trees-to-green-kanha-pench-wildlife-corridor/articleshow/78245964.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CBSE compartment exams from September 22||NEW DELHI: Compartment examinations for classes X and XII of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will be held from September 22 to 30 at 247 exam centres in Delhi. The board has issued a set of guidelines that schools and students need to follow as precaution against the Covid-19 pandemic. In the notice, the board said that “due to the unprecedented situation created by Covid-19, CBSE has taken measures to ensure a safe and conducive environment to hold the examinations.” The heads of the schools have been directed to comply with the direction issued by CBSE for the compartment examinations. Schools have been told to ensure smooth movement of students and teachers on exam days, use police support to prevent crowds outside exam centres and ensure water and electricity supply during the exams. Also, provide health support if required. The board has increased the number of examination centres from 500 to 1,268 this year, all over India, to maintain social distancing and also provide centres near the students’ residences. Class X students will appear in maximum two subjects and Class XII students in one subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-compartment-exams-from-sept-22/articleshow/78223588.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sree Chitra, KSIDC to set up medical devices park||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology will be joining hands with the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) to set up MedSpark, a medical devices park at the Life Science Park in Thiruvananthapuram. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will lay the foundation stone for the medical devices park on September 24. Major objectives of the medical devices park are to create an enabling support system for research and development, testing and evaluation of medical devices, manufacturing support, technology innovation and knowledge dissemination. “The institute had conceived establishing a medical devices park under the technical research centre for biomedical devices programme of the Department of Science and Technology. This was made possible by entering into a knowledge partnership with KSIDC, capitalizing our individual strengths and tapping the ecosystem that exists in the city with several research and academic institutions and health care centres,” said Dr Asha Kishore, director of SCTIMST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sree-chitra-ksidc-to-set-up-medical-devices-park/articleshow/78223597.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Mere colour codes won’t work, Delhi University study argues for change in attitude||NEW DELHI: The coronavirus pandemic and Delhi’s poor performance in the Swachhta rankings have again brought the focus back on the lack of waste segregation in the city. A study carried out by students and professors of a Delhi University college has found several behavioural aspects of residents and other factors that impact waste segregation. The study, titled ‘Desperate call for exigent focus on waste segregation’, has found that the resource diversion on blue-green bin distribution may not be necessary. The researchers found that literacy, too, didn’t seem to be a decisive factor. The report stated that over 90% of households from gated societies were against contributing an extra amount towards waste segregation. The study was carried out by students of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College of Commerce (SGGSCC) under the guidance of associate professor Dr Paramjeet Kaur and assistant professor Dr Harpreet Kaur. “We analysed behavioural aspects of households and waste pickers based on questionnaire and personal interview methods. We surveyed 708 households that belonged to 64 societies of Rohini and Prashant Vihar,” Dr Paramjeet Kaur said. The report noted that out of the total waste collected, about 79% was wet waste and 21% dry component. “About 60% of the dry waste component was in the category of hazardous waste like diapers and sanitary napkins,” the report added. Though different coloured dustbins were placed in a few societies, they were not being used for the desired purpose, as 75% houses, even in a model ward, confirmed that segregation was not done through the coloured bins. “Simply placing dustbins of different colours does not serve the purpose. People need to be made aware of the importance of source separation. Instead of bins, authorities should provide composting material like activators,” the report suggested. Despite being mandatory in solid waste management by-laws 2017, waste segregation has failed to catch on in Delhi, which generates more than 10,000 tonnes of waste every day. The report found high awareness levels in the model ward area with 85% houses found to be aware about different types of waste. The report stated that there was little co-relation between the levels of education and awareness about different types of waste. In fact, the teams observed that out of the 262 surveyed households with qualification higher than graduation, 23% did not practice waste segregation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mere-colour-codes-wont-work-du-study-argues-for-change-in-attitude/articleshow/78223590.cms||Paras Singh
September 21, 2020||Dehradun||After reports of irregularities, Covid test in private lab stopped||DEHRADUN: After receiving complaints of irregularities in test reports, a private lab, located in Dehradun’s Haridwar Road, was barred by the local administration from conducting Covid-19 tests. The order in this regard was issued by Dehradun’s district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava. “Even with a limited staff, the lab was testing over 250 samples everyday. For a short-staffed facility that is following all protocols, conducting as many tests is not possible. Also, a few of the people tested positive for the virus by this lab were later found to be Covid-19 negative in tests conducted by government pathologies. After receiving complaints against the private lab, a probe has been launched in the matter and the lab has been asked to not test any Covid-19 sample till the inquiry is completed,” said a health department official, while adding that the lab was also not maintaining the data and records of the patients as per protocol. Meanwhile, the state recorded 878 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 40,963. Among the 878 fresh cases, the maximum of 408 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 176 cases from Haridwar, 55 from Pauri Garhwal, 48 each from Nainital and Tehri, 44 from Uttarkashi, 31 from Pithoragarh, 17 from Almora, 14 from Champawat, 13 from Rudraprayag, 11 each from Udham Singh Nagar and Champawat, and two from Bageshwar. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, told TOI that deaths of 13 Covid-19 positive patients were also recorded on the day. “Six deaths each were reported from AIIMS in Rishikesh and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. The remaining one death was reported from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital. So far, the state has recorded 491 deaths due to the virus, of which 239 took place in Dehradun alone,” said Tripathi further. Besides fresh cases, the state also witnessed recoveries of 855 patients from Covid-19. With this, the tally of such cases rose to 27,828 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-reports-of-irregularities-covid-test-in-pvt-lab-stopped/articleshow/78222435.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 21, 2020||Chennai||SOPs flouted, social distancing more by default in Chennai parks||CHENNAI: It has been around two weeks since Greater Chennai Corporation opened more than 650 parks to public after keeping those locked for six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government had issued guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed at parks to avoid the spread of the infection. But corporation officials are finding it difficult to implement the SOPs. However, awareness among majority of the visitors is high and with the footfalls around 30% compared to pre-Covid times, physical distancing is automatically followed. The SOPs mandate that every park should have a handwashing facility with liquid soap at the entrance, or a sanitiser. Everybody entering the park should be checked with a thermal gun for temperature while wearing of masks inside the park is compulsory. The children’s play area will remain closed and people above 65 will not be allowed to visit the park. But at the Anna Nagar Tower park, senior citizens argued that the facility was meant for their use. Some said that wearing masks was not advisable during a walk and workout. The children’s play area as well as the gym equipment were being used by people, while sanitiser was not available at the entrance. At Nageswara Rao park, many children were seen playing together, not wearing masks. The children’s play area was open though used by a handful of children under adult supervision. Though a handwashing facility was available at the entrance, there was no soap. No person entering the park was checked with a thermal gun. V Rama Rao, a senior citizen, said at the Independence Day park in Nanganallur, most people wore masks but sanitiser was not available at the entrance. Civic activist G Satish from Semmancheri gave a similar feedback about the two parks in ward 200. "While elders wear masks, children avoid it," he said. Corporation officials TOI spoke to said they were wary of Covid-19 spreading and hence have ensured that SOPs are followed at all parks. "Checking with thermal gun is mandatory. We have asked seniors not to come," an official said. Another official said while the situation was under control in smaller parks, it may be a bit tough to ensure all SOPs are followed in bigger parks with multiple entrances. "It is also up to the people to follow the rules in light of the pandemic," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sops-flouted-social-distancing-more-by-default-in-chennai-parks/articleshow/78222430.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 21, 2020||Lucknow||Eye on reforms, UP​ energy minister Shrikant Sharma ​tough on defaulters & lobbyists||LUCKNOW: Top officials of the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) were taken aback when during one of his review meetings energy minister Shrikant Sharma shared his report that at least 40 lakh consumers have not paid electricity bills for over a year. He directed the officials to recover outstanding dues from defaulters and adopt a new system of meter reading. As state energy minister, Sharma has been pressing for digital transformation in governance to provide speedy relief to people and to check irregularities. Sharma, who rose from student politics as an ABVP leader and has worked in the BJP in different capacities with Nitin Gadkari and Rajnath Singh as presidents, also monitored the first-ever digital campaign of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He created ripples in political circles by successfully organising 1,000 3-D rallies in different parts of the country. When the Modi government started the smart meter campaign, Sharma immediately replaced the old and outdated meters with the new ones. However, the blackout on Janmashtami – reportedly triggered by the feeding of a wrong command – posed the first major challenge for him in energy sector reforms and battle against powerful lobbies within the UPPCL. “It has been over a month now since the minister ordered a series of inquiries, including the one by the special task force (STF), to probe into criminal conspiracy angle in tripping of smart metres on Janmashatmi, but he has yet not received the report,” an associate of the energy minister said. “This itself shows that conspiracies are being hatched to sabotage the initiatives taken by the minister,” he added. Taking the suppliers of faulty smart meters head on, Sharma not only stalled their payments with immediate effect but also stopped the installation of meters till the guilty were punished. Nearly 15 lakh smart meters have been installed in the last two years while about 2.5 crore households are yet to be covered. To bring about reforms, Sharma is not only aggressively pitching for reduction in line losses to below 15% from current 35%, complete overhaul of overhead and outdated transmission losses, unit-based reading for bills, load balancing of transformers by 40% and providing online connections to consumers to end their exploitation in the name of fresh connections. “This is the first time when the state has got an energy minister who is consumer-friendly. Most of his predecessors colluded with powerful lobbies of engineers, suppliers and businessmen,” said Awdhesh Verma, president of UP Power Consumers Forum and a member of the state advisory committee on energy sector. “He has already laid his hand on two private companies in Noida and Agra and has sought a detailed report on their functioning and fake billing racket. He has so far opposed privatisation of discoms,” Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eye-on-reforms-min-tough-on-defaulters-lobbyists/articleshow/78225005.cms||Subhash Mishra
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Fear of cluster outbreak in Bommanahalli’s factories||BENGALURU: With a massive spike in Covid-19 cases among employees of garment units and factories in Bommanahalli zone, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials have intensified inspections and swab testing in workplaces in the area. The zone is dotted with these factories which are operating at full tilt, now that restrictions have been lifted. Invoking powers vested in him under the Disaster Management Act 2005, Captain Manivannan P, IAS officer and zonal coordinator for Bommanahalli zone, has empowered BBMP zonal officials besides officials from labour department and factories and boilers department to enter any factory in the area and conduct Covid-19 inspections. They are also empowered to direct factory managements to ensure contact tracing and swabbing of suspected Covid-19 patients. The order states factory managements are required to possess required quantities of masks, sanitsers and thermal scanners, besides providing manpower and material support to officials conducting inspections. The order dated September 12, says the deputy director concerned of the factories and boilers department will be held responsible for a surge in cases in the zone. The order, citing daily inspection reports, says there has been “an increase in the number of positive patients among those working in garment factories in Bommanahalli zone. The test positivity rate in these places is 21%, as against Bengaluru city’s 13%”. High worker footfallBommanahalli zone provides a challenge that is very different from the other zones in the city — East, South, West and Mahadevapua. The zone’s population is lower than the others, but it sees a high footfall of two lakh workers every day. “Whereas the factories have been employing workers in larger numbers in limited space, there is a serious danger of Covid-19 spreading to all workers in short duration, leading to larger spread across the city,” the order has warned. Ramakrishna, BBMP joint commissioner, Bommanahalli zone, said more than one lakh employees work in different shifts in the zone and as the garment units lack space, there is high chance of the virus spreading quickly. “We have been visiting garment units daily for 20 days now and doing all we can to prevent the spread of pandemic. Testing here has been increased,” he said. Another Bommanahalli zone official disclosed that swabbed employees have provided their workplace addresses, making it hard to track them down and isolate them. “About 440 people had given garment unit addresses and by the time results were declared they had gone incommunicado. We found it very challenging to track them down,” the official said. Ramakrishna admitted that in the initial days contact tracing was a problem, but now they are collecting residential addresses and contact numbers. “We are now in a better position to test, track and identify Covid-19 patients,” he asserted. Anand MC, president, Garments Labourers Welfare Association, said Covid-19 tests in garment units are being carried out and employees have extended all support to the authorities. “There were several rounds of meetings and officials responded well to our production concerns as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fear-of-cluster-outbreak-at-bommanahallis-garment-units/articleshow/78222956.cms||Kiran Parashar
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan CCC closure will help other centres||Nagpur: The public works department’s proposal to get MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan vacated for the winter session of the state legislature has found support from doctors and paramedics at other Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and quarantine facilities where they have been working non-stop for the last six months. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), district administration and public health department are running two more CCCs in the city — VNIT hostels and Pachpaoli — which have remained underutilized since these were brought into Covid service on July 26. Both the CCCs have over 1,000 beds. The capacity at VNIT can be further ramped up, if needed. However, staff shortage had remained a perennial issue at these facilities. In case the two CCC centres (MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan) are shut, the staff there would not only be available for other two CCCs but also at IGGMCH and GMCH. VNIT has two nodal officers given its large size, while Pachpaoli CCC has just one woman doctor incharge. One of the doctors said the nodal officers have been managing the centres since they were hosting high risk suspects in large numbers. At Pachpaoli, where 89 patients are admitted, the staff also has to deal with hundreds of people daily walking in for Covid testing. “The workload is intense and the staff definitely needs a backup team for rotating duties and giving occasional offs to overworked members,” said a centre official. Another official said though on paper the staff seems adequate at VNIT and Pachpaoli CCCs, some are either in isolation due to Covid infection or not reporting to work for unexplained reasons. Regarding accommodating additional patients, a doctor said VNIT is having only 60 patients while its capacity can go up to 700. MLA Hostel has 170 patients as on date. “MLA Hostel had attached toilets and its central location made it the preferred CCC,” said the doctor. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said no decision on shifting patients from MLA Hostel and Ravi Bhavan has been taken yet. Nagpur District Congress Committee, led by West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, met Kumar and submitted a memorandum seeking cancellation of the winter session. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the party supported Thakre’s demand to hold winter session in Mumbai this time due to Covid spread in Nagpur. The party also apprehended that movement of officials and policemen in large numbers beside others will increase cross-infection in several districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-hostel-ravi-bhavan-ccc-closure-will-help-other-centres/articleshow/78245954.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cotton price recovers as demand from yarn makers improves||AHMEDABAD: After plummeting substantially in the lockdown, cotton prices have recovered following a revival in demand from the export market. Improvement in cotton yarn has further supported the prices in the local market, said market players. “The price of benchmark Shanker-6 cotton variety has now recovered to Rs 36,800-Rs 37,000 per candy (356 kg). The prices had, however, tanked to Rs 31,000-32,000 per candy in April-June following a slump in the demand during the lockdown,” said Arun Dalal, a city-based cotton broker. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the cotton prices were hovering around Rs 38,000-40,000 per candy. According to market players, demand from exporters and cotton yarn makers as well as resumption of domestic mills have supported the cotton price locally. With the current cotton season nearing its end, the limited stock of quality cotton has further provided a cushion to the prices. “The export demand at present is good. The demand for cotton exports has recovered since June and July,” added Nirav Patel, a cotton exporter. The exports have also increased to 50 lakh bales (one bale weighs around 170kg) this year as against the previous estimates of 40-42 lakh bales, said market players. Improvement in cotton yarn exports have also contributed to the increase in cotton prices. The All Gujarat Spinners’ Association (AGSA) suggest that yarn exports rose 10% in past two months, pushing up the capacity utilisation of spinning mills across the state to 70% now. “The price of cotton yarn (30-count variety) has also surged to Rs 186-187 per kg with the improvement in export demand. The price had declined to Rs 160-162 a kg during the lockdown,” Patel added. Cotton cultivation in Gujarat this year has declined to about 23 lakh hectares as compared to nearly 27 lakh hectares last year, mainly on account of several farmers opting for other cash crops such as groundnut for better returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cotton-price-recovers-as-demand-from-yarn-makers-improves/articleshow/78223595.cms||Kalpesh Damor
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Assault on cops: 2 cases, 3 booked||edabad: In two separate incidents which took place on Saturday in Kagdapith and Danilimda police station areas, three persons were booked for assault on police and creating hindrance in police work. In the first incident, which took place near Shah-e-Alam toll naka, two persons — Zoebkhan Baloch of Shahpur and an unknown person — were stopped by a TRB (Traffic Road Brigade) jawan for jumping red signal. Zoebkhan, who was sitting on the back seat of the bike, got down and slapped the jawan. “As policemen posted at the point caught Zoebkhan, the other person managed to escape,” said a senior police official. In the second incident, which took place in Danilimda police station, two persons on a bike entered into heated arguments with a policeman who stopped them for not wearing a mask. “Both the persons, Mohammed Sameer Luhar, 29, of Shahpur and Mohammed Shakil Luhar, 50, of Shahpur, were booked for creating hindrance in police work and were fined for not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assault-on-cops-2-cases-3-booked/articleshow/78223604.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Nagpur||VC okays NU exam app, to be available this week||Nagpur: Nagpur University would be launching this week its exam app, which would be available on Google Playstore. The demonstration of app was successfully done before vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhary on Monday. He approved it immediately. According to NU officials, VC would be launching the app formally by Thursday. He and other top officials, including Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable would brief the media after launch. The officials are instructed not to reveal anything without formal launch of app developed by Promarc Software. The firm is already looking after examination and evaluation work in the university. Both VC and BOEE director did not take TOI’s calls or respond to messages in this regard. NU officials informed the new app was very user friendly and would have entire information on exams and other related work. The students would have to enter their enrolment and roll numbers along with a mobile number for identification and registration. All question papers would be uploaded on the app at specific timing and the students need to solve them in one hour. “The company is giving demonstrations of app to various NU authorities and academics related to exam work. Some have given suggestions which would be incorporated into it. All of them liked it as it is user friendly,” the officials said. They added Promarc had developed an application through which the paper setters can directly upload the question papers into the server. It was successfully tested, as teachers uploaded their questions into the system. Now, the moderation has started and will be completed soon. After the launch of exam app, NU would be conducting mock tests for students which would comprise ten MCQ questions. It is likely to be held next week before actual MCQ papers begin from October 1 and continue till October 18, as per the officials. “We are fully geared up to conduct our first ever online exams, which would be a learning experience for us too,” officials said. # All about NU’s Exam app: * Developed by Promarc Software * To be available on Google Playstore * Students need to download it in their smartphones * Need to fill in enrolment, roll numbers & other details * They shouldn’t change their number after registration * It will contain all information about exams * Papers would open at stipulated time and closed in one hour||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vc-okays-nu-exam-app-to-be-available-this-week/articleshow/78245958.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 21, 2020||Delhi||Single and ready to mingle at Delhi zoo||NEW DELHI: Two cow rhinos at the National Zoological Park have remained “single” for nearly six years since the death of a bull rhino in 2014. The authorities at Delhi zoo have now approached the Patna zoo for giving a bull rhino under animal exchange programme. They want to ensure breeding of the vulnerable species. Rhino is among 10 species whose partners are wanted at Delhi zoo. Ramesh Pandey, director, Delhi zoo, told TOI, “One of the important functions of a zoo is to ensure captive breeding of animals, especially critically endangered and endangered species. Apart from social and emotional needs of captive animals and birds, we need compatible partners for their breeding.” “The officials at the ministry of environment and forest are in talks with zoos across the country for exchange of wild animals,” he added. According to zoo officials, two Bengal tigers have been mating with a white tigress for the last few years. The Bengal tigress died due to illness in the zoo in 2018. “The mating of a Bengal tiger with a white tigress leads to hybrid cubs. The white tigress conceived twice in the past but the cubs didn’t survive. However, as Bengal tigers have been categorised as ‘endangered’ animal according to the IUCN red list of threatened species, a request has been made to the Lucknow zoo for providing a Bengal tigress for captive breeding,” said an official. Critically endangered Edward’s Pheasant and endangered Egyptian Vulture are among the “single” birds. African elephant, military macaw, great Indian hornbill and striped hyenas, which are in “vulnerable” category, need partners too. Zoo authorities are also trying to find mates for Hoolock Gibban and Rhea bird. An expert said it is necessary to make these animals and birds breed to “give boost to their population and save them from extinction from the zoo.” Zoo officials said they have recently started releasing animals in their enclosure early so that they can enjoy fresh air. “Instead of 9am, we now release animals in their enclosure at 6.30 am. We have also intensified their health and hygiene screening as health tests are being conducted regularly,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/single-and-ready-to-mingle-at-zoo/articleshow/78223594.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
September 21, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Man slits open pregnant wife’s belly to 'check baby’s gender'||BAREILLY: The belly of a four-month pregnant woman was slit open by her husband who charged on her with a sickle after being told by a priest that she was expecting another girl child, the sixth in a row. Pannalal, 43, attacked his wife Anita Devi on Saturday night at their home in UP’s Budaun district, leaving her in a pool of blood. Anita’s family told investigators that Pannalal attacked and cut open her stomach to “know the gender” of the child. An FIR was registered and Pannalal booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) and other sections of the IPC. Though the baby in the womb was unhurt, Anita’s condition deteriorated due to severe damage to her insides and excessive bleeding. As her condition worsened at the district hospital in Bareilly, her brother, Ravi Kumar Singh, took her to a private hospital. But she could not be admitted as authorities there asked him to deposit Rs 4lakh to start the treatment. It was then that Anita’s family rushed her to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, where doctors were operating on her on Sunday evening to save her life and that of the unborn child. According to police, convinced by the words of a village priest that Anita was expecting another girl child, Pannalal was forcing her to abort it. He wanted a son. But Anita was adamant on keeping the child. Anita’s brother said, “My brother-in-law often used to beat my sister for giving birth to five daughters. Our parents had intervened on several occasions. But no one imagined that he would take such a cruel step.” He added: “When I reached there, I saw blood everywhere. Anita’s stomach was slit, and she told me that her husband did this. I took her to the hospital with the support of the police. Fortunately she has been admitted at Safdarjung hospital and doctors here are supportive.” Additional superintendent of police (city) Praveen Singh Chauhan said, “Pannalal has been arrested. He has been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder). SHO of Civil Lines police station Sudhakar Pandey told TOI, “The woman’s family has alleged that Pannalal took this step to know the gender of the foetus. We are still investigating the reason. Pannalal has been sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-slits-open-pregnant-wifes-belly-to-check-babys-gender/articleshow/78220875.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Mandi alternatives: How agri-tech startups beat lockdown blues||GURUGRAM: While the farmers’ union protests against the Centre’s agriculture reform ordinances, now bills, the alternative path for farm produce that these legislations seek to open up — outside the mandi chain — has been evident for the past six months. That’s how a Sonipat farmer, for instance, found a reseller in a Gurugram condominium. And another in west UP found the tomatoes and brinjals he grew being delivered by food aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato in Delhi-NCR. Read the story on TOI+ How agri reform bills can work — lockdown gave us a preview||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mandi-alternatives-how-agri-tech-startups-beat-lockdown-blues/articleshow/78225467.cms||Shubhra Pant
September 21, 2020||India||With U-turn on bills, BJD surprises many||BHUBANESWAR: In a move that surprised political circles, Biju Janata Dal (BJD) on Sunday opposed the two farm bills in the Rajya Sabha — the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — after supporting the same bills in Lok Sabha three days ago. This is the first time BJD has opposed any legislation in the Rajya Sabha after NDA returned to power in the 2019 elections. From demonetisation to GST, CAA, triple talaq, RTI amendment and Article 370 revocation, the Naveen Patnaik-led BJD has been supportive of PM Modi’s policies. Therefore, BJD’s opposition to the farm bills on Sunday, just days after it had backed NDA nominee Harivansh in his re-election as Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson, came on unexpected lines. Party insiders feel that while the earlier policies of NDA that BJD had backed had nil or very little impact on the politics of Odisha, Naveen opposed Centre’s latest move because he might have sensed that the farm bills could upset his core vote bank – the farmers – in the largely agrarian state. BJD sources said the party had taken a feedback from some of its members in western Odisha, where farmers’ outfits have earlier staged protests against the bills, to get a sense of what the peasants were thinking about the proposed changes. “Ours is an agrarian state. We can’t afford to support any move until we are doubly sure that farmers’ interests will be protected. Our CM and party president must have taken a considered stand after taking a feedback from the stakeholders,” Prasanna Acharya, BJD floor leader in the Rajya Sabha, told TOI. Another MP, Amar Patnaik, urged the government to consider sending the bills to a select committee for further examination. “The small and marginal farmers do not even have the opportunity to get a minimum support price. There is a huge miscommunication in the field, particularly in the procurement areas,” he said in the House. Farmers have backed the party since its inception, helping BJD to form the government for five consecutive terms under Naveen’s leadership. Around 70% of the state’s 4.5 crore people are directly or indirectly dependent on agriculture, with the majority of them being marginal and small farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-u-turn-on-bills-bjd-surprises-many/articleshow/78225457.cms||Ashok Pradhan
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Jumbo electrocuted in Saranda, poaching angle suspected||JAMSHEDPUR: A six-year-old elephant was killed after it came in contact with a live wire in Saranda forest under Manjhari police station in West Singhbhum on Saturday. Confirming the death, the divisional forest officer (DFO) of Chaibasa, Satyam Kumar, said the electrical wire that took the life of the jumbo is usually used to protect paddy crop from wild animals. “The tusk of the deceased elephant was recovered from the forest, some distance away from the carcass. The role of poachers in the elephant’s death, therefore, cannot be ruled out,” Kumar said. Kumar also said that no suspect has been detained or arrested so far in connection with the case. “An FIR has been lodged under relevant sections of the Wildlife Act and a probe is being conducted,” the DFO said. The DFO said that this is the first such incident in the area this year. On Wednesday, a young elephant was mowed down by a railway inspection vehicle near Manoharpur railway station in Saranda forest area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jumbo-electrocuted-in-saranda-poaching-angle-suspected/articleshow/78223951.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||NPU vice chancellor not working from campus during pandemic: ABVP||DALTONGANJ: ABVP activists on Friday charged the vice-chancellor of Neelambar Peetambar University (NPU), R L Singh, with staying away from the campus for the last two months during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Singh, however, denied the charge and said he is discharging his duties properly during the trying times. While holding a demonstration, the activists conducted a mock search in the administrative block of the university by putting on their cellphone flashlights to give an impression that they were “searching for the VC in the darkness of the university”. However, Vineet Pandey, a senior ABVP activist conceded that Singh is responding to the problems of the students virtually. He said, “The VC does take phone calls from students and asks them to e-mail their problems.” Even the memorandum submitted to the pro-VC D N Yadav by the student activists also did not mention about Singh’s absence from his chamber or not working from the campus. Pandey added, “The VC has, however, stopped coming to his university office for the last two months when the students and officials needed him most because of the Covid crisis. Today, we also looked for him but he was not present.” The agitators also shouted slogans asking the VC to work from his office. Singh, however, said, “The university is functioning normally even during the pandemic and the allegations against meare wrong and baseless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/npu-v-c-not-working-from-campus-during-pandemic-abvp/articleshow/78224430.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Tribals raise pitch for Sarna code, threaten to boycott census, NRC||Ranchi: The tribal outfits in the state on Sunday hit the streets here and formed a human chain demanding a separate code for Sarna religion. The human chain came a day after the Roman Catholic Church wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren. The church demanded that a bill be brought into the ongoing monsoon session of Jharkhand Assembly to protect the tribal culture and religion. Fulchand Tirkey, the president of Kendriya Sarna Samiti, said, “The Adivasis have descended onto the streets today to demand the Sarna Code, which was removed in 1952. We demand that a bill be passed in Jharkhand Assembly and sent to the Union government.” Niranjana Toppo, another tribal functionary, said: “Besides the tribal community, our demand is being supported by our brothers and sisters by other religious groups. Not only the Bishops, the Anjuman Islamia, Sikh Federation and other religious outfits have also supported our demands.” The demand for Sarna code assumes significance ahead of the National Register for Citizens (NRC), which is scheduled to be held on 2022. While the church suggested that NRC should be kept in abeyance till Sarna Code is implemented nationwide, tribal outfits on Sunday announced that they will not participate in the census if Sarna code was not implemented. Former Jharkhand Congress president Sukhdeo Bhagat, who is now with the BJP, said: “According to the 2011 census, there are 11 crore tribal people. But their religious and cultural affiliations have not been included in the census. This is an irony.” Bhagat also pointed out that as legislator from Lohardaga, he had been regularly demanding the implementation of the code. “I urge the government to take up this matter with the Centre at once before the census.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribals-raise-pitch-for-sarna-code-threaten-to-boycott-census-nrc/articleshow/78224363.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Rims in dire straits as oxygen supply falls short for virus patients||Ranchi: At a time when medical oxygen has become an essential item for treating the Covid-19 patients, Jharkhand’s only tertiary care centre — Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) — does not have a medical oxygen plant of high capacity to ensure uninterrupted supply to any of the 120 virus patients currently admitted there. Currently, the new trauma centre at the state-run hospital — which has been converted into a Covid care centre — has the capacity of storing medical oxygen equivalent to 40 cylinders. But with more than 200 cylinders being used on a daily basis, the facility requires a medical oxygen plant with a capacity to store at least 12kilolitre of oxygen to cater to all the patients. A senior anaesthetist at the trauma centre said, “Generally, we require 1KL of medical oxygen for 10 patients and for 120 patients, we need to supply 12KL of oxygen. The oxygen consumption is high for the critically ill Covid patients as a single patient needs around 10 to 12 cylinders per day. Right now, we need a medical oxygen plant that can supply at least 12KL of oxygen.” Rims had approached a private firm for installing a 12KL oxygen plant for Rs 80 crore around nine months ago when the state-of-the-art trauma centre was just launched. Back then, the hospital was facing difficulties in running the intensive care unit (ICU) at the new centre. The trauma centre had a plant with a capacity of storing medical oxygen for 20 cylinders only. The capacity was increased to 40 cylinders before the ICU started functioning last year. However, nearly six months into the pandemic, the 12-KL-oxygen plant is yet to take off and the hospital is now dependent on the local suppliers of oxygen. “The former director, Dr D K Singh, wasn’t keen on paying the rent for the storage tank which was supposed to be installed at the trauma centre, leading to the project being stalled,” Dr Sanjay Kumar, the hospital’s deputy medical superintendent, said. His successor Dr Manju Gari, however, agreed to the plant’s installation after examining the expenses involved and after the private company agreed to reduce the per litre oxygen rate for Rims. According to hospital sources, two meetings were convened during the last six months where it was decided to issue the work order for installation of the oxygen plant. “But after Rims issued the order, the work got stalled as the hospital has a service agreement with the contractor who constructed the trauma centre and the latter could not repair and maintain the oxygen supply lines at the centre,” a hospital source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-in-dire-straits-as-oxygen-supply-falls-short-for-virus-patients/articleshow/78224254.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||After power feeder trips, Dhanbad, Jharia, Katras hit by day-long outage||DHANBAD: Over 5 lakh residents of Dhanbad, Jharia and Katras are spending in darkness after a power outage since Saturday night when the Putki feeder of DVC tripped. Satyadeo Pandey, a resident of Fatehpur lane locality of Jharia, said, “Ours is one of the most populated town of the district with high rise buildings lying closer to each other and any disruption in power supply badly affects the life here, particularly at a time when life has already turned mundane due to Covid induced restrictions on movements. Children’s studies get affected due to power cuts at the time when digital classes are the need of the hour,” he added. Vijaya Tripathi, a housemaker of Poddar Para locality of Jharia, said, “With places like parks, multiplexes, cinema halls shut, the television serves as the sole source of entertainment for women who are confined to the homes, but the power failure has deprived us the little entertainment we had.” Anand Chaurasia, a resident of Bekar bandh, said, “It was hot and humid last night and the power failure for the entire night made it more difficult.” General manager of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Pratosh Kumar said, “The power failure took place due to some technical snag in the Putki feeder which has been repaired and normal power supply will be restored by night.” However, till the time of filing this report, power supply was yet to be restoed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/after-power-feeder-trips-dhanbad-jharia-katras-hit-by-day-long-outage/articleshow/78223840.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Guv summons DGP over gang-rape of minor at Ranchi’s police guest house||Ranchi: Governor Droupadi Murmu on Sunday summoned DGP M V Rao and directed him to take swift action against the personnel who gang-raped a minor girl inside a police guest house located at the lower bazaar police station. In her directive to Rao, Murmu said, “The crime committed by the policemen is a shame and does not send a positive message to society. Policemen are considered protectors but such acts will shake the confidence of people on the force if no action is taken immediately.” The gang-rape happened on August 12 when the 14-year-old survivor had gone to the guest house to meet her boyfriend Vipul, who has a relative working in the force. When the girl arrived, one of the personnel sent Vipul to buy food from outside and raped her. Police are yet to release the name of the culprit. When Vipul returned, he also raped her and sent her to the place of his friend identified as Karan in Daltonganj in a taxi. On August 13 evening, the girl was rescued from Karan’s house. He, however, was not involved in the rape. Earlier in the day, Rupa Verma, chairperson of the child welfare committee (CWC), had met the governor to inform her about the case. Verma said police should have filed a case under Pocso Act and IPC Section 376 D as soon as the incident came to light instead of booking the culprits under IPC Section 366 (kidnapping). Police clarified that the kidnapping case was initially registered on the basis of the statement given by the girl’s father. But after the girl was rescued and her statement was recorded, IPC Section 376 D and relevant sections of Pocso Act have been added, they said. City SP Saurav said, “We have arrested Vipul and Karan on Saturday. Both of them are adults. Further investigation is going on in the case.” During the meeting, the governor also condemned the recent lathicharge on protesting assistant police saying that the administration should establish better communication with the agitators and consider their demands sympathetically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/guv-summons-dgp-over-gang-rape-of-minor-at-ranchis-police-guest-house/articleshow/78224279.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Raghubar Das lashes out at RJD, Congress in Bihar election rally||JAMSHEDPUR: Former chief minister Raghubar Das, who is conducting BJP poll campaigns in Siwan district of Bihar, hit out at both RJD and Congress — partners of the mahagathbandhan government in Jharkhand — for promoting “nepotism”. Taking part in ruling NDA’s Jan Samvad rally in Siwan for the upcoming Bihar assembly polls, Das, however, praised the late RJD leader, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying he stood by incarcerated party president Lalu Prasad but was not treated well for his loyalty. He claimed, “Lalu humiliated Raghuvansh ji to promote his sons. It was very unfortunate that he had to tender his resignation from RJD while undergoing treatment at AIIMS in Delhi. He was a true socialist, a capable leader and son of the soil. His death was a loss for everyone.” During his week-long campaign in various parts of the neighbouring state, Das also criticised Congress, saying like RJD, it has no place for hard-working leaders and holds only one family above the party. “Only a scion of the Gandhi family can head Congress and no one else. The family has been misleading the people of the country with claims that they are the only ones who can rule the country. It, however, had to bite the dust when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a landslide win in 2014. The voters also gave him a thumping victory in 2019.” He termed the upcoming Bihar assembly election as a fight between democracy referring to NDA and nepotism represented by the mahagathbandhan. Stating that development can take place only under democracy, Das cautioned the Bihar voters to be wary of RJD and its allies or they will regret like the people of Jharkhand, who are now suffering after electing a maghathbandhan government. “Popular schemes of the Centre like Ayushman Bharat and Krishi Yojana will be stopped if RJD and its allies won and the ultimate loser will be people of Bihar,” he claimed. Das further said, “People of Jharkhand are suffering as the JMM-led mahagathbandhan government has stopped many schemes of the Centre. One of the examples is the road development project, jointly started by the NDA rule at the Centre and my earlier government, which is now stonewalled by the current JMM-Congress-RJD government led by chief minister Hemant Soren.” Asking people of Bihar not repeat the “mistakes” of Jharkhand, Das added, “You can even see and hear many people, particularly farmers and women, cursing themselves for voting the mahagathbandhan government to power.” Das had earlier taken part in Jan Samvad programmes in Motihari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/raghubar-lashes-out-at-rjd-cong-in-bihar-election-rally/articleshow/78223851.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||BJP to corner government over ‘hunger deaths’||RANCHI: BJP’s Chandankyari MLA Amar Kumar Bauri on Sunday demanded Rs 25 lakh as compensation and a government job for one member of the family of Bhukhal Ghasi, a resident of Karma village in Bokaro’s Kasmar block, who allegedly died of hunger on March 6 this year. Bauri, who is the president of BJP Jharkhand’s SC Wing, also demanded that the Hemant Soren government must order a probe into the alleged hunger deaths of Ghasi, his 20-year-old son Nitesh Kumar and 12-year-old daughter Rakhi Kumari and bring the guilty officers to book. Bauri’s statements came a day before the resumption of Jharkhand assembly’s monsoon session and was indicative that the saffron party will corner the mahagathbandhan government over this issue on the floor of the House. “Three members of a family died in succession but no minister visited the village and Ghasi family. On the contrary, the district officials misbehaved with the family, intimidated them and took an undertaking from Ghasi’s brothers that all three died of prolonged illness and not hunger,” Bauri said. While Ghasi died on March 6, Nitesh, who worked as a dishwasher at a hotel in Petarwar, died on May 6 after spending 12 days in a hospital with a complaint of stomach ailment. Ghasi’s daughter Rakhi allegedly died of hunger earlier this month. Doctors in Bokaro had claimed that Rakhi was anaemic. Bauri alleged that while district officials tried to brush the deaths under the carpet, the surviving members of Ghasi family were being held hostage at Bokaro circuit house in the name of treatment. “This is being done so that none from opposition party can meet the family and hear their problems ahead of the assembly session,” Bauri, a former minister, said. Bauri also cried foul against Ranchi administration and said that the latter did not allow him and others to sit on a dharna outside Raj Bhavan on September 14 over the hunger deaths. “We were denied permission due to Covid-19. But during this time, the Congress held two such dharnas at that very place. When I confronted the deputy commissioner about it, he said he wasn’t aware of it,” Bauri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-to-corner-govt-over-hunger-deaths/articleshow/78224410.cms||Dhritiman Ray
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Giridih cops crack headless body murder case, arrest 6||BOKARO: Giridih police on Sunday said they have solved the case of the headless corpse found from Dhanwar police station area on August 31. Police identified the deceased as one Satyendranath Mishra (39), a contractor from Kolapur in Uttar Pradesh’s Bhadoi district, and said they have arrested six persons for the murder. Notably, a special investigation team (SIT) of Giridih police was constituted under SDPO Navin Kumar Singh to probe the case. Singh said that after the head was recovered, the district police reached out to police stations in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to ascertain if the man’s features matched with anyone on their missing list. Giridih SP Amit Renu said Uttar Pradesh police responded on September 8 stating that the murder victim could be Mishra, whose family members had filed a missing complaint on August 31. It was learnt from Uttar Pradesh police that Mishra had told his family on August 30 that he was going to Giridih to meet Maksud Ansari and Ibrahim Ansari. “Therefore, Maksud and Ibrahim were arrested from their native Herodih village and interrogated,” Singh said. During the interrogation, the duo confessed to their crime. It was learnt that Maksud had borrowed Rs 2 lakh from Mishra, but did not return the amount. Mishra frequented Maksud’s house to get his money back and allegedly developed an affair with the latter’s wife. Maksud confessed that he decided to kill Mishra after the latter did not pay any heed to his warnings and continued to have a relationship with his wife. Apart from Maksud and Ibrahim, Maksud’s father Navi Miya, Ibrahim’s father Khalil Miya, and two others — Hazarat and Nizam Miya — were involved in the crime. Police sources said the killers first made Mishra consume whisky and marijuana, and then they chopped off his head. Later they went to Ibrahim’s residence and burnt their shirts that had blood stains, and mobile, belt and purse of Mishra. It was Ibrahim’s father Khalil Miya who burnt the items, taking them to an isolated place near his house. The SP said all the six have been arrested. The police have seized four mobile handsets, two motorbikes and some burnt items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/giridih-cops-crack-headless-body-murder-case-arrest-6/articleshow/78223891.cms||Divy Khare
September 21, 2020||India||Rajya Sabha clears two farm bills, opposition moves no-trust motion against deputy chair||NEW DELHI: Alleging “murder” of democracy, 12 opposition parties on Sunday moved a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh in protest against the manner in which two farm bills were passed in the House. The parties said Harivansh overruled their pleas for an adjournment of proceedings, and subsequently refused to accede to their demand for voting on the bill’s passage. Congress, TMC, Samajwadi Party, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, CPI, CPM, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, National Conference, DMK and the Aam Aadmi Party were among those who moved the no-confidence motion. Congress general secretary K C Venugopal said, “Why was BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav whispering in the ears of the deputy chairman? Today’s episode was a conspiracy hatched by the BJP leadership. BJP’s own cabinet minister resigned over the bills and RSS’s farmers’ organisation is against the bills. Now, who will believe BJP claims that the bills are good?” CPM MP K K Ragesh alleged that the deputy chairman disallowed the opposition to move a statutory resolution, a constitutional tool available to opposition parties, to oppose a bill. “The deputy chairman’s attitude was unbecoming and undemocratic,” he said. Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil said additional forces were called into the House to “manhandle” members. “This is the Modi model from the same Gujarat that was once known for Mahatma Gandhi,” he said. Congress said the opposition parties would meet in Parliament on Monday to discuss future course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajya-sabha-clears-two-farm-bills-opposition-moves-no-trust-motion-against-deputy-chair/articleshow/78225494.cms||Swati Mathur
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Another low pressure brews in the Bay||Visakhapatnam: A fresh new low pressure system is brewing over Bay of Bengal that is expected to cause light to moderate rainfall over north coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh and heavy rain across southern Odisha, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). If this low pressure system forms over northeast Bay of Bengal, it will be the second active low pressure system that will impact the state this month. Andhra Pradesh is already reeling under the severe impact of the active southwest monsoon with heavy rains and floods across south-coastal parts and Rayalaseema for the last one week. Director, IMD-Amaravati centre, S Stella said, “The low pressure (system) is expected to form over northeast Bay of Bengal on September 20. We have alerted concerned state governments.” Stella added that the low pressure is likely to become more active in the next 24 hours after Sunday. Due to the influence of the weather conditions over the sea, thunderstorm and lightning is expected in north-coastal AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-low-pressure-brews-in-the-bay/articleshow/78210787.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 21, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally rises to 6.17 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh crossed the five million Covid-19 testing milestone on Saturday, even as the state reported 8,218 novel coronavirus infections, taking the cumulative positive caseload to 6,17,776. The Covid-19 toll has increased to 5,302 with 58 deaths registered on Saturday, the lowest single-day toll in the last 50 days. The state reported less than 9,000 cases for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. AP conducted the last one million tests for Covid-19 in just 14 days, the lowest time taken to complete any one million tests in the state. The state is currently testing about 75,000 samples a day. As many as 10,820 Covid-19 patients were declared cured, outnumbering the fresh cases. There are currently 81,763 active cases with 5,30,711 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 86%. East Godavari reported 1,395 fresh case on Saturday, followed by West Godavari 1,071, Chittoor 736, Nellore 693, and Prakasam 670. Seven districts recorded fewer than 500 cases. With the 50.33 lakh tests, Andhra Pradesh tested 94,264 people per every one million population, the highest among all the states in the country. The case positivity rate stood at 12.2%, while the mortality rate decreased to 0.85%. Of the 58 deaths registered on Saturday, nine are from Chittoor, seven from Krishna, five each from Anantapur, Guntur, Kadapa and West Godavari, four each from Nellore, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam, three each from East Godavari, Kurnool and Srikakulam, and one from Vizianagaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhras-covid-19-tally-rises-to-6-17l/articleshow/78229777.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally rises to 6.17 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh crossed the five million Covid-19 testing milestone on Saturday, even as the state reported 8,218 novel coronavirus infections, taking the cumulative positive caseload to 6,17,776. The Covid-19 toll has increased to 5,302 with 58 deaths registered on Saturday, the lowest single-day toll in the last 50 days. The state reported less than 9,000 cases for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. AP conducted the last one million tests for Covid-19 in just 14 days, the lowest time taken to complete any one million tests in the state. The state is currently testing about 75,000 samples a day. As many as 10,820 Covid-19 patients were declared cured, outnumbering the fresh cases. There are currently 81,763 active cases with 5,30,711 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 86%. East Godavari reported 1,395 fresh case on Saturday, followed by West Godavari 1,071, Chittoor 736, Nellore 693, and Prakasam 670. Seven districts recorded fewer than 500 cases. With the 50.33 lakh tests, Andhra Pradesh tested 94,264 people per every one million population, the highest among all the states in the country. The case positivity rate stood at 12.2%, while the mortality rate decreased to 0.85%. Of the 58 deaths registered on Saturday, nine are from Chittoor, seven from Krishna, five each from Anantapur, Guntur, Kadapa and West Godavari, four each from Nellore, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam, three each from East Godavari, Kurnool and Srikakulam, and one from Vizianagaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhras-covid-19-tally-rises-to-6-17l/articleshow/78210810.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||CBI reminds CFSL to submit its report in Dahl case||PANAJI: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has written to the central forensic science laboratory (CFSL), Delhi, to submit its report in the case of Swedish national Felix Dahl’s death in Goa. The CSFL report — pending for over a year — will indicate whether the death was due to homicide, murder, or accident. “We have sent a reminder to CFSL to submit the report,” a senior officer said. On June 24 last year, CFSL reconstructed the crime scene at the spot in Canacona where Dahl, 22, was found dead on January 28, 2015. The Swedish national had come to Goa in October 2014 on a holiday, and was last seen at a restaurant in Patnem. His body was found on a quiet gravel road 200m from the restaurant by a local at 5.30am. Last month, Dahl’s mother, Minna Pirhonen, wrote to CBI seeking an update on the investigation. “I understand that a CFSL team had visited the crime scene to confirm murder/homicide of my son in July/Aug 2018, and subsequently, you have carried (out) the investigation. Despite the same, no arrests have been made till date,” she wrote. Sources said the CBI investigation revealed that Dahl was assaulted, which resulted in his death. To reconfirm their investigation, CBI had asked CFSL to reconstruct the crime scene. In July 2018, the high court of Bombay at Goa had transferred the case to the CBI in the “interest of justice”, while castigating Goa police for its failure to examine the case in a fair and impartial manner. Earlier, Dahl’s mother had filed a petition seeking that the case be transferred to the CBI. In August 2018, on the direction of the high court, CBI registered an FIR against an unknown person. Goa police had filed a closure report in the case due to lack of evidence to prove murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cbi-reminds-cfsl-to-submit-its-report-in-dahl-case/articleshow/78223825.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||After 6 months, city buses hit the roads||Vijayawada: After a gap of months, APSRTC started city bus services in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam on experimental basis on Saturday. As many as 120 buses operated in Vijayawada on the first day across six depots. The bus services were limited to 30 busiest routes to study operational difficulties that may arise in maintaining social distancing norms. APSRTC officials have made necessary seating arrangements in the buses to maintain physical distancing. One seat has been left vacant and only person is allowed to sit in each seat in zig-zag manner. Wearing of face mask, both while boarding and travelling, has been made mandatory. Sanitisers have been provided on the back of driver cabin for passengers. No standing travel and boarding of running bus would be allowed. APSRTC employees have been deployed at all boarding points to ensure that passengers board the bus only after it stops. Temperature screening also done on passengers before they boarded the bus. G Satyanarayana, deputy chief traffic manager of Vijayawada, told TOI that most buses ran empty on the first day. “It may take time for people to start using public transport. Over 35,000 aspirants will sit for the village and ward secretariat exams in Vijayawada alone, so our first priority is to facilitate them to reach their exam centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-6-months-city-buses-hit-the-roads/articleshow/78210870.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Durga temple to close at 8pm during Dasara||Vijayawada: Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas said on Saturday, “Officials should consider the sentiments of devotees and at the same time follow Covid-19 protocols while making arrangements for Dasara celebrations at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanams (Kanaka Durga temple)” The minister addressed the festival coordination committee meeting at the irrigation office and directed authorities of various departments to work collectively. “It is high time for all of us that we work round-the-clock to make the celebrations successful,” Srinivas said while adding that only ten thousand devotees will be allowed for the day. The temple administration told the minister that online sale of darshan tickets started on Friday and has received a huge response from devotees. Officials further said that darshan timings were reduced by an hour and the temple will close at 8pm of the festival days. Children below the age of 10 and people above the age of 65 will not be allowed in, temple authorities said. Vijayawada (central) legislator and Brahmin Welfare Corporation chairman Malladi Vishnu asked officials to make queues with physical distancing concerns in mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/durga-temple-to-close-at-8pm-during-dasara/articleshow/78210909.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Parmod Sawant: Goa to improve ease of doing biz ranking||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said the state government will improve ease of doing business in the state to attract investment. Speaking at Sewa Saptah virtual rally organised to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, Sawant said that under the leadership of Modi, India enhanced its ties with the US, Japan, Russia and showed the country’s might to disgruntled neighbours like Pakistan and China. Sawant said that during the last couple of months, the state’s ranking on the ease of doing business index has dropped but exuded confidence that it will improve. Sawant said the BJP will provide whatever help required to be given to differently abled persons in the state. The chief minister explained about the journey of Modi in his political career, adding, “He always took decisions in the interest of the people.” He also said that around 2.5 people have benefited in Goa from the Centre’s schemes. Sawant said that Modi’s leadership has been recognised by various countries and it is he who can develop the country. Sawant said that the Union government announced two economic booster packages for the economy. Speaking on the bills passed on agriculture, he said that this will remove agents from sale of agricultural products and directly benefit the farmers. Chairman and managing director of the Dempo group, Shrinivas Dempo was the guest speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-state-to-improve-ease-of-doing-biz-ranking/articleshow/78223881.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||GIDC, IPB need revamp to attract investors: MAIT||PANAJI: Though Goa has the potential to emerge as a manufacturing hub, the state government needs to take drastic and swift measures if it hopes to attract global investment, Manufacturers’ Association for Information Technology president Nitin Kunkolienker said. He said that the functioning of Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) and Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB) need to be revamped if Goa’s business climate has to improve. “The way IPB and GIDC are behaving, they are driving away investors,” Kunkolienker told TOI. He said that if Goa wants to compete with states like Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the state has to introduce e-governance, de-notify legacy legislations and review arbitrary laws that are used to harass the industry. A few days ago, he was elected to head MAIT for a third term. The MAIT president’s main concern, which other industrialists have also voiced out, is the practice of sending all government files to ministers for approval. “A minister or the chairman of a corporation is not a technical person and he is not supposed to clear files. I have told the chief minister to crack the whip on this otherwise there is no point in talking about ease of doing business,” he said. Pointing out to the entry of global giants such as IFB Industries, Siemens, Rosenberger Electronic Co, Bosch and Optel Vision, Kunkolienker said that more industries would be willing to setup shop in Goa if the state creates a manufacturing ecosystem. In a recent ease of doing business index (EODB) for states, Goa slipped to 24 as the state failed to bring in a slew of reforms. Goa State Industries Association, Verna Industries Association and Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry have together said that the state government has repeatedly ignored the industry and the concerns raised. Kunkolienker, who has served as a director on the GIDC’s board and with IPB, said that there is a large disconnect between the reforms initiated by the Centre and the implementation of the reforms in Goa. “IDC is slow, inefficient and corrupt. The chief minister should dissolve the GIDC board. I think the time has come to scrap IPB and GIDC if they can’t help entrepreneurs,” the MAIT chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-ipb-need-revamp-to-attract-investors-mait/articleshow/78223911.cms||Newton Sequeira
September 21, 2020||Goa||With 32% excess rain, Goa’s monsoon likely to cross last year’s 160-inch mark||PANAJI: Goa’s total rainfall for 2020 is expected to cross last year’s 160-inch mark. As of Sunday, the state had received a total of 150 inches of rainfall. “So far, Goa’s seasonal rainfall is in excess of 32%. It will definitely exceed last year’s rainfall within a couple of days due to a low pressure region formed in the Bay of Bengal on Sunday,” former scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), M R Ramesh Kumar, told TOI. While the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the withdrawal of monsoon is expected to start by September 25 from the northwest part of the country, rainfall is expected to continue over Goa till October. This year, the state witnessed just one storm, Nisarga, from June 1 to 4, at the beginning of the monsoon season. There has been no major depression or deep depression subsequently, but there were several low pressure areas in both, the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, which made conditions conducive for an excellent monsoon for the Indian subcontinent. Kumar said that in Goa, all important synoptic conditions, such as the position of the monsoon trough, offshore trough which runs parallel to the west coast of India from Mumbai to Thiruvananthapuram, formation of convective systems in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal throughout the season and the low-level jet which carries moisture from Indian Ocean to peninsular India, remained conducive throughout the season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-32-excess-rain-goas-monsoon-likely-to-cross-last-years-160-inch-mark/articleshow/78223948.cms||Nida Sayed
September 21, 2020||Goa||‘Underground cabling in Quelossim, Cortalim to start within a month’||VASCO: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha announced that the Rs 9 crore project of underground cabling project of 11 KV high tension (HT) line in Cortalim and Quelossim will start within a month as “all the formalities and procedures are complete and the work order has also been issued”. The project was delayed due to the pandemic and also due to the ongoing monsoon, Saldanha said. The Cortalim MLA made the statement on the sidelines of a meeting she convened with engineers from the electricity department to discuss and find a solution to the frequent power fluctuations in her constituency, especially in areas of Cortalim, Quelossim and Sancoale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/underground-cabling-in-quelossim-cortalim-to-start-within-a-month/articleshow/78224084.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu studying footage, unruly Rajya Sabha MPs may face strict action||NEW DELHI: Opposition MPs who have been charged with unruly behaviour and who heckled deputy chairman Harivansh during passage of the two farm related bills in Rajya Sabha on Sunday may face strict action as Chairman Venkaiah Naidu is going through the video footage of ugly scenes witnessed in the House. Sources said the government will press for disciplinary action against the MPs found guilty on the basis of scrutiny of the video footage, with parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi likely to move a resolution demanding action. Shocked by the unruly incidents, Harivansh briefed Naidu of the sequence of events, identifying those who broke the chair’s mike, tore papers and heckled him. One MP was seen in a video holding a marshal by his neck before mounting the table in front of Harivansh’s chair. “The incidents are on record on how the deputy chairman was physically threatened. But for the marshals, he could have been attacked by the violent MPs and there he could have been physically harmed,” a senior Rajya Sabha secretariat official said, adding that the deputy chairman had never expected such behaviour when all legislative norms were followed before the bill was taken up for passage. The official said all recordings would be shown to the chairman for a decision as per Rajya Sabha rules. “Some MPs were dancing on the table of the House and the way they approached the deputy chairman was scary,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/venkaiah-naidu-studying-footage-unruly-rajya-sabha-mps-may-face-strict-action/articleshow/78225476.cms||Akhilesh Singh
September 21, 2020||Goa||After guv’s nod, govt staff lose housing perk, can’t challenge it||Panaji: Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has accorded approval to the ordinance moved by the state government to abolish the House Building Advance (HBA) scheme. As per the ordinance, government employees cannot challenge the decision in the court of law. The ordinance, which came into effect on May 15, does leave room for the state government to restart the scheme in the future by either framing a new HBA scheme or reviving the old one. However, it prevents government employees from approaching the court or initiating other legal proceedings against the government or department officials. “No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be maintained against the government, or any of its officers or persons duly appointed or authorised by it, in respect of any action or any order or direction issued or taken or purported to be issued or taken under the provisions of this ordinance,” the notification states. This clause did not sit well with Congress. Calling it an injustice on “hard working” government employees, opposition leader and Congress MLA Digambar Kamat said, “Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari approving the state government’s decision to stop the HBA scheme, along with a diktat of a ban on challenging the order in any court of law, is against the democratic rights of citizens and complete injustice on hard working employees,” Kamat said. With the state’s finances strained, the government had decided to stop the scheme which had offered home loans to government employees through Bank of India at subsidized interest rates. Now, while monthly instalments will continue to be deducted from the salary of the employees, the government is not liable to compensate employees for financial hardships or damage caused because of cancellation of the HBA scheme. With the government terminating the scheme, government employees are also free to transfer their loan account to any other bank. The government stopped approving new applications under the HBA scheme at the start of the current year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-guvs-nod-govt-staff-lose-housing-perk-cant-challenge-it/articleshow/78224145.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Lag in updating numbers pulls Maharashtra’s recovery rate below national average||MUMBAI: A delay in digitally logging over one lakh patient discharges has pulled down the state’s Covid-19 recovery numbers. The state’s public health department has asked Nagpur, Pune and Thane districts to urgently update figures on the national Covid-19 portal. Maharashtra’s recovery rate is languishing at 73% even as the national average inches towards 80%. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas, in a circular on September 18, asked the three districts to get their act together as it was weighing on the state’s average. The circular said details of 1,08,000 discharged patients were not updated. Of the 12.08lakh positive cases in Maharashtra, over 8.84lakh patients have been discharged as per records. On Sunday, over 26,408 people were discharged after treatment. “Discrepancies in the number of Covid-19 positive patients reported as discharged on portal vis-a-vis manual data was pointed out on September 15,” Dr Vyas said in the circular. “The data not being updated by Nagpur, Pune and Thane units is unnecessarily bringing the state under criticism, as recovery rate has fallen and we are showing very high number of active patients,” the circular stated. An official said if the discharge data was updated in real time, the state’s recovery rate could be as much as the national average if not more. The state currently has 2.91lakh active cases which would reduce if discharges are uploaded. Officials in Nagpur said they have seen an exponential jump in cases and admitted to a lag in updating discharge numbers. Between August 31 and September 19, the district saw an 81% jump in active cases—from 11,701to 21,698. Nagpur’s recovery rate is around 62% currently. “The spurt in cases since August has dented our recovery numbers,” the official said. Pune district which too continues to add fresh cases in large numbers has a recovery rate of 69%. In Thane district, where recovery rate is 80%, jurisdictional issues are posing a problem. “Thane is unique in a way. It has six corporations. Records have to be uploaded as per addresses of patients and there is often an overlap somewhere between corporations or districts which we need to clarify with the concerned areas before uploading,” said Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said there is a bit of a delay in reporting discharges. “Over 50% of the active cases in the state are under home isolation and they are counted as discharged cases after ten days. Those numbers take (from) a few days to a week to reflect,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lag-in-updating-numbers-pulls-maharashtras-recovery-rate-below-national-average/articleshow/78225538.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 21, 2020||Goa||Gogol ‘enemy property’ structures under scanner||Margao: Strange as it is, over 40 apartments and 30 shops across seven buildings, besides 19 residential bungalows and several commercial houses, have come up on the nearly 15,000 sq m of land at Gogol, Margao, identified as ‘enemy property’ by the government of India. The Gogol land is among the 263 such enemy properties located across the state and nearly 16,000 across India. Over the last few days, the PWD, upon the orders of the South Goa district administration, conducted a survey of the enemy property at Gogol with a view to carry out its valuation. Sources said that the valuation report of the PWD will be submitted to the South Goa collector for further action. In 2017, the home ministry had forwarded a list of enemy properties to both of Goa’s district collectors, directing them to collect lease rent from their occupants. However, while a few occupants had moved the court and succeeded in getting back possession of the properties, in case of others, the action was deferred anticipating resistance from the occupants that could lead to law and order problem. The exercise was now carried out under police cover at Gogol. In case of the Gogol property, a source pointed out, the original owner of the land granted power of attorney to a Goan in 1971. “Based on this power of attorney, the enemy property was sold to gullible parties. A deed of sale of the land was found to be registered in 1986,” the source said. While the valuation report will enable the authorities to fix rent in respect of the ‘enemy property’, sources pointed out that the occupants who had purchased the property by legal means, unaware of its enemy country link, could face a situation where they would have to pay rent to the government for the flat or shop or house ‘owned’ by them. “Neither the original land owner nor the power of attorney holder, nor their heirs can be traced,” a source in the district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gogol-enemy-property-structures-under-scanner/articleshow/78224211.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
September 21, 2020||Goa||Navelim murder: Four rounded up by Bicholim police||BICHOLIM: Four persons, including the brother of the deceased, have been rounded up by the Bicholim police for questioning in connection with the murder of the 30-year-old Sakhali-based labour contractor, Jamedar Rehman, a native of West Bengal. Sources said that the murder is suspected to be the fall-out of an illicit relationship. Police have registered the case as murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and investigations are on. It may be recalled that the body of the deceased was found cut in three pieces and lying in the bushes at an isolated area near the Mohit Ispat factory at Navelim, in Bicholim taluka, on Saturday evening. Rehman had gone missing since September 15 and a complaint in this regard was lodged by his brother at the Sakhali police outpost the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navelim-murder-four-rounded-up/articleshow/78224235.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Goa seeks project details of Mollem from Centre||PANAJI: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Sunday said he has written to the Union environment ministry for details of the clearances issued to the three Central-government funded projects that will be coming up through the Mollem sanctuary and park. Cabral said that once he receives these details, they will be put up on the state environment department’s website to be accessed by all citizens. “These are central government projects and details of the clearances issued are with them,” Cabral told TOI on Sunday. There have been increasing protests across the state against the infrastructural projects, whichinclude a power transmission line, a highway project and a railway project. Earlier this month, Cabral held an online webinar where he took questions from different stakeholders and environmentalists, including members of the state wildlife board, about the three projects. Cabral had tried to allay their fears that the projects would lead to loss of crucial biodiversity. The environment minister had promised that he would upload details of all environment impact studies carried out for the projects on the state department’s website for citizen’s scrutiny. Cabral has gone on record stating that some of the fears may be misguided. He has said that far fewer trees will be cut within the wildlife sanctuary and national park area in Mollem as against the number of trees enumerated for the purpose in the environment impact assessment (EIA) reports for the three infrastructural projects. Cabral has said that even the trees to be pruned for the project have to reflect in the EIAs. Environmentalists, however, maintain that legally protected forests are a complete no-go areas, whatever be the project. Member of the state biodiversity board Parag Rangnekar said that the EIAs for the projects were faulty. Rangnekar said that the reptile biodiversity of the region was not even mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-seeks-project-details-of-mollem-from-centre/articleshow/78224245.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 5 lakh aspirants appear for secretary exams on Day One||VIJAYAWADA: Examinations for village and ward secretary positions started in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. The examinations were held in strict adherence to Covid-19 related norms. On the first day, exams for category 1: Panchayat secretary and digital assistant positions were held. The first session was conducted across 2,221 centres across the state where a total of 3,40,386 candidates appeared for the exam out of 4,56,997 applicants. In the first session, 45 Covid-19 positive patients and 123 suspected Covid-19 patients took the exam. Special isolation rooms were arranged for the purpose across all examination centres. The second session took place at 1,059 centres. Out of 2,24,667 applicants, only 1,65,992 appeared for the exam. A total of 200 suspected Covid-19 patients took the exam in the second session. No confirmed Covid-19 cases attended the session. In terms of precautions, face masks were made mandatory, a minimum of two meters distance was ensured while seating and all candidates underwent thermal screening before entry into exam centres. Special arrangements were made for candidates with disabilities. District collectors and joint collectors monitored the exercise. Surprise inspections were conducted at several centres. For the convenience of candidates, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) operated special bus services. However, not most candidates preferred to reach their exam centres on private transport. Bus services received a poor response. With candidates arriving on private transport, parking became a problem at the centres. The traffic police deployed special teams to clear traffic and help candidates reach exam centres on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-5l-aspirants-appear-for-secretary-exams-on-day-one/articleshow/78222075.cms||Venu Lanka
September 21, 2020||Goa||No compromise on hotel registrations: Manohar Ajgaonkar||MARGAO: A day after science and technology minister Michael Lobo stated that the government was inclined to allow hotels not registered with the tourism department to take online bookings through travel portals, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar strongly countered the claim. Ajgaonkar said on Sunday that all individuals and small hotels letting rooms and houses for homestay to tourists have to compulsorily register with the tourism department. “There will be no compromise on this aspect, as it concerns the security of the state and the nation,” Ajgaonkar told reporters. Lobo had earlier said that most online portals do not promote all hotels in Goa on account of restrictions put by the tourism department and that only those registered with it can accept bookings. Lobo had said that chief minister Pramod Sawant had agreed to do away with the restrictions. “No doubt, the tourism industry and hotel business must grow, but such growth can’t be in isolation. Coordinated tourism needs effective regulations to be in place,” Ajgaonkar said. He said that while the government was aiming to boost tourism, the focus was on facilitating employment generation and providing livelihood opportunities to locals through the tourism industry. Stating that the government has simplified the registration process for rooms and homestays with the tourism department, Ajgaonkar said a house tax receipt would suffice for the purpose. “During the lockdown, Goa had more number of foreign tourists than what our records conveyed. This is not a good indication as it concerns security of tourists and local businesses. The issue came to the fore at the meeting of tourism stakeholders recently, and it was unanimously decided that registration of tourists entering the state is imperative,” Ajgaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-compromise-on-hotel-registrations-ajgaonkar/articleshow/78224263.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Heavy inflow, all 70 gates of Prakasam Barrage opened||VIJAYAWADA: With huge inflows of water at Prakasam Barrage, the Krishna district administration is on high alert. All 70 gates of the barrage were opened on Sunday and 4.2 lakh cusecs of water was released into the Bay of Bengal. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz inspected the flood situation and convened a review meeting with district officials. Fishermen have been directed to not venture into the waters until further instructions. Bathing in river has been prohibited at police personnel have been deployed on the banks. The first warning continued all through the day. Revenue authorities have alerted people living in low-lying areas about the threat. Irrigation officials said that the water level is expected to go down in the next two to three days. Outflows from Nagarjuna Sagar, Srisailam and Pulichintala came down on Sunday. Nearly 3,000 people have taken shelter at various relief camps in Vijayawada. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is providing food and other essentials to flood victims. Special medical camps were organised. The VMC’s health wing is focussed on sanitation in flood-affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/heavy-inflow-all-70-gates-of-prakasam-barrage-opened/articleshow/78222089.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Missing 4-year-old found dead in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A four-year-old boy who was missing for the last four days was found dead in a canal at Girijavolu village in Guntur district on Sunday. The deceased, identified as Jaswanth, went missing from his home on Wednesday. Subsequently, his mother, Lakshmi, lodged a police complaint. Police suspect foul play on part of the boy’s uncle Veera Swamy. According to the police, Lakshmi was married to a Nageswara Babu nearly five years ago. Babu died and since then Lakshmi was living-in with Veera Swamy. After Jaswant went missing on Wednesday, police began to probe. Villagers said that they had seen Veera Swamy carrying something in a jute bag and heading towards the canal. That was the last time anyone saw Veera Swamy. A case was registered and police have launched a search operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/missing-4-year-old-found-dead/articleshow/78222113.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: TTAG objects to Michael Lobo’s take on unregistered hotels||PANAJI: The trade body, travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG) has taken strong objection to minister for science and technology Michael Lobo’s statement that unregistered hotels be allowed to sell their rooms on travel portals. “We wonder who the tourism minister of Goa is?” TTAG president Nilesh Shah said. Lobo had told reporters on Saturday that the chief minister has agreed to allow unregistered hotels to start taking bookings directly through travel portals. Shah said that, at Friday’s meeting, the industry was assured that the tourism department would take firm action against all illegal operators. “Ajgaonkar told us that he will stand by the tourism department and no political intervention will be tolerated. The next day, we have the statement by Lobo. I can’t understand where we are heading,” Shah said. “Technically, what Lobo means is that the hotels operating illegally be allowed to do business,” he said. Shah said that legal operators have not been given any relief even as they are suffering due to the pandemic, but on the other hand Lobo is talking about giving protection to fly-by-night operators. The TTAG president said it is ironic that even as the government is talking about weeding out illegal operators by way of the draft rules one of its ministers is talking otherwise. “We have fought for years for the law to be amended so that all hotels are brought under the domain of the tourism ministry. Lobo is talking about doing away with all that,” he said, adding that the industry will not tolerate it. A year ago, the tourism department amended the Goa Registration of Tourism Trade Act, making it mandatory for online aggregators and all operators selling rooms, to register with the tourism department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ttag-objects-to-lobos-take-on-unregistered-hotels/articleshow/78224282.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Flood effect: Salinity down in Andhra Pradesh's Krishna delta, groundwater levels up||VIJAYAWADA: The continuous flow of flood water into Prakasam Barrage has boosted groundwater tables and brought down salinity levels in the Krishna delta. There is a significant decline in salinity in Avanigadda and Nagayalanka region. The state government has sanctioned two barrages on the downstream of Prakasam Barrage to reduce salinity in the delta region and farmers are happy at the move. As many reservoir projects came up on the Krishna, water flow from Prakasam Barrage reduced. Diviseema in Krishna district, on the tail end of the Krishna delta, has been plagued by salinity for years with poor flow of water in the Krishna. Groundwater till Pamarru had saline content. Since 2019, heavy rains resulted in flood in the Krishna. All major projects including Nagarjuna Sagar, Srisailam, Pulichintala reached full capacity and water was released into Bay of Bengal from Prakasam Barrage. With continuous outflow at Prakasam Barrage, salinity in the delta villages came down and groundwater got charged by six meters. “We are noticing change in taste of water since October 2019. Water has less salinity and we are able to drink water directly due to the flood,” said K Janardhan, a farmer from Srikakulam village in Krishna district. The irrigation authorities were estimating that the ground water levels at Avanigadda region will increase with the two proposed barrages on the Krishna in the downstream of Prakasam Barrage. “We are monitoring ground water levels. There is a huge change in levels of water at the Krishna riverbed villages. Salinity has come down and groundwater levels increased by 10 meters in some areas. The continuous outflow from Prakasam Barrage has helped in overcoming the salinity issue. Hundreds of palaeochannels in the riverbed will get active and it helps to improve the quantity and quality of water. The salinity problem will be addressed up to some extent with the construction of two new barrages,” said A Vara Prasada Rao, deputy director at ground water department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flood-effect-salinity-down-in-krishna-delta-groundwater-levels-up/articleshow/78222120.cms||Venu Lanka
September 21, 2020||India||Despite Covid effect, women still hold 52% of NREGS work||NEW DELHI: Out of a total 204.7 crore persondays of work generated under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) since April this year women account for 52.5% (107.4 crore) persondays. In terms of absolute numbers over 4.3 crore women have been provided employment since April. Data from the rural development ministry’s MIS on NREGS from 2016 shows that the proportion of women accounting for persondays of work has been more than 50%, way higher than the statutory requirement of one-third mark. In 2019-20, women accounted for 54.7% of total 265.2 crore persondays generated for the entire year. The 2020-2021 data reflects the trends from April to September and it is significant to note that 204.7 crore persondays of work has already been generated due to the high demand during the pandemic. It is evident that women’s proportion to men in terms of persondays of work has not seen any rise during the pandemic and is in fact lower than last year’s total percentage. The access to work in the months ahead will be critical to see if the women manage to get to increase their persondays tally. In terms of absolute numbers, however, as per the data on the Union rural development ministry’s NREGA MIS, over 4.3 crore women have been provided employment since April. This number is clearly higher than the total participation recorded over the last five years going by the data shared by the ministry in Parliament in a written response to a question in Lok Sabha in March where they informed that in 2019-20 (up to February 27) 3.9 crore women got work under MNREGS. This number was 4 crore in 2018-19, 3.9 crore in 2017-18 and 3.9 crore in 2016-17. So while more women got work under MNREGS this year so far, in terms of persondays they clearly got tough competition from men or lost the opportunity to work due to factors arising out of the pandemic including household and care giving responsibilities. The pandemic has made many more men in rural India turn towards the scheme amid joblessness. The return of migrants to villages further increased the demand for work. As many as 5.9 crore households have got work under NREGS since April this year and on average, the number of households that worked under the scheme in the last year was 5.5 crore. Also 8.8 lakh families have already completed 100 days of work. This growth in demand has brought focus on concerns that women’s participation may be affected due to socio-economic factors and gender biases. In 2018-19 women accounted for 54.6% of total persondays of work generated. In 2017-18, it was 53.5% and in 2016-17 they accounted for a significant 56.2% persondays of work. Watch Despite Covid effect, women still hold 52% of NREGS work||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/despite-covid-effect-women-still-hold-52-of-nregs-work/articleshow/78225525.cms||Ambika Pandit
September 21, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Sealed buildings in Mumbai up 86% in a month||MUMBAI: The number of sealed buildings/floors in the city rose 86% between August 15 and September 18. Covid-19 cases on such premises increased by 85% during the same period. However, there was only a small rise in the number of containment zones in slums and chawls. Hospital bed occupancy figures show positive cases dropping from the second half of August to September first week, but then rising again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sealed-buildings-in-mumbai-up-86-in-a-month/articleshow/78225560.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Mobile app-based cricket betting racket busted in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Just ahead of the launch of the much-awaited cricket gala— the Indian Premiere League (IPL) — Vijayawada police have busted a cricket betting racket in the city. Police found that the organisers of a betting racket are using a mobile app to place bets and conducting monetary transactions over digital wallets. Three persons have been arrested in connection to the case. The main accused is at large. According to deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Harshavardhan Raju, Machavaram police received information about a betting racket and raided a pre-school and day-care centre at Municipal Employees Colony. With the school closed, the owner of the building had put up a ‘to-let’ board. Police said that a person called Naveen had taken the school building on rent. He then hired a person named Atluri Sri Ranjit (33) from Bhimavaram for Rs20,000 to receive calls from punters and placed bets. Naveen allegedly also hired Divi Srinath (39) and P Naga Venkata Siva (38) as security. On September 16, Machavaram police inspector Vijay Mohan received information about a betting racket and raided the building. The cops found that organisers were running a bet on the Australia versus England one-day match. Bets were placed to the tune of Rs12.5 lakh. The police have seized a communicator box with 30 phone connections, 25 mobile phones, a laptop and other gadgets. Police arrested Ranjit, Srinath and Siva Prasad on Sunday. The main accused, Naveen, managed to escape. DCP Raju said that a special team is looking for him and other accused. DCP Harshavardhan Raju further said that the organisers were using a special mobile app called ‘Avatar’ where punters could directly place bets through the app and payments were being made through digital wallets. He added that the accused were also using conventional method of running bets with a communicator through which they would receive calls from punters. The DCP said that surveillance on betting rackets has been enhanced in view of IPL and stringent action will be taken against betting organisers and punters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mobile-app-based-cricket-betting-racket-busted-in-vij/articleshow/78222136.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Goa||Santa Cruz shootout accused denied bail||PANAJI: The district court on Saturday dismissed the bail application of Salim Shaikh alias Abusalim Alla Baksh, an accused in the Santa Cruz shootout in June. The court took into consideration that a sword used in the incident was recovered as per his information. This would prima facie indicate that he was present at the time of the commission of the crime, the court said. The court took note of the investigating officer’s reply stating that the scene of offence was under surveillance of CCTV cameras. “The offence committed is serious in nature as a person has lost his life. Considering the nature of the crime and the fact that the earlier bail application of the applicant was rejected, the applicant is not entitled for bail and accordingly this application stands dismissed,” additional sessions judge Sherin Paul stated. The court had also denied bail to him last month. According to the investigating officer, interrogation of the accused revealed that he was present for a birthday party held at St Inez where the conspiracy was hatched and was also involved in the commission of the crime. He was arrested on June 23 following the shootout which resulted in the death of one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/st-cruz-shootout-accused-denied-bail/articleshow/78224290.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Oxygen therapy at home: New Covid-19 treatment model gains traction in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Home oxygen therapy is gradually becoming popular among Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms as a way of staying out of the hospital and reducing treatment costs. While corporate hospitals charge between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000 per day to provide oxygen to patients, the home oxygen therapy model works at nearly half the cost, between Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,500. The supply of oxygen cylinders at home is not something new. However, with Covid-19’s impact on patients’ respiratory capacities, doctors are now advising patients to go for home oxygen therapy only if they have mild symptoms associated with breathing trouble. Patients are being advised to take portable oxygen cylinders which have a maximum capacity of 7 cubic meters home instead of going to the hospital for the purpose of taking oxygen. A city-based doctor said, “Yes, I have started suggesting patients to take home oxygen therapy. I do take care of selecting such patients. Almost all patients, in my case, have got successful results.” The doctor said that he guides families on how to use the cylinders over video calls. According to medical authorities, Covid-19 patients suffering from comorbidities such as asthma and cardiac ailments may need oxygen support. “The average oxygen saturation level for healthy individuals is 95%. Among Covid-19 patients, the oxygen level drops to as low as 75-80%. This can cause death,” said a professor of Andhra Medical College in Visakhapatnam. Speaking to TOI, Dr KVV Vijay Kumar, head of department of pulmonary medicine at Andhra Medical College and superintendent of Government Hospital for Chest and Communicable Diseases said that home oxygen therapy is best for aged patients with mild symptoms and breathing problems. “If possible, it is better to take standard oxygen concentrators which cost between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh. These devices don’t need refills as oxygen is extracted from the atmosphere,” Dr Vijay Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/oxygen-therapy-at-home-new-covid-19-treatment-model-gains-traction-in-vizag/articleshow/78222151.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 21, 2020||Chennai||Border villages alert as 130 wild elephants enter Tamil Nadu forests from Karnataka||KRISHNAGIRI: As 130 wild elephants have entered Tamil Nadu forests from Karnataka in two herds, the forest department has warned people in villages along the inter-state border in Krishnagiri district to exercise caution. Ranger of Jawalagiri forest range in Hosur forest division, M Nagarajan held meetings with Thally and Jawalagiri villagers for the past three days. “A total of 130 elephants, which entered Tamil Nadu forests from Karnataka, have split into two herds,” the ranger said, adding that, one of the herds with 70 elephants has been camping at Thally forest range, while the rest are in Jawalagiri range. According to forest officials, this is a usual migration pattern of elephants. “They usually migrate from Bannerghatta forest division in Karnataka to Tamil Nadu during monsoon seasons,” the ranger said. The ranger said this is the first herd arriving from Karnataka and that the pachyderms will camp in Tamil Nadu forests for the next four months as this is the season for ragi and horse gram crop cultivation here. “Elephants regularly feast on these two crops,” the ranger added. The forest officials, meanwhile, alerted villagers in both Thally and Jawalagiri forest ranges not to venture into the forests, especially during night hours. “We have also advised them not to go to their agriculture fields, for security reasons, as that could result in man-animal conflicts,” the ranger said. The forest officials have also advised villagers to step out of their houses only after sun rise and return home before dusk. “We have advised them to not graze their cattle in the forests or close to the boundaries,” Nagarajan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/130-elephants-enter-tamil-nadu-from-karnataka/articleshow/78216527.cms||V Senthil Kumaran
September 21, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Maharashtra crosses 4 lakh cases in September alone, MMR is ahead of rest||MUMBAI: With an addition of 20,598 cases on Sunday, the state has now reported over 4lakh cases of Covid-19 in the 20 days of September. Maharashtra’s overall burden rose to 12,08,642 on Sunday, while its toll increased to 32,671 with 455 more deaths added to casualties. The state had added 3.71lakh in August, which makes September the worst month thus far. The city also continued to add over 2,000 new cases for the fifth day in a row, it added 2,209 cases and 44 deaths on Sunday taking total cases to 1,84,439 and deaths to 8469. Authorities attributed the surge to increased testing. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said over 70% of positive cases are coming from high-rises. “This is why we are pushing for the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign, where health workers are carrying out door-to-door screening,” he said. Kakani said that in housing societies not permitting a door-to-door campaign to be held, they are setting up camps on the premises. “The idea is to pick up cases among elderly and comorbid people early,” he said. BMC said Mumbai’s recovery rate has crossed 80% with active cases dipping to 27,787. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe, who carries out a weekly audit of deaths, said the fatality number has dropped below 2%, though cumulative rate since March is 4.67%. “The focus has shifted from cases to reducing deaths and early detection and treatment has been found to make a big difference,” he said. The state has recorded the highest discharges in a single day; even Mumbai has been discharging over 5,000 people in a single day since Saturday. Maharashtra sent home 26,408 on Sunday, taking total discharges to 8.8 lakh and rate of recovery to 73%. In just eight days after overtaking Thane in active cases, the count in Mumbai dropped below that in the neighbouring district on Sunday as it discharged over 10,000 over the weekend. At the state level, the MMR reported the highest cases and deaths. A total of 5,209 cases and 99 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total cases to 4.3 lakh and deaths to 14,780. Pune region came second, with 5,193 cases and 96 deaths. Total cases in Pune region were 3.2 lakh and 7,045 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-maharashtra-crosses-4-lakh-cases-in-september-alone-mmr-is-ahead-of-rest/articleshow/78225583.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 21, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra crosses 4 lakh cases in September alone, MMR is ahead of rest||MUMBAI: With an addition of 20,598 cases on Sunday, the state has now reported over 4lakh cases of Covid-19 in the 20 days of September. Maharashtra’s overall burden rose to 12,08,642 on Sunday, while its toll increased to 32,671 with 455 more deaths added to casualties. The state had added 3.71lakh in August, which makes September the worst month thus far. The city also continued to add over 2,000 new cases for the fifth day in a row, it added 2,209 cases and 44 deaths on Sunday taking total cases to 1,84,439 and deaths to 8469. Authorities attributed the surge to increased testing. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said over 70% of positive cases are coming from high-rises. “This is why we are pushing for the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign, where health workers are carrying out door-to-door screening,” he said. Kakani said that in housing societies not permitting a door-to-door campaign to be held, they are setting up camps on the premises. “The idea is to pick up cases among elderly and comorbid people early,” he said. BMC said Mumbai’s recovery rate has crossed 80% with active cases dipping to 27,787. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe, who carries out a weekly audit of deaths, said the fatality number has dropped below 2%, though cumulative rate since March is 4.67%. “The focus has shifted from cases to reducing deaths and early detection and treatment has been found to make a big difference,” he said. The state has recorded the highest discharges in a single day; even Mumbai has been discharging over 5,000 people in a single day since Saturday. Maharashtra sent home 26,408 on Sunday, taking total discharges to 8.8 lakh and rate of recovery to 73%. In just eight days after overtaking Thane in active cases, the count in Mumbai dropped below that in the neighbouring district on Sunday as it discharged over 10,000 over the weekend. At the state level, the MMR reported the highest cases and deaths. A total of 5,209 cases and 99 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total cases to 4.3 lakh and deaths to 14,780. Pune region came second, with 5,193 cases and 96 deaths. Total cases in Pune region were 3.2 lakh and 7,045 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtra-crosses-4-lakh-cases-in-september-alone-mmr-is-ahead-of-rest/articleshow/78225579.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra crosses 4 lakh cases in September alone, MMR is ahead of rest||MUMBAI: With an addition of 20,598 cases on Sunday, the state has now reported over 4lakh cases of Covid-19 in the 20 days of September. Maharashtra’s overall burden rose to 12,08,642 on Sunday, while its toll increased to 32,671 with 455 more deaths added to casualties. The state had added 3.71lakh in August, which makes September the worst month thus far. The city also continued to add over 2,000 new cases for the fifth day in a row, it added 2,209 cases and 44 deaths on Sunday taking total cases to 1,84,439 and deaths to 8469. Authorities attributed the surge to increased testing. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said over 70% of positive cases are coming from high-rises. “This is why we are pushing for the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign, where health workers are carrying out door-to-door screening,” he said. Kakani said that in housing societies not permitting a door-to-door campaign to be held, they are setting up camps on the premises. “The idea is to pick up cases among elderly and comorbid people early,” he said. BMC said Mumbai’s recovery rate has crossed 80% with active cases dipping to 27,787. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe, who carries out a weekly audit of deaths, said the fatality number has dropped below 2%, though cumulative rate since March is 4.67%. “The focus has shifted from cases to reducing deaths and early detection and treatment has been found to make a big difference,” he said. The state has recorded the highest discharges in a single day; even Mumbai has been discharging over 5,000 people in a single day since Saturday. Maharashtra sent home 26,408 on Sunday, taking total discharges to 8.8 lakh and rate of recovery to 73%. In just eight days after overtaking Thane in active cases, the count in Mumbai dropped below that in the neighbouring district on Sunday as it discharged over 10,000 over the weekend. At the state level, the MMR reported the highest cases and deaths. A total of 5,209 cases and 99 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total cases to 4.3 lakh and deaths to 14,780. Pune region came second, with 5,193 cases and 96 deaths. Total cases in Pune region were 3.2 lakh and 7,045 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-maharashtra-crosses-4-lakh-cases-in-september-alone-mmr-is-ahead-of-rest/articleshow/78227232.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 21, 2020||India||Neighbourhood in focus: PM to hold e-summit with Rajapaksa||NEW DELHI: India’s immediate neighbourhood is coming into focus again with Prime Minister Narendra Modi expected to have his first virtual summit with Sri Lankan PM Mahinda Rajapaksa on September 26, his first with any leader in the neighbourhood. The summit could be right on the heels of Modi’s address to the UN General Assembly, which will be delivered virtually this year, during the UN’s high-level segment which begins this week. Foreign minister S Jaishankar is expected to hold a meeting of the India-Bangladesh consultative mechanism at the end of the month, to take forward the relationship, and a roadmap for two years, with a political leadership pushing the agenda. An India-Myanmar foreign office consultations is also on the cards. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla was supposed to travel to Yangon with Army chief General Naravane, which had to be postponed due to the China crisis. That may be resumed. India reached out to the Afghan government, standing by it as the intra-Afghan talks began last week. Sources said a series of high level visits from Afghanistan is expected in the coming days. Interestingly, there is no outreach planned with Nepal. The last time Nepal and India interacted at a high level was when PM K P Sharma Oli called Modi on Independence Day. On Sunday, Maldives received $250 million in budgetary support from India after a request by Maldives President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih to Modi for financial assistance to overcome the difficult economic situation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Given on favourable and transparent terms, the assistance is without conditions, according to an official readout. The Maldives government can use it for whatever they deem important, without being dictated by India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/neighbourhood-in-focus-pm-to-hold-e-summit-with-rajapaksa/articleshow/78225580.cms||Indrani Bagchi
September 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra demands audit of oxygen use in private hospitals, kicks up row||MUMBAI: The public health department has kicked up a controversy by asking for an audit of oxygen consumption in private hospitals and cautioning them against putting patients on oxygen longer than necessary. Stating that Maharashtra’s oxygen consumption appeared to be two to three times the national average, the government has also asked for a revenue officer to be stationed at the 65 refillers’ premises to prevent pilferage. In a circular issued on Friday, principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas has asked local authorities to carry out audits of oxygen consumption in private hospitals, taking the requirement of 7 litres/minute for a ward patient and 12 litres/minute for an ICU patient as the base numbers. Terming it “unscientific”, the medical fraternity said in Covid ICUs, patients on ventilators need up to 50-60 litres of oxygen per minute. Doctors said the state’s insinuation that oxygen was being “wasted” was merely to shift the blame and an attempt to cap usage. TimesViewGovernment must ensure that resources are not wasted or mismanaged. It is precious taxpayer money that is funding expenditure towards containment of Covid-19. If there is evidence to show that Maharashtra’s use of a precious commodity is not in line with national trends, it does call for greater scrutiny. At the same time, hospitals and doctors must not be made to feel that they are being reined in or not being given a free hand to decide the best line of treatment a patient needs.Active cases in Maharashtra jumped from over 1.9 lakh cases on August 31 to nearly three lakh on September 1, increasing the demand for oxygen. The department’s analysis, however, showed that Maharashtra had 10%-15% active Covid patients on oxygen compared to the national average of 5%-6% . “So, it’s clear that there is no judicious use of oxygen,” the circular stated and asked district and local body officials to submit a record of patients on oxygen to the central control room. Officials refuted that it was an attempt to cap oxygen use. Dr Vyas told TOI, “When you want to know about wastage in usage, pipeline and loose valve, you have to compare actual consumption vis-a-vis some normative number. These normative numbers are average consensus numbers compiled by experts.” The circular said that Maharashtra had the highest number of oxygen-supported beds in the country and the daily oxygen consumption has rapidly crossed 600 metric tonnes (MT). “This consumption is not commensurate with the reported number of patients on oxygen in that particular district/civic body. There is gross mismatch particularly in private and civic hospitals in terms of patients on oxygen and quantity of oxygen consumed in metric tonnes per day,” it said. Though Maharashtra produces 1,200 MT of oxygen per day, a consumption at this rate would deplete the state’s stocks fast, it added. But, doctors pointed out that there is no mechanism to get data of actual consumption. “Their fear of oxygen getting over is true, but that cannot put a clause to clinicians to stop oxygen to patients,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president, Association of Medical Consultants. He said the claim that oxygen was being exploited for commercial gains was “invalid” as it’s part of the package capped by the state. “Moderately ill patients can need 2 litres/minute to up to 8 litres/per minute, but in an ICU, patients could need up to 70 litres. The newer high-flow oxygen delivery devices need constant and good supply,” said Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, president, Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine and Covid nodal officer in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-demands-audit-of-oxygen-use-in-private-hospitals-kicks-up-row/articleshow/78225593.cms||Sumitra Debroy
September 21, 2020||Thane||Navi Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli see rise in Covid-19 cases, drop in fatality rate||Although Mumbai’s satellite cities of Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli are witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases over the past 20 days, there has been an appreciable drop in the number of deaths. The case fatality rate in Navi Mumbai for past month is 1.56%, a drop from the 3.54% in early August. The overall mortality since the Covid-19 outbreak began in March is 2.11%. On Sunday, Navi Mumbai reported 367 new cases and six deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli has the highest number of cases in Thane district but the lowest lowest mortality rate. Its fatality rate is 1.98%. On Sunday, it reported 458 cases and six deaths, taking the tally to 38,759 and toll to 768. Thane city has a mortality rate of 2.85 % with 926 fatalities against 32,477 cases till Saturday. Sunday added 386 cases and four deaths. While Covid-19 is in check in Bhiwandi, it has the highest mortality rate at 6.36%. The powerloom and warehouse hub has witnessed 299 fatalities among 4,696 cases. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) officials said their month-old ‘Mission Zero Navi Mumbai’ campaign with more testing, tracing and tracking along with timely isolation and treatment had helped. “The drop in fatality rate is due to timely detection and isolation of positive cases,” NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. “A month back, NMMC launchedMission Zero Navi Mumbai to test, trace and treat aggressively. It has done over 1.7 lakh now, with 70,000 tests in the last one month alone. NMMC officials said 10,573 positive cases had been added and 165 deaths had occurred in the past month, working out to a fatality rate of 1.56%, which is below the national average of 1.61%. The daily death toll was between five and 10 earlier, but is between two and six now. Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde said Kalyan-Dombivli had the highest patient numbers but the lowest mortality rate in Thane district. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation health officer Dr Pratibha Panpatil said the number of tests had risen to almost 2,000 every day. Thane deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said testing anf surveillance was up. “We take updates from recovered patients at regular intervals,” Malvi said. Panvel reported 212 Covid-19 cases and a death, taking the tally to 16,463 and the death toll to 370.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/navi-mumbai-thane-kalyan-dombivli-see-rise-in-covid-19-cases-drop-in-fatality-rate/articleshow/78225612.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 21, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli see rise in Covid-19 cases, drop in fatality rate||Although Mumbai’s satellite cities of Navi Mumbai, Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli are witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases over the past 20 days, there has been an appreciable drop in the number of deaths. The case fatality rate in Navi Mumbai for past month is 1.56%, a drop from the 3.54% in early August. The overall mortality since the Covid-19 outbreak began in March is 2.11%. On Sunday, Navi Mumbai reported 367 new cases and six deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli has the highest number of cases in Thane district but the lowest lowest mortality rate. Its fatality rate is 1.98%. On Sunday, it reported 458 cases and six deaths, taking the tally to 38,759 and toll to 768. Thane city has a mortality rate of 2.85 % with 926 fatalities against 32,477 cases till Saturday. Sunday added 386 cases and four deaths. While Covid-19 is in check in Bhiwandi, it has the highest mortality rate at 6.36%. The powerloom and warehouse hub has witnessed 299 fatalities among 4,696 cases. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) officials said their month-old ‘Mission Zero Navi Mumbai’ campaign with more testing, tracing and tracking along with timely isolation and treatment had helped. “The drop in fatality rate is due to timely detection and isolation of positive cases,” NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said. “A month back, NMMC launchedMission Zero Navi Mumbai to test, trace and treat aggressively. It has done over 1.7 lakh now, with 70,000 tests in the last one month alone. NMMC officials said 10,573 positive cases had been added and 165 deaths had occurred in the past month, working out to a fatality rate of 1.56%, which is below the national average of 1.61%. The daily death toll was between five and 10 earlier, but is between two and six now. Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde said Kalyan-Dombivli had the highest patient numbers but the lowest mortality rate in Thane district. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation health officer Dr Pratibha Panpatil said the number of tests had risen to almost 2,000 every day. Thane deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi said testing anf surveillance was up. “We take updates from recovered patients at regular intervals,” Malvi said. Panvel reported 212 Covid-19 cases and a death, taking the tally to 16,463 and the death toll to 370.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-thane-kalyan-dombivli-see-rise-in-covid-19-cases-drop-in-fatality-rate/articleshow/78225606.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||RFI to pitch for its advanced carbine after MoD scraps order from UAE||KOLKATA: Rifle Factory Ishapore (RFI) will now pitch for orders for its Close Quarter Battle (CQB) Carbine for the Army, now that the Ministry of Defence has cancelled orders from the United Arab Emirates. The Army needs 93,895 CQB carbines and was to place orders with the Caracal Group of UAE in 2018. The government has decided to take the Make in India route. This comes at a time when RFI has developed an advanced 5.56 mmx45 mm carbine that is undergoing evaluation. This developm-e nt comes at a time when ordnance factories across the country are bracing for an agitation over the government’s plans to corporatize them. RFI was the primary supplier of the 5.56 mm Insas Rifle to the Army and would manufacture nearly 100,000 of them annually till about 10 years ago. Today, the factory, on the outskirts of Kolkata, has no orders from the Army though it continues to deliver personal arms to central armed police and state police forces. “We have brought out four weapons through advanced R&D. One of these is the 7.62 mmx51 mm Ishapore Assault Rifle. The others are the CQB Carbine, a 7.62 mmx51 mm Sniper Rifle and a 8.6 mmx70 mm Sniper Rifle. Development of the assault and the two sniper rifles helped RFI participate in the recently held Atmanirbharata Week. RFI has also bagged the Golden Peacock Innovative Product/Service Award 2020 for the 7.62 mmx51 mm Sniper Rifle. The Assam Rifles has already taken delivery of 100 of these rifles,” said D K Mahapatra, general manager, RFI. Mahapatra doesn’t feel that employees have any cause for concern even if the factory is corporatized. What is required is a change of gear. RFI will also be building components for the AK 203 Assault Rifles, production of which is slated to begin soon. “We still have some business and will get more if there is more effort towards quality and increase in productivity. We have the equipment. We have overcome a lot in the last two years and got rid of several problems such as cash defalcation and pilferage of arms,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rfi-to-pitch-for-its-advanced-carbine-after-mod-scraps-order-from-uae/articleshow/78225109.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee postpones North Bengal visit due to forecast of bad weather||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has postponed her North Bengal visit and has rescheduled it on September 29 and 30. A Nabanna official said in view of the Met department’s forecast of depression in Bengal for the next few days, Banerjee has decided to stay at Nabanna control room to monitor the situation. He added that the CM has asked all districts to remain alert, particularly those in coastal areas. The official said the CM decided to change her programme schedule due to forecast of inclement weather. Earlier, it was decided that Banerjee would leave for Siliguri on Monday to start her administrative meeting. She would have stayed there till September 24. This has been pushed back by a week. This is CM’s first visit to North Bengal since the Covid-19 outbreak in March. She will visit Siliguri after a gap of almost six months. “In view of the meteorological forecast of inclement weather in West Bengal in the next few days... the Hon’ble Chief Minister’s ensuing North Bengal district review meetings are being postponed to 29th and 30th September,” the notification said. The CM is expected to stay at Uttar Kanya — the North Bengal branch secretariat — and would also hold meetings with North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh and tourism minister Gautam Deb in addition to North Bengal district officials. Sources hinted that most meetings would be through video-conferences. Banerjee might hold closed-door meetings with some political leaders, sources said. Sources claimed that some functionaries of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and that of Lepcha Welfare Board and Bhutia Welfare Board might call on her there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-postpones-n-bengal-visit-due-to-forecast-of-bad-weather/articleshow/78225030.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Two held with maps on Indo-Bangladesh border||KOLKATA: On Saturday, barely a few hours after NIA arrested nine suspected al-Qaida operatives from Kerala and Bengal, BSF apprehended two Indian nationals near the Indo-Bangladesh border with suspicious maps and 500 methamphetamine tablets at Hakimpur in North 24 Parga- nas. BSF has got in touch with the NIA and Narcotics Control Bureau. “The two were attempting to cross the border into Bangladesh near Hakimpur BOP when they were nabbed by troops of the 112Bn BSF. The maps had certain markings. Narcotics smugglers have been apprehended in the past but this is the first time maps have been recovered. The troops were acting on a tip-off and apprehended the duo outside a sweet shop at the Hakimpur bus stand. A motorcycle was also seized,” a senior BSF official said. The two have been identified as Ruhul Mondal (27) and Faruk Molla(38) from the Polta and Nirman villages in Swarupnagar. “We were surprised to find the maps on them with certain markings. We have contacted the NIA so they may check the documents,” said S S Guleria, DIG, BSF, South Bengal Frontier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-held-with-maps-on-indo-bangla-border/articleshow/78225028.cms||Jayanta Gupta
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||High school clerk quizzed over Birbhum minor’s ‘rape-suicide’||RAMPURHAT: The Birbhum police on Sunday started questioning a 32-year-old clerk in a government high school for his reported involvement in the abuse and death of a teenage school-goer in Murshidpara village under Murarai police station in Birbhum. The victim's father, a Dalit, has alleged that his daughter — a Class VIII student — had left home on Saturday for her private tuitions. He alleged that she was abducted by one Utpal Mondal, who forcibly dragged her into a narrow alley and raped her. Locals told police Mondal was a high-school clerk. The father said, “After returning home, she didn’t tell us anything. She went straight into her room and consumed insecticide. When she started moaning we rushed into the room and asked what had happened. She said that Utpal had forcibly raped her. Utpal earlier used to tease my daughter. With the help of our neighbours, we immediately took her to Murarai hospital. My daughter mentioned the name of Utpal before the villagers who had gathered then. From Murarai, she was shifted to Rampurhat Medical College where she succumbed to death early on Sunday. We want Utpal to be punished.” Police said that medico-legal examinations and post mortem have been conducted in hospital. “Prima facie, no medical evidence of rape had been found. However, the victim is a minor. She could have been abused. The father has not lodged a formal complaint but we will record his statement. We have started investigation into the matter and the accused person is being questioned,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-school-clerk-quizzed-over-birbhum-minors-rape-suicide/articleshow/78225076.cms||Someswar Boral
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker found dead in East Midnapore||SABANG: The body of a BJP worker was found near Bakcha area on Sunday, triggering tension both in Bakcha and Sabang in the two Midnapores. The body, police said, had wounds that were caused by bomb explosion. Residents of Karanpally area, near Bakcha, East Midnapore found a man lying near a ground in the morning. He was later identified as Dipak Mandal (36) of Bakcha. Mandal was rushed to the Sabang hospital, where he was declared brought dead. BJP’s Ghatal organisational district president Antara Bhattacharya pointed a finger at Trinamool Congress workers. “Our workers are being killed every day. This government has failed to provide safety and security to people in the state,” she said. BJP’s Tamluk president Nabarun Nayek alleged that musclemen, who were once in CPM, had now started working for Trinamool. “TMC workers tried to create an ambience of fear in the area and continued bombing on Saturday night. Mandal was a victim,” he said. Mandal had come to Karanpally to watch a football match on Saturday but did not return home after the match. Trinamool’s West Midnapore president Ajit Maiti said Mandal was a victim of BJP’s infighting. “Several BJP workers in Karanpally had joined TMC some days back. That created a rift and enmity between BJP workers, and they tried to take revenge on Saturday,” he said. Police registered a suo motu case. “We have started investigation,” said Kharagpur’s additional SP Kazi Samsuddin Ahmed. Meanwhile, in Damodar Chawk area of Keshpur, police recovered 98 bombs from a village and disposed these of. “During a combing operation in Damodar Chawk, we recovered 98 pieces of crude bombs in the presence of CID’s bomb disposal unit. These were later disposed of, maintaining all standard procedures,” said West Midnapore police superintendent Dinesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-worker-found-dead-in-east-midnapore/articleshow/78225085.cms||Sujay Khanra
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC-appointed panel visits Visva-Bharati on Sunday||SANTINIKETAN: The Calcutta High Court-appointed four-member committee, chaired by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, Justice Arijit Banerjee, state advocate-general Kishore Dutta and additional solicitor general YZ Dastur, visited Visva-Bharati on Sunday. The team visited the Pous Mela ground where an under-construction boundary and an old gate were demolished on August 17. The members met VC Bidyut Chakraborty and held a meeting where Birbhum DM Moumita Godara and police superintendent Shyam Singh were present. In a joint press release issued by VB and the Birbhum district administration, it was said: “The committee visited the Pous Mela ground and the surrounding area. After that, the committee met officials of Visva-Bharati and the district administration at the Central Administrative Building, Visva-Bharati and their views were heard by the committee.” It added, “It was decided that Visva-Bharati authority and district administration would work together to sort out any problem amicably through discussion and sharing of information maintaining the dignity and sanctity of the Institution of National Importance founded by Rabindranath Tagore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-appointed-panel-visits-visva-bharati/articleshow/78225051.cms||Someswar Boral
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Secondary infection worry in recovering Covid patients||KOLKATA: A small proportion — but a significant number — of Covid patients in Kolkata are experiencing secondary infections during the recovery phase, which is often leading to a sudden and unexpected health deterioration, even resulting in death in some cases. According to private hospitals in the city, the ratio of such patients seeking re-hospitalisation is small — around 4% — but the mortality rate is a steep 20%. Treatment is being done through broad spectrum antibiotics, since the undetected secondary infection could be bacterial, fungal or viral. Over the last few weeks, scores of Covid patients have been suffering from high fever, joint pain, loss of appetite and severe weakness, all symptoms of an underlying infection, according to doctors. These symptoms have been setting in between the 15th and 20th days of testing positive, in most cases. “We have had such patients intermittently over the last three months. But now, many are being forced to seek re-hospitalisation with an undetected infection. It’s getting very severe in some cases, adding to the already existing post-Covid complications,” said Rahul Jain, internal medicine consultant, Belle Vue Clinic. Jain gave the example of an 80-year-old Covid patient, who had to return to hospital twice after having recovered from the viral attack. “In his case and in many others’, the weakness and fever are persisting. These are the most common signs of an underlying infection,” he added. It’s very difficult to detect the infections, as they could be bacterial, fungal or viral. “In most cases, they strike the elderly with co-morbidities since they are the most vulnerable, due to their lower immunity. Sustained use of medicines, especially steroids, could also lead to infections. It’s important to treat these patients early, as the mortality rate is quite high at 20%,” said Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. Secondary infections are usually identified through sputum or blood culture tests and, in some cases, through a bronchoscopy. But in 60%-70% of cases, they remain unidentified. “If the bug or the cause of infection remains unknown, broad-spectrum antibiotics must be administered,” Dhar added. Some physicians also pointed out that sustained use of steroids on Covid patients has been triggering infections. Used to temper immune response to Covid, steroids often end up reducing immunity and letting underlying infections flare up. “This can be dangerous in the recovery phase, which is why we need to monitor fever and find out the cause even while treating patients for Covid. In Covid cases, it’s often being neglected and infections are being allowed to fester and flare up. So, it’s necessary to do the diagnostic checks and trace the infection. If it can’t be detected, antibiotics should be used as early as possible,” said Arindam Biswas, consultant, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). At AMRI Hospitals, the number of Covid patients seeking re-admission has gone up. Two of its employees who had tested positive are among them. “In our hospital, infections have so far been mild and manageable. But the trend is new and has started climbing, though very slowly. It could get more serious for elderly patients with existing co-morbidities,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. At RTIICS, Covid patients are often seeking readmission with post-recovery symptoms such as a persisting breathing distress or extreme fatigue. “So far, most have been treated at the outdoor, barring a few, who needed admission due to a severe breathing issue,” said zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/secondary-infection-worry-in-recovering-covid-patients/articleshow/78225029.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||No Covid deaths reported in Jharkhand, tally crosses 70,ooo-mark||RANCHI: Jharkhand did not report any Covid deaths on Sunday after more than a month, keeping the toll steady at 617. Ranchi, however, reached the 100-death mark exactly on Saturday. Meanwhile, the state reported 1,492 new cases taking the tally past the 70,000-mark. The cumulative caseload now stands at 71,352. The state also increased its number of single-day testing to 81,169 samples from across 16 districts on Sunday. “We have tested over 80,000 samples in a day with the help of the special antigen testing drive conducted across 16 selected districts. The districts were chosen for the drive on caseload basis and to strengthen the surveillance in high prevalence areas,” a senior health department official said. As the testing rate increased, the positivity rate came down to around 1.8% and only 1,492 out of total 81,169 samples tested returned positive. Ranchi continued to report the highest number of fresh infections on Sunday with a total of 468 cases. East and West Singhbhum districts, too, reported a spike with 129 and 128 cases respectively which was followed by Koderma with 114 cases and Deoghar with 72. Of the total cases, 13,791 are active and 56,944 have recovered including 1,235 on Sunday. The state’s weekly growth rate also improved in comparison with the national figures with the gap narrowing to 0.57%. While Jharkhand’s growth rate is around 2.48%, it is 1.9% nationally. Jharkhand’s seven-day growth rate (32 days), too, was only four points behind the national rate of around 36 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-covid-deaths-reported-in-state-tally-crosses-70k-mark/articleshow/78223662.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||HC division benches to hear cases against lawmakers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court has constituted two division benches and a single bench for taking up criminal cases involving sitting and former lawmakers and Ponzi scheme matters, according to a notification issued by the registrar general. The benches were set up by Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan for an expeditious hearing of such cases. A division bench comprising justices Joymalya Bagchi and Suvra Ghosh and a single bench of Justice Bibek Chowdhury will take up criminal cases involving MPs and MLAs from Monday, registrar general Rai Chattopadhyay said in Saturday’s notification. Another division bench comprising justices Bagchi and Jay Sengupta will take up Ponzi scheme matters from September 25, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-division-benches-to-hear-cases-against-lawmakers/articleshow/78225132.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Kolkata||NIA finds overseas money trail in Murshidabad terror arrests||BEHRAMPORE: The money trail in Saturday’s Murshidabad arrests has started yielding crucial leads to National Investigation Agency sleuths, who on Sunday continued searches in several places in the district. An offshore transfer to the bank account of Al Mamun Kamal, one of the nine arrested for suspected links to Pakistan-sponsored module of al-Qaida, is now leading NIA to trace the roots to neighbouring countries. According to sources, NIA investigators, after going through documents, have come across an offshore transfer of nearly Rs 1.5 lakh to Kamal’s account. While they have not specified the country of origin, sources close to the development said it is a neighbouring one. NIA has reasons to believe that the “inter-state module of al-Qaida operatives” was mopping up funds from overseas locations while preparing for attacks. Kamal, a resident of Domkal, had worked for some years in Kerala and established a network there. Over the past few months, NIA managed to plant moles on social media groups used by the nine arrested men. The agency tracked down their movements and kept a tab on their conversations. Each of the nine had been travelling to far flung areas of Murshidabad and meeting people in villages. After the men were radicalized by “Pakistan-based al-Qaida terrorists”, they started recruiting members for the India module. They also had plans to procure arms and ammunition in New Delhi after lockdown was lifted. On Sunday, investigators came across a 13ft ditch inside Abu Sufiyan’s home in Raninagar, Murshidabad. A tailor by profession, Sufiyan is a neighbour of Murshid Hassan, the accused who was arrested from Kerala. NIA has reasons to believe that the gang members had plans to store the arms and ammunition procured from New Delhi at Sufiyan’s home. Sufiyan was into religious activities and would not draw suspicion, they believed. NIA investigators in Kolkata on Sunday interrogated the six persons arrested from Murshidabad. Bengal’s investigating agencies too questioned them during the day. “There is specific information that NIA has got from the accused persons during interrogation. The six arrested persons will be produced in Patiala (House) Courts in New Delhi following the special NIA court order,” said NIA lawyer Shyamal Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nia-finds-overseas-money-trail-in-murshidabad-terror-arrests/articleshow/78225027.cms||Sukumar Mahato
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Army jawan found hanging, 3rd death at training centre this month||RAMGARH: An Army jawan was found hanging from a tree inside the training area of the Sikh Regimental Centre (SRC) here on Saturday. Lance Naik Jaswant Singh reportedly committed suicide on the campus of his regiment. His death is the third unnatural one in less than a month after two jawans of the centre drowned during training in the Mathur lake. Singh was a resident of Magarpur village under Jagdhari Tehsil in Haryana’s Yamuna Nagar district. Ramgarh sub-divisional police officer Anuj Oraon said a case of unnatural death has been registered with the town police station based on a written complaint submitted by Subedar Gulzar Singh of SRC. “Army officials informed us that it is a case of suicide,” Oraon said. Singh was found hanging around 4pm on Saturday. On September 1, sepoy Parminder Singh (22) and sepoy Jorawar Singh (22), both natives of Punjab, drowned in Mathur lake within the SRC’s campus around 7.25am while taking part in a training, Army officials had told police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/army-jawan-found-hanging-3rd-death-at-training-centre-this-month/articleshow/78223736.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Medical fraternity welcomes amendment to epidemic law||RANCHI: With Rajya Sabha passing the Epidemic Disease (Amendment) Bill 2020 on Saturday, healthworkers and bodies representing the medical fraternity in the state welcomed the step and are hopeful that the state government will pro-actively work towards passing the medical protection bill which is stuck in state assembly for the last few years. Talking to TOI, President of the women’s wing of India Medical Association (IMA), Jharkhand chapter, Dr Bharti Kashyap said, “Though we have been demanding protection of health workers from any kind of violence not only for the pandemic, but for always, we welcome the initiative and will urge the state government to expedite the process to pass the Medical Protection Bill in Jharkhand too.” The legislation passed by the Upper House on Saturday intends to ensure that there is an attitude of zero tolerance towards violence against people working in the healthcare sector. Any one providing service in healthcare sector during the pandemic will be protected under the new legislation. “Public and clinical healthcare service providers such as doctors, nurses, paramedical workers and community health workers; any other persons empowered under the act to take measures to prevent the outbreak of the disease or spread thereof; and any persons declared as such by the state government will be protected by the Act,” read the notification in the official gazette. As per the provisions of The Epidemic Diseases Amendment Bill, 2020 anyone who attacks health workers or doctors fighting the coronavirus outbreak or during any situation similar to the current Covid-19 pandemic, will end up in jail for five years. “The passage of the amendment in the 125-yea-old Act will prove as a step forward in protecting the healthcare community from unwarranted harassments faced on duty. It will also guide the state government to pass the much-needed medical protection bill which is stuck for a long time,” said IMA’s Ranchi secretary Dr Shambhu Prasad Singh. On the contrary, public health activists who had opposed the medical protection bill and had campaigned for its withdrawal from the state, didn’t raise any objection. Terming it to be an addition of the provisions for protecting health workers during pandemic, activists cautioned that these might empower clinical establishments to go ahead and exploit people in the name of providing treatment. Talking to TOI, Nadeem Khan, an active member of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan Sangarsh Morcha, who had raised objections on the proposed medical protection bill in the state, said, “Why do you need two types of laws for preventing a similar violence or any misbehaviour. The proposed medical protection bill is unwanted as there are hundreds of provisions in the IPC and CrPC to book people who get violent against health workers.” On being asked why do they oppose the bill, Khan said, “We need to understand the reasons behind the violent behaviour of patient’s kin or his/her family as no one goes to a hospital to pick up a fight and instead, they go there with folded hands. But a few people who have made this profession a corporate business wants to get immunity from any kind of questioning and that is why they demand such laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/medical-fraternity-welcomes-amendment-to-epidemic-law/articleshow/78223728.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Now, ‘Feluda’ to test for Covid infection||JAMSHEDPUR: Inspired by Feluda, the detective character sketched by renowned film director Satyajit Ray, Tata Medical and Diagnostic Limited (TMDL) in collaboration with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) and Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) developed an indigenous testing kit and named it after him to ramp up Covid tests. These kits are cheaper and throw up results faster, officials said. “A team of young scientists have developed this 45 minutes cost-effective paper-based kit for Covid test,” CSIR director general Dr Shekhar Mande said. He added, “Approval of the diagnostic kit has paved a path for further innovations towards making India self-reliant.” Though approved by Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for commercial launch on Saturday, a formal day of launch and the price are yet to be decided. Mande added, “In some part of the world, a paper-based test was named Sherlock. We thought why not name ours Feluda as the detective character is equally famous in India.” Feluda uses indigenously-developed cutting-edge CRISPR technology to detect genomic sequences of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. However, the date of launch and the price is yet to be made public by TMDL. Marking a significant achievement for the Indian scientific community, moving from R&D to a high-accuracy, scalable and reliable test in less than 100 days, Tata said CRISPR test is the world’s first diagnostic test to deploy a specifically-adapted Cas9 protein to successfully detect the virus causing Covid-19. With 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity for detecting the novel coronavirus, the Tata CRISPR test achieves accuracy level of RT-PCR tests, with quicker turnaround time, less expensive equipment and better eases of use. “The commercialization of Feluda tests reflects the tremendous R&D talent in the country which can collaborate to transform India’s contributions to the global healthcare and scientific research world,” said TMDL CEO Girish Krishnamurthy. Director, CSIR-IGIB, Anurag Agarwal said that the work started by CSIR under the sickle cell mission for genome diagnostics and therapeutics led to the new knowledge that could be harnessed to quickly develop new diagnostic test for SARS-CoV-2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-feluda-to-test-for-covid-infection/articleshow/78223705.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi to meet CMs of 7 worst-hit states||NEW DELHI: Amid rapidly rising number of Covid-19 cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to have another round of review meetings with the state chief ministers on Wednesday. The PM will meet CMs of seven high burden states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra, Delhi, UP, Punjab — that are reporting majority of new infections as well as have a high number of deaths. While majority of the infection is concentrated in five states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra and UP — around 40% of the total cases are in Maharashtra alone. These states are also continuously adding to the disease load. On Saturday, 52% of the 92,605 new cases were recorded from these five states with Maharashtra alone accounting for 22.16% cases followed by Karnataka (9.03%), Andhra Pradesh (8.9%), Uttar Pradesh (6.2%) and Tamil Nadu at around 6%. Maharashtra also accounted for the highest share in new deaths. Around 37% of the 1,133 new deaths recorded on Saturday were in Maharashtra. Though there is a huge gap in the number of deaths reported from Maharashtra and other four high burden states, but Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and UP also have significant number of deaths. The CMs of Punjab and Delhi are also likely to join the meeting. Delhi, which had controlled the pandemic briefly, is again witnessing a rise in number of cases. On the other hand, Punjab — which has been struggling to ensure oxygen supplies — has the highest case fatality rate at around 3%. The PM had held his last review meet on August 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-pm-modi-to-meet-cms-of-7-worst-hit-states/articleshow/78225627.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||For migrant workers, labour code mandates travel & PDS benefits||NEW DELHI: Interest of migrant workers have found a prominent place in the labour code on occupational safety, health and working conditions with the legislation mandating that central and state governments maintain a database on a portal for such workers. The bill, which was presented in Parliament, also stipulates journey allowance for migrant workers, benefits of the public distribution system either in their native state or the state where they work. The focus on migrant workers in the legislation comes against the backdrop of the massive movement of migrant workers to their home towns and villages in the aftermath of the lockdown imposed to ward off the spread of Covid-19. The mass exodus of migrant workers from cities had triggered a debate about their welfare and there were calls to ensure that proper facilities are provided to them in the state of their employment. The bill says that central government and the states shall maintain the database or record, for inter-state migrant workers, electronically or otherwise in a portal and in any form as may be prescribed by the Centre. An inter-state migrant worker may register himself on such a portal on the basis of self-declaration and Aadhaar.Workers who have migrated from one state to any other state and are self-employed in that other state may also register themselves on that portal, the bill said. The bill has a separate section on inter-state migrant workers and states that rules shall apply to every establishment in which ten or more inter-state migrant workers are employed or were employed on any day of the preceding twelve months. The bill says that it shall be the duty of every contractor or the employer, of an establishment employing inter-state migrant workers to ensure suitable conditions of work to such worker having regard to the fact that he is required to work in a state different from his own. In case of fatal accident or serious injury to any such worker, the employer will report the same to the specified authorities of both the states and also the next of kin of the worker and to extend all benefits to such worker which are available to a worker of that establishment including benefits under the Employees' State Insurance Act, or the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, or any other law for the time being in force and the facility of medical check-up. The bill makes it clear that the employer shall pay, to every inter-state migrant worker employed in his establishment, in a year a lumpsum amount of fare for to and fro journey to his native place from the place of his employment. Watch Labour code mandates travel, PDS benefits for migrant workers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-migrant-workers-labour-code-mandates-travel-pds-benefits/articleshow/78225599.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Ranchi||Parents’ association invites education minister to protest against private schools||BOKARO: A day after state education minister Jagarnath Mahto visited a private school to deposit his granddaughter’s fees as her name was allegedly struck off the rolls, the Jharkhand Parents’ Association (JPA) on Sunday invited him to take part in their dharna against private schools for mental harassment over fee payments. District president of JPA, Mahendra Rai, said they will orgainse the dharna at the collectorate building on Monday and urged Mahto to join since he has some understanding of the hardships they are facing. Rai said he has already handed over a memorandum over the issue to district education officer Neelam Ilene Toppo and urged her to intervene into the matter. Claiming that online classes are conducted without the parents’ consent only to collect tuition fees, Rai said, “Some schools are issuing notice to the parents to deposit fees till September or their wards will suffer in exams and board registrations. It is against the government order which says a school cannot strike off the names of students from appearing in examinations or deny board registrations.” He added, “If the name of the education minister’s granddaughter can be struck off by DPS, Chas, please imagine what we are facing at the hands of private schools. Some more schools also sent SMSes and e-mails saying the parents will be declared defaulters in case of non-payment of fees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-assn-invites-edu-min-to-protest-against-pvt-schools/articleshow/78223671.cms||Divy Khare
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian, global Covid-19 clade 70% same, 1 vaccine may work: CCMB||HYDERABAD: In a development that could result in the use of a common vaccine or drug to fight the novel coronavirus, city-based scientists said the clade or genetic group circulating in India has 70% similarity with the major strain around the world. Viruses have different clades and they need different vaccines or drugs to target them. If the clade is common, then one vaccine or drug is sufficient to fight it. The clade that is now dominant in India is A2a, which has a similarity with 70% of genomes studied worldwide. The earlier dominant clade in India, A3i, has waned, resulting in the increase of A2a genetic group of the pandemic virus. According to scientists of the city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), who analysed the genomes of the novel coronavirus, the similarity in viral genome globally means a vaccine or a drug targeting the mutation in A2a clade will work with the same effectiveness all over the world No evidence of more severe forms: CCMBAt present about 70% of all Indian as well as global SARS-CoV-2 (novel coronavirus) genomes fall into this clade (A2a). As expected for a strain which is more infectious, A2a clade quickly became dominant in India just like everywhere else,” said CCMB director Dr Rakesh K Mishra. Mishra, who is a co-author of the CCMB study, however, said there was no evidence to state that this mutation is clinically a more difficult one. “No clade at present has been conclusively shown to be associated with a more severe form of Covid-19 or an increased risk of death,” he said. The findings of the study, carried out with scientists from Institute of Integrative Biology as collaborators, are now peer-reviewed and published in the journal Open Forum Infectious Diseases published by the Oxford University Press. CCMB team had analysed more than 2,000 SARSCoV-2 genomes from India available in the public domain to understand the various strains in circulation. Earlier in June, the team had revealed the presence of a distinct virus population among Indians. This was named the clade I/A3i and is recognised by the presence of four specific variations in their genetic makeup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-indian-global-covid-19-clade-70-same-1-vaccine-may-work-says-ccmb/articleshow/78225683.cms||Syed Akbar
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Private schools fret over Karnataka’s U-turn on re-opening date||BENGALURU: Private schools are upset over the Karnataka government for not allowing them to have students on campus for doubt-clarification sessions from Monday. The ministry of home affairs had allowed classes 9-12 students to meet teachers on campus under Unlock 4.0. The state government had said it’s preparing an SOP for the same, but decided on Saturday that students cannot return to schools till September-end or further notice. While many city schools holding online classes had decided not to resume operations on Monday, the Karnataka Associated Managements of School (KAMS) said many of its member-institutions were ready to open schools. “There’s a clear discrimination between government and private schools…” said Sashi Kumar D, general secretary, KAMS. He said the last-minute announcement disallowing reopening has resulted in financial loss for schools. “We have spent thousands of rupees in getting ready for the partial reopening by sanitising the schools and asking parents to give consent letters,” he added. We had spent nearly Rs 90,000 for purchasing thermal scanners and automatic sanitisers with sensors for every floor. They might be helpful in the future, but not now. Teachers and students are disappointed,” said BR Supreet, Oxford School, Nagarbhavi. Schools said they had asked many of their teachers who had started looking for alternative employment to come back to school, only to be told that classes won’t reopen on Monday. “I did not get salary for six months; I went to work in a brick factory. The other day, the school called me saying the government will allow students to come in and we would be paid 50% salary. Now the decision has changed. Job security is a problem in teaching now and I am yet to decide on the next step,” said Shivakumar KR, a teacher. “My daughter has to write SSLC exams this year. Even though online classes are on, she was excited to meet her teachers and interact with them. She had kept her school uniform ready,” said Indira Jyothi, a parent and a teacher at Suma Public High School, near Hebbal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-schools-fret-over-karnatakas-u-turn-on-re-opening-date/articleshow/78225685.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Hyderabad||In 3 years, Rs 2,645 crore GST evasion in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Central GST authorities have detected Rs 2,645 crore tax evasion over the past three years in Telangana, with infrastructure and steel firms the biggest violators. The office of the directorgeneral of GST Intelligence and local GST commissionarates found out that fake invoices were generated through shell firms based in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata. Central GST authorities said from July 2017 to August 2020 they have booked 660 cases against erring companies and their directors. Around 38 GST fraudsters have been arrested in Telangana. Telangana comes after Gujarat, Delhi, and Maharashtra in the list of a maximum arrests. Data analytics to detect GST fraudWhile in Andhra Pradesh, around Rs 3,102 crore GST evasion had been detected and around 293 cases booked leading to the arrest of four, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur informed the Lok Sabha on September 19. Central GST authorities are using data analytics to detect fraud by scouting voluminous GST transactions uploaded online by various companies. “GST evasion is being prevented and reduced by the use of data analytics, checking E-way bills and developing specific intelligence,” Thakur said. The Centre, however, denied the allegation that tax evasion has increased postimplementation of GST. “Efforts are being undertaken to curb evasion in GST with the help of inputs from Directorate General of Analytics and Risk Management (DGARM). Further, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) and Central GST field formations are initiating various other measures in this regard,” a GST official said. According to CGST officials, fake invoices are generated by companies in order to avail input tax credit fraudulently as well as to route public money from bigticket government projects to shell firms. When it comes to firms involved in exports across the entire country, between July 2017 and August 2020, around Rs 2,551 crore GST evasion was detected and Rs 293 crore recovered from them. Overall, around 20,233 cases were booked and evasion of Rs 93,462 crore detected, involving the arrest of 408 persons in the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-3-years-rs-2645-crore-gst-evasion-in-telangana/articleshow/78225655.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa bats for 2-day session as Covid-19 cases rise||BENGALURU: Taking cue from Parliament that’s set to end its session early due to rising Covid cases, CM BS Yediyurappa on Sunday held discussions with opposition parties on trimming the 10-day sitting of the legislature into a two-day session. Some 76 MLAs have tested positive, and 30 are under treatment. Ten ministers cannot attend the session starting on Monday. Covid: 10 ministers to skip sessionThe CM spoke to Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar of the Congress, and HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) to build consensus on having a focused sitting to take up important bills at the session starting on Monday. At least 10 ministers, including deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and home minister Basavaraj Bommai, will skip the session on Covid grounds. The Congress demanded that the session be extended beyond 10 days so that significant bills and ordinances such as planned changes to APMC Act and Land Reforms Act could be discussed at length. Opposition parties want to corner the government on DJ Halli violence, drug racket and alleged corruption in Covid relief, and the Congress is said to have prepared 1,200 questions on these issues. “The BJP wants to curtail democracy. Under the excuse of Covid, it’s trying to escape from debates on major issues. We won’t allow them to succeed,” said Shivakumar. Officials from the chief minister’s office said Yediyurappa will try to convince opposition parties at the meeting of the business advisory committee on Monday. “The CM wants to limit the legislature session to the minimum. Since it is for health safety, opposition parties are expected to see the point and cooperate,” said SR Viswanath, parliamentary secretary to chief minister. “It is desirable the house debates the bills. However, with many legislators and ministers not able to attend the session, we will consider all factors at the BAC meeting before arriving at a decision,” assembly speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-bats-for-2-day-session-as-covid-19-cases-rise/articleshow/78225705.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||Containment zones’ sero survey data sent to states: ICMR||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Sunday said it has communicated to states the findings of a serosurvey in “dynamic containment zones” in 10 cities, which “do not fit into the nationally representative sampling”. The second round of a countrywide serosurvey has been successfully completed and the final analysis is underway and will provide a comparison with the first national survey, it added. The comments came in the wake of media reports of health researchers, apparently under instructions from senior ICMR officials, alleging that they were not allowed to include data from containment zones in 10 hotspot cities in the first national serosurvey study paper published recently. “ICMR has been continuously communicating with the respective state authorities. The findings of the previous survey from the dynamic containment zones were communicated to the states for further action,” ICMR tweeted on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/containment-zones-sero-survey-data-sent-to-states-icmr/articleshow/78225694.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Business||Hill tea workers to get 20% puja bonus||Darjeeling: After one round of meeting, the Puja bonus for the tea garden workers of the Hills has been settled at 20% to be disbursed in two instalments — 15% payable by October 10 and the rest 5% before Diwali. “The split bonus would give the Darjeeling tea industry a little respite as we are facing various extraneous challenges which have been compounded by the Covid-19 pandemic having a direct impact on its production and exports,” said Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), the umbrella body of the Hills tea producers. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binoy Tamang faction) trade union leader, Bharat Thakuri, who is also the president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooar Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), said, “The ceiling of Puja bonus for the garden staff has been raised to Rs14,500 from Rs13,000.” The Joint Forum (JF) (Hill), an umbrella organisation of different trade unions, agreed to the 20% bonus, but opposed the payment through two instalments. The Jan Andolan Party trade union leader Amar Lama who is a part of JF, said, "We have accepted the 20% puja bonus but lodged a protest with the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) regarding the mode of payment in two instalments as we have had a bad experience last year." The CPRM trade union leader Sunil Rai which is part of JF speaking on the same lines alleged that this agreement of bonus being paid in two installments was done by the DTA with only the DTDPLU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hill-tea-workers-to-get-20-puja-bonus/articleshow/78223947.cms||Deep Gazmer
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Orange alert in coastal, Malnad districts||BENGALURU: Heavy rain pounded coastal and Malnad districts of Karnataka on Sunday. The meteorological department declared a red alert in seven districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Hassan, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru for the next 48 to 72 hours. By late evening, it was downgraded to an orange alert. Meanwhile, a yellow alert was sounded for North Karnataka. On Sunday, Udupi was the worst affected by rain caused due to a depression in the Bay of Bengal. All exams of Mangalore University were cancelled. As many as 2,500 people were shifted out from low-lying areas, with 1,201 people moved to 31 relief camps in Udupi. The famous Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt premises were inundated but the main temple was spared as it’s at an elevation. Off Malpe coast, three boats were caught in the rain and capsized. The fishermen were rescued by NDRF personnel deputed in Mangaluru. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is under home quarantine, tweeted that 250 NDRF personnel have been deputed to Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts to assist in rescue operations. “I have spoken to revenue minister R Ashoka to send a defence helicopter for rescue and relief operations in Udupi,” he tweeted. Later, chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who was monitoring the situation from Bengaluru, called Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha to take stock of the situation and asked him to shift all people from low-lying areas to relief camps. Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga witnessed heavy rain and seven tourists were injured after their vehicle toppled in Mudigere. The government released 40,000 cusecs of water from Kabini reservoir as there was heavy rain in the catchment area and 50,000 cusecs from Bhadra dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-orange-alert-in-coastal-malnad-districts/articleshow/78225725.cms||---
September 21, 2020||India||FCRA bill making Aadhaar a must for NGOs tabled in Lok Sabha||NEW DELHI: All public servants will be barred from receiving any foreign contribution and the NGOs or associations registered under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, while NGOs cannot use more than 20% of their foreign contributions towards meeting administrative expenses, according to amendments that propose to make FCRA regime more stringent.  As per FCRA (Amendment) Bill, 2020 introduced in the Lok Sabha on Sunday, any application for prior permission, registration and renewal of registration under FCRA will now have to mandatorily furnish aadhaar number of all office bearers, directors and key functionaries of the applicant NGO, and, in case of a foreigner, a copy of the passport or overseas citizen of India (OCI) card. Importantly, the Bill proposes that if the Centre on basis of any information or report or after holding a summary inquiry, "has reason to believe" that a entity granted prior permission had contravened any provisions of FCRA, it may, pending further inquiry, restrain the person from utilising the unutilised foreign contributions or from receiving further foreign funds without prior approval of the government. Earlier, this action was invoked only upon after the entity being found "guilty" of a FCRA violation. MoS(home) Nityanand Rai, who introduced the Bill, justified the proposed amendments saying that they would ensure better compliance mechanism under FCRA. Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged the move was aimed at crushing dissent and confining unnecessary power in hands of the government. TMC MP Saugata Roy called the Bill another example of "Big Brother watching". The definition of 'public servant', as per an explanation sought to be added to Section 3 of FCRA, would be as outlined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code. This is meant to remove any ambiguity on whether the term 'government servant' in Section 3 covered all public servants. Incidentally, when the home ministry had acted against lawyer-activist Indira Jaising's NGO, Lawyers' Collective, over alleged FCRA violations, citing her Rs 96.60 lakh remuneration during the period she was additional solicitor general, this loophole was raised by the defence. The Bill seeks to lower the extent to which NGOs/associations can use their foreign contributions towards meeting administrative expenses, to 20% from the existing 50%. Using foreign contribution in excess of 50% towards administration expenses was one of the grounds for cancellation of FCRA licence of Sabrang Trust, associated with activist Teesta Setalvad, in 2016. The trust, as per MHA cancellation order, had used 64.25% of its foreign funds for defraying administrative expenses in 2010-11 and 55.14% in 2011-12. The government in its statement of objects and reasons of the Bill, said there was need to streamline the provisions of FCRA by strengthening the compliance mechanism, enhancing transparency and accountability in the receipt and utilisation of foreign contribution worth thousands of crores of rupees every year and facilitating genuine NGOs or associations who are working for the welfare of the society. All NGOs and associations registered or granted prior permission under FCRA would, as per the amended provisions, be required to receive foreign contribution exclusively in a designated FCRA account in the State Bank of India at New Delhi. However, the entities may open one or more accounts in other banks for keeping or utilising the foreign contribution received in the FCRA account in SBI, New Delhi. The SBI, New Delhi branch shall report to the home ministry the prescribed amount of foreign remittance, the sources and manner in which it was received and other particulars of the FCRA account. Section 7 is proposed to be amended to prohibit transfer of foreign contribution to any association or person. Also, the period of suspension of FCRA licence over violations is proposed to be extended to 360 days from the current 180 days. The Bill seeks to enable the Centre to allow an NGO/association to surrender its FCRA certificate if, after making an inquiry, it is satisfied that no provision of the Act has been violated. The annual inflow of foreign contribution has almost doubled between 2010 and 2019 but many NGOs/associations have not utilised the funds for the declared purpose. Many were found wanting in ensuring basic statutory compliances such as submission of annual returns. As a result, the home ministry had to cancel the FCRA certificates of over 19,000 organisations between 2011 and 2019, and also order criminal probe in cases of outright misappropriation or misutilisation of foreign contribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fcra-bill-making-aadhaar-a-must-for-ngos-tabled-in-lok-sabha/articleshow/78225702.cms||Bharti Jain
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Party host known to Ragini Dwivedi held; drugs seized from flat||BENGALURU: CCB police probing a drug racket with Sandalwood links on Sunday arrested Srinivas Subramanian alias Sri from his Sahakarnagar flat. They seized 13 ecstasy tablets, 100 grams of ganja, 1.1 grams of MDMA and 0.5 gram of hashish from his residence. According to police, Sri is a business partner of Vaibhav Jain, a bullion trader arrested recently in the drugs case. Sri and Vaibhav own several villas and farmhouses on the outskirts of Bengaluru, including near Devanahalli and Kanakapura. They gave them on lease or rent. The duo also organised parties there on weekends and allegedly supplied drugs to the attendees. Ravi Shankar, a second-division clerk with Jaynagar RTO, had revealed Sri’s name in his statement before police. Sleuths took up a case based on Shankar’s statement and arrested several suspects, including actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, event organisers Viren Khanna and Rahul Thonshe, Vaibhav Jain and others. RTO official’s statement revealed link with actorShankar in his statement before KC Gautham, an assistant commissioner of police (CCB), stated that Sri and Jain are business partners. “Sri has houses called ‘Weekend Homes’ on the outskirts of the city. Jain organises parties in those houses and supplies food, liquor and drugs there. Ragini knew Sri and his wife Sonal. Ragini used to visit Sri’s house,” he had said. A police officer, who is part of the investigations, said Sri was one of the main sources of drugs for Ragini. Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime), confirmed the arrest of Sri and said: “One of the actors in custody had visited his flat three to four times in the last few months.” CCB sources confirmed the actor is Ragini. According to police sources, Saturday’s questioning of TV host Akul Balaji and actor Santosh Kumar too pointed to Sri’s role in organising parties. “Sri has his own team of employees to arrange the premises for parties hosted by him along with Jain. Sri would rent out his premises to the public to spend weekends. But he also allegedly organised drug parties,” a police officer said. According to sources, Sri claimed that the drugs seized from his flat had been kept for his own consumption. But police are continuing probe to know their source and Sri’s association with the accused persons already arrested and the others named in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-party-host-known-to-ragini-dwivedi-held-drugs-seized-from-flat/articleshow/78225745.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Vaccine by March if trials succeed, says Centre||VIJAYAWADA: A vaccine for Covid-19 is likely by the end of March 2021 if the clinical trials succeed, Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Sunday. In a written reply to a question by YSRC MP V Vijay Sai Reddy in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday, Choubey said that the Central Drug Standard and Control Organisation (CDSCO) has given permission for testing seven vaccine candidates developed by different manufacturers. If the clinical trials succeed, a vaccine for Covid-19 can be expected by the end of the first quarter of 2021. He said the companies that received CDSCO nod for trials include Bharat Biotech, Cadila, Serum Institute, Biological E, Reliance Life Sciences, Aurobindo Pharma and Gennova Biopharmaceuticals. Interestingly, out of seven companies that are developing Covid-19 vaccine candidates, three are Hyderabad-based firms. Ashwini Kumar said that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is facilitating the studies of three vaccine candidates. An inactivated whole virion candidate vaccine for SARS-CoV-2 developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has completed phase-1 clinical trials. He said the virus isolate was provided by National Institute of Virology for this candidate and the phase-1 clinical trials along with parallel studies in hamsters and rhesus macaques have provided excellent safety of the vaccine candidate. Immunogenicity and phase-2 clinical trials of the vaccine candidate are in progress he said. The clinical trials of a DNA vaccine developed by Cadila and non-replicating viral vector vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca are also progressing well he said. ICMR along with Serum Institute also partnered in clinical development of a glycoprotein subunit nanoparticle adjuvated vaccine developed by Novavax from USA, the minister said. Apart from these, the department of biotechnology is also supporting more than 30 vaccine candidates which are in different stages of development. Ashwini Kumar observed that with 85,499 tests per million population, Andhra Pradesh is one of the top states in the country in conducting Covid-19 tests. He said the union government has been providing financial assistance to all states in the country in combating Covid-19. An amount of Rs258 crore was allocated to Andhra Pradesh in two phases out of which Rs200 crore have already been released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-vaccine-by-march-if-trials-succeed-says-centre/articleshow/78225772.cms||Srikanth Aluri
September 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cops on trail of 2 ganja users bust racket, arrest 5 students||BENGALURU: The detention of two ganja consumers helped Tilaknagar police bust a racket involving five students and two peddlers from Assam. Cops seized 53kg of ganja from them. Abhishek Atul Singh and Sudarshan Srinivas, who were allegedly high on weed, were detained at 10.30pm on September 3 near a college. On interrogation, they confessed to have purchased the drug from Nachiketh S, 19, of Banashankari. A team headed by inspector Anilkumar GS arrested Nachiketh, son of a civil engineer, the next evening when he had come to sell ganja. Police seized 250 grams of the drug from the BCA student. “Nachiketh sourced it from BBA student Prashanth of Jayanagar. He used to purchase drugs from Atithya Vora, a BE student,” an officer said. Accused’s father runs IT firmPolice raided Vora’s residence and seized 1,250 grams of ganja, 25 grams of hydroganja, MDMA tablets and LSD strips. Ganja plants were being grown in eight pots on the terrace. Vora is from a wealthy family in Gujarat and came to Bengaluru to study BE. His father owns a software firm in Rajkot. Vora initially started consuming ganja and later got addicted to it. He then began selling it to college students. He’d purchase it from BCom student Kothari and BBM student Nagaraj Rao. He also bought drugs on the dark net. Later, Kothari, son of an apparel businessman in the city, and Rao were taken into custody. Main peddlers from AssamAs per information given by Kothari and Rao, police zeroed in on Khairul Islam, 20, of Malur and Mohammed Farooq Ahmed, 31, of HAL, both natives of Assam. They were the main peddlers, who purchased drugs from Odisha and supplied them regularly to these students. They were nabbed while trying to sell ganja in Jayanagar on September 11. The two, who worked as security guards and food-delivery executives, were in possession of 52 kg of ganja worth Rs 15 lakh and a car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-cops-on-trail-of-2-ganja-users-bust-racket-arrest-5-students/articleshow/78225774.cms||Santosh kumar.B
September 21, 2020||Business||Google has different rules for itself: Paytm||BENGALURU: Following the high drama between Paytm and Google on Friday, the Noida-based mobile payments company on Sunday evening accused Google of having a different set of policies when it comes to its app. Paytm said Google Pay is running a similar cricket-themed cashback campaign called Tez Shots which offers rewards up to Rs 1 lakh based on points and a lucky draw. Search engine giant Google hit back, saying that action was taken due to repeat violations and it does not discriminate among platforms in its policies. ‘Offering fantasy gaming is core violation of policies’On Friday, Google had taken down Paytm from its app store for several hours, before restoring it later in the evening, due to a cricket sticker promo on payments run by the company. The Alibaba- and Softbank-backed firm said that in Tez Shots, different scores starting from 50 to over 1,000 can result in rewards and discounts on different services that users avail via the Google Pay app. "Presumably, such cashback campaigns of Google Pay are not in breach of Play Store policies, or maybe they are, but a different set of rules apply to Google’s own apps," the company said in its post. When contacted, a Google spokesperson said that cashbacks and vouchers are not the core violation of the policies but offering fantasy gaming is. Paytm First Games is the platform through which the company is present in fantasy gaming, recently outlining a Rs 300-crore budget to promote the business and hired Sachin Tendulkar as brand ambassador. “Our policies don’t allow online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting, including daily fantasy sports in India... In the case of repeated policy violations, we may take more serious action which may include terminating Google Play Developer accounts,” said the Google spokesperson. On the promotion of Paytm First Games through its main app, it said Google had alerted it three times — on August 20, August 28 and September 1st — raising a red flag on the matter. TOI had reported on Saturday citing this was one of the concerns raised by the internet search giant. “While we strenuously disagreed with allegation that we are breaching the policy (and we disagree with the policy itself too), we immediately complied with diktat that barred us from promoting our gaming subsidiary,” Paytm said. “We wish to make it clear that driving traffic or promoting fantasy sports is not gambling! Conveniently, Paytm First Games can do a paid promotion on YouTube (which is owned by Google), but it is not allowed to do the same advertisement on the Paytm app, as per Google policy,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-has-different-rules-for-itself-paytm/articleshow/78225797.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 21, 2020||India||World’s largest radio telescope, SKA, to have Indian IT Co control systems||NEW DELHI: The Square Kilometre Array (SKA) programme, an international initiative building the world’s largest radio telescope will have control systems designed and built by an Indian IT multinational firm — Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) — while multiple Indian scientific institutions are also contributing to the project. The National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) is the lead Telescope Manager (TM) of the project, while other institutes like Raman Research Institute (RRI) and the Indian Institute of Astrophysics (IIA) in Bengaluru, Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) in Pune, multiple IITs, among other Indian institutes are scientific partners. On September 16, SKA Organisation announced that it has passed all its final reviews paving way for the start of construction. “In recent months a series of independent external panels have examined the detailed design, costing, future operations plan and business support functions of the SKA, to ensure its overall readiness to move from planning to construction,” the SKA said. Funded by 15 member countries, including India and China, SKA, which will have an approximately one square kilometer collecting area, will feature two sets of instruments — in Australia and South Africa — and will be run from the project headquarters in the UK. NCRA-TIFR, which is leading the consortium in developing the telescope’s central nervous system – control systems that will power it — collaborated with TCS and a consortium of global agencies to set up the SKA, TCS said. Regu Ayyaswamy, TCS Global Head- IoT & Engineering and Industrial Services told TOI: “...The scale of SKA represents a huge leap forward in science, engineering and technology. TCS has been collaborating with the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics on the SKA programme since 2013. It is exciting to work with the global scientific community, on building the world's largest scientific facility.” Having designed the control systems architecture for the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (ITER), a TCS Research and Innovation (R&I) team partnered with NCRA-TIFR to create a control systems solution for SKA. The R&I team has been assisted by the TCS Engineering and Industrial Services (EIS) team. TCS was mandated to minimise the lifecycle costs associated with the continual technological development, testing, and validation that would occur over the telescope’s working life (roughly, 50-odd years). SKA is a highly complex instrument made up of thousands of receivers that capture and process signals in different observational modes, churning out petabytes of data. For large systems, it is still extremely challenging to achieve accuracy and consistency in capturing the interactions of every component. “We addressed these challenges in a two-fold manner: First, we developed a domain- specific language for specifying control systems logic. Then, designed a complete environment for engineering solutions that would significantly automate lifecycle, including modelling, code generation, knowledge-driven simulation, and verification,” TCS said. In addition to the management system that runs the telescope, TCS also defined a standard control interface between SKA and its subsystems, each of which is diverse in its functionality. This work has led to the adoption of a common project-wide control platform, standard design patterns, and a consistent control systems architecture by the telescope consortium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/worlds-largest-radio-telescope-ska-to-have-indian-it-co-control-systems/articleshow/78225817.cms||Chethan Kumar
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lok Sabha nod for upgrade of Gujarat Forensic Sciences University||NEW DELHI: A bill to establish a National Forensic Sciences University by upgrading the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU) was passed by Lok Sabha on Sunday without a debate. The National Forensic Sciences University Bill was introduced in the House in March during the last session. When it came up for passage, it was passed without a debate. Minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy moved the bill for consideration and passage. The university will grant degrees and other academic distinctions and will be open to all persons irrespective of gender, race, caste, creed, disability, domicile, ethnicity, social or economic background. Meanwhile, the a bill seeking to upgrade the Raksha Shakti University as an institution of national importance and also change its name was also passed by Lok Sabha. In a brief debate before its passage by a voice vote, Abdul Khaliq of the Congress wondered about the need to upgrade the university. According to the proposal, the Rashtriya Raksha University (in place of Raksha Shakti University) will be a multi-disciplinary institution to create new knowledge through research and collaboration with different stakeholders. While the Raksha Shakti University is a state university, the Rashtriya Raksha University will be a central institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lok-sabha-nod-for-upgrade-of-gujarat-forensic-sciences-university/articleshow/78225819.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Four pose as customers, flee with jewels||GURUGRAM: Four armed men, two of them posing as customers, looted jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh from a shop in Sadar Bazar in Roshanpura area on Saturday. They also injured the shopkeeper, who was alone at the shop. The incident took place on Saturday afternoon. Two armed men entered the shop posing as customers and asked the shopkeeper to show them gold rings. A few minutes later, the two men also entered the store and took the shopkeeper at gunpoint. Rajbeer Verma, the victim, said that this was the first such incident at the shop. “They took me at gunpoint and picked all the jewellery from the tray. They slapped me several times and warned me against raising an alarm. They fled in a Maruti Swift Dzire car,” he said, adding that even though police have beefed up security in the area, he is in trauma and his family is also very scared. “I tried to raise an alarm but no one could hear me from outside and then they threatened me too. I also fell several times and got bruised. Even though it is a very busy lane, nobody noticed what was happening inside,” Verma said, adding that the entire episode was recorded in the CCTV camera installed in the shop. Police said that the incident took place around 3.30pm on Saturday. After analysing the CCTV camera recovered from inside the shop, police said that it was clearly seen that four men were emptying the wooden trays from the display counter. They then rushed to the shop parked outside, police said. During investigation, police also recovered CCTV footage from seven spots, including from inside the shop. “We are trying to trace the car which has been used in the crime. However, the registration number of the car is fake. The car was also seen in CCTV footage of Delhi-Gurugram Expressway. The accused had conducted a survey of the market area before picking this particular shop. It is also a possibility that there are others involved from inside the market in the robbery,” a senior police officer said, adding that they are investigating the case. Based on the complaint of the victim, a case has been registered against four unidentified accused under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intentions) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant Sections of the Arms Act at the City Police station. The statement of the accused has also been recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/4-pose-as-customers-flee-with-jewels/articleshow/78223245.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 21, 2020||Business||Former Cognizant CEO D’Souza setting up $1bn PE fund||BENGALURU: Former Cognizant CEO Francisco D’Souza has started a new innings. Together with others, D’Souza is setting up a $1 billion US-based private equity fund called Recognize. He is said to have already raised a couple of hundred million dollars. The rest of the fund-raising is underway. Sources told TOI that D’Souza’s team has big names from the US private equity and tech spaces. Recognize will invest in niche tech assets and has technologists with deep domain expertise both in services and software. It is looking at M&As as part of its investment playbook, sources said. When TOI contacted D’Souza, he said he had no comments to offer. D'Souza was enormously successful as CEO of Cognizant, growing the company tenfold from $1.4 billion in 2006, just before he took over, to $16 billion in 2018, when he stepped down. The company was the toast of Wall Street for its scorching growth rates. And it grew so fast that its revenues crossed those of Infosys and Wipro, both of which were much bigger than Cognizant early last decade. Under D’Souza, Cognizant’s headcount grew from 39,000 to 2.8 lakh. Former CEOs are often roped in to manage funds or join as venture partners. Former Wipro CEO TK Kurien leads Premji Invest, which manages over $2 billion of Azim Premji's personal wealth. Peeyush Dalmia, partner in McKinsey & Company, said CEOs more than anyone else are able to form a better judgment about the team they are investing behind. “In most situations, that is the biggest difference between a good and bad investment,” he said. Uber’s Travis Kalanick has an investment fund called 10100, pronounced ten-one-hundred. Former VeriFone Systems CEO Douglas Bergeron partnered with private equity firm GTCR for a $500 million fund. Former Twitter CEO Dick Costolo and former Twitter COO Adam Bain have an investment firm called 01 Advisors. But D’Souza’s fund size dwarfs those of the others. D’Souza will also be an investor in the fund. US compensation research firm Equilar estimates that D’Souza realised $191.4 million in total compensation during his tenure as CEO from 2007, a majority of that in the form of stocks and options. In July, Spanish financial services major Santander appointed D’Souza to be a lead strategic advisor. He also serves on the boards of GE and MongoDB. He’s on the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Mellon University and is co-chairman of the Board of Trustees of the New York Hall of Science. D'Souza is an investor in Ultranauts, an engineering startup employing talent on the autism spectrum. D’Souza’s fund raise comes at a time when private equity dealmaking has slowed down on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the first half of 2020, the PE deal value in the US totalled $326.7 billion, 20% lower than in the same period of last year, according to PE research firm Pitchbook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/former-cognizant-ceo-dsouza-setting-up-1bn-pe-fund/articleshow/78225866.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
September 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Wife, in-laws booked after cops find note in lawyer’s pocket||GURUGRAM: A day after the bodies of a lawyer, Ravinder Singh, and his father were found in Laxman Vihar, police found a suicide note in the former’s pocket where he alleged that his wife and in-laws had been harassing him since the last 10 years. Following the recovery of the note, police booked Ravinder’s wife and in-laws for abetment to suicide under Section 306 of the IPC. Police said Ravinder Singh (34), a practising lawyer at the district court of Gurugram, first shot his father Rajbir Singh (62) on Saturday and then killed himself. Relatives claimed that Ravinder had a marital dispute with his wife and his father, who had taken voluntary retirement from Delhi Police around seven years ago, wanted him to sort out the issues with his wife and to bring her home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/wife-in-laws-booked-after-cops-find-note-in-lawyers-pocket/articleshow/78223275.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Faridabad||14% female population in Gurugram has been exposed to Covid: Sero study||GURUGRAM: In four districts of Haryana — Faridabad, Gurugram, Nuh and Sonipat — more women than men have developed antibodies, shows the report based on the sero-survey conducted in the state last month. Faridabad has the highest sero-positivity in both female and male population, 26.2% and 25.2%, respectively. Nuh has the second highest sero-positivity — males at 21.4% and females at 18.8%. Sonipat ranks third with 14.4% of its women and 12.1% of men found with antibodies. In Gurugram, 13.8% of the female population and 7.3% of the male population has been exposed to the novel coronavirus. All the four districts have higher sero positivity than the state’s figures of 7.9% for women and 8.1% for men. So far, Haryana has recorded 1,11,257 Covid cases and 1,149 deaths. It has a recovery rate of 79.42%. In Rohtak, only 0.8% of women and 1.6% of men have developed antibodies for the virus, the lowest in the state for both the genders. Other districts with sero positivity lower than the state average are Ambala (men 5.2%, women 5.3%), Sirsa (men 3.6%, women 3.5%), Panchkula (men 6.4%, women 6.7%), Hisar (men 5.5.%, women 1.7%), and Bhiwani (men 2.5%, women 4.2%). This was the first serological survey conducted in the state for Covid, in collaboration with the department of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER, Chandigarh. Over three days starting August 21, 18,905 samples — 850 from each of the 22 districts (500 from rural and 350 from urban) — were collected. The health department selected 16 clusters — 12 rural and four urban — for taking blood samples, which were tested for IgG antibodies. The data was collected using GPS and uploaded to a mobile app. According to health experts, at present, if a greater population develops antibodies for Covid, that will help in gaining control of the health crisis. “When 60% of population in a community develops antibodies, the transmission of a virus slows down, and when more than 80% develops herd immunity, the transmission chain in usually broken. However, it is too early to talk about reinfection and durability of immunity,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/14-female-population-in-gurgaon-has-been-exposed-to-covid-sero-study/articleshow/78226602.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 21, 2020||Gurgaon||14% female population in Gurugram has been exposed to Covid: Sero study||GURUGRAM: In four districts of Haryana — Faridabad, Gurugram, Nuh and Sonipat — more women than men have developed antibodies, shows the report based on the sero-survey conducted in the state last month. Faridabad has the highest sero-positivity in both female and male population, 26.2% and 25.2%, respectively. Nuh has the second highest sero-positivity — males at 21.4% and females at 18.8%. Sonipat ranks third with 14.4% of its women and 12.1% of men found with antibodies. In Gurugram, 13.8% of the female population and 7.3% of the male population has been exposed to the novel coronavirus. All the four districts have higher sero positivity than the state’s figures of 7.9% for women and 8.1% for men. So far, Haryana has recorded 1,11,257 Covid cases and 1,149 deaths. It has a recovery rate of 79.42%. In Rohtak, only 0.8% of women and 1.6% of men have developed antibodies for the virus, the lowest in the state for both the genders. Other districts with sero positivity lower than the state average are Ambala (men 5.2%, women 5.3%), Sirsa (men 3.6%, women 3.5%), Panchkula (men 6.4%, women 6.7%), Hisar (men 5.5.%, women 1.7%), and Bhiwani (men 2.5%, women 4.2%). This was the first serological survey conducted in the state for Covid, in collaboration with the department of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER, Chandigarh. Over three days starting August 21, 18,905 samples — 850 from each of the 22 districts (500 from rural and 350 from urban) — were collected. The health department selected 16 clusters — 12 rural and four urban — for taking blood samples, which were tested for IgG antibodies. The data was collected using GPS and uploaded to a mobile app. According to health experts, at present, if a greater population develops antibodies for Covid, that will help in gaining control of the health crisis. “When 60% of population in a community develops antibodies, the transmission of a virus slows down, and when more than 80% develops herd immunity, the transmission chain in usually broken. However, it is too early to talk about reinfection and durability of immunity,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/14-female-population-in-gurgaon-has-been-exposed-to-covid-sero-study/articleshow/78223337.cms||Ipsita Pati
September 21, 2020||India||Govt refutes UN report on IS recruits||NEW DELHI: The government on Sunday said a recent United Nations report claiming that the presence of significant numbers of Islamic State (IS) terrorists in Kerala and Karnataka were factually not correct. Rejecting the observations made in the 26th report of the analytical support and sanctions monitoring team concerning IS, Al-Qaida and associated individuals and entities, junior home minister G Kishan Reddy, in reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, said the government was continuously taking necessary measures to put forth India’s correct position through established mechanism “in unequivocal and categorical terms at various international, multilateral and bilateral fora and also through diplomatic channels”. Stating that the government was aware of the presence of terrorist outfits in the country including IS/Daesh, IS Khorasan, Lashkar-e-Taiba etc, Reddy said NIA has so far registered and investigated 34 cases related to presence of IS and 20 cases related to presence of Lashkar-e-Taiba across the country and arrested 160 and 80 accused persons respectively. 16.7 lakh applications for domicile of J&K okayed: Over 16.7 lakh of the 21.1 lakh applications received by the J&K administration for domicile certificates of the Union Territory have been approved, the home ministry informed the Lok Sabha on Sunday. Junior home minister G Kishan Reddy, in written reply to a question, said that around 1.21 lakh applications for J&K domicile had been rejected as the prescribed documents were not annexed. Reddy said that the central government had taken a wide range of measures for the relief and rehabilitation of the migrants of East Pakistan, such as opening relief camps to provide them food, shelter and other. Rehabilitation assistance was also extended to the non-camp migrants. Fixed line high-speed Net available across J&K: Stating that telecom and internet services were regulated in J&K from time to time “considering the overall security scenario”, the home ministry on Sunday said the people of J&K, while making do with 2G mobile internet in all but two districts, have had fixed line internet connectivity without any speed-related curbs. Meanwhile, junior home minster G Kishan Reddy said, “There is no restriction on accessing any sites, including the social media sites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-refutes-un-report-on-is-recruits/articleshow/78225724.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram gets first green space using waste||GURUGRAM: The officials of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Sunday inaugurated the first Swachh Vatika at Sector 4/7 dividing road. The green belt of the Sector 4/7 dividing road has been transformed into a garden and the waste material has been used to beautify the green space. “We can improve our parks and green spaces by using waste material, such as disposable plastic, which can be recycled and used further. The team led by councillor Seema Pahuja has set an example by recycling waste material and using it to develop this Vatika,” said mayor Madhu Azad, who along with the MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh inaugurated the Swachh Vatika on Sunday. The MCG commissioner said that waste material can be processed and recycled to put to use again. “If every person recycles their waste, there would be no waste at all. Every councillor should start recycling waste in their wards and put it to use by making Swachh Vatikas in their areas. If we create more of such green spaces, the entire city will see a transformation and look beautiful,” the commissioner added. Pahuja said that her team has made a 25-feet high structure using the waste material in the Swachh Vatika and asserted that such green spaces should also be created in other parts of the city. Watch Gurugram gets Swachh Vatika - the first green space using waste||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-gets-first-green-space-using-waste/articleshow/78223412.cms||---
September 21, 2020||World||US to slap curbs on over 2 dozen targets tied to Iran arms||WASHINGTON: The US on Monday will sanction over two dozen people and entities involved in Iran’s nuclear, missile and conventional arms programmes, a US official said, putting teeth behind UN sanctions on Tehran that Washington argues have resumed despite the opposition of allies and adversaries. The official said Iran could have enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon by the end of the year and that Tehran has resumed long-range missile cooperation with nuclear-armed North Korea. He did not provide detailed evidence regarding either assertion. The new curbs put European allies, China and Russia on notice that while their inclination may be to ignore the US drive to maintain the UN sanctions on Iran, firms based in their nations would feel the bite for violating them. The Trump administration had reimposed UN sanctions against Iran on Saturday over the strenuous objections of its closest allies. Secretary of state Mike Pompeo announced the “return of virtually all previously terminated UN curbs” and, in effect, declared a 2015 nuclear accord with Iran as no longer in force. Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani said a concerted campaign by Washington to pressure Tehran had backfired. “We can say that America’s ‘maximum pressure’ against Iran, in its political and legal aspect, has turned into America’s maximum isolation.” On Friday, Britain, France and Germany had said in a letter the curbs would have no legal effect. The letter said all three would work to preserve the 2015 deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-to-slap-curbs-on-over-2-dozen-targets-tied-to-iran-arms/articleshow/78225926.cms||---
September 21, 2020||World||US to slap curbs on over 2 dozen targets tied to Iran arms||WASHINGTON: The US on Monday will sanction over two dozen people and entities involved in Iran’s nuclear, missile and conventional arms programmes, a US official said, putting teeth behind UN sanctions on Tehran that Washington argues have resumed despite the opposition of allies and adversaries. The official said Iran could have enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon by the end of the year and that Tehran has resumed long-range missile cooperation with nuclear-armed North Korea. He did not provide detailed evidence regarding either assertion. The new curbs put European allies, China and Russia on notice that while their inclination may be to ignore the US drive to maintain the UN sanctions on Iran, firms based in their nations would feel the bite for violating them. The Trump administration had reimposed UN sanctions against Iran on Saturday over the strenuous objections of its closest allies. Secretary of state Mike Pompeo announced the “return of virtually all previously terminated UN curbs” and, in effect, declared a 2015 nuclear accord with Iran as no longer in force. Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani said a concerted campaign by Washington to pressure Tehran had backfired. “We can say that America’s ‘maximum pressure’ against Iran, in its political and legal aspect, has turned into America’s maximum isolation.” On Friday, Britain, France and Germany had said in a letter the curbs would have no legal effect. The letter said all three would work to preserve the 2015 deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/us-to-slap-curbs-on-over-2-dozen-targets-tied-to-iran-arms/articleshow/78225927.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops bust illegal arms racket, 7 arrested||Jalandhar: The Jalandhar police on Sunday claimed to have busted an inter-state racket involved in pushing illegal arms and ammunition into Punjab by arresting its seven members from different districts. They also seized 12 pistols of .32 bore calibre and 15 cartridges from them. Giving information, Jalandhar commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said after receiving information on September 9 regarding a person, who had sustained bullet injury and took treatment at a local hospital, the police started a probe into the matter. The injured, identified as Abhinav Misra of Pilibhit, UP, was admitted in the hospital. Bhullar said during the investigation, it came out that one Suraj, a local resident, had opened fire at Abhinav with an illegal weapon, as he suspected that Abhinav had his eyes on the women of his family. The CP said when questioned, Suraj revealed that he, along with Abhinav Misra, had been supplying illegal arms and ammunition from Indore in Madhya Pradesh in Punjab for some time and had already pushed a huge quantity of weapons into the state. “Based on his revelations, the police busted the entire network and seized 12 illegal pistols of .32 bore calibre and 15 bullets, and arrested more of his accomplices from Batala, Amritsar, Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib,” said Bhullar. He said two criminal cases are already registered against accused Suraj, Jobanjeet and Keshav Khera, while one Vijay Kumar is facing eight criminal cases. Accused Vijay and Jobanjeet were lodged in Kapurthala and Gurdaspur jails, respectively, and were brought on production warrants. A case under various sections of the IPC, Arms Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act has been registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-bust-illegal-arms-racket-7-arrested/articleshow/78224825.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini yet to reveal his location or join SIT probe||MOHALI: Five days on, former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini is still evading the force that once he headed and has not revealed his whereabouts to join the investigations with special investigating team (SIT), as directed by the Supreme Court of India. On September 15, Saini was given an interim stay on his arrest by the SC, which also directed him to co-operate and join investigations with SIT. But sources in Punjab Police said Saini is yet to come out of the hiding and make himself available for questioning. One of the senior officers with Punjab Police said, “We are yet to summon Saini for joining the investigations. We can only do this once we know where he is.” The SC had also asked Punjab to file a reply within three weeks and Saini to file rejoinder thereafter within one week. The case will come for regular hearing after four weeks from September 15. Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police in December 1991 after a terror attack on Saini that left three policemen killed. Saini was injured in the attack. The troubles started for Saini when the two of the co-accused policemen turned approvers and recorded statements against him, corroborating the series of incidents which proved that Multani was brutally tortured, disappeared and finally eliminated at Saini’s behest. Thereafter, one independent witness, a resident of Sector 33 and an advocate, G K Mann also deposed against Saini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/saini-yet-to-reveal-his-whereabouts-or-join-investigations-with-sit/articleshow/78224826.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
September 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Farmers ready for tests but health staff wary||PATIALA: Even though a number of farmers are part of protests, health authorities have not made any effort to conduct random sampling. This despite the fact that Covid-19 cases in Patiala have reached 10,363 with 282 deaths so far. On Sunday, health officials also started the three-day pulse polio drive, reaching around 50% of the total children supposed to be covered under the drive. On Covid sampling, a health official who did not wish to be named said they were too scared to visit the protest venue because of the rumours and recent violence by village residents. Health experts feel the protests could worsen the spread as agitators are not following Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. They are also worried about increased contact between farmers and local residents, particularly shopkeepers. Sukhdev Singh Kokari Kalan, general secretary, BKU Ekta-Ugraha does not agree completely, maintaining that safety norms are being followed. “We have no objections if health authorities are willing to take samples. We are following all Covid guidelines and are using sanitisers and wearing masks at the protest site,” he said. Karnail Singh Lang, president, BKU-Ekta Ugraha Patiala said, “Health authorities can take our samples if they want but if any protestor is traced positive, he/she should be home-isolated in their respective village and not be sent to hospital forcefully. Health teams should visit and provide medicines to anyone feeling weak due to protest or some other reason.” Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said, “Farmers have come to Patiala for a separate reason. They are protesting. We have not visited to take samples but if they are willing, we will definitely send our teams to conduct random sampling on protesters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/protesting-farmers-ready-for-sampling-but-health-officials-wary-of-visit/articleshow/78224829.cms||Bharat Khanna
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Blackbuck found dead in Abohar, locals allege it was hunted down||Abohar: A blackbuck was found dead in Bhagu village near Asia’s largest open sanctury in Abohar sub-division of Fazilka district on Saturday, following which the local Bishnoi community demanded a probe and claimed that the animal had been hunted down. However, a forest official said no bullet was found in the postmortem and it seemed the animald had died of wounds, but it was yet to be ascertained how the animal suffered them. On receiving the information, the people of Bishnoi community and the state wildlife department team reached the spot and the blackbuck’s body was buried after the postmortem. Range officer Anita Rani said no strong clue of deer hunting was found. “There were some wounds on the deer’s body that were looking old,” she said, adding that the deer could have succumbed to the wounds. The state president of All India Sarv Bishnoi Sabha, R D Bishnoi, said he feared the deer was hunted. He said he had received information in the morning that a deer had been hunted in a farm in Bhagu. He informed this to the department. Rani reached the spot and the body was taken for the postmortem. Bishnoi said this was not the first incident in this area. “Even before this, deer and other creatures have been hunted by poachers many times. He appealed to the people of the community to be aware of the predators,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/blackbuck-found-dead-in-abohar-locals-allege-it-was-hunted-down/articleshow/78224830.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||3L litres of lahan destroyed in Ferozepur||Ferozepur: In a joint operation, Punjab Police and the state excise and taxation department claimed to have seized over three lakh litres of lahan (raw material used for distilling liquor) during a raid on an illegal distillery, set up inside the Harrike wetland area near Ali Ke village, on Saturday. According to information, the action came as part of a crackdown on the illicit liquor trade after the hooch tragedy in which more than 100 people were killed in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts. A police official said most illegal production of liquor cases was in rural areas due to shortage and costlier availability of liquor, especially during the lockdown. Most recoveries have been made during special drives and on inputs of police sources. The police claimed that a tip-off was received by the police team on routine patrolling that six persons were running an illegal distillery extracting lahan on the banks of Satluj river near Ali Ke village and waiting for transport. During the raid,the ‘lahan’ was found in eight tarpaulins. The accused — Laddu, Massu, Tarsem Singh, Bachan Singh and Major of Ali Ke — fled from the spot. Later, the illicit liquor was reported to have been destroyed in the area along the river. A case under sections 61/1/14 of Excise Act has been registered against the six persons and further proceedings are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3l-litres-of-lahan-destroyed-in-ferozepur/articleshow/78224833.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana STF seizes 14.3 quintals of poppy husk||CHANDIGARH: The special task force (STF) of Haryana Police has arrested six persons after seizing 14.3 quintals of poppy husk from them in Loharu, Bhiwani district. A truck and a car, Hyundai Creta, has also been taken into custody, police sources said here on Sunday. Police informed that the initial investigation revealed that the seized contraband was being smuggled from Jharkhand. Based on intelligence, the police team seized the poppy husk from the truck between Loharu and Satnali Road. The arrested accused have been identified as Jaibir and Sachin, both hailing from Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh; Krishan Kumar, Anwar and Jitu, all from Jhunjhunu district in Rajasthan, and Rajesh Kumar from Churu district in Rajasthan. Anwar is a proclaimed offender and a case under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) is already registered against him in Sirsa district. A case under relevant sections of NDPS Act has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/14-3-quintals-of-poppy-husk-seized-in-bhiwani/articleshow/78224836.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Till now, 1 lakh farmers availed 19.54cr crop insurance in Himachal: Min||Shimla: Even as the farmers all over India are taking to roads, demanding protection against the vagaries of the nature and the market, agriculture minister of Himachal Pradesh Virender Kanwar was quick to point out on Sunday that the state has provided relief to 1,01,585 farmers till date and a compensation of Rs 19.54 crore. According to him, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) protects main crops like wheat, maize, paddy and barley as well as cash crops such as tomato, peas, ginger, garlic and capsicum from natural disasters like fire, sky lightning, drought, flood, water logging, hailstorm, cyclone, storm, landslide, cloudburst, pests and diseases. He said under PMFBY, 8,436 in Bilaspur, 1,081 in Mandi, 1,764 in Sirmaur, 2,659 in Solan, 3,108 in Chamba, 45,875 in Hamirpur, 22,997 in Kangra, 15,652 in Una and 13 farmers in Kullu district were provided compensation. The minister also said premium rate of sum assured has been kept at maximum 5% for farmers under this scheme — 2% for kharif and 1.5% for rabi crop. If the premium rate is more than 5%, then the state and central government will bear it in the ratio of 50:50, he added. He said climatic conditions have also been included in PMFBY. In case a farmer is unable to sow the crop in time due to less rainfall or unfavourable climatic conditions, the farmer will be covered. According to the minister, PMFBY is voluntary for non-indebted farmers, while the farmers taking loans will be automatically insured by the financial institutions under the scheme, unless the farmer specifically asks to be exempted from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/till-now-1-lakh-farmers-availed-19-54cr-crop-insurance-in-himachal-min/articleshow/78224847.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Winter games may be held in Lahaul||MANALI: As people are set to get access to Lahaul valley this winter for the first time through the Atal tunnel, a number of winter game tournaments are likely to be organised in the valley during the season this year. Lahaul, the coldest place in Himachal, where temperature dips below minus 20 degrees Celsius in winter months, has many natural slopes, which remain covered with snow for over six months, presenting best conditions for winter games. That being the reason, the state winter games body has planned to conduct many tournaments in Lahaul this year. National sports award winner Shiva Keshavan, who holds several designations in the national winter sports body, with the help of winter games Himachal body and Lahaul-Spiti administration, will organise these tournaments. Tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda said he had a meeting with Keshavan on Sunday regarding the winter games. “We shall now work on developing winter sports infrastructure in Lahaul. We shall develop a multiwinter games infrastructure that will include skiing and snowboarding slopes, ice skating rinks and almost every sport. The athletes will be trained in Lahaul where they will be prepared for the Olympics and other national and international tournaments,” he said. Markanda added that the government would develop this project soon. He said both athletes and tourists would visit the valley in the winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/winter-games-in-lahaul-valley-this-winter/articleshow/78224845.cms||Suresh Sharma
September 21, 2020||Ghaziabad||Surveillance teams tracked just 12% Covid cases in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Over four thousand surveillance teams deployed by the district administration since the pandemic outbreak have identified more than 1,500 Covid cases in the district so far. While the number of suspected cases in the district added up to 14,466, only 10% of them eventually tested positive. Notably, the number of cases identified by the teams (1,544) is just 12.5% of all Covid cases in the district (12,306). Officials said seven wings of surveillance teams have been tracking patients, including elderly persons and pregnant women. The door-to-door surveillance wing comprising 861 teams conduct surveys in containment zones. They have surveyed 18.7 lakh households and got 1,921 people to undergo tests. Of them, 720 were found to be positive. The administration has also deployed its 3,043 booth-level officers (BLOs) for surveillance. So far, they have recommended tests to 1,467 people, 104 of whom were found positive. Meanwhile, 286 monitoring committees in urban areas detected 8,016 people with symptoms and 648 of them were found positive. In rural areas, all 71 suspected patients tested positive. Two wings have been tracking more than 12,400 pensioners, retired persons, and pregnant women. The administration has also been making lists of people who report with Covid-like symptoms at chemist shops and private hospitals. Also, 42 people have deployed at the integrated Covid control room to monitor the teams. DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We have developed a multi-dimensional surveillance approach with seven types of surveillance with 4,369 teams,” the DM added. Ghaziabad added 153 fresh Covid cases on Sunday. Also, 122 patients were discharged from various hospitals. There are 1,964 active cases in the district. The recovery rate of Ghaziabad stands at 83.4% while the case fatality rate is 0.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/surveillance-teams-tracked-just-12-covid-cases-in-gzb/articleshow/78223950.cms||Aditya Dev
September 21, 2020||Noida||Noida: House help denied leave, attacks 70-year-old employer with knife||NOIDA: An 18-year-old house help was arrested for allegedly attacking his 70-year-old employer with a knife on Sunday when the latter refused to grant him leave from work for a few days. According to police, the victim, identified as Kamla Chand, stays with his wife in Alok Vihar Society. Chand told police that they had employed Roshan, from Bihar, as a full-time house help two months back. The incident happened on Sunday afternoon when the accused allegedly attacked Chand in a fit of rage and ended up hurting the elderly in the neck. Sudhir Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station, said that Chand informed the police about the incident from the hospital after which a team visited him and recorded his statement. “Prima facie, the house help had asked for a break of a few days from work but the employer did not allow this and this led to an argument between the two,” Kumar said. The SHO added that the accused attacked the elderly in the heat of the moment. “As told by the victim, the accused ran towards him with a knife and attacked him. He somehow saved himself and called his wife for help,” Kumar said. Chand was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is admitted in the ICU. The doctors said his condition is stable. Following the incident, police registered an FIR under sections 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC against Roshan. “Later in the day, he was arrested from the house. We have sent him in judicial custody after producing him before a magistrate,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/house-help-denied-leave-attacks-70-year-old-employer-with-knife/articleshow/78223957.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 21, 2020||Business||Govt signals it has support to push its GST formula||NEW DELHI: The government on Sunday indicated that it had the required support from states and Union Territories to push through its GST compensation formula, after Congress-ruled Puducherry backed the Centre’s plan to arrange funds via the RBI for meeting the collection shortfall due to implementation issues. Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy was part of the group of opposition-ruled states and UTs that protested against the Centre’s proposal, which seeks to allow borrowings of around Rs 97,000 crore, against an estimated shortfall of over Rs 2.3 crore between April 2020 and January 2021, and had rejected the plan at a press conference organised by the Congress. The borrowings, including the interest burden, are to be paid through the cess that is levied on luxury and sin goods such as cars, soft drinks and tobacco, which is to be proposed beyond the current deadline of June 2022. Under the second option, the entire shortfall of Rs 2.3 lakh crore will be met via market borrowings but the interest cost will have to be borne by the states. Currently, no state has gone for the second option, with Manipur also going for the first option. Apart from Puducherry, others that opposed the proposal but were yet to give their preference were Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and West Bengal, government sources said. But with 21 states and UTs responding, finance ministry sources indicated the law allowed a proposal to be ratified if 20 members of the all-powerful GST Council voted on an issue. The statement is seen as a nudge to other states to respond to the proposals or face the prospect of waiting till mid-2022 to get the compensation. “It is clear from the present situation, that if other states do not submit their options before the due GST Council meet on October 5, 2020, then they will have to wait till June 2022 to get their compensation dues, subject to the condition that the GST Council extends the cess collection period beyond 2022,” said an official. At the time of implementing GST, states were promised five-year compensation in case their collection grew at under 14% annually. Due to Covid-19, almost all states are expected to see a shortfall and stare at a fiscal crisis as GST is the main source of revenue. Watch GST shortfall: 21 states accept Centre's borrowing proposal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-signals-it-has-support-to-push-its-gst-formula/articleshow/78225889.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Noida||Noida: Given talaq on phone after 22 years, says woman||NOIDA: A woman has accused her husband of giving her triple talaq without any legal notice in May, the police said on Sunday. The woman from New Delhi, a TV media professional, said a maulana called her on May 7 to inform her that her husband has given her triple talaq. The woman, who has been married to Firoz Ahmed for 22 years, was living with him and their children — aged 18 and 21 — in Noida. She alleged that her husband never gave her money to run the house and used her earnings without her consent. “He forcibly took my signatures on official papers,” she said. Suddenly in February, he left the house, she added. The maulana forwarded her the triple talaq note on WhatsApp. Later, she found out that he had “an affair”. She complained to the Delhi Police on September 1, seeking immediate resolution of the act of ending the marriage abruptly. Following the complaint, an FIR was lodged under Section 4 of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. Since the couple had been living in Noida, the FIR has been transferred to Surajpur police. Surajpur SHO said both parties will be called to record their statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-given-talaq-on-phone-after-22-yrs/articleshow/78224053.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 21, 2020||Noida||Stuck since 2012, work on 300 Jaypee flats begins||NOIDA: The construction of over 300 flats in Jaypee Kalypso Court (phase 2) began on Sunday under the supervision of the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera). In all, 274 of the total 304 flats in towers 7, 8, 11 and 12 have been sold. Jaiprakash Associates Limited (JAL), the promoters, has committed to infuse Rs 45 crore into the project and complete it by January 2022. The homebuyers will ensure that payments made by them are being deployed only on the project while the Noida Authority will review the progress from time to time. A chartered accountant will be appointed to audit the project. Rera officials said the initiative to involve both the promoter and homebuyers to complete a stalled project would be replicated elsewhere if the construction of Kalypso Court progressed smoothly. In July this year, Noida had authorised JAL, with the consent of the Progressive Welfare Society (Association of Allottees), to undertake the completion of the project. “UP-Rera has been successful in implementing this approach to resolve all disputes and revive a stalled project. Jaypee Kalypso Court is the first such project in UP-Rera that has passed through this approach,” said Rajive Kumar, the UP-Rera chairman. The regulatory authority is planning to implement this approach in other projects that are stalled either because of an impasse between the promoter and homebuyers or in cases where the completion date that was declared by the promoter has lapsed. UP-Rera member Balvinder Kumar said, “Once this is complete, the arrangement can be replicated in case of many more projects. The authority is hoping that residents and promoters can mutually work together towards the completion of several stalled projects.” Seven towers of Kalypso Court had been registered under UP-Rera in 2018, when the regulator was formed. The project has a total of 15 towers, of which eight were completed by 2018 and did not come under the UP-Rera net. The entire project was supposed to have been completed by 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/stuck-since-2012-work-on-300-jaypee-flats-begins/articleshow/78224104.cms||---
September 21, 2020||Noida||Fourth accused held in Dadri stabbing case||GREATER NOIDA: The Dadri police on Sunday arrested a 40-year-old man in connection with the murder of police informer, Sher Singh Bhati, in Nai Aadbadi village on September 8. This is the fourth arrest in the case and the accused, Khussan, is a resident of Mewatiyan mohalla in Dadri. Bhati (25) was stabbed to death in a crowded market place one afternoon when he had gone to buy medicines. The incident was recorded in CCTV cameras installed in one of the shops in the market. Following the incident, a complaint was lodged by Bhati’s father, Fateh Singh, against three people who were arrested within days of the crime. In his complaint, Singh had said that the accused stabbed Bhati multiple times when he tried to call for help. He said, “After getting to know of the incident from someone, we immediately reached the spot, which is very close to our house. We even saw the accused fleeing from the spot with knives in their hands. However, we couldn’t stop them.” He added that they took Bhati to a near by hospital but he succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment. Police said that while interrogating Waseem, an auto-driver and the prime accused in the case, they got to know that Khussan had tipped Waseem about Bhati’s movement in the market. Following which, Waseem plotted to kill Bhati to avenge his humiliation. A day before the incident, Waseem and Bhati had a heated argument and the latter had reportedly slapped Waseem. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner in zone 3, said, “Khussan was arrested on Sunday afternoon from Katehra Road and a country-made pistol was also recovered from him. He is a wanted in nine cases of rioting, criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder and criminal intimidation of the Indian Penal Code. He was sent to jail after being produced before a magistrate on Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/4th-accused-held-in-dadri-stabbing-case/articleshow/78224091.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Govt to restore Mahatma Gandhi ashram’s heritage to what it was 71 years ago||AHMEDABAD: The state government, a few months ago, was provided with a rare 1949 black and white aerial image of the Sabarmati Ashram. This picture will now form the basis of the upcoming Rs 248 crore revitalisation project aimed at integrating the 35-acre ashram precinct into the heritage of Mahatma's legacy here. An earlier map was available with the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation Trust, but the recently available aerial image gives further credence to the seven-decade-old plan. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) will be formed to undertake the project. The 35-acre Sabarmati Ashram campus has 63 listed heritage properties that exist from the pre-Independence era. The busy road between RTO and Vadaj bus stand will be closed, while a special drive to amalgamate land parcels surrounding the ashram as one TP scheme forms the crux of the plan. Fourth time lucky for Sabarmati?We are just restoring the Sabarmati Ashram to its original complex,” says a senior official in the state government. The official, however, remained tight-lipped when asked whether visitors will see a board officially calling the complex as ‘Harijan Ashram’ as Mahatma Gandhi had desired before he left the ashram in 1930. The revitalisation plan clearly demarcates the Sabarmati Ashram project area, and the larger supplementary planning area, which has emerging residential development around the Ashram complex. The plan shows six sectors demarcated as ‘A’ and ‘B’ which will also have houses for existing Ashram inmates. “The whole complex including the new housing for 200 dalit families will be identified as the Sabarmati Ashram complex, so there is no change of address. But there will be demolition of new structures including the Toran restaurant, and shifting of the Gaushala complex and a few other buildings around,” says the official. The current plan prepared by HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited (HCP), is the fourth attempt at ‘redeveloping’ the Sabarmati Ashram. In 1966, the 2018 Pritzker Prize-winning master architect, B V Doshi, had prepared a plan. In 2004, the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi, had made an attempt to collaborate to redevelop the ashram but was resisted. That same year, in 2004, celebrated architect Charles Correa conceived another plan, but that too did not fructify. In 2007, Cept University designed an area development plan which was not implemented. “A special purpose vehicle will undertake all civil works. It will have representatives of the government, the municipal corporation and members of trusts that operate from the Ashram complex,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-govt-to-restore-mahatma-gandhi-ashrams-heritage-to-what-it-was-71-yrs-ago/articleshow/78226050.cms||Paul John
